Delivering Sustainability AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Contents 03 2010 performance at a glance 04 Introduction from our Chief Executive 06 About AMEC 07 About our Report 09 Sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities 10 AMEC and governance 12 Stakeholder engagement 16 Ten years. The journey so far 18 Our workplace 29 Our community 35 Our environment 41 Our marketplace 48 Our future 49 Report assurance 50 Report assurance statement 52 Signposting our report 53 Our awards 02 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 2010 performance at a glance Total Recordable Case Environmental incident rate Our workplace Frequency Rate (TRCFR) Our environment per 200,000 hours worked 72 per cent of employees 1 participated in the global enforcement action employee survey – increase 0.65 0.44 0.42 worldwide 1.15 0.95 0.46 of 6 percentage points from 2009 55,025 tonnes 24 per cent of employees carbon dioxide emission are female – 1 percentage point 5 per cent reduction in absolute increase from 2008 carbon from 2008* 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 *2010 figure includes carbon for acquisitions made in 2009 £’000 total Group EBITA margin (for basis of calculation see Our community donated to charity Our marketplace 2008, 2009 and 2010 annual report and accounts) 10,895 hours volunteered £85 million to our communities by employees invested in acquisitions 549 540 553 7.1 8.2 9.2 Continued support Global supplier of strategic charity performance tool launched SOS Children 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 03 Sustainability report – introduction from Samir Brikho My view has, if anything, strengthened since last year: sustainability is vital to a business which wants to be successful. That’s why, on behalf of AMEC, I am proud of our continuing support for the UN’s Global Compact. As Eleanor Roosevelt said: “The future is literally in our hands to mould as we like. But we cannot wait until tomorrow. Tomorrow is now.” As you read through this report, our tenth, you will see how closely sustainability is intertwined with our daily operations. The examples below illustrate how it supports the core components of our Vision 2015 strategy: Customers, people, growth – delivering the AMEC Way. Customers We saw some great examples of world-class safety We continue to strengthen and develop our customer performance in 2010. Sadly we failed to achieve our target for relationships, building their trust by our understanding of lost time incidents, which at 0.06 per 200,000 exposure hours how best we can help them deliver. were higher than our target of zero for the year. Safety remains in focus in 2011, supported by our Beyond Zero programme. We have been expanding our sustainability services capabilities and have advised our customers on a range of issues. Growth For example, in 2010, it was the sustainable approach we In 2010 we grew both organically and by acquisition, building recommended on the Mount Milligan Mine project in Canada on our existing market positions as well as expanding our which ensured that it received approval to proceed. geographic footprint and strengthening our capabilities in areas such as water services. People Our success lies in the success of our employees and the way in Growth is only successful in the long term if a common culture which they deliver to our customers. We must recruit, develop is created and consistent values are adopted throughout an and retain the best people, ensuring they are engaged and organisation. We work hard to achieve this. committed to the company’s success. Delivering the AMEC Way AMEC Academy was launched in late 2009 to support our For our employees to deliver high quality work for our training and development activity. In 2010 we ran development clients, they need the right tools and processes and a culture programmes involving over 600 people and more than 7,800 of continuous improvement. Our Operational Excellence personal career path profiles were created using the career programme is now well embedded in the company and has paths tool. The range of activities will be expanded in 2011. become AMEC Way of doing things. In 2010 I was particularly pleased to see the introduction of our supplier performance The participation rate in AMEC’s global employee survey tool, which assesses their approach to ethics, human rights and increased again this year but employee engagement levels, climate change and which will be rolled out more extensively in though strong, were lower. 2011. 2010 also saw the development of a simple tool 04 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 to enable our projects to routinely evaluate sustainability risks Sustainability is too as part of the total risk management assessments, again this will be piloted during 2011. important to be left to others; By rigorous focus, we have reduced our absolute carbon we must each, as I am, emissions in 2010 by 5 per cent from 2008 levels. While not be personally committed achieving our 10 per cent reduction target, the building blocks for further improvement are now in place. to making it a part of Our Vision 2015 strategy our day to day lives.” As the world’s population expands, a sustainable approach to energy, power and water usage becomes ever more important. We see natural resources remaining an important part of our portfolio, but opportunities in other areas increasing. Our 2015 growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing on our customers, our people and how we deliver safely and sustainably in line with our values – the AMEC Way. I hope you enjoy reading this report. We would appreciate any feedback you may have, which would help us improve further. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 05 About AMEC AMEC plc is a FTSE 100 company, whose shares are traded on Our business is organized into three divisions; the London Stock Exchange and included in the Oil Equipment Natural Resources (NR) and Services sector (LSE:AMEC.L). Includes AMEC’s activities in Oil and Gas services, AMEC is a focused supplier of high value consultancy, Unconventional Oil and Gas and Minerals & Metals. Natural engineering and project management services to the world’s Resources is recognising as a world leader in the provision of oil and gas, minerals and metals, clean energy, water and engineering, project management and asset support services, environmental sectors. AMEC’s businesses employ over with particular expertise in large and complex projects in 22,000 people in around 40 countries worldwide, with major growth regions and in extending the life of assets. operations in the UK and America’s. The company’s registered Power & Process (P&P) office is in Knutsford, United Kingdom. Provider of total life of asset services, particularly in areas of AMEC’s Vision 2015 (announced December 2009) sets out clean energy and carbon efficiency with a leading position AMEC’s next stage of our journey – Growth. Widening our in the nuclear sector – particularly in the UK. It also offers customer reach, focusing on key segments, prioritising services in renewable and bioprocesses which are a growing markets, reinforcing strong delivery inherent within the brand element of the business portfolio. and broadening our service offering. Priorities for the future Earth & Environmental (E&E) are simple – grow while maintaining margins by continuing to Is a leading international environmental and engineering deliver to our customers and invest in our employees. consulting organisation, offering a diverse portfolio of services to both public and private sector clients. Recent acquisitions have been particularly focused on the water sector. For more information about our business and the sectors we service, please visit our website at amec.com. 06 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 About our report – introduction Our sustainability, or long-term future as a successful business, relies upon our ability to balance economic, social and environmental issues in our decision making processes, across the entirety of our business. We believe that doing this well is the key to being a great company, helping ensure we identify and manage risk and opportunities. AMEC began its sustainability journey back in 2001. We have been communicating our progress since then through our annual sustainability reports, building on information appearing in our annual report (see amec.com). We use our sustainability performance report and the As an organisation we are faced with a wide range of programme which informs it to: sustainability issues and it would be useful neither to our n Benchmark and assess our performance against laws, stakeholders nor to AMEC to report on every aspect. We codes, performance standards and voluntary initiatives have therefore focused on areas which are most important n Demonstrate how AMEC influences and is influenced by to manage, important to our stakeholders, and are critical global sustainable development issues for AMEC’s long term success. These are described in the n Compare performance over time within the organisation sustainability risks and opportunities section of our and against peers where it is useful to do so report (page 9). Boundary and scope of reporting We have grouped our sustainability issues into four areas, AMEC’s sustainability programme is a living, breathing workplace, community, environment and marketplace. process and does not begin and end with the publication This report also is inclusive of our Global Compact of our report. Through reading our report, you can find out Communication of Progress report. about our key sustainability issues, how we manage them, The data included incorporates AMEC’s three divisions, our performance over the year and where and how we plan to plus corporate and shared services. For our carbon based improve performance into the future. data, and in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, we have The content of our report is also influenced and shaped by a only included emissions where AMEC has operational and/ number of factors, including: or financial control. This control principle is applied as the n AMEC’s sustainability programme basis under which we report, including joint ventures unless n Stakeholder engagement otherwise stated. Note: 2009 Greenhouse Gas Conversion n Values and Guiding Principles factors were used to calculate carbon stated in this report. n Standards and guidelines (e.g. Global Reporting Initiative) Information which has been restated to provide a like-for-like n Principles to which we have signed up (e.g. UN Global comparison with previous years is clearly identified in the Compact Principles) performance sections. We have restated information only AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 07 where divested operations have significantly influenced past performance and would otherwise distort comparisons. The key performance indicators used in this report are regularly reviewed and updated according to their value. We aim to use indicators which give AMEC a good benchmark for performance and add value for our stakeholders. This report reviews our key sustainability issues and performance through 2010 (January 2010 – December 2010), comparing it with previous years. If you have any questions or comments, you can email, write or call our Sustainability Programme Manager. Full contact details are available on amec.com. We hope you find our report information and useful. We believe that doing sustainability well is the key to being a great company.” Samir Brikho, Chief Executive 08 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities A significant sustainability impact is an aspect of our It is essential that we keep reviewing and checking what our business which is important to our long-term success and key issues are, since they change as our management systems which interacts with wider global sustainable development and business evolve. They reflect our operations, markets goals. Sustainability impacts can be grouped into social, and the regions where we work, and are a part of the wider environmental or economic categories, often referred to as continuous improvement process which operates within our the ‘triple bottom line’ issues in sustainability reports. management systems. AMEC is influenced by global sustainability impacts through More information on AMEC’s business threats and laws, cultural norms and stakeholder expectations. In turn, opportunities is listed within the Managing Risks section AMEC influences global sustainability by the nature of the of the Annual report and accounts 2010. work we do and how we do it. As an international business, our sustainability impacts are diverse and inextricably linked to Category Issues the regions in which we operate. n Engagement We believe that sustainability impact management must be n Attraction and retention integral to the way we manage our business and integrated Workplace nO ccupational health, safety and throughout our management system. These are issues security which offer us opportunities through effective and efficient n Equal opportunities and diversity management to deliver a return to the bottom line. They may n Employee/capability development do this through lower operating cost, increased capacity, Social n Performance excellence or skills and innovation in service provision. n Investment Our clients continue to look for added value in the services Community nA ccess to employment/ local content we provide and we believe that our approach to managing n Skills building sustainability issues is a differentiator. We also see an n Human rights and dignity opportunity to develop sustainable solutions to global problems, such as involvement in clean energy, water and n Pollution prevention carbon capture and storage technology. n Risk assessment and control Management nE  mergency response and Sustainability-related issues are part of our everyday lives at incident control Environmental every location and we have to concentrate on those which have n Supply chain management the greatest impact on our ability to manage our business. n Legal compliance We have used a number of techniques to identify the n Energy use and efficiency sustainability impacts which are key to AMEC, including: n Travel and transport n Risk management Climate change n Carbon emission footprint n Stakeholder engagement n Service provision n Sustainability surveys n Strategic development n Global standards, principles and frameworks Economic effectiveness n Shareholder value The table illustrates our key sustainability impact areas. n Investment/divestment We have grouped AMEC’s key sustainability risks and n Anti-corruption Economic opportunities into workplace, environmental, community Ethical n Business practice and marketplace issues and these are more fully described trading n Marketing within this report. Please refer to the specific sections for n Human rights management and performance data. n Ethical agreements Supply Through identifying our key issues, we can focus our efforts on chain n Governance managing and improving performance in these areas. n Local content AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 09 AMEC and governance The highest tier of authority at AMEC plc is the board of directors; it is comprised of eight highly qualified, experienced individuals. Three members of the board are executive directors, including the Chief Executive. The board is responsible to shareholders for the management of the company and for the protection of its assets. As such, it is ultimately responsible for implementing AMEC’s systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness. These systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and consequently can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss. Under AMEC’s Management and Policy Framework, the board and Accounts. Those relating to Sustainable Development has formally delegated specific responsibilities to various board discussed in more detail on page 10. committees, all of which have written terms of reference. The company does not combine the role of Chairman and These committees consider, analyse and monitor material Chief Executive; the status of the Chairman can be described elements of AMEC’s management system, including some as independent. In addition to the chairman, the board at the which are covered as part of our significant sustainability date of the 2010 annual report comprised five non-executive aspects. For more detail of these committees, and AMEC’s directors and three executive directors. AMEC considers our approach to corporate governance including their remit, please definition of independent to be consistent with the definition refer to the Report of the Directors in our 2010 annual report given in the Global Reporting Initiative. AMEC’s Chief Executive and accounts, available at amec.com. is also the chairman of AMEC’s sustainability programme. The boards, and its committees, have a continuous process Following Martha Hesse’s (non-executive director) retirement for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks from the board in May 2010, the compliance and ethics faced by AMEC. These include strategy, major projects to be committee is chaired by Simon Thompson (non-executive undertaken, significant acquisitions and disposals, as well as director) and comprises all independent non-executive entry to and exit from different markets. Where appropriate, directors. business decisions are reached following a structured and Shareholder and employee questions documented review of potential opportunities and threats, As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, AMEC taking steps designed to manage or mitigate any residual risk must comply with the Companies Act 2006, including in relation exposure. Principle risks are set out in the 2010 Annual Report to shareholder resolutions. Minority shareholders (not covered 10 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 by the Act) have the right to ask the board any AMEC recognises the importance of the internet in financial relevant questions at the annual general meeting or communications. AMEC’s website offers a convenient source put questions to the board in writing. of published information on the company together with an email alerting service. This is a quick and efficient way to be AMEC operates an extensive programme of investor kept appraised of announcements and forthcoming events. relations with current and potential shareholders. Key events are the company’s preliminary and interim results All employees are encouraged to raise issues, questions announcements, when AMEC’s Chief Executive and Chief and ideas with the Chief Executive through his intranet site, Financial Officer make presentations to the financial or directly. Questions to the Chief Executive during the year community. These events are webcast live, with slides and included issues such as employee share save schemes, data speaking remarks being published on AMEC’s website. security and employee morale. Following these announcements, institutional investors in AMEC provides a wide range of mechanisms for employees to the UK, North America and Continental Europe are offered share knowledge, to be kept informed of developments within meetings with management. AMEC and to raise issues and discuss matters of concern. Shareholders value opportunities to meet operational management. AMEC recognises this and has put in place a series of seminars which showcase different parts of the business. Seminars are announced in advance to the London Stock Exchange and are webcast live, with all slides being published on AMEC’s website. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 11 Stakeholder engagement The way that we interact with the world around us determines how we, as a company, are perceived by our stakeholders – who are vital to our future growth and prosperity. We understand that from project to region, region to industry, the mix of stakeholders changes, as does the type of engagement appropriate. When engagement with our stakeholders is successful, it offers the ability to significantly improve our bottom line, through attracting investment, talent and the best partners. The diagram below highlights some of our key stakeholder groups, and the methods we have used to engage with them. 12 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Understanding the views of our numerous stakeholders views Engagement with governments helps us to make better and more informed decisions; however Governments and political stakeholders form an importance we understand that we will not always meet every stakeholder audience for AMEC as they develop policy, legislate and expectation. As a business we have to strike a balance between regulate in our key markets. In addition, the public sector, what our stakeholder groups want and what is best for our through government departments or agencies, state-owned business. We understand that what is most important is to listen companies and quasi-national organisations are important to their views and concerns and most importantly be accessible. customers. We identify significant stakeholders through risk and opportunity AMEC regularly meets with members of governments and analysis which is informed by our stakeholder engagement public sector officials at formal meetings and briefings to guidelines. These have been developed by AMEC’s Stakeholder ensure that there is continuing dialogue. It is important that Liaison specialists, part of our Earth and Environmental division. we understand what new areas of policy are being developed Stakeholders inform our approach and that government can take in to account any undesirable We have continued to engage our key stakeholders, with a or unintended consequences of their action. In the UK, North number of events taking place throughout the year. These America and more widely, AMEC has pushed forward the opportunities have once again helped to shape this year’s debate on energy and climate change including in relation performance report in both style and content. to nuclear new build, carbon capture and storage, wind energy, water resources and investment in transmission and In addition, we have sought to be more proactive in distribution systems. Discussions relating to the availability of communicating with, and engaging, AMEC people. key resources and appropriate skills in the engineering sector Various methods have been utilised including: internal remain high on our agenda. magazines; new internal intranet sites including AMEC TV, Samir Brikho, continues to serve as a UK Business and the continuation of AMEC breakfast meetings offering Ambassador, having been re-appointed by the new UK Prime employees time with their management teams. 2010 also saw Minister, David Cameron. Neil Bruce, AMEC Board Member, our third global employee survey, which asked how our people also continues as Chairman of UK Trade & Investment’s feel about the company, and provided AMEC with feedback on International Oil and Gas Sector Advisory Board. Mike the effectiveness of the measures put in place following the Saunders, group management team member, represents previous surveys. We are again using the feedback from the AMEC on the Department of Energy & Climate Change’s survey to inform our improvement programmes. Further Nuclear Development Forum. details can be found in the ‘Our employment’ section of the workplace report. AMEC takes time to meet with Government Ministers, national or provincial, either in country, at international events or if Sharing our experience with clients and peers has been useful they are visiting the UK; examples include meetings with in helping us to develop our sustainability programme; but Dalton McGuinty, Premier of Ontario, and John Yap, British we know we can improve in our engagement processes. Our Columbia’s Minister for Climate Action, in Vancouver, with involvement with forums, summits, meetings and workshops Ken Cheveldayoff, Saskatchewan Minister for Enterprise and gave us opportunities to share our approach and experience. Trade in Houston, President Lee of South Korea in Davos, and We find that this helps us to develop our strategy, through South African Deputy President Kgalema Motlanthe, on a visit talking and sharing. to London. In 2010 AMEC took part in a variety of forums and events, a number of which are listed on page 15. These forums provide us with the opportunity to present our knowledge and expertise to various groups and also speak to clients, peers, industry bodies and government organisations. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 13 Sustainability and investor meetings 2010/11 Dow Jones Sustainability index As part of our commitment to stakeholder engagement, we held For the second consecutive year, AMEC has been ranked the a number of one-on-one meetings with investors interested in sector leader for sustainability in the oil equipment and services our approach to sustainable development. Areas of interest in sector of the worldwide Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2010 included our work to support sustainable energy projects in 2010/11. AMEC was in competition with 41 other organisations. North America and the UK, as well as our activities to minimise This is the seventh year in succession that AMEC has featured in the impact of exploration in environmentally sensitive regions. the DJSI, which annually surveys and benchmarks the world’s Investors were also keen to understand our employees strategy 2,500 largest companies. in support of our commitment to attract, develop and retain our skilled work force across the regions where we are based. We are planning another investor CSR and sustainability event in 2011 to discuss these and other topics in more detail. Samir Brikho speaks at GLOBE 2010 Offshore Technology Conference in Houston In March 2010, Samir Brikho spoke at the “Water In his first major role as a UK Business Ambassador, Samir Potential Impacts and Issues for Business session” at the Brikho attended the Offshore Technology Conference in GLOBE Conference and Trade Fair, in Vancouver, Canada. Houston in 2010. OTC is the major offshore technology event for the development of offshore resources in the The GLOBE Conference in March which focuses on the fields of drilling, exploration, production, and environmental global economic and environmental agenda; hosted more protection and is held every year in early May. OTC attracts than 10,000 international leaders in the business of the more than 70,000 attendees and 2,000 exhibiting companies environment from over 70 countries. New to the GLOBE representing more than 110 countries. agenda in 2010 was the water session, highlighting the increasing focus on water in the sector. Samir hosted a “UK, subsea excellence” luncheon and the UKTI Energy Excellence VIP Reception, acted as moderator The session focused on the efficient use of water in terms at a breakfast briefing on Oil & Gas Technologies and of long-term corporate success and sustainability. Samir Application in Offshore Wind Power and attended other took the opportunity to discuss the background behind the briefings on oil and gas global opportunities. increasing focus on water efficiency in industry, and AMEC’s experience and expertise in the water arena. The conference was a great opportunity for Samir to discuss AMEC’s Vision 2015, of which water and AMEC’s increasing water business is key. 14 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 AMEC continues its support of the United Nations Preparing for studies – getting it right! Mining seminar, Global Compact principles Toronto, ON Launched in 2000, the United Nations Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the UN Global Compact offers a wide range of benefits to business including: the sharing of best and emerging practices to common challenges; advancing sustainability solutions in partnership with a range of stakeholders; linking business with subsidiaries across the value chain; and access to the UN’s knowledge and management tools and resources. AMEC continues to commit to the 10 principles of the global John Pearson, Managing Director, Europe & West Africa, Natural Resources, speaking at the Oil and Gas UK Breakfast briefing, February 2010 compact, and will continue to embed the principles within company policy, behavior and culture. AMEC will endeavour to work with our supply chain, clients and peers to disseminate ExpoMin 2010, exhibitor, Santiago, Chile the requirements of the principles along the value chain. This 9th World Copper Conference, Exhibitor, Santiago, Chile report is also AMEC’s Communication of Progress, and will be May 2010 posted onto the Global Compact website in accordance with the condition of participation. AWEA Exhibitor, Dallas, TX CIM (Canadian Institute of Mining) 2010, Vancouver, BC Offshore Technology Conference, Exhibitor, Houston, TX, US June 2010 World National Oil Companies Congress, Sponsor, London Heavy Oil World MENA 2010, Sponsor and exhibitor, Bahrain August 2010 Some examples of AMEC roles at conference/ Uranium 2010, sponsor, Saskatoon, Canada seminar events during 2010 September 2010 January 2010 World Energy Congress 2010, Samir Brikho, panelist, CMP (Canadian Mineral Processors) 2010, student exhibitor, sponsor and presenter, Montreal, Quebec sponsorship, Ottowa, Canada October 2010 February 2010 European Future Energy Event, Sponsor, London Light pollution, Host, Portland, OR, US KIOGE, Almay, Kazakhstan EEEGR Southern Northern Sea, Norwich, UK SME (Society for Mining, Metallurgy & Exploration) 2010, November 2010 Exhibitor, Denver, US OSEA 2010, Singapore Mining Indaba 2010, Exhibitor, Cape Town, South Africa Mines and Money 2010, London Oil & Gas UK Breakfast Briefing, London and Aberdeen, UK CBI Climate Change Summit 2010, Samir Brikho speaker March 2010 CanWEA – Canadian Wind Energy Association, Exhibitor, Montreal, Quebec Scottish Offshore Achievement Awards, Sponsor, Aberdeen, UK UK Decommissioning & Waste Management 2010, Presenter, GLOBE 2010, Sponsor, presentor, exhibitor, Vancouver, BC Penrith, Cumbria, UK Australasian Oil and Gas Exhibition & Conference (AOG), Exhibitor, Perth, Australia December 2010 PDAC 2010, Exhibitor, Toronto, ON Exhibitor at POWER-GEN, Orlando, Florida AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 15 Ten years. The journey so far 2008 AMEC values and guiding principles refreshed AMEC signs up Our 10th 2010 2009 to UN Global Sustainability 1st employee survey Compact Report undertaken Carbon targets updated to 80% reduction by 2050 Beyond Zero Safety programme launched 2007 Carbon Strategy Dow Jones developed Sector Leader Office sustainability matrices launched Sustainability integral to new Operational excellence programme 2002 1st participated in BiTC 2006 index achieving 70% Gold Standard reached in BiTC CR index Ethics and Compliance committee established 2005 Dedicated sustainability 2000 manager appointed 2003 Sustainability First Sustainability Summary in annual Programme started report and accounts First online sustainability 2001 AMEC agenda First sustainability 21’s launched report published 7 sustainability report issued principles published BiTC up to 85% Code of Business Conduct training 2004 1st launched Sector Leader in Dow Jones Sustainability Index 16 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 17 Our workplace As articulated in last year’s report, we have reviewed and aligned our people strategies behind our Vision 2015 strategy. We continue to consistently focus on: recruiting talented people, investing in their education and training, providing them with career development and harmonising our tools and processes. Maintaining and enhancing a world class work environment, with a strong emphasis on health and safety, continues to be a top priority for our company and fundamental to our commitment to sustainable development. Our long-term success and profitability rests on managing our workplace key issues effectively, ensuring fair and effective management policies, engaging with our people and cultivating a “Beyond Zero” safety culture. Our key workplace issues Our employees are fundamental to our having a successful future. We give high priority to the development of employees n Engagement to ensure that we have the necessary skills and behaviours n Attraction and retention to deliver our strategic business objectives and to provide for Workplace n Occupational health, safety and security management succession. n Equal opportunities and diversity n Employee/capability development Our employment policies set out a consistent approach to n Performance excellence workplace rights and responsibilities, reaffirming the company’s values and principles concerning freedom of association, We continue to aspire to be the employer of choice, with fairness, equal opportunity and diversity. world-class safety performance, delivering services in a Employee Survey way which meets our values and principles and those of the We are committed to engaging with our people to ensure they Global Compact. This section of our report will explore our understand the direction in which the company is going, are employment management and safety improvement processes. committed to AMEC’s values, and are empowered to propose Employment management and make changes to improve how we operate. We aspire to demonstrate in our delivery to our clients that we 2010 was the third year that AMEC undertook a global survey. have the best engineers, project managers and consultants in Originally initiated as part of the Operational Excellence the world. We believe that driven and successful people make a programme, it has now become a regular part of ‘The AMEC driven and successful company. Way of doing things’. It is designed to measure employee engagement and the factors affecting it, as well as assessing the impact of organisational initiatives. 18 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 The most recent survey was undertaken in June 2010 via web and paper to over 20,000 people in ten languages: the response Developing high potential and giving ‘time to think’ rate reached an outstanding 72 per cent (6 percentage points In December 2010 Hosny Mohamed, AMEC’s Operations higher than in 2009). Some of the highlights were as follows: Director in Chile, attended one of the first centres for High n Our commitment to employee safety, social and Performance Development set up in Atlanta, Georgia. environmental responsibility continue to be the highest The development centres were set up as part of AMEC scoring factors – 12 percentage points above the global Academy and are part of AMEC’s Pathfinder process, a norm of other international companies. We have invested a way to consistently assess the development needs of significant amount of time and hard work to reinforce our talent and high potential in AMEC. commitment to safety and sustainability across the business: Hosny’s participation, gave him the opportunity to reflect Beyond Zero, Six Safety Essentials, Earth Week and other on his skills as well as the future needs of AMEC. The two initiatives are examples of this. day assessment included individual sessions and feedback n 80 per cent of our employees believe AMEC is socially and as well as group tasks and business simulation. The environmentally responsible – 10 percentage points above the development centre also included developing a common global norm. understanding of AMEC’s high performing behaviours, and n Communication of and taking actions based on the personal development planning. previous survey results increased by 9 and 2 percentage points respectively. ‘I found the assessment very interesting and helpful. The findings from the assessment brought to light some There are other areas where improvements were noted as aspects and qualities that I haven’t considered utilizing well as areas where we still need to significantly improve our or developing in the past’, commented Hosny. ‘I found performance if we wish to be the best. The 2010 survey pointed the event a chance to reflect on my personality and out the following challenges: management style changes in the last 10-15 years, which n Engagement levels, at 68 per cent positive, remained good I’ve made to cope with the ever changing world in and though down 5 percentage points compared to 2009. This outside the workplace. It also gave me a window onto our may be, at least in part, a reflection of the global economy. vast organisation through the eyes and thoughts of other We need to continue to engage our employees in all parts potential leaders’. of the global business. n There was improvement in the way different parts of the Hosny found the centre a chance to reflect on the relevancy global AMEC organisation work collaboratively together of his skills and experience to AMEC’s new initiatives and although there still needs to be further progress on this. strategic goals. ‘It was a ‘time to think’ about the future’ n Whilst particular areas for improvement varied between ‘…where I want to go and what I need or should have for different parts of the organisation, common themes included the next journey’. the continued desire for more opportunities for personal Hosny’s development centre experience, like others growth and development. held across AMEC, is just one part of AMEC’s global As in response to the 2009 survey, our approach has focused high potential development process which also includes on communicating and discussing local business unit and continued development discussions and planning, regular geographic results in order to address the most meaningful monitoring of progress and of course development issues for each staff grouping whilst taking and embedding activities. These may include participation in the AMEC certain initiatives at a group-wide level, in particular, around Academy’s world class development programmes, on-theEmployee Development and Leadership requirements. For job experience, directed reading, mentoring and coaching, example, several hundred of our most senior leaders were classroom training, and secondments or assignments measured by those reporting to them on how well they depending on the individual and business needs. embodied a number of “leadership essentials” – including how they communicated, recognised and developed their staff. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 19 Believing in people, teamwork and diversity AMEC Academy – attracting, retaining and developing the The AMEC Academy integrates areas of training and best army of people development across the company and delivers them using The role of the AMEC Academy is to ensure that every individual a consistent and accessible global approach. Our goal is to has the opportunity to develop and reach their professional goal provide a clear, transparent picture of an individual’s career while ensuring AMEC has a consistent foundational knowledge framework and the development opportunities available embedded across the whole organisation. which are aligned to achieving AMECs business objectives. We believe that excellent people development leads to excellent Throughout 2010 the development and implementation of the people, and this in turn supports the delivery of excellence for AMEC Academy has continued as we maintain the long-term our customers. This sustainable cycle of individual development, investment in our employees. company development, and excellent delivery formally My Future for our customers is at the core of the AMEC Academy. The achievement of our objectives is dependent on the quality of Since its creation at the end of 2009 the AMEC Academy has our people. It is vital that we continue to attract the best people made huge strides in keeping a consistent approach across to AMEC and develop the people who already work for us. functions and businesses, and in joining up all aspects of the In 2010, AMEC launched a people framework, My Future, which AMEC Academy to provide an integrated and holistic approach describes how we aspire to manage our people globally. to people development. This includes: n the on-going enhancement of the career path frameworks A number of activities occurred in 2010 to build on the My to provide a consistent framework and set of expectations Future launch: across our key functions. These frameworks now apply to 63 n Introduction of external development assessment centres to per cent of AMEC employees, and 7,800 individual profiles support high potential employees create development plans have been created and are accessible via our intranet globally. n Introduction of Leadership Evaluation – over 300 senior n the launch of suites of AMEC specific development managers and leaders participated in 180º survey, providing programmes to support our functions and global operations. feedback against a range of leadership behaviours and While many of these programmes were only developed in qualities that the company has identified 2010, already over 600 employees attended. n Introduction of a global onboarding system, My Compass, n the creation of the knowledge portal which is an online to help employees become effective as they start new roles resource centre where employees from across the globe can within the company access a series of tools, modules and resources that support n Introduction of a global resourcing system, Kenexa, and are inherent to building the awareness required at all improving overall visibility of resource needs and improving levels within AMEC. During 2010 8,666 employees accessed management of personal applications the various online modules despite this area of the AMEC n Introduction of global mobility approach to ensure the Academy being at an early stage. consistent mobilisation of people between countries n Implementation of development activities through In addition to these three key areas ‘manager toolkits’ are AMEC Academy, building both technical, leadership being developed in the management and leadership, project and management skills throughout the company. management and engineering & technical families. These are a series of two hour modules designed to be delivered ‘in-house’ RESO by ‘in-house’ identified individuals, providing a practical and ION ESS tailored approach to training our project leaders and UR CC CIN SU G developing our management. DEVE LOP ING ARD Furthermore in order to achieve AMEC’s Vision 2015 strategy ME BO NT ON and beyond there is a greater focus on developing and managing the future leaders of AMEC. A new set of high PATH S ENGA G potential criteria, backed up by a robust process for assessment EMP ING W CA RE ER LOY IT EE H S and then long term support and development has been G developed to accelerate the career progression of our high GIN REW AR NA H MA R HIG NCE FO ORMA potential people. DS RF PE 20 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 All of this learning and expertise needs to be supported back Our employment performance in the workplace. The AMEC Academy is working with the Employment in AMEC businesses to provide mechanisms that can be adopted and In 2010 AMEC employed on average 21,907 full-time equivalents implemented to support managers, including a consistent and including agency staff, representing an increase of six per cent supported approach to coaching and mentoring. on the previous year. We support and serve our customers in some of the most Staff costs for continuing operations (extract from AMEC plc challenging industries in the world. There is a real need 2010 annual report and accounts) to attract, develop and retain more energy and resources specialists to fill the gap in people resources the future 2010 2009 2008 £ million £ million £ million energy challenge brings. Our aim is to support as many employees as possible, consistently and globally, while Wages and salaries 1,100.6 908.5 900.6 supporting our business and customer needs. Social security cost 70 62.5 61.3 Equity settled Our challenge for the future is to meet the needs and share-based payments 13.6 10.7 9.3 expectations of our employees, our strategy, and our Contributions to customers. defined schemes 25.8 22.2 14.1 Defined benefit pension schemes credit 11.9 6.6 (5.9) The AMEC Academy listens 1,221.9 1,010.5 974.9 to the needs of the business and Staff costs represented 41.4 per cent of AMEC’s total revenue designs, wherever possible, during the year. For further information, please refer to AMEC common and consistent global plc’s 2010 annual report and accounts. solutions to employee development Recruitment We continued to welcome significant numbers of new people and career progression. We want to the company as well as 167 people (up from 66 in 2009) who to equip AMEC employees to be returned to us through our Alumni programme, which keeps us in touch with those who have worked for us previously. A able to meet the challenges of the further 350 people (up from 129 in 2009) were hired through our future vision and aspirations of Employee Referral programme which rewards existing staff for recommending people they know and encouraging them to join the business while developing AMEC. We continued to provide opportunities for those starting their careers.” their careers, which is critical to our long term sustainability. Ian Hedges, President, AMEC Academy Male Female All employees 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Total number 3,151 3,526 1,452 987 4,603 4,513 of new hires Number of new hires for 193 144 89 70 282 214 whom AMEC is their first job Number hired to specific 85 108 29 30 114 138 training programmes AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 21 Skills development Employee instigated turnover While bringing new talent into the business and the industry 2010 2009 2008 is vital, we also seek to grow the skills and provide career development opportunities for our existing people. The establishment of the AMEC Academy, described more fully elsewhere in this report, is a major investment in the development of our people. We have also introduced a 10% 6% 10% 10% 6% 9% 11% 8% 12% structured approach to career paths to help our people identify how they can advance within AMEC. Opportunities are advertised openly within the company and we have clear Employee Male employee Female processes for succession and talent management. instigated instigated employee turnover for all turnover instigated The Internal Promotion Rate measure shows how many of employees turnover our people have been able to progress their careers during the year through a formal promotion, although we recognise that ‘sideways’ moves to develop new skills and experience Angola gets technical training boost are equally a part of career progression. Disappointingly the A JV between two engineering companies and two universities internal promotion rate fell back during the year and will be aims to help the West African nation train the next generation the subject of renewed focus in 2011. of scientists, increasing engineering skills and employment. Male Female All employees The initiative, kicked off during February 2010, was undertaken by AMEC Paragon and Prodoil Exploração e Produção de 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Hidrocarbonetos SARL (Prodoil), with input from national and international energy companies as well as representatives Internal from the University of Houston and University Agostinho Neto. promotion 3.35 8.66 5.43 13.18 3.87 9.72 rate (%) Angola is one of the richest hydrocarbon provinces in the world, however following 30 years of civil war, its educational Employee turnover system has languished. With increasing requirements to The employee turnover measure reflects the number of people employ nationals, with local content targets set, there is an who leave us voluntarily. While several of these will be because increasing struggle to provide the skilled workers required. of changed personal circumstances, we see this as a key Terry Ivers, President of AMEC Paragon said “We wanted to indicator of how well our employment policies are providing find a better way to develop engineers produced from the a competitive, engaging, secure and safe work environment. area while using the country’s own resources. It’s not enough Healthy companies operating in buoyant markets will always to meet minimum requirements of man-hour percentages. see people coming and going but high employee turnover rates Our industry needs to step up and develop the next generation can be a sign that there is something to be addressed in people of leaders in Angola through cross-training opportunities, management policies. This measure can be usefully cross curriculum development, student transfer, and adjunct referenced with related indicators from the employee survey. professor opportunities to increase the region’s technical Last year, we saw a big drop in turnover and noted that this may knowledge.” have been affected by the general economic climate and the AMEC Paragon is providing project management for the availability of alternative attractive employment opportunities. program, with collaborative input from Sonangol, Chevron, In 2010, this turnover has returned to more normal levels. Prodiaman, BP, ExxonMobil, Total, Eni, Schlumberger, Endiama, and Paragon Angola. AMEC Paragon has a history of providing engineering and design services for oil and gas projects in Angola. For the recently completed front-end engineering design phase of the Kizomba Satellites project, Paragon Angola delivered on a commitment to Sonangol and ExxonMobil to deliver 25% of the total man-hours locally in Angola – one of the highest local content levels set for such a project in Angola. 22 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Diversity and equal opportunity Employee communication For us, diversity is primarily about the strength that comes We seek to engage our people in decisions which affect them in from being open to different ways of thinking and acting. a number of ways. Our Chief Executive and other members of As a result, we see great advantage in having a workforce the group management team provide regular briefings which made up of people with different backgrounds, cultures and are designed to keep our people informed about the state of the beliefs. Operating, as we do, in all parts of the globe, we have a company. We also look to have dialogue with our people through particular need to bring together people of many nationalities in employee cascades, town hall and group meetings, as well a common enterprise with strong shared values. as regular communications through online news, magazines and emails. Our employee survey showed that our employees believe that AMEC has created an environment where people with diverse Our health and safety performance backgrounds can succeed. We have in place equal opportunity Beyond Zero is our aspiration to be recognised as world-class policies and codes of conduct to ensure that this happens, leaders in health and safety (HSE). Whatever we do is not a protecting the rights of AMEC people. success unless it is delivered in a safe and sustainable way. 2010 brought great HSE successes with some outstanding examples Our business is growing, particularly in developing market of truly world-class performance. areas, so growing our employees of the future is fundamental to our success. As the numbers entering science and engineering AMEC takes health and safety very seriously. Over the years degrees is falling in some of our mature home markets, we will we have demonstrated our full commitment to achieving an need to look more widely for our future workforce. excellent HSE performance, with a continuous improvement of over 10 per cent. In 2010, we increased our focus on security Gender balance and health – setting benchmarks for performance in each of One aspect of diversity that we are able to measure on a these areas and strengthening our central support team. consistent basis globally is the ratio of males to females in the work environment. Women are an under-represented group within the engineering environment and AMEC is working with education providers to promote engineering as a rewarding We will be putting more focus on career path for women to pursue. sharing good practice across AMEC Our gender indicators help to see whether we are succeeding as there has been some truly worldin attracting and retaining women in the work environment. The bar chart below shows our male to female percentage across class performance in many areas – the company. we need to share the successes and There has been a further slight increase in the proportion of get inspired by them.” women in the company overall but a reduction for those in Nina Schofield, Group HSSE Director professional and management roles. We recognise that we have more to do, in particular at senior manager level. Safety management During 2010 we have undertaken a strategic review of our Male Female management system and Beyond Zero programme. Our objective is to revitalise our approach to HSE management, 76% 24% refresh our programme and, as a function, align our focus with Percentage of the 77% 23% AMEC’s Vision 2015. Throughout the year we have been working total workforce 79% 21% closely with our HSE Leadership Team to develop our new HSE Percentage of 83% 17% Management Framework. total managers 81% 19% Our Principles and professionals 81% 19% Our new HSE Management Framework sets out clear core 90% 10% expectations for the management of each critical area of HSE. Percentage total These core expectations form the basis of our standards across 90% 10% senior managers 91% 9% the business and reinforce and support our leadership. The core expectations are underpinned by our mandatory procedures 2010 2009 2008 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 23 where we have a one-AMEC process in operation. The new health risk assessments. We developed a comprehensive OH framework sets a clear standard for our global operations and risk review process which identified specific OH risk, potential will form the basis of our 2011 assurance process. health impact and mitigation measures designed to reduce risk; through the year more than 50 of these assessments Our Leadership were completed across AMEC. Leadership and personal accountability play a vital role in the management of HSE issues in AMEC. Strong and The second was to work with OH representatives across active leadership from the top is a proven demonstration of AMEC to develop a set of occupational health standards commitment, engagement and risk management. which would add value to the business by ensuring we protect our people, learn any lessons from our OH risk assessment We continued to develop the skills of people throughout 2010 process, improve OH awareness and raise the bar of current through the AMEC First Step Leadership programme. The OH performance. These standards have been incorporated programme was delivered across 10 countries and more than into AMEC’s new 14 Core Expectations which forms part of our 1360 people attended the course in 2010. global mandatory management system rolling out in 2011. Our Standards The standards that we set are our people’s guide to working safely. Compliance with these minimum standards act as our global ‘licence to operate’ when moving into new or working in existing areas of operation. Throughout the year we put significant effort into raising the awareness of our Safety Essentials and Safety Rules as part of our commitment to Beyond Zero. Recording and reporting incidents During the year we have also been tracking days lost through In last year’s report we talked about AMEC’s new on-line occupational ill health and injury and benchmarking the incident management tool, Trackwise, which we had been number of cases above and below four weeks. In our HR system developing with a software provider. This is a smart internet more than four weeks is classed as a long-term absence but based management system which allows us to report, track more importantly this gives us an indication of the level of OH and manage health, safety, security and environmental severity as a longer recovery time is required. Although this incidents across our worldwide operations. is a lagging indicator it has helped to raise the awareness of occupational health with our leadership. It has been a Through quarter one of 2010 we began the huge task of rolling key indicator for our reports during the year. the new system out to our operations as the system went live. The tool represents a significant step forwards in global Continuous improvement – next phase incident management. It introduces a number of “gateways” to Our business is constantly changing and evolving, and so be passed before an incident can be closed out, giving greater too must the management processes which govern us. visibility of incidents, more transparency in management These include our HSE management system. Through 2010, control as well as access to live incident data wherever working with our global leadership HSSE team, we have AMEC is in the world. completed a thorough review and update of our corporate HSE management system. As we embed Trackwise into our business we have identified even greater potential for the tool and have embarked on a plan During 2011, in line with our Vision 2015 strategy, we will be to evolve the reporting aspect of the system which will help rolling out our new corporate HSE Management system and our HSE teams to produce monthly statistics and information implementing the new Performance Standards tool. with minimal effort. Our safety performance Occupational Health While we had many fantastic examples of world-class Our objective through the year has been to raise the profile of performance in 2010, we unfortunately did not achieve all of our occupational health (OH) throughout the business and we have improvement targets. We are on the right track with our Beyond tackled this in two strategic ways. The first was to mobilise the Zero programme which focuses on promoting a consistent business in developing a clearer picture of occupational health high standard, robust leadership and ensuring that everyone is risks within their operations through conducting occupational engaged in the process. 24 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Employees Sub contractors Others Our target for TRCFR in 2010 was 0.40. Half of the businesses exceeded their target set for the year. While AMEC as a whole 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 did not meet the target set, we did demonstrate continuous improvement on the previous year’s performance. Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 0 All injury frequency rate (AIFR) The graph below show AMEC’s rate per 200,000 exposure hours. Incident data AMEC set a target of zero fatalities and a 10 per cent AIFR improvement on previous best performance across the three key lagging performance indicators. Zero fatalities were recorded across AMEC operations in 2010. Lost time Incident Frequency Rate (LTIFR) The graph below show’s AMEC’s rate per 200,000 exposure hours. 7.30 5.14 4.34 3.54 LTIFR 0.18 0.07 0.04 0.06 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our target for the year was 3.91 which we exceeded. AMEC’s performance compares well with figures produced by the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration which collate industry incident rate figures. These are useful 2007 2008 2009 2010 benchmarks against which to compare our global performance. Out target for LTIFR in 2010, was zero. One business unit Professional and OSHA 2009 Construction All industry met this target and one business demonstrated continuous business services improvement. AMEC as a whole did not achieve the TRCIF Total target set for the year. number of recordable 1.8 4.3 3.9 Total recordable case frequency rate (TRCFR) cases per 200,000 hours worked The graph below show AMEC’s rate per 200,000 exposure hours. LTIFR Number of TRCFR lost time incidents 0.6 1.6 1.2 per 200,000 hours worked 1.11 0.65 0.44 0.42 2007 2008 2009 2010 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 25 Health and Safety enforcement Average days sickness absence per person Number of prosecutions 0 Number of fines 0 Number of prohibitions 0 Number of orders/improvement notices 2 3.19 4.00 3.59 3.44 Two improvement notices were served on AMEC group Limited as duty holders on the Dunlin A Offshore Installation. Both notices related to fabric maintenance and an improvement plan has been put in place for the platform. Occupational health Days lost through occupational ill health and injury is a new 2007 2008 2009 2010 indicator for our HSE management programme report. The number of cases above and below four weeks, although crude, HSE awards gives an indication of the level of severity of each case, in that Natural Resources Growth Regions it represents the number of recovery days before the person n China AJEC awarded No. 1 contractor in three categories is well enough to work. for Contractor HSSE Awards in SECCO n CIS AMEC BKKS ranked second out of sixteen contractors Days lost through occupational ill health and injury by KPO 2010 days lost total 1332 Power & Process Europe Number of cases under 4 weeks 9 n RoSPA Gold Medal awarded n Westlakes received the Gold Award Number of cases over 4 weeks 13 n RoSPA Gold Medal (9th consecutive year) n 2009 Safe Working Award by the ECIA The most significant intervention we can make in managing this aspect of our business is to eliminate the risk of occupational ill Power & Process Americas health or injury and this is our primary objective. For people who n AMEC Cade earned a five-star rating for its safety standard are injured or ill we can ensure that they have the appropriate from Chilean General Contractors committee rehabilitation and support to get them back into work. Earth & Environmental Reportable cases of ill health n Annual contractor safety awarded from ExxonMobil, and This indicator relates to incidents of ill health which are required Occupational Excellence Award from US National Safety to be reported to the relevant regulatory authority. The nature Council of occupational reportable diseases are defined by national n Roger Jinks was recognised by the National Safety regulatory guidelines e.g. RIDDOR for the UK, OSHA in the US. Council as a corporate leader who has made distinguished contributions to the safety and health of his employees During the year there were no reportable cases of ill health. and his corporate community Sickness absence n National Safety Achievement Award at the National Employee absence though ill health is a common issue to all Safety Council Congress and Expo. industries and can be an indicator that there may be something to investigate in the work environment. We track our sickness absence rates across the business and have in place processes to support our employees back to work. 26 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 CE Awards Their main target was to embed a safety culture where all The Chief Executive’s HSE Awards programme was introduced project personnel can continuously utilise the numerous project in 2003 and continues to recognise and reward outstanding and company HSE tools to positively influence the design, performance as well as encouraging and promoting best procurement and execute phases of the job, create a successful practice. Awards are presented in 4 categories, namely; HSE interface management with AJS and Shell and implement Excellence, People, Best Practice and the Beyond Zero award. where necessary the change management processes so all risks are constantly identified and managed. The 2010 award winners were as follows: Safety Excellence – Power and Process Europe – By creating and managing the Beyond Zero mindset and setting M1 Corridor Gas Alliance clear, measurable targets the team have ensured that a strong This is an award to a business or project that has delivered safety message is communicated to all employees from the excellent safety performance either through maintenance of design stage through to completion. Their objective was to already high levels of performance or through year on year create an atmosphere of trust – where everyone is involved improvement. in keeping everyone else safe. This award was presented to the M1 Corridor Gas Alliance Commendation for overcoming the HSSE challenges of a project site covering One commendation was also awarded in this category to the 3,700 square miles. The team have worked hard to embed a Kruger Wind Farm Team for their innovative soil stabilisation culture in the workforce that enables them to work safely under technique. This road construction method resulted in less soil a climate of trust and ownership of responsibility. A number removal, used fewer vehicles and operatives who could remain of initiatives, innovative workshops and engagement sessions in the vehicles through the execution of the work. This lowered with the management team and workforce took place. Changes the risks of working around heavy machinery, decreased implemented post workshops have included; interactive installation time and made the road surface less susceptible engagement sessions with actors to bring to life real situations to weather damage. on the street; real life accident victims discussing their injuries People – Richard Oliver, Construction Team Leader, and the impact on their families; the Management Team Growth Regions taking more proactive safety leadership roles; targeted stand This special reward is to recognise the contribution made by an down days to focus on HSE performance; active engagement individual or team that has had a significant and demonstrable sessions with the workforce; and the introduction of a ‘Safety impact on HSE performance. Battleships’ game which had the theme of ‘Are you safe or are you lucky?’ Richard Oliver is the Construction Team Leader at the Saja’a Gas Plant in the United Arab Emirates, where AMEC provides This resulted in improved rates of safety incidents across the Engineering and Project Management Services to BP Sharjah project. The LTIFR is down from 0.3 to 0.07 and the electric cable Limited. Richard coordinates the construction activities of the hit rate is down from 0.6 to 0.13. The M1 Corridor Alliance is 100-strong construction team. seen as the ‘Flagship Alliance’ by the Client. BP Sharjah recently achieved 3 million man-hours without Best Practice – Natural Resources Europe and a DAFWC incident. At the HSE celebration, Richard received West Africa Leman Project Team a recognition award from BP Sharjah for his contribution to This award recognises the deployment or development that landmark. He received an award to recognise over 120 of practices or equipment that has had a significant and Safety Observations raised in less than 10 months during 2009. demonstrable positive impact on HSE performance. Moreover, the quality of these observations and his tenacity The team have been given this award for their promotion of in following up actions from these interventions received their Beyond Zero programme from the outset. special mention. The Safety Performance of the Construction Contractor is now recognised by BP Sharjah as excellent. From an early stage, the leadership team in this project Averaging over 400,000 man-hours a year, the All Incident demonstrated visible health and safety leadership and Frequency rate is zero. commitment and set clear targets towards achieving a safety performance consistent with the AMEC Beyond Zero mindset. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 27 Richard was nominated for stepping out of his area of The 2010 Quarry Park-It challenge will offered participants responsibility indicating a strong and active HSE leadership several learning opportunities through a series of lunch and and commitment. It is especially commendable considering that learn workshops. Topics include road and pathway safety with the construction work force is from a different company the Calgary police, buying a bike, bike fit, fitness nutrition, and features a wide variety of cultures and personalities. This improving vehicle efficiency and basic bike maintenance. was a true example of safety leadership by taking the time As a result of Calgary E&E’s efforts a number of other AMEC to talk, being observant and intervening. offices have expressed great interest in the Challenge. Not only Beyond Zero: – Earth and Environmental Calgary Team has this program proven to offer substantial employee health This award recognises good examples of a team or individual and morale benefits but it certainly has great potential for who has gone that extra mile to promote AMEC’s HSE values “One AMEC” to shine! in support of the local community. Commendations: The Calgary E&E office has been running a Commuter One commendation was also awarded in this category to the Challenge program since 2008. It encourages employees to Chile Management Team. This commendation recognises the commute to work using modes of transportation that are response of the AMEC Chile combined management team to more sustainable than a single-driver vehicle. Included in the the earthquake in February 2010 for their effective utilisation of 2010 program are all self-propelled modes (bike, walk, run, disaster management tools and their ongoing support to the rollerblade etc.), public transit, carpooling and high efficiency staff and the community. vehicles (vehicles that use a maximum of 6L/100km). This year, Calgary E&E management agreed to donate money to two local charities, based on employee participation milestones. The charities were chosen based on their alignment with the goals of the challenge: sustainability, physical fitness and teamwork. Regular milestone goals were issued to participants throughout the duration of the challenge. Senior management and award winners at the Chief Executive’s HSE 2010 Awards ceremony 28 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Our community Building strong, positive relationships and trust is vital to our work and the success of the company. Every AMEC stakeholder, present and future, lives in a community and their perception of AMEC is shaped by their experience and interaction with our employees and organisation. The work we do often brings us into close contact with local communities. This is very apparent where our geographical reach spreads into remote locations, but is equally valid in our larger, city based locations. Working with our local communities by building relationships and investing time and effort has the potential to bring all parties lasting and positive benefits. Through investing in local supply chains, infrastructure, AMEC is committed to supporting education and skills we, as a company, believe we can and are building a positive legacy of benefits and contributing to wider the communities in which we operate global sustainable development objectives. We tap into the and to society in general… acting networks created by our people and harness their talents to identify and channel investment where it is needed. Through our with integrity and adhering to the strategic charitable work, we work together to support those highest ethical standards, promoting less fortunate than ourselves. respect and diversity in our Our key community issues workforce and ensuring a safe and n Investment healthy workplace. Our responsibility Access to employment/local content to the wider social environment n Community n Skills building n Human rights and dignity is more than that and includes promoting sustainable development, Community Management Our commitment to support, protect and enhance our wider encouraging volunteering by our community, beyond the doors of our offices, is laid down in our employees and strict compliance core values, Guiding Principles and within our Business Code of Conduct. with applicable laws.” Extract from Code of Business Conduct AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 29 Working in diverse locations means that we must approach AMEC’s leadership team also take an active interest in engagement with our communities in a flexible manner. In AMEC’s strategic charity – SOS Children. Following the group the places in which we work we seek to invest in community management team meeting in Vancouver during 2010, Roger projects, improve skills, and support education and access to Jinks, then President of Earth & Environmental, and Sue employment. Respect for human and labour rights is integrated Scholes, Director of Communications, visited the only Canadian throughout our management policy and practices. These range SOS Children’s Village. Each foster family living there typically from policies on equal opportunities in employment, promotion includes at least one child with special needs and SOS provides of diversity and ethical standards, through to assessment the additional support they need to function and achieve to of human rights and labour issues in the supply chain. Our their potential. approach to the protection of human rights is informed by both the Global Compact principles and guidance on human rights 2010 AMEC Shoreline Cleanup has gone global and the Business Leaders’ Initiative on Human Rights. During the month of September, 37 of AMEC’s offices We have an established Charities Committee which is a board in Canada, the United States and internationally came committee and which is led by our chairman, Jock Greentogether to help improve their local communities by Armytage. It seeks to support community engagement both participating in the AMEC Shoreline Cleanup. AMEC at an employee volunteer level and through strategic charity staff, friends and family volunteered to pick up and support. Strategic charities are selected on the basis of their dispose of shoreline, marine and other litter in their local support for Millennium Development goals and support from, communities. This was the first international effort in what and strategic fit with, the business. has become an annual event in the AMEC calendar, and In 2009 we made a commitment to report more accurately on 2010 saw over 3,600kg of waste and recyclables collected the time AMEC’s employees spend supporting and volunteering collectively. within their communities, by participating in the LBG (London Shoreline cleanup offers our employees and the other Benchmarking Group). LBG uses a measurement model volunteers an opportunity to get involved in improving the tool which provides a comprehensive and consistent set environment in the local communities around our offices. of measures to determine a company’s contribution to the It also provides team building, with several offices working community, including cash, time and in-kind donations, as together to gain maximum impact. well as management costs. It also has the ability to capture the outputs and long term impacts of the community projects on both the community and on the business. LBG is helping AMEC to understand the contribution we make by identifying the different types of activity we support (such as health, education etc) and the geographic spread of our activities. A brief summary of the results can be found in the community performance section of this report, with the full detailed assessment available on amec.com once released from LBG from September 2011. Note: Entec did not complete the LBG returns for 2010, they will form part of the collection process from 2011 onwards. Leadership and community involvement Community engagement is supported from the very top of the organisation with many of our senior management actively involved in community projects. Neil Bruce, Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, continues to be actively involved as a patron of CLAN (Cancer Link Aberdeen and North). In addition Neil is also a trustee for Engineers Against Poverty, a charity which works with industry, government and civil society to fight poverty and promote sustainable development. 30 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 The commitment and dedication A further £466,714 was raised by our employees and 7,591 additional hours were volunteered by our employees in their we found was awe-inspiring. Nearly own time. 80 per cent of children in foster care Employee engagement do not complete high school – yet Across the globe AMEC continued to match fund employee volunteer events. AMEC believes these events are important there is a 100 per cent graduation in promoting and demonstrating local relationships and record from the children brought demonstrating our support for great causes. These local fundraising opportunities are valuable to the community and up in this village.” AMEC, bringing our people together to support and benefit Sue Scholes, Director of Communications people and places where we live and work. Our investment in local communities extends beyond providing cash. AMEC Our community performance people actively participate in our community and schools Community investment partnerships. We also support our communities through In 2010 AMEC donated £553,000 to good causes and charitable gifts in kind, donating essential equipment and materials. institutions worldwide, including matching employee volunteer Using the LBG model has allowed us to record and report a fundraising. This represented 0.20 per cent of profit. more comprehensive set of data over and above just the cash donated, and put a monetary value to this involvement. £’000 donated For example: 3,304 hours volunteered Cash value of in-kind by AMEC employees in donations £34,038 work hours. Equating to £96,772 186 446 549 540 553 7,591 hours volunteered £466,714 raised and by AMEC employees donated by AMEC outside of work hours employees Note: equated value of work hours based on average cost per hour of staff time in each location 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The data shows that almost 4,900 employees took part in The graph below shows the total contribution from activities requiring them to give up some of their time on AMEC, including time volunteered during work hours and community investment efforts during the year – this equated to in kind donations. over 10,000 hours in our communities. Total community contributions: £683,810 The following graph shows the types of community investment undertaken throughout the year, with Social welfare (37 per cent) and Health (25 per cent) making up the majority of £553,000 £96,772 the investment. Emergency relief at 19 per cent of the total £34,038 investment related to the global efforts following the Haiti, Chilean and Pakistan disasters during the year and is not expected to be sustained. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 31 Total contribution from AMEC workforce in the areas of the world where we need them. In areas, vocations or sectors where skills shortages have been 0% 1% 13% 19% 2% 25% 3% 37% identified, AMEC offers a variety of support mechanisms to local people to enable access to employment opportunities. Our support extends to; n Enrolment in an AMEC training facility n University sponsorships n Work experience Arts & Culture Economic Education & Emergency Environmental Health Other Social n Mentoring opportunities Welfare n Apprenticeships Relief Development Young People   We will continue to support this approach because we know The graph represents absolute contribution and so includes and have seen, first hand, that it works. AMEC, employee and other contributions in addition to the value One example of this was the result of an identified shortage of attributed to volunteered hours. project controls personnel. In the UK AMEC was instrumental The following graph shows how our employees’ volunteered in the development and implementation of an apprenticeship hours were split between the various causes. This shows a framework for Project Controls, through a partnership between slightly different picture to that above – largely because the Darlington College and NETA training (specialist vocational contributions due to emergency relief were largely made in the training provider for engineering and construction) in the UK. form of cash. The volunteered hours show a greater proportion New entrants to this type of role were historically university attributed to education and young people, demonstrating graduates; however AMEC campaigned for a framework the time and effort AMEC applies to its school and university which would attract younger people into the profession. partnerships. Examples of these are detailed later in this The apprenticeship framework is accredited by the ECITB section of the report. (Engineering Construction Industry Training Board), a UK statutory organisation, national training provider and awarding Number of hours volunteered body with responsibility for the training and development of the UK’s engineering construction workforce. It allows AMEC to embed best in class practises from day one as apprentices are taught the ‘AMEC Way’ of doing things and are given opportunities to further their careers and earn accredited and 177 160 3,224 43 718 2,484 251 3,839 widely recognised qualifications, coupled with valuable, real work experience. Five of the first apprentices to undertake the course are currently employed in AMEC’s Power & Process Europe business and are about to embark on the fourth year of Arts & Culture Economic Education & Emergency Environmental Health Other Social Welfare the course. The success in the North East has resulted in the Relief Development Young People framework being made available in other areas of the UK. Skills development   A more detailed analysis of this data will be available to We are proud of the work that we do in the community to download from amec.com from September 2011 and will be promote the development of skills, support mechanisms for included in our next annual sustainability report, once the full local people to gain access to employment opportunities analysis has been received from LBG. and also promotion of skills in school. Access to employment and skills development Our involvement can take many forms and is closely aligned As AMEC’s business grows, we need to ensure that the local to the need of the stakeholder. community is offered employment opportunities where possible. AMEC remains committed to building local workforces The Nuclear industry in the UK has recently selected AMEC’s wherever we work, leaving a positive legacy of benefits through John Male as the chairperson for the Northwest / Northeast investments in promoting and nurturing local talent. We have region of the National Skills Academy for the Nuclear Business. seen this approach pay off for both the community and AMEC, These types of opportunities provide AMEC with a privileged leading to the recruitment and development of a highly skilled opportunity to become actively involved in shaping and influence 32 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 the long term skills agenda for the nuclear sector. The National children, stepchildren and grandchildren of AMEC employees in Skills Academy for Nuclear is an employer led organisation North America. established to ensure that the UK nuclear industry and its We find that our employees value and enjoy opportunities to supply chain has the skilled, competent and safe workforce it support education and skills development projects, using their needs to deal with current and future UK nuclear programmes. knowledge and expertise to help and inspire the next generation Working with, and supporting, local supply chains is an of engineers, project managers and consultants. Some important element in developing skills and providing access examples of this include: to employment in a number of our locations. One example n Support for the Zevenfontein Education Fund in South Africa, of this is the work Earth & Environmental’s mining team are where monies raised help children in a local squatter camp, doing on the proposed Baomuhun Gold Project in central orphaned by HIV/AIDS, to remain in school. AMEC Minproc’s Sierra Leone working for a British mining company, Cluff Gold. contributions in 2010 helped two young people attend their AMEC has been commissioned to lead the environmental second year of school, one of whom attained distinctions in all and social impact assessment work required to gain a permit her subjects and information to operate, and in due course close the mine. n Our Nashville, US office received a community service By working closely with a local environmental consultant, award from McMurray Middle School – a school where 22 (CEMMATS), we are ensuring they are able to take advantage languages are spoken and many of the children are from of our relevant international experience. We are consulting with families struggling financially. As part of AMEC’s involvement, them on the specification of the work; their survey teams are employees participate in the school’s career days, workshops working with our senior specialists; we are reviewing their work and science demonstrations and sponsor some of the events. reports and providing feedback; and, we are, providing specific training, support and assistance as appropriate. AMEC employees and ASK students work AMEC also continues to form Community and Educational together to create sports area for local school Partnerships with local institutions. Each partnership for children with disabilities is designed around the individual circumstances, giving AMEC employees in Kazakhstan have regularly taken stakeholders the opportunity to draw on the talents of time during their lunch hours to play football in the local our employees with the objective of building skills. These school for children with hearing and speech disabilities. partnerships are often long-term relationships and In 2010 AMEC worked hard organising billiards activities include; tournaments to raise funds to create a playground for n Holding safety awareness classes younger children and a football field and volleyball site for n Work experience days for visits and schools older children. By August 2010, staff had raised enough n National event support money for the topsoil for the site, and with the help of the n Tutoring / lecturing (school and university level) ASK students, employees spread and leveled the ground n Award of scholarships ready for the grass. For AMEC, education has a much longer lasting benefit than just providing charitable donations. It is both a good way of helping and supporting the communities in which we work, and it also helps to grow the business in new regions. 2010 saw the continuation of two, now well-embedded, education support programmes. ASK (Amec Students in Kazakhstan) saw an additional 20 students entering the programme, in which AMEC sponsors their higher education and provides work experience opportunities throughout their sponsorship. AMEC’s North America Employee Scholarship Programme continued, awarding 15 scholarships amounting to a total award of US$62,200 throughout the year. The programme is aimed at encouraging and recognising academic excellence and the pursuit of higher education among the AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 33 Other case studies and example of Community and Education Response to Haiti disaster by AMEC employees Partnerships can be found on amec.com community In 2010, almost £100,000 was donated to SOS Children, sustainability pages. the Red Cross and the Salvation Army to support work Human rights and dignity in Haiti. This figure was match funded by AMEC. Our Upholding internationally recognised human rights is essential SOS Children section of this report briefly outlines what to AMEC in building a successful company. We believe that the money was used for. In addition, some of AMEC’s this is also very important to our stakeholders, particularly our professionals were able to use their expertise first hand, employees. In March 2009, we signed up to the Global Compact, spending a week in the region investigating geotechnical promising to ensure that our business is underpinned by and geological aspects of the earthquake. human rights principles. We believe that these principles are Senior Geologist Donald Wells and Senior Geotechnical already largely enshrined in our policies and procedures and the Engineer Jim French, both from the AMEC Geomatrix way in which we undertake our business on a day to day basis; office in Oakland, California, are members of a Geohowever gaps were identified. Those relating to AMEC’s stand engineering Extreme Events Reconnaissance (GEER) on forced and child labour will be specifically addressed in our team that conducted a six-day investigation of the 12 new Code of Business Conduct, due to be released during 2011. January earthquake in Haiti. The 11-member team, The revisions will also address the new UK Bribery Act. supported by the National Science Foundation and led by Matters relating to the Global Compact principles have also University of Texas at Austin Prof. Ellen Rathje, performed been addressed within our supply chain performance evaluation reconnaissance investigations of the earthquake’s ground criteria. New to the business – having been launched during deformation effects for a report to the professional December 2010 – all suppliers will be assessed on sustainability community. The GEER team seeks to further engineers’ related issues such as climate change, human rights, ethical understanding of what happens during an earthquake as conduct and health and safety. It is hoped that these new part of the US National Earthquake Hazards Reduction performance criteria will help our supply chain to realise how Program (NEHRP) important these issues are for AMEC, and in turn themselves. Donald Wells says “The observations that we make and AMEC’s strategic charity supporting human rights data we gather during these reconnaissance trips are We believe that, as a FTSE 100 company, we have an obligation always important in furthering our understanding of to step beyond our immediate boundaries of control, supporting earthquakes and in developing mitigation for earthquake international efforts to strengthen human rights. Following a hazards.” detailed assessment to find a charity with real international “This information is put into practice and is used to reach and one that supported elements of the Millennium update building and other codes to improve seismic safety Development goals, AMEC committed to continue supporting worldwide. But at a more basic level, we see that good SOS Children as our strategic charity. engineering and construction practices, even without SOS Children is the world’s largest orphan and abandoned specific seismic design and detailing, will substantially children’s charity. It provides a new family and homes for more increase the likelihood that a building (or other structure) than 70,000 children in 475 Children’s Villages in 123 countries, will still be standing after an earthquake or other extreme addressing and reducing child mortality and giving children event.” access to education. The money donated to the charity in 2010 went largely to supporting the relief efforts by SOS Children following the disasters in Haiti, Chile and Pakistan. Money to Haiti provided emergency relief including hot food, tents, water, clothes, hygiene items, medicines and trauma counselling. The efforts in Chile were put towards temporary shelter for unaccompanied children and reunification with families. In Pakistan AMEC’s money paid for approximately 2,000 food parcels for families. 2010 was an unprecedented year in terms of global appeals, and this is reflected in the cash donated by our employees and matched by AMEC throughout 2010. Project Control Manager Amir Khan speaking on the global fundraising efforts for the Pakistan disaster stated “Events like this bring people of different nationalities together and fund matching offered by AMEC inspires people to get involved. It was incredible – the moment we communicated it, the funds started pouring in from virtually everywhere: Canada, Australia, Germany, the US, the UK, Chile, Korea, etc.” 34 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Our environment Maintaining a world-class environmental performance is essential to AMEC’s business, its people, our clients and all our major stakeholders. We have long recognised that environmental performance is closely linked with our economic and social performance and this is borne out in the last ten years of reporting. Our company commitment to protecting and enhancing the environment is laid down in our core values and Guiding Principles. Our reputation is hard won on our ability to identify and manage environmental risk and we have invested in the technology, capability and world-class scientists and engineers to achieve this. We acknowledge there will always be more to do in this area but we drive ourselves through setting continuous and challenging targets for our most significant environmental aspects. Environmental management n Prevention of pollution AMEC has a systematic approach to environmental n Environmental accountability and leadership management, going beyond the traditional boundaries of a n Robust environmental management systems traditional ISO 14001 compliant frameworks which tends to n Working with clients to minimise negative focus on operations and exclude the more strategic element environmental impacts of business management such as strategy review, supply We have in place an AMEC-wide standard for environmental chain management and risk management. Environment management which is detailed in our Safety, Health and is (and should be) of critical importance for all companies Environmental framework document. During 2010 we have been and carefully considered at all levels of governance and reviewing the content of this document and our core policies management. We continue to make sure that environmental and procedures, with the aim of updating and refreshing our aspects are discussed at risk review and management team standards for the business. Our new framework will go-live in level on a regular basis as part of our management approach. the first quarter of 2011 and will contain new Environmental We believe that our environmental performance is closely Management Core Expectation and Environmental Standards. linked with our health and safety performance and continue to These will be drawn from AMEC’s key environmental aspects and operate an integrated health, safety and environmental (HSE) commitments. policy and function; you can read our policy statement on amec. From an AMEC-wide perspective we have a number of common com/about us. Our policy sets out our key environmental significant environmental aspects which are very important to all obligations including: AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 35 operations and the company as a whole. Our key issues are listed Changes in local regulatory requirements put greater emphasis in the table below; on our carbon management procedures. Having a robust accounting process has made compliance with the new CRC Our key environmental issues regulation easier, in that we have the information required at hand. Through reducing our carbon footprint, we can also reduce n Pollution prevention the impact of such legal requirements, which effectively place a n Risk assessment and control charge on the amount of energy and resultant CO2 produced. n Emergency response and incident control Management n Supply chain management Climate change n Legal compliance AMEC continues to believe that climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face. AMEC remains involved in energy n Energy use and efficiency production and the conversion of energy into electricity. We see this Climate n Travel and transport as a defining moment, in which our role is threefold. Firstly, AMEC, change n Carbon emission footprint and companies like us, play an important role in defining possible n Service provision solutions to climate change helping governments and policy makers shape and prioritise policy change. Second, AMEC can help our customers achieve the lowest carbon footprint possible Our approach sets a standard for all AMEC operations worldwide via the services and technology we provide. Third, at a company and, these standards are reflected within their individual and individual level, we should continue to conduct our work and environmental management systems, processes and procedure. our lives in an environmentally sustainable way. We manage environment in this way because we need to make sure that our operations comply with local laws and regulations AMEC continues to build its renewable services business. We have but at the same time set a minimum global expectation for been working with National Grid on a Carbon Capture and Storage AMEC operations. This is particularly important where local (CCS) project in Scotland, UK, we have a successful wind power environmental governance and protection is weaker. business in Canada, which we are expanding into the Americas and we are also working on INEOS-Bio’s first commercial scale Carbon trading schemes advanced bio-energy facility in the US. We will further build on We have, for a number of years, been accounting for our carbon our renewables position and in order to significantly enhance our dioxide emissions and have put significant resources in place to vision for alternative and low carbon energy: nuclear, wind, solar, improve our ability to do this. This approach has served AMEC biofuels and CCS. well as local regulatory attention is increasingly looking at how to tackle business based emissions. Carbon strategy Our carbon management strategy was developed by analysing During 2010 AMEC qualified for inclusion into a new UKthe short, medium and long term effects of climate change on government emissions trading scheme, known as the Carbon our business, including imminent regulatory impacts, and by Reduction Commitment (CRC) Energy Efficiency Scheme. The considering various international reports. The strategy and its key new regulation is a mandatory cap and trade scheme in the United milestones were initially communicated in 2008, and our targets Kingdom that applies to large non energy-intensive organisations updated in 2009. The objective is to facilitate the implementation in the public and private sectors. It is anticipated that the scheme of carbon management across the whole of our organisation, will cut carbon emissions in the UK by 1.2 million tonnes of pushing climate change and carbon emissions higher on our carbon per year by 2020. management’s agenda. Our long term targets form part of our strategy and remain at; n 15 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2013 from 2008 n 40 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2020 from 2008 n 60 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2030 from 2008 n 80 per cent reduction in CO2 by 2050 from 2008 Working through the Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidelines and ISO 14064(1), we have identified the key emission target sources on which we should concentrate our efforts. 36 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 However, we have been issued with one regulatory notice n Company fleet vehicles Scope one which is a disappointment. n Gas and oil consumption (building utility) Ration your ride Scope two n Electricity consumption (purchased grid) Throughout autumn, and in line with the quarterly carbon awareness programme, the Scottish Energy Saving Trust n Air travel (long, medium and short haul) visited AMEC Aberdeen offices with their Eco-Simulator. The Scope three n Rail travel aim was to learn how to drive safer, greener and stress-free. Within a 15 minute time slot, the simulator takes the driver These constitute the majority of the carbon emissions falling on a short urban route in which participants are faced with within our operational boundary and contribute an significant cost stops, starts, twists, turns, junctions and traffic lights. Once to our business. More detail of the makeup of AMEC’s carbon the drive has completed, a score is calculated to indicate footprint can be found on pages 38 to 39 of this report. how efficient the driving technique was and the driver is To help us to monitor, track, trend and report both our carbon given recommendations on how they can improve! emissions and costs from these key sources, AMEC invested Advisors from the Energy Saving Trust were on hand to in an online, bespoke carbon foot-printing tool. Use of the offer hints and tips on how each driver can make their tool has meant that AMEC has been able to fine-tune various driving more efficient and eco friendly. They also talked to systems, which has resulted in on-going improvements in the employees on a one on one basis providing tips on how to accuracy of the data recorded, as new reporting mechanisms are save money and be more eco friendly at home. implemented and take effect. 2010 was used to continue to raise awareness of In 2010, we undertook awareness programmes and events sustainability and AMEC’s carbon strategy amongst relating to carbon reduction. These are described below; employees. n Quarterly awareness campaign material, forming part of a carbon reduction toolkit. Topics covered were electricity, flights and car usage n AMEC Earth Week – took place during the first week of June and focused on environmental and carbon related issues. Moving forward AMEC’s carbon management programme forms part of our environmental management system, and is a key component of the HSSE policy (found on amec.com). Lagging indicators specific to the business have been set to reduce the carbon footprint of the total business in line with its first milestone of reaching a 15% reduction on 2008 levels by 2013. Targets have been set dependent on current reduction performance in the business. Our environmental performance We have selected environmental performance indicators that help us to monitor the implementation and performance of AMEC’s core policy commitments. We have also reviewed and used appropriate indicators listed in the Global Reporting initiative – sustainability reporting guideline. Our global indicators align with our key environmental aspects and are common across the whole of the organisation. Performance in 2010 has been positive. The total number of environmental incidents has significantly reduced and the environmental incident frequency rate has almost halved. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 37 Environmental regulatory action reduction is as a result of fewer work hours. During 2010 Our target for regulatory performance is to have zero enforcement there was a real reduction in the number of incidents per action. Our policy commits us to comply with local environmental 200,000 hours worked. laws wherever we operate. Incident rate per 200,000 2010 2009 2008 2007 exposure hours Number of prosecutions 0 0 0 0 Number of notices orders and citations 1 0 0 1 Disappointingly we received an environmental clean-up notice from Muswellbrook Shire Council which was issued to our office in New South Wales, Australia. The notice was served following the 0.22 1.15 0.94 0.46 overflow of a shared septic tank. The failure was due to a design fault in the landlord’s septic tank system. The notice was issued to AMEC as the occupier of the building although it did not result from AMEC’s negligence. A fee of Au $444 was paid to the issuing authority by the landlord and the system redesigned to make sure the pump feed shuts down once the tank becomes full, 2007 2008 2009 2010 thus stopping any overflow. Reported environmental incidents Environmental Management System coverage (EMS) This indicator relates to environmental incidents which More than 57% of AMEC’s enviromental management systems were reported internally by our businesses as part of their are ISO14001:2004 compliant, with our Natural Resources Europe environmental management processes, where the incidents and West Africa, Power and Process Europe and UK based did not result in action being taken by the regulator. Earth & Environmental business units gaining a third party ISO 14001:2004 certification. Number of internally reported environmental incidents Less than 10 per cent of our organisation operates within an environmental management system which we assess to be non-compliant with the standard. This compares favourably with 29 per cent last year. The improvement in EMS coverage has been significantly influenced by an increasing number of AMEC employees working within environmental management systems which are managed by our partners or clients rising from 13 per cent in 2009 to 33 per cent in 2010. 77 423 333 160 In 2011 we aim to introduce a company-wide environmental standard. The objective is to make sure that we have robust processes in place in areas of significant environmental risk and that these processes are influenced by a clear and definitive AMEC standard. 2007 2008 2009 2010 During 2010 we have continued to see a significant reduction in the AMEC-managed EMS – 57 per cent number of internally reported environmental incidents. Partner EMS – 33 per cent Non-compliant EMS – 10 per cent Environmental incident frequency rate We calculate the frequency rate because it takes account of the number of hours worked which varies from year to year, this makes sure we understand whether environmental incident 38 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Accounting for carbon emissions Note: Like for like is used to mean excluding major acquisitions ie Entec and GRD Minproc. This definition applies wherever like for like is used with this section Using our greenhouse gas protocol compliant carbon accounting of the report. tool, which was developed as part of the Operational Excellence Scope two – emission from indirect energy programme, we have been able to record and analyse our Analysis of our scope two emissions are helping us to assess the emissions and costs (scopes 1 and 2, as well as travel data in impact of the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment requirements our scope 3 emissions) from 2008 through to 2010. for which we qualified for inclusion in 2010, by understanding the Collating this information still remains a significant task, better performing areas, we can seek for replicate best practices however systems that were introduced in 2009 have been further at many of our facilities. Roll out of the 10:10 programme and embedded and levels of estimation continue to reduce. Following its toolkit (posters, audits, focus weeks etc) as well as target the publication of the 2009 report and as a result of further system setting within the office action matrices have had an impact on understanding, availability of actual data in place of estimations our electricity consumption during 2010, showing a 6 per cent and further improvements in the collection systems, the carbon reduction in consumption over the year overall. On a like for like footprint for 2009 has been updated. This update took the total basis i.e. excluding acquisitions the 2009 to 2010 reduction was carbon footprint for 2009 from 49,845 tonnes to 55,411 tonnes. 13 per cent. Scope one – emissions from direct energy 2010 saw 14 per cent of electricity we consumed originating This includes gas consumption at our facilities and transport from renewable sources. This is an increase from 9.6 per cent mileage from our fleet of vehicles. We do have a small number of from 2009. generators operating on site but the majority are under the control of sub-contractors and fall outside of our direct control. Where we Electricity consumed 2010 2009 2008 have data we have included fuel consumed in AMEC generators in our scope one footprint. ‘000 Kilowatt hours 44,771 48,118 59,137 ‘000 GJ 161 173 213 ‘000 Tonnes CO2 20.9 23.6 30.4 8,475 Company car 9,844 Scope three – CO2 emission from travel 2,279 The nature of our business means our workforce is highly mobile. 337 It is an area of major expenditure and comprises of considerable Generator fuel 492 proportion of AMEC’s total footprint. Improving our efficiency in 428 this area will not only reduce our emissions but save us money. We saw an increase in our scope three emissions as a whole, 40 amounting to 16 per cent (or 11 per cent like for like). The biggest Heating oil 70 increases came from long haul flights and non-company car 29 usage. Long haul flights increase was due largely to the acquisition 4,167 of GRD Minproc based in Australia, in late 2009, as well as to the Natural gas 3,471 nature of its business. The increase in non-company car usage is 3,765 due to improved methodology and reporting systems in the Earth & Environmental business in comparison to previous years. 2010 2009 2008 Tonnes CO2 Overall our scope one emissions have reduced by 6 per cent, however this data includes our acquisitions from 2009 which were not included in the 2009 footprint. On a like for like basis, we actually saw a reduction in scope one emissions of 12 per cent. Although most elements of the scope one emissions saw good reductions, the natural gas usage increased significantly by 20 per cent, 6 percentage points of which came directly from the Entec acquisition. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 39 This absolute carbon figure includes the carbon associated with 11,250 AMEC’s acquisitions in 2009, which were not included in the 2009 Long haul air 9,096 figures. When comparing like for like business, a reduction on 11,127 absolute carbon of 7 per cent was achieved. Although we did not hit our reduction target of 10 per cent for 2010 across the 5,251 whole of the business, we are in track to hit our first milestone in Short haul air 5,820 our carbon strategy of a 15 per cent reduction from 2008 levels. 8,572 Significant achievements were seen in many parts of the business, Non-company 4,391 and we will be sharing the learning and best practice examples car 2,919 from these throughout the whole business. 1,220 Addressing environmental concerns 213 Climate change, waste management and resource use continue Train and bus 108 to be major issues for AMEC and our clients to deal with. For us, 90 addressing concerns around climate change in particular means addressing our energy use and services provision for our clients. 2010 2009 2008 Tonnes CO2 We need to ensure that we bring the latest technology to the market and make best use of resources. AMEC’s carbon footprint In total AMEC’s businesses (excluding joint venture partnerships) Our business also works in more sensitive environmental reported emitting 55,025 tonnes of carbon, representing a arenas such as oil and gas, mining and unconventional oil and decrease of absolute carbon of 1 per cent from 2009. gas developments. We know that these areas of our work have significant environmental impacts, however, the resources they yield feed global demand. Society, through economics, has made these resources highly valuable. What matters is that they are 13,062 extracted in an environmentally responsible way. We believe Scope 1 13,915 that we have an obligation to work with responsible clients, 20,858 to help them achieve world class operational environmental Scope 2 23,568 management through providing excellence in design, engineering, management and monitoring. 21,106 Scope 3 17,928 2010 2009 Benchmark indicators 2010 2009 2008 Tonnes of CO2 per person per year 2.512 2.669 2.632 Tonnes of CO2 per £m turnover 18.649 21.823 22.214 40 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Our marketplace As a company we are passionate about what we do; working with our partners and supply chain we think about what our customers need and how we can improve our delivery and support their sustainable development aspirations. Doing business with integrity builds trust and positive relationships that are central to maintaining a successful business. We work hard to ensure that we maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct in all that we do and we expect no less of our business partners than ourselves. Our key marketplace issues Managing our business AMEC’s businesses are managed on a decentralised basis. n Strategic development While the board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day Economic effectiveness n Shareholder value management has been passed to the business leaders within n Investment/divestment defined authority limits. The management philosophy is to empower the business leaders to take the actions necessary to n Anti-corruption deliver the company’s operational business objectives, within Ethical n Business practice defined Mandatory Procedures and Delegated Authorities, trading n Marketing which set out the standards AMEC employees and agency n Human rights staff are to achieve and adhere to. n Ethical agreements These mandatory procedures and processes relating to our Supply n Governance marketplace include strategy, ethical conduct and our supply chain n Local content chain. These policies and procedures set out clear standards for our businesses to achieve. One key element in managing our business is operating an Everything we do is about effective risk management process. Our risk management process ensures we have a pro-active approach to identify, servicing our customers, delivering assess and manage risk across the globe. excellent work for our customers, Risk management process in AMEC developing long-term relationships Where practicable AMEC seeks to mitigate the exposure to all forms of risk through effective risk management as with our customers and securing risk transfer practices. AMEC has, therefore, developed and repeat work from our customers.” established a risk management process in order to ensure that a formal, pro-active approach is taken to the identification, Neil Bruce , Chief Operating Officer assessment, planning and management risk across all AMEC companies and businesses throughout the world. This process is driven from board level down through the organisation and is co-ordinated via the Corporate Risk Management Director. The AMEC risk management process is mapped out in the diagram on the next page. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 41 The following outlines some of the specific risks face by AMEC Project execution risk and the measures being taken to manage these; Various measures are in place in order to address the project execution risk, including the risk management process, project Bidding risk reviews, internal audit of projects, and the implementation of AMEC addresses the risk associated with bidding via a peer reviews. Project execution risk has also been a key focus stringent tender review process which addresses the threats of the Operational Excellence programme particularly from a and opportunities associated with each tender submitted. The Project Management perspective. implementation of a web-based workflow tender approval process across AMEC has resulted in improved visibility of the Security of employees; threats and opportunities associated with tender submission The personal security and the safety of employees and as well as providing a consistent and auditable approach to the contractors based, or travelling extensively on business, in management of tendering risk and provides clear control over potentially hazardous locations is of paramount importance approval authorities. to AMEC. Risks are mitigated by keeping security in relevant locations under continual review and utilising local specialist 42 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 security companies where appropriate. AMEC specifically committee. This committee is responsible for upholding agrees security plans for designated high-risk countries for AMEC’s core values of honesty, integrity and respect. named personnel. Contingency arrangements are also in place The committee is also responsible for reviewing and monitoring to respond to any adverse security incidents affecting AMEC’s compliance with all relevant legislation, regulation, and current operations across the globe. best practice regarding the prevention of: Geopolitical and economic conditions n Bribery and corruption AMEC operates predominately in the UK and North America n Conflicts of interest (including, but not limited to, gifts, outside and is therefore particularly affected by political and economic interests and related party transactions) conditions in those markets. The company is not, however, n Unfair or disrespectful behaviour in the workplace (including dependent on any one area of economic activity. harassment and discrimination) n Unfair competition (including collusion and price fixing) The risk associated with economic conditions resulting in a n The inappropriate use of company assets downturn and affecting the demand for AMEC’s services has been addressed, as far as practicable, by seeking to maintain a AMEC’s Code of Business Conduct sets out clear standards balanced business portfolio. of behaviour in our business dealings and commitment to anti-corruption measures. The code which is translated into In light of the current global economic downturn, steps have a number of languages gives clear and unambiguous advice, been taken in order to assess and monitor any potential building on key ethical risk areas to which our people, through impact on AMEC’s project opportunities and address potential their business life, may be exposed. It sets out a clear standard increased supply chain risk. of conduct which AMEC expects all its people to adhere to. Environmental and Social Risk The code is arranged into six main sections, focusing on our AMEC’s operations are subject to numerous local, national responsibility to: and international environmental regulations and human rights n our customers conventions. AMEC has taken steps to ensure that climate n our business partners change related risks are appropriately highlighted in the n each other corporate risk management process. n the company n governments Breaches of, or changes in environmental or social standards, n the wider social environment. laws or regulations could expose AMEC to claims for financial compensation and adverse regulatory consequences, as well as This approach is supported by the ethics hotline which was damaging corporate reputation. introduced in 2008 – a confidential option for employees and others to report suspected violations of our Code. We continue AMEC takes a pragmatic, integrated approach to managing to encourage our people to report any behavior that may environmental and social risks utilising existing business constitute a breach of our code of conduct using the process management systems to identify and mitigate such risks. set out in the Code of Business Conduct. Further advice and Ethics in AMEC encouragement is given on AMEC’s Ethics intranet site. Companies considered to have a high standard of ethical As part of our membership of the World Economic Forum, conduct benefit from strong relationships with stakeholders and AMEC is an active participant in the Partnering Against are seen to have a positive reputation. Reputations can be made Corruption Initiative. or lost on the actions of a single employee. Efforts to manage reputational risk arising from corrupt practices by employees Acting with integrity and respect or business partners require a management system that has AMEC has zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. Over 750 supporting processes in place, with the appropriate leadership senior managers have been through the latest compliance and support. AMEC has implemented a robust ethical management ethics training programme, and in the Americas, refresher process, which has developed over a number of years. AMEC training continues on the specific ethics requirements of the has a Code of Business Conduct which operates across AMEC US Government. and is available to all employees on our intranet or in hard copy. Strategic development At board level AMEC has a non-executive director, Simon Vision 2015 – assured growth Thompson, who chairs AMEC’s compliance and ethics The unveiling of Vision 2015 in December 2009 defined our AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 43 overall corporate vision, targets and strategic direction for and gas, mining, building, transport, utilities and infrastructure AMEC beyond 2010. AMEC and its shareholders have a sectors. This business, which is now trading as Aquenta clear outline of the objectives, growth market sectors and Consulting, was strengthened in November by the acquisition of geographies. BurmanGriffiths, a Brisbane-based provider of estimating and programming services to the civil engineering industry. To be the leading supplier of highThe strategic partnership with S2V Consulting, also an value consultancy, engineering and Australian company, strengthens our consulting services project management services to the capability in the oil and gas sector. This partnership will enhance our ability to provide front-end services, including world’s oil and gas, minerals and field development planning, conceptual screening and metals, clean energy, water and project assurance, as well as technical consulting in areas such as subsea, pipelines, environmental and complex environmental sectors. upstream projects, which were all identified as areas of focus for our vision. For further information on how AMEC has started delivering against Vision 2015 in 2010, see the 2010 annual report and Of major importance to our acquisition process is the accounts or amec.com. management of integration and culture during what can be a stressful and worrying time for employees. Ensuring that We take pride in understanding our customers’ needs and new employees are listened to, communicated with and well changes in end market focus. Through the integration of equipped with the necessary tools to work alongside AMEC is Natural Resources, Power and Process and Earth and essential in successful mergers and acquisitions. By leveraging Environmental, we have moved forward and remodelled our our geographic presence, client base, expertise and broad business to better align with the market. This collaborative services offering, we are able to provide the necessary support approach allows us to work closer together and provide leaner to allow the individual entities we acquire or partner with to and more effective services to our clients, whilst opening up grow at a faster pace than they would have done independently. large growth opportunities across the sectors. Mergers and acquisitions: A pillar for growth Acquisitions are an integral part of AMEC’s vision and make It’s all about delivery and a key contribution to AMEC’s long-term prospects. One such ensuring the customer has a great acquisition which took place in 2010 supporting our strategy of growth in the water and environmental sectors was Entec experience with AMEC.” Holdings Limited. This increased the Earth and Environmental Ron Reeves, President, Business Development & division’s footprint in Europe by some 700 people. Entec Strategy, Natural Resources has a leading position in the UK water services and waste Delivering Excellence to our customers water sector. It also provides renewable, nuclear and other Consistency and quality through The AMEC Way energy services, industrial engineering, contaminated land The AMEC Way emerged from Operational Excellence as and regeneration services, environmental planning and our consistent, global way of project delivery and support. project management services, enabling us to strengthen our We have standardised the way we do engineering, project relationships with existing customers, as well as providing management and other areas of functional support and project access to new ones. delivery right across AMEC meaning we deliver engineering Australasia is a region which we have targeted for growth and and technical services the same way – the AMEC Way – for investment. Progress was made in 2010, with three acquisitions our customers across the world. It’s all about our customers completed during the year. In January, the acquisition of Currie – winning work from them, delivering for them and developing & Brown (Australia) provided us with a regional platform to long-term relationships. Examples of this include the two BP deliver business consultancy services such as independent cost Global Agreements which rely on us being able to support our and commercial management advice to clients in the oil customer globally and consistently wherever they work. Our relationship with EDF, spanning a number of sectors, shows how important good customer relationships can be: AMEC supports EDF in the UK at the Hole House gas storage facility and at West Burton power station. 44 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 We were also recently awarded an 11-year contract to support EDF’s architect operation engines at Hinckley Point and Sizewell 1. Sustainability management nuclear stations in the UK. Implementing AMEC Way Project AMEC provides management support and expertise to Management Plans will provide a consistent way of delivering assist leaders with integrating sustainability into their our services and a platform to continuously improve through operations. From economic analysis and planning to sharing of best practice, to create efficiencies and to better carbon management and sustainability reporting, we service our customers. use our combination of technical expertise, industry knowledge and experience with sustainability to provide analysis and advice that reduces risks, improves performance and helps to build your brand reputation. 2. Sustainable engineering Managing climate change and natural resources like water requires a renewal of infrastructure and energy systems. AMEC is a leader in providing sustainable engineering services across a broad range of technologies including: green energy from wind, solar Sustainability services and biomass; alternative fuels like biodiesel and ethanol; As businesses worldwide face legislative or other pressure to and green infrastructure. We are also supporting the operate sustainably, AMEC is ideally placed to support them. development of new green technologies like carbon We have seen a big shift in the marketplace over the last couple capture, algae biofuels, tidal power and geothermal. of years, with clients expecting us to provide sustainability services while at the same time demonstrate that we work sustainably. It’s a differentiator for AMEC because of our global mix of technical and scientific capabilities. One of the recent 3. Applied sustainability examples is the Mount Milligan Mine project in Canada – our At AMEC, we believe that achieving sustainability goals sustainable approach to mining was approved and recognised requires integrating sustainability thinking into every as a model for other companies to follow. Sustainability can aspect of the project lifecycle. Building on our internal mean different things to different people. In some areas of sustainability programme and our expertise in project the world, it is more of a climate change related issue, in design and delivery, we use best practices and innovative others it is more the social and human side of sustainability. solutions to improve the overall sustainability of projects AMEC’s diverse project teams can help clients manage both by evaluating energy efficiency, improved resource use the environmental and social aspects of sustainability. The and social responsibility. sustainability services we offer are built upon our internal knowledge and expertise and our own internal sustainability In order to develop these three sustainability services areas programme, and cover three broad areas; further, AMEC’s Earth & Environmental business has In order to develop these three sustainability services areas appointed a sustainability services programme manager. further, AMEC’s Earth & Environmental business has More information on AMEC’s sustainability services will be appointed a sustainability services programme manager. available on amec.com during 2011. More information on AMEC’s sustainability services will be available on amec.com during 2011. Whether finding better ways to use resources or to help local communities – they’re all steps in the right direction.” Wayne McPhee, Sustainability Services Programme Manager, AMEC Earth & Environmental AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 45 Supply chain management (SCM) AMEC’s Sustainable Approach helps gain federal green During 2010 a new global position of Vice President light for project Supply Chain Management was created, giving clear In June 2010 AMEC was awarded (as part of a joint venture ownership for procurement and supply chain strategic with Fluor) the provision of engineering, procurement and direction and improvement and a direct reporting line construction management services to the Chief Operating Officer. The role was intended to for Thompson Creek Metals’ Mt Milligan copper-gold further aid the focus on project delivery ‘The AMEC project in Canada. Way’, reinforcing the consistent, global and integrated The mine is located 150km northwest of Prince George working of project management, engineering in British Columbia and should provide about 400 direct and supply chain management to deliver our customers’ permanent jobs and significant long-term economic needs. During 2010 a global SCM Leadership team was benefits for the region. also formed to manage the global supply chain and AMEC’s interactions with the supplier community. Its goal is that AMEC completed the pre-feasibility, environmental impact “AMEC is viewed by the supply community as a company they assessment, and engineering, project and construction want and need to do business with”. management studies over the past six years and the Canadian Government granted federal authorisations in This goal is set within the context of the SCM November 2010 to proceed with the development. Leadership’s aim: ‘to deliver effective Supply Chain Management services that enable the company to Federal Environment Minister Jim Prentice reported “The satisfy customer requirements and deliver enhanced Mount Milligan project has been designed in a way that business performance, through the skills of our people and minimises impacts to the environment… (and) should our suppliers’. serve as a model to other companies seeking approval under the country’s environmental process”. AMEC’s suppliers play an increasingly important role in our successful project delivery as our business grows. During Project Manager Tim Bekheys stated; “I’m proud of the 2011 the SCM Leadership team will be working with the other committed team at AMEC and, in particular our new role project delivery functions and the business to determine how of integrating leading-edge sustainability criteria into the to further engage with the supply community across all of engineering design. its sectors. Sustainability and Supply Chain During 2010 we designed and implemented a pan-AMEC Supplier Performance Assessment system. The system is used to “assess” and record in a structured and consistent manner a supplier’s performance in the execution of their work awarded to them by AMEC. The global system captures the levels of performance against specific categories and predetermined criteria related. The information is then used to assist in project execution. The assessment categories are: n Responsiveness in bidding n Commercial n Delivery n Technical Compliance n Documentation n Health & Safety n Environmental n Sustainability This system enables a consistent focus on sustainability with our suppliers of goods and services. 46 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Our Marketplace Performance For more information and full details of the basis of calculation 2010 delivered another year of excellent results, with please see AMEC plc 2010 annual report and accounts at significantly improved operating cash flow and a record amec.com. EBITA margin of 9.2 per cent. This represented a rise of 100 We have continued to invest in the growth of our business, base points from 2009. The priority in 2011 will be to deliver expanding our geographical reach and services provision to growth while maintaining margins at around 9 per cent. This our clients in line with our vision and strategy. In aggregate, we will be achieved by continuing to deliver to customers and have agreed to pay a cash consideration in excess of £88 million invest in employees. Although the pace of economic recovery during 2010 in respect to four transactions. is uncertain, 2011 is expected to be another year of gradual recovery. 2010 2009 Change £millions £millions Continuing operations: Revenue 2950.6 2539.1 +16% Adjusted profit before tax 279.7 215.6 +30% Profit before tax 258.2 203.5 +27% Adjusted diluted earnings per share 62.5p 46.7p +33% Dividends per share 26.5p 17.7p +50% AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 47 Our future Initial Our workplace Date Business Market consideration 2011’s focus will be all about further embedding and £ million communicating the initiatives and programmes that have been Australian-based developed and rolled out over the past year. These include My January Currie & Brown cost and commercial AU$36.4m (Australia) Pty management Future and AMEC Academy for example. consultancy 2011 will see the roll out of the new global mandatory HSE management system and the implementation of the new UK environmental March Entec Holdings £61.2m HSE performance standards. and engineering Limited consultancy Our environment AMEC will continue work towards reducing its carbon Australian estimating footprint in order to meet our first milestone of 15 per November BurmanGriffiths AU$4.5m consultancy cent reduction by 2013. Review how the company’s water usage is measured and Majority Shareholding Australian-based Not agree a baseline from which to work going forward. December in S2V Consulting specialist front-end disclosed Pty Ltd consultancy Our community We will continue to support the communities in which we For further information on our strategic acquisitions, please see work through education, community volunteering and other pages 44 to 45 or refer to amec.com. methods as appropriate. Ethics helpline We will continue to use the London Benchmarking Group We believe that we must continue to reinforce our commitment model to record our employees and offices local community to ethical behavior and encourage people to report poor work and charity fundraising efforts. We will publish the first ethical performance. Workplace Alert Reports are received by full set of analysis from our 2010 data in 2011. AMEC’s confidential ethics helpline, all of which are followed Our marketplace up and investigated, unless the caller has chosen to remain 2011 will continue to see further development and marketing anonymous. The total Workplace Alert Reports received for of AMEC’s sustainability services, focusing on clean energy 2010 was 47 and this compares with 39 for the previous year. solutions, adapting to climate change and water. Further embed the Global Compact principles within our business policies, re-issuing our Code of Business Conduct to incorporate these changes and take account of the UK Bribery Act. 48 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Report assurance process We believe that it is important for us and our stakeholders to subject our report to independent review, so the reader can have confidence that we are reporting a fair and balanced view of performance in our reports. Our validation assessments also offer us opportunities to improve our process of reporting. Following the advice of our independent assessor SKM Enviros during our last reporting cycle, we have: n Included a table within this year’s sustainability report signposting the reader to the material issues that were identified for the business for 2010. n Made further improvements in carbon data collection systems throughout the business, and continued with internal audit checks of this data to test its robustness n Improved the data reported with regards to community. performance using the London Benchmarking Group model. This data and initial analysis has been included during this year’s report, and further analysis will be made available on amec.com once available. Through investing in our data infrastructures, we have improved the validation process. Data provided in this report is collected and collated by functional heads of discipline for AMEC plc. It is checked by them and their direct reports. Many of the systems used to collect data are externally certified by independent auditors, such as ISO 14001, 9001 etc. Implementation of a new integrated reporting system in 2011 should improve the reporting process for our human resources data. We have continued to work with our external assurance provider SKM Enviros and have asked them to provide a robust statement of opinion from which AMEC can plan improvements in the future. This is an important part of our report development process. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 49 SKM Enviros Assurance Statement for AMEC Sustainability Report 2010 Assurance Objectives new sustainability intranet site for the Earth and Environmental SKM Enviros has conducted an independent assurance review Division and AMEC TV globally. of the web based AMEC Sustainability Report 2010 (see www. AMEC’s materiality process incorporates inclusion of amec.com). The objectives were to provide an independent stakeholders to define the reporting strategy. Although these evaluation of the accuracy and balance of the report to ensure guidelines are in place, there was however only limited evidence statements made and data presented reflect business practices to demonstrate the linkages between stakeholder engagement within AMEC. and prioritisation of the key sustainability issues to report. We Responsibilities would encourage AMEC to undertake specific consultation with The information and presentation of data within the AMEC their stakeholders to ensure that the report style and content Sustainability Report are the responsibility of AMEC. This are inclusive to their needs. statement is the responsibility of SKM Enviros and represents Materiality our independent opinion for the report audience, and is written AMEC uses their materiality guidelines to determine the issues to be read in its entirety. to report on. This process has been further developed this year Methodology through use of a ‘materiality matrix’ to help identify issues of This assurance engagement was conducted between February ‘significance to stakeholders’ and ‘significance to the company’. and April 2011 via meetings, telephone discussions and AMEC has revised its key sustainability impact areas to now e-mail correspondence with staff responsible for collating and include: reporting the data on which the report was based. We also n Risk Assessment and control reviewed supporting evidence and data collection systems to n Emergency response and incident control substantiate the data and claims. Telephone and email based n Supply chain management (revised from Supply Chain and field audits were conducted to sample the collection of data procurement) within the business to assure ourselves that the process is n Legal compliance (revised from Legal and other robust and to review data transposition within the businesses. requirements including waste) Internal carbon audits were carried out by AMEC to assure the data being supplied by the businesses and SKM Enviros Efficient use of resources was included as a specific key attended one of the carbon audits to assure robustness of sustainability impact area for 2009. This has been changed the audit process. The assurance scope excluded any data for 2010 to emphasise the focus on efficient use of energy and already submitted to regulatory audit or other third party reduction in carbon emissions. checks. However, we did check that this information has been Responsiveness translated accurately into the report. The boundaries of the report are clearly stated and we believe Quality Assurance the coverage and presentation of the data reflects current Following guidance and recommendations from the AA1000 business practices and performance at the amalgamated group (2008) Assurance Standard SKM Enviros has provided level. comments against each of the principles of assurance of We were encouraged to see new sections to the report this year: inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness and has made an such as AMEC’s journey over the last 10 years and a section assessment of the reliability of performance information. on Sustainability Services. We were also pleased to see the The team performing the assurance has the appropriate continued developments on management of AMEC’s supply experience and competency to do so and are not working chain, through the formation of a Supply Chain Leadership team for AMEC in any other capacity. SKM Enviros has a Quality and the launch of the Supplier Performance tool. Management System (QMS) which is certified to BS EN However, the structure and content of the report is very ISO9001. similar to the previous years and we would like to see a clear Our Opinion demonstration that the report represents a response on an Inclusivity ongoing basis to stakeholder needs. The materiality process AMEC has systems in place for internal and external would now benefit from greater inclusion of the report section stakeholders to participate in the development of the authors with regards to how they should respond to meet organisation’s response to sustainability issues. We changing stakeholder needs in writing and structuring their were encouraged to see that internal communication on report sections. sustainability had strengthened this year, with the launch of a 50 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Navigation around the report has been improved by including by parts of the business. Although this inconsistency was a table detailing the page number where the report addresses amended, this highlighted a need for clarification on the performance against each sustainability issue. However, there definition of a ‘compliant EMS’. We recognise that the new remains an imbalance in the level of commentary describing HSE Framework should improve this process and ensure AMEC’s performance for each of the defined sustainability consistency during 2011. issues and not all of the issues have identified performance Recommendations for Future Reports and Sustainability indicators. This makes it more difficult to understand AMEC’s Programme performance in each key impact area and we would encourage n Undertake consultation with stakeholders to ensure that the AMEC to consider how this balance can be achieved in next report style and content are inclusive to their needs. year’s report, possibly alongside a prioritisation of the issues. n Include report section authors in the materiality assessment It is acknowledged that AMEC has reviewed and removed process to ensure they can respond appropriately to meet ‘Employees covered by union agreements’ as an indicator changing stakeholder needs in writing and structuring their because it is not considered to be the most relevant measure report sections. of performance to the business. We would encourage AMEC n Consider prioritising the identified material sustainability to continue to review the appropriateness of all their indicators issues and reflect this in the balance of the report to ensure they respond to stakeholder needs and as far commentary. as possible reflect the way performance of the business is n Review the sustainability indicators to ensure they respond measured internally. to stakeholder needs and where possible reflect the way performance is measured by the businesses. Reliability of Performance Information n Address the areas for improvement in the carbon and The data collection systems used for collating the sustainability community data collection processes. performance information are generally similar to last year n Consider implementing a procedure to ensure data/ with the addition of ‘Trackwise’ for recording health and safety information is signed off by the businesses that it has been and environmental incident data. AMEC has also improved subject to appropriate checks for inclusion within the Report. the community data collection process by participating in the n Clarify the definition of a ‘compliant EMS’ and ensure this is London Benchmarking Group (LBG) for community data and applied consistently within the businesses. it is noted that further training is planned to ensure this data collection process is used consistently across the business. We are also pleased that we could assure the reliability of the ethics data this year. There have been some notable improvements in carbon data collection and although internal auditing has highlighted some Rachel Pickering areas for further improvement, this is acknowledged in the Area Technical Lead, SKM Enviros Sustainability report. It is difficult to audit employee data beyond the Divisional level and plans for a new financial and HR information system should ensure a more transparent tool with clearer ability for viewing and checking workplace data from corporate level down into the divisions on a more regular basis. Although we have not identified any material anomalies in the data there is reliance in some parts of the business on anomalies to be identified by the Corporate centre rather than within the business. Accountability for data quality rests with the Heads of each discipline and inconsistencies remain in the level of data checking within the businesses. Some of the information concerning Environmental Management System coverage was incorrectly reported AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 51 Signposting our Sustainability Report Global Reporting Initiative AMEC use the C compliance matrix from the Global Reporting initiative to focus report content. GRI Standard disclosure Report page GRI Standard disclosure AMEC report section No. section No. 1.1 Statement from CEO 4-5 LA7 Rates of injury 24-25 2.1 – 2.10 Organisational profile 6 SO1 Community 29-34 3.1 – 3.8 Profile and boundary 7-9 EC1 Direct economic value 47 3.10 – 3.12 Restatement 7-8 EC8 Community infrastructure 29-30 4.1 – 4.4 Governance 10-11 EN23 Spillage 38 4.14 – 4.15 Stakeholder engagement 12-15 LA14 Employee category 21-23 EN3 Energy consumption 39-40 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas 39-40 EN16 Greenhouse gas 39-40 EN28 Non-compliance 38 Category Issues Page n Engagement 18-19 n Attraction and retention 20-22 n Occupational health, safety and security 23-28 Workplace n Equal opportunities and diversity 22 n Employee/capability development 20-22 Social n Performance excellence 21-23 n Investment 29-32, 34 n Access to employment/local content 32 Community n Skills building 32-33 n Human rights and dignity 34 n Pollution prevention 35 n Risk assessment and control 35, 41-43 n Emergency response and incident control 38 Management Environmental n Supply chain management 45 n Legal compliance 35-36, 38 n Energy use and efficiency 39 n Travel and transport 39 Climate change n Carbon emission footprint 36-37, 39 n Service provision 40 n Strategic development 44 Economic n Shareholder value 47 effectiveness n Investment/divestment 44, 48 n Anti-corruption 43, 48 Economic Ethical n Business practice 43 trading n Marketing 43 n Human rights 34 n Ethical agreements 34, 47 Supply n Governance 47 chain n Local content 32-33 52 AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 Our awards During 2010 AMEC was given a number of awards. Many are highlighted in the body of the report. In particular, safety awards are in our workplace section of the report on page 26-28 n Remediation Technology Merit award was received from the Environmental Business Journal (EBJ) for innovative demonstration projects under way for the U.S. Air Force Center for Engineering and the Environment. The award marks the sixth year in a row that Earth & Environmental has been selected for an EBJ Business Achievement Award. n Engineering Excellence Grand Award from the Arizona chapter of the American Council of Engineering Companies for the in-house processing and interpretation of satelliteproduced interferometric synthetic aperture radar (InSAR) data. n National Safety Achievement Award in recognition of “Exceptional Safety Performance in the Workplace” was received by AMEC at the National Safety Council (NSC) Congress and Expo in San Diego, Calif. n 2010 Premier’s Gold Award of Excellence. for its contribution to Alberta Transportation’s Carseland-Bow River Main Canal and McGregor Dam Rehabilitation Project. n AMEC Principal Engineer Peter McGlone recently received the Niagara Engineering Award of Merit, an annual award recognising his lifetime of contribution to engineering and the Ontario, Canada community. n British Columbia (Canada) Ministry of Transportation and Infrastructure Deputy Minister’s Award, presented in recognition of excellence in design and contract preparation for roads. n Four awards in recognition of engineering innovation and excellence from the annual Consulting Engineers of Alberta (CEA) showcase awards. n For the third year in a row and for four out of the last five years, AMEC has been awarded Environmental Consultant of the Year honors by CSX Transportation. The AMEC team also received the Engineering and Field Services Consultant of the Year (second consecutive year) and Most Projects Closed in 2009. AMEC plc annual sustainability performance report 2010 53 AMEC plc 76-78 Old Street London EC1V 9RU United Kingdom Tel: +44 (0)20 7539 5800 amec.com
