Winning drawing of the “What is a hotel for you?” competition for the children Sustainability report of Sol Meliá staff worldwide. Itsaso Alvarez Escalante, 10 years old 2010 ‘10 Hotel Meliá Bilbao, Spain Contents 02 Independent Review Report 04 Company profile 06 Message from the Chairman 08 Sustainability at Sol Meliá 15 Leadership Value 21 Good Governance Value 25 Environmental Value 34 Human Value 47 Socio-cultural Value 50 Economic Value 58 Commercial Value 64 Business Value 67 Media Value 70 Corporate Information 71 About this Report 74 APPENDICES 74 Agreement with UNICEF 75 Partnership with CEHAT Foundation 76 Celebration of World Biodiversity Day 2010 77 Friends of Museums Federation 78 Sustainability and Innovation Awards 79 Promotion of Local Artists 80 AVANTE Project 81 Sol Meliá Italy: “Magnifico” project 82 Battery charging stations for electric cars 83 Sol Meliá Brazil and the WWF 84 COP 2010 Global Compact 89 Evaluation of Improvement Commitments 2010 91 Improvement Commitments 2011 92 GRI Indicators Company profile CUBA 27 Premium 3 USA 1 Meliá 11 MELIÁ 1 TRYP 3 SOL 10 MEXICO 8 DOMINICAN REP. 6 Premium 1 2 Meliá 2 3 Premium 3 SMVC 4 Meliá 2 1 SMVC 3 COSTA RICA 1 PUERTO RICO 1 Premium 1 Premium 1 SMVC 1 PANAMA 1 Premium 1 VENEZUELA 2 SMVC 1 Premium 2 % % of rooms of hotels PERU 1 BRAZIL 14 OWNED 28.76% 21.84% MELIÁ 1 MELIÁ 3 MANAGED 47.71% 40.27% TRYP 11 FRANCHISED 5.55% 9.56% LEASED 17.98% 28.33% URUGUAY 1 SMVC 489 rooms / 13 hotels ARGENTINA 3 TRYP 1 For the brand data PREMIUM includes Gran MELIÁ 2 Meliá, ME by Meliá and Paradisus. TRYP 1 Basic Business Data Current positioning of Sol Meliá Results (in million euros) 2010 2009 2008 Year company founded: 1956 Revenues 1,250 1,149 1,279 EBITDAR 327 282 334 Year of IPO: 2 July, 1996 EBITDA 235 202 257 Net profit 52 43 55 Initial share price (before split): 5.41€ Net profit attributable 50 38 162 Hotels Ticker Symbol: SOL.MC / SOL SM Hotels 310 303 304 Rooms 78,598 76,944 76,527 Market where traded: Spanish stock market SMVC (Rooms) 489 ND ND (Spain) Stays (million) 25.9 25.2 26.9 Brand diversification (by room numbers) Forms part of the Madrid Stock Market Index Premium 11% 12% 11% Meliá 36% 34% 34% Number of shares: 184,776,777 Tryp 19% 19% 19% Sol 34% 35% 36% No brand 5% Share price at 31/12/2010: 6.95€ Category diversification (by hotel numbers) Growth in value from issue 3 star 16% 16% 17% to 31/12/2010: 28.5% 4 star 47% 46% 46% 5 star and 5 star deluxe 31% 32% 31% Growth in value from 3 and 4 keys 6% 6% 6% 31/12/2009 to 31/12/2010: 63.1% City / Resort diversification City 41% 40% 39% On 27 August 2008 Moody’s Resort 59% 60% 61% rating was cancelled. Number of employees Hotels and corporate offices 34,352 32,288* 34,305* SMVC 1,328 1,090 NA * Does not include Egypt Milestones 2010: February: Inauguration Gran Melia Shanghai – First hotel in China I March: Renovation FTSE4Good IBEX I May: Celebration of World Biodiversity Day GERMANY 22 CROATIA 15 LUXEMBOURG 1 Meliá 11 SOL 15 Meliá 1 TRYP 11 UNITED KINGDOM 2 BULGARIA 5 Meliá 2 Meliá 1 SOL 4 GREECE 4 PORTUGAL 14 PREMIUM 1 Meliá 1 Meliá 5 2 SOL 1 Tryp 7 CHINA 1 EGYPT 4 Premium 1 Meliá 2 SOL 2 ITALY 3 VIETNAM 1 Meliá 1 1 MELIÁ 1 Tryp 1 MALAYSIA 1 FRANCE 7 MELIÁ 1 Meliá 3 1 Tryp 3 INDONESIA 4 Premium 1 SPAIN 160 MELIÁ 3 Premium 4 3 1 1 Meliá 13 17 5 9 Tryp 3 11 6 37 Sol 31 6 3 10 SMVC 4 Diversification by region TOTAL CITY RESORT % Rooms % Rooms % Rooms 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Spain 45,73 46,63 35,943 35,861 20,57 20,80 16,164 15,980 25,16 25,80 19,779 19,881 Rest of Europe 23,06 21,65 18,124 16,666 9,26 8,70 7,275 6,688 13,80 13,00 10,849 9,978 Asia 3,29 3,35 2,583 2,583 2,49 2,50 1,961 1,961 0,79 0,80 622 622 Latin America & Caribbean 27,92 28,37 21,948 21,834 8,90 10,10 6,994 7,742 19,03 18,30 14,954 14,092 TOTAL 100 100 78,598 76,944 41,22 42,10 32,394 32,371 58,78 57,90 46,204 44,573 Diversification of stays by country of origin 2010 2009* Spain 31.8% 35.2% USA 9.0% 7.4% Germany 11.0% 10.6% UK 13.0% 14.2% Canada 3.3% 2.0% Italy 3.5% 3.4% Mexico 3.2% 3.3% France 2.7% 2.4% Russia 1.8% 2.0% Venezuela 2.0% 2.1% Others 18.8% 17.4% Total 100% 100% * Adjusted compared to 2009 report June: Sale of the Tryp brand to the Wyndham Group I November: Agreement signed with UNICEF I December: Creation of Sustainability and Innovation Awards Message from Dear friend, the Chairman We present a new edition of the Sol Meliá Annual Sustainability Report containing the responses our Company offers to its internal and external stakeholders. This document represents a new challenge for our company, the challenge to review whether the major commitments to improvements made a year ago are beginning to be reflected in the facts and in data on our management in 2010. The end of this financial year coincides with the end of the Strategic Plan 2008-2010, whose long-term objectives required adaptation within a Contingency Plan after the onset of the international economic crisis. The combined management of the Strategic Plan together with the anti-crisis measures allowed us to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our revenue and cost management, while also continuing to make progress in enhancing our brand equity and growing the company. Despite the complex environment over this period, Sol Meliá continued to deepen its company-wide sustainability strategy, laying the groundwork for facing key challenges over the coming years. Part of this strategy was to progressively improve the annual report, to maximize its potential in two directions: to “talk” about our Company with a single voice, and in an increasingly transparent way, and to also act as a tool for change and continuous improvement in our management. For the first time, the data contained in this report has been verified by an independent third party. We hope this helps to substantially improve the quality and traceability of the information we provide to our stakeholders, but mostly we also hope that this self-criticism will help us to become a better company. Secondly, I would also like to use this message to recognize the work of all of the Sol Meliá team. The achievements and improvements made in 2010 are thanks to each and every one of our employees. A good example is the signature of a strategic partnership with UNICEF through which we will join forces to leverage our power to raise awareness and fight for child protection and the prevention of child sexual exploitation. To emphasize our firm commitment to the wellbeing of children and get our partners involved, we also wanted children to feature prominently in this year’s report. In this report you will find drawings made by the children of our employees showing their peculiar vision of what a hotel is for them and of the work done by their parents. Our staff have also participated enthusiastically in the first edition of the “ Sustainability and Innovation Awards “, created as a way to motivate our team and identification people with talent in sustainability management. I would like to present this report as a bold step in active listening and dialogue with our stakeholders. Both are connected, and we will continue to seek ways to integrate the views and expectations of our stakeholders within this report. In 2010 we have effectively implemented the Sol Meliá CERCA © relationship and dialogue model, organising 5 panel session and the creation of an online tool that enables any of our stakeholders to be heard and their opinion taken into account. In this area we cannot fail to mention that this year we laid the foundations for corporate strategy for managing our presence in social networks, as a new privileged environment in which to listen and create dialogue with our stakeholders. As for our economic and financial management, the most significant progress refers to the increase of 31% in Net Profit, a 9% increase in EBITDA, increased liquidity levels that guarantee greater comfort in meeting of our debt obligations, and in general our compliance with covenants. In this regard, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight how, thanks to the efforts of one and all and to the loyalty of our customers, over the difficult period of the last three years our company has outperformed the average of its competitors, and our social cash-flow once again reflects how the distribution of wealth generated by the Company continues to create a positive impact and continues to create value. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 6 I would like to emphasise that, in spite of the crisis that has led to a decrease in occupancy, thanks to the measures taken to optimise our performance we have been able to retain our workforce and levels of quality over these three years. I also believe that it is encouraging and relevant that 77.4% of our customers state that our company’s commitment to sustainability is very important to them when making their purchase. I am also proud to say that 74.01% of our employees believe Sol Meliá to be a company committed to sustainable development, and this also helps them identify with the Company. With this common commitment, we therefore look towards the future with renewed hope. 2011 is for us a year to consolidate the strengths we have acquired and prepare our new Strategic Plan 2012-2014, in which sustainability will remain a company-wide foundation for all of our performance. It is also a time in which our company also wishes to “look inwards”, leading to a review of the corporate culture and values that have sustained our growth for over 50 years and have made us strong. In keeping with these improvements, this report also reflects new challenges aimed at strengthening our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact, and, for the first time, the mandatory Progress Report on implementing the 10 principles. To all of you, to all of our stakeholders, especially our employees, thank you for joining us, following us, constructively criticising us, challengingus ... I join all of you in the hope that the 2011 Report that we begin to write from this day forward reflects a more responsible and sustainable company, capable of facing complex global challenges of a previously unknown variability. Gabriel Escarrer Juliá Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 7 1 Sustainability at Sol Meliá “An ocean of fun! Dreaming at the bottom of the sea...” David Cabot Domingo, 5 years old Corporate offices Palma 1.1 Sustainability Vision and Mission The Sol Meliá commitment that concerns our relationship and dialogue to Sustainability with our stakeholders. To know, listen and talk with them is a key process. A commitment to the environment, to cultural integration and to the local community The Institutional Office and Corporate Diplohave always been part of our company’s macy is the area specifically designated by core values, and were finally fully integrated the Company to guide the effective perforinto corporate strategy in the Strategic Plan mance by Sol Meliá in this area. 2008-2011. At Sol Meliá, Corporate Social Responsibility is an inherent ingredient in both our current and desired Company positioning. It is also therefore inherent in everything Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 8 1.2 External Dimension Corporate Diplomacy at Sol Meliá Institutional Office and Corporate Diplomacy becomes a “stakeholder advocate”, transmitThe concept of Corporate Diplomacy (CD) ting the pressure of civil society to departments arose when a need was seen to listen to and the areas responsible for managing their stakeholders and open up an interface with demands. Corporate Diplomacy also helps Sol them to learn more about their expectations Meliá appropriately represent its interests and regarding Sol Meliá. strategic concerns before stakeholders. On the one hand, Corporate Diplomacy has It allows them to learn more about progress to represent stakeholders before the differin the business in line with their demands and ent areas of the Company, ensuring that their suggestions. It is also reports on all of those voices are heard and taken into account. The things in which progress has not been made. The REACH model: systematic work at listened to and their opinions taken into acSol Meliá count. The main source of active listening is called the Sol Meliá Panel of Experts on The acronym “REACH” stands for the equivaSustainability. The different panels of experts lent of “Recognizes”, “Exchanges”, “Acprovide Sol Meliá with highly qualified inknowledges” and “CHanges”. Besides that, it formation about what stakeholders expect also implies the company’s intention to reach from Sol Melia and also updates on trends. out to our stakeholders, and establishing a This allows the company to build the bridges real dialogue with them. required to allow Sol Meliá to be an open company, willing to integrate its stakeholdSol Meliá RECOGNIZES ers’ expectations in its management. Sol Meliá strives to learn who its stakeholders Sol Meliá ANSWERS are, where they are, and how we can reach them. Sol Melia has a database in which it has This seeks out the information that exists identified its stakeholders (customers, employwithin Sol Meliá with regard to the concerns ees, suppliers, media ...), to build a network and expectations of stakeholders, and works of legitimate partners across the network ofon personalising this information and comfered by the various communities in which the municating it in the most appropriate way to Company takes part: forums, seminars, assoeach of them. ciations, organizations and agencies, etc. As the awareness of stakeholders’ expectaSol Meliá ACKNOWLEDGES tions becomes gradually more detailed and precise, Sol Meliá is building a specific value At this stage, Sol Meliá creates meeting proposal for each stakeholder. points in which stakeholders feel they are Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 9 The “ideal” response would be to adapt Dialogue mechanisms with what Sol Meliá can offer every stakeholder stakeholders: the Panel of Experts to what each stakeholder really expects from Sol Melia. What is it? The Panel of Experts is a forum for dialogue and trust, composed of various Sol Meliá CHANGES stakeholders and senior representatives of the Company, in which we are able to speak In line with the previus stages, the proposfreely in pursuit of common interests. als are transformed into actions, adapting the policies and activities of the Company to This freedom is accompanied by a comthe expectations of stakeholders. The implemitment by the Company to respond to mentation of these proposals is the responthe needs of stakeholders, with all of its sibility of the different management areas, members understanding that “respond” responsible for the processes and systems does not mean “make happy”, but rather that address each stakeholder group. to consider all of the different views in the design of company strategy and its comThe “change” is monitored by measuring mitment to defend the existence of a longthe perceptions of stakeholders. There are term dialogue. several systems for measuring the satisfaction of customers, employees and other What is it for? The Panel has specific funcstakeholder groups; Sol Meliá also monitions, the achievement of which is also retors its performance in rankings, indices and lated to the achievement of operational obother reputational barometers. jectives. These include: Sometimes the change creates an approach • Advise on the promotion, implementawhich turns into a formal partnership with a tion and development of relationships and particular group or less formal cooperation commitments to stakeholders in Sol Meliá. with civil society organisations on specific • Assess Company action plans on sustainprojects. able development and social responsibility. • Facilitate dialogue and communication beInstitucional Presence tween civil society and the Sol Melia group. • Present an annual report on the Panel’s Sol Meliá not only communicates with and thoughts and recommendations to the relates to its stakeholders where it operates, Board of Directors. it is also concerned about attending and • Comment on, assess and accompany the In 2010, Sol Meliá actively participating in the relevant forums Institutional Office with regard to specific hosted 5 stakeholder and other complementary initiatives. processes or corporate dilemmas that may arise. panels: 3 single-issue This aims to strengthen bonds and relationpanels and 2 Panels ships with civil society groups, multilateral Who is involved? The Panel is attended by agencies, governments and prominent indipanelists that are all experts in their specific of Experts viduals such as opinion leaders, etc. field and present and share their views during the panel sessions. On the one hand, For example, in the last months of 2010 the external panelists are independent our institutional presence was intensified experts or attached to respected civil inin organizations related to sustainability, stitutions specializing in the topics under social responsibility, environment and debate. The internal panelists are members culture, while there has also been an efof the Sol Melia team whose skills and pracfort to strengthen ties with the world of tical experience make them eligible to take academia. part in the dialogue. Participation should not be anecdotical, The organizational “leader”, a role held but must be based on a true commitby the most senior representative of the ment, dedication, mutual loyalty and the Company, is ultimately responsible for the networks that are formed through agreeorganization and conduct of the Panel. Sements or partnerships. Sol Meliá also conbastian Escarrer Jaume, Vice Chairman of siders it very important to have a strong Sol Meliá performs this role, accompanied idea about presence or non-presence, ie by the Senior Vice President for the Instiwhere it wants to be and where it does tutional Office and Corporate Diplomacy, not want to be. Esther Trujillo. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 10 Institucional Presence in 2010 Fundación Príncipe de Gerona Consejo Estatal RSE INVEROTEL The Technical Secretary, is a role played by lish points of contact between internal and an independent professional with an academexternal experts, to identify priorities and ic profile who leads the sessions and group detect action areas. dynamics, controlling their effectiveness and facilitating dialogue within the Panel. Academic Panels: brought together 11 external experts from academia with the aim Sol Meliá selects panelists based on a criteria of raising awareness about the Sol Meliá of ensuring panelists who are sufficiently repmanagement model in sustainability, social resentative of sustainability issues in all areas responsibility and stakeholders relations. and/or in tourism and also taking into account geographical issues and gender diversity. The topics covered were: Panels hosted in 2010 • Presentation of the model and the Corporate Diplomacy project. What have the panels discussed so far? • Understand and respond to questions and reviews of the best, worst, opportunities In 2010, 5 panels were held with stakeholdand risks. ers: 3 single-issue panels and 2 expert panels. • Ask panelists to prioritise the ideas arising Single-issue panels aim to create a meeting during the session. point between internal and external experts • Understand academic concerns, prospects allowing greater insight into practical soluand assessment of Corporate Diplomacy tions which can be implemented in Sol Meliá. and the work methodology. In all of the panels the objective is to estabSol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 11 Participating panellists: • Share those practices or references that can be recommended to Sol Meliá in their External progress towards healthy F&B. • Director of Javier Benjumea Chair University Pontificia de Comillas. Participating panellists: • Professor University Complutense de Madrid. • Professor of Applied Economics University Internal (Dept. Applied Economics) University de • SVP Meliá brand. las Islas Baleares (UIB). • F&B Meliá. • Professor at the department of Enterprise • F&B Sol. Policy (ESADE). • F&B Purchasing. • Dean of Academic Planning at IE Business • Calima restaurant Gran Meliá Don Pepe. School (Instituto Empresa). • Dos Cielos ME Barcelona. • Vice-Chancellor for Planning and Eco• Casa Marcial Meliá Reconquista. nomic Affairs (UNED). • Professor of Sociology Department of SoExternal ciology at University Autonoma de Madrid. • Director of Health & Regulatory Affairs, • Researcher in the field of CSR Institute of Danone. Lastanosa Pedro Juan Carlos III University. • Director Alicia Foundation. • Professor of Ethics at the University Jaume • Director Spanish Celiac Association. I Castellón. • Spanish Hotel Federation. • Professor of Business Ethics and Academic • Managing Director Spanish ConfederaDirector of the seminar, CBS (IESE). tion of Hotels and Tourist Residences. • Dean of International Relations. Faculty of • Health Marketing Manager, Coca Cola Economics and Business Administration • Researcher at the Polytechnic University University Complutense de Madrid. of Valencia. • Honorary President Spanish Consumer AsThe Academic Panel addressed two main sociation. debates: The Healthy Eating Panel identified 12 stra• Evaluation of the presentation of the tegic challenges in healthy eating, 45 issues model and the Corporate Diplomacy prowithin these challenges, as well as a consenject. The aim was to identify and respond sus list of the 10 most pressing issues, 20 to questions and reviews of the best (8 specific actions to be performed and identiideas identified), worst (6 ideas identification of 18 best practices. fied), opportunities (8 identified) and risks (13 detected). • Specific assessment of aspects of the modSustainable Construction Panel: brought el. The objective was to learn more about together 7 internal experts and 8 external academic concerns (19 insights obtained), experts. The panel identified the challenges outlook (10 ideas obtained), review of Corthat Sol Meliá must face in sustainable conporate Diplomacy (1 idea obtained) and struction and possible actions within those work methodology (3 ideas obtained). challenges. The topics covered were: Healthy Eating Panel: brought together 8 internal experts and 7 external experts. • Presentation of the sustainability model The panel identified the challenges that Sol and the challenges in Company construcMeliá faces in healthy eating and possible tion, maintenance and works. actions to meet those challenges. • Identification of the challenges to consider for an appropriate sustainable conThe topics covered were: struction policy in Sol Meliá. • Assessment of the most significant chal• Presentation of the sustainability model lenges and also those that provide a and the challenges of healthy food and higher level of benefits in the short term beverage (F&B). (quick-wins) according to their criteria and • Identify all the challenges to consider for experience. an appropriate F&B policy in Sol Meliá. • Identification of action proposals. • Prioritize the most pressing challenges ac• Sharing best practices or references that cording to the criteria and experience of can be recommended to Sol Meliá in its the panelists, identifying for each chalefforts to build sustainably. lenge the actions recommended. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 12 Participating panellists: • Final assessment of the panelists. Presentation of the conclusions. Internal At the conclusion of • Hotel Architecture. each panel, a short • Works and Maintenance. • Purchasing. Panel of Experts (3rd edition): was held at the Tryp Cpndal Mar (Barcelona) on Noreview is prepared • Expansion. vember 5, 2010. The topics discussed were: of conclusions • Tryp brand. • Sol Meliá Vacation Club. • Ethical dilemmas related to sales manageand highlights of ment. the session which External • Presentation and discussion of progress is distributed to • Councillor and Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Agriculture and Fisheries. by the Office and the identification and prioritization of strategic initiatives. management areas • Metropolis Foundation. • Exhibition of the nature and activity of Tryp and the Board of • Professor Polytechnic University of Madrid. Hotels and its vocation for sustainability. • Consultant ALS. • Description of life and activity in the Tryp Directors • Building and Technical Assistance Project. Condal Mar hotel in relation to sustainTechnical Management OHL. ability and request for ideas for improve• CEO Engineering Estel. ment from the panelists. • Final assessment of the panelists. PresenThe Sustainable Construction Panel identified tation of the conclusions. and prioritized 35 challenges, 33 action proposals and the identification of 14 best practices. What results have the panel achieved? Thanks to the participation of its stakeholders, the Company: Panel of Experts (2nd edition): was held at the Meliá de Mar (Illetas, Palma • Is getting to know stakeholders better in de Mallorca) on April 22, 2010. The topics each area discussed. discussed were: • Is getting to know better the expectations of each stakeholder. • Dialogue between the Chairman of Sol • Is able to determine which issues are most Meliá and panelists. relevant and highest priority. • Presentation of Sol Meliá CERCA © mod• Obtains clear ideas about what actions el, opinions and debate. can be taken. • Presentation of the role and involvement of the Sol Meliá Human Resources DepartShortly after the conclusion of each panel, a ment of in the area of sustainability. review is prepared and distributed to the panel • Description of life and activity in the Meliá members and also to senior Company mande Mar hotel in relation to sustainability agement. The Institutional Office and Corand request for ideas for improvement porate Diplomacy is permanently available to from the panelists. keep contact open with the different panelists. Sol Meliá Sustainability Decalogue 1. We aim to incorporate the values and prinvironmental development and the preser8. We are committed to the conservation of ciples associated with sustainable developvation of destinations, and balance in the the tangible and non tangible cultural heritment to our business processes and our satisfaction of the demands of our different age of the communities in which we operrelationship with all our stakeholders. stakeholders. ate. We will be fully involved in the local 2. We aim to get closer to our stakeholders, to 5. We will identify the environmental impact of community, respecting and defending their listen to them and get to know them betour operations, reducing it and helping preheritage as if it were our own. ter; and to achieve this we need to have an serve biological diversity in the destinations 9. We aim to involve our guests in all of our open and approachable attitude. in which we operate. We will seek energy efenvironmental, cultural and social activities, 3. We trust that we may act as a platform for ficiency and the responsible use of resources. taking particular care of our influence over all of our stakeholders and we are prepared 6. We understand that our operations must the younger generations. to be a proactive player, providing coopcontribute to reducing social differences and 10. We expect our suppliers to adopt a policy eration and support for the different social poverty through opportunities for mutual of constant improvement in regard to agents in the search for solutions. economic growth with local communities. the integration of sustainability criteria 4. We must work to achieve a balance be7. We must to be sensitive to the social needs in their business processes, such as sotween the needs of the current generation of our employees and share our commitcial justice, reducing their environmental and those of future generations, a balance ment with them taking into account their impact and the economic development of between economic, socio-cultural and enconcerns about solidarity. destinations. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 13 1.3 Internal Dimension The internal dimension of sustainability in In 2010, the Company continued to maintain Sol Meliá in 2010 focused on 3 areas: the public commitments defined in 2009: • Awareness and involvement. Biosphere Certification: November of • Processes and systems. this year saw the audit for the renewal of • Community Involvement. the certification of Sol Meliá as a Biosphere Company. This renewal will ensure compliThese policy areas were deployed in 7 Comance with the certification standards in sopany projects: cial, environmental, and cultural issues in “General Manager of a hotel” Alejandro Peinado Merino, 7 years old both corporate offices and hotels. Hotel Tryp La Caleta, Cádiz • Employee awareness. • Commitment to Global Compact Compliance. Annual sustainability report: not only as • Sustainable Development Policy. an exercise in transparency and non-financial • Environmental Impact. accountability, but also since 2009 as a tool • Engaging customers. for stakeholder dialogue, with answers in • Engaging suppliers. 2010 to 105 GRI indicators (of a total of 121 • Social positioning. of which: 3 do not apply to our sector and 11 are not yet available as the organization still Specifically in the field of awareness and does not have a specific procedure for measinvolvement in sustainability we worked on urement), compared to 100 in 2009. the definition of a variable pay scheme linking part of the remuneration of employees One of the most important advances in the to the achievement of sustainability goals. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 is exProgress was also made in a training packternal verification, thus assuring greater age for sustainability. We defined new prodtransparency and a higher quality of the In 2010, the ucts and services for customers and also anpublished information. Company alysed different ways of involving customers in the area of sustainability. Global Compact: after joining the Global maintained its Compact in 2008, Sol Meliá made a self-aspublic commitments In terms of processes and systems, the orsessment of its compliance with the ten Global Compact principles. The principles cover announced in ganization defined a control system for the legal requirements of sustainable developfour areas: human rights, labor standards, 2009: Biosphere ment and regulations on the prevention of corruption and the environment. In 2010, we Certification, occupational risks. Responsibility criteria were also defined in the Procurement Manhave carried out several activities to improve compliance with the principles. At the end of Sustainability Report, ual, while a waste management and supply this report, is the Communication on Progress Global Compact and system with low environmental and social 2010 (Report on the Communication on Progress), which provides more infomration on FTSE4Good Ibex impact was also implemented. how the company is adapting to the princiLast May, the Company launched the first ples of the Global Compact. edition of the Sustainability and Innovation Awards focused on hotel employees and FTSE4GoodIbex: in 2008, Sol Meliá was inwith the aim of detecting innovative ideas cluded in the FTSE4GoodIbex stock market and projects in the field of social, environindex and in 2010 had its membership of mental and cultural development, as well the index confirmed and renewed, remainas raising awareness and promoting the ining the only company in the travel industry volvement of Sol Meliá employees (for deto be included. tails, see the notes on “Sustainability and Innovation Awards” in the Appendix). The FTSE4GoodIbex evaluation requirements particularly focus on Corporate Governance: In 2009, Sol Meliá decided that its greatest of the 58 Conthe Code recommendations on commitment would be to children. This new good governance, Sol Meliá fully complies positioning is accompanied by a series of inwith 41 and partially with another 5 (46). Of ternal tools used to help meet internal and the remaining 12, 7 are not met and 5 do external deployment. Among these tools is not apply. These four action areas represent a the partnership with UNICEF (see section merger of the external dimension of sustainaon Socio-cultural Value and notes on the bility and social responsibility and the internal UNICEF partnership.) and more operational dimensions. The four all focus on constant improvement. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 14 2 Leadership Value “My dad is the best cook and he works at Sol Meliá” Paula Escobar Pernia Tryp Guadalmar 2.1 Key figures 310 hotels in 27 countries vs. 303 in 26 countries in 2009 78,598 rooms vs. 76,944 in 2009 25.9 million stays vs. 25.2 million in 2009 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 15 2.2 Highlights 2.2.1 Mission, Vision and Values newable or non-renewable periods, manages the business unit and employs the staff. Mission Decision-making power is defined in the contract. To provide value to all our stakeholders through hotel brands and residential tourism Management: In this model Sol Meliá ofconsidered benchmarks for responsible tourfers its knowledge and experience as a leadism in the different market segments, satising hotel company, offering its management fying our guests’ needs for experiences and model and brand portfolio in exchange for developing our human capital. fees. A wide range of complementary management services may also be offered. Vision Franchise: In this model Sol Meliá offers the To be a leader and benchmark in responsible use of its brands and sales management in Despite the tourism, as an employer and in profitability, exchange for royalties, ensuring that brand difficult economic increasing our brand equity and using the hotel business to promote growth in related standards are met at all times. and financial businesses such as residential tourism and situation, Sol Meliá the vacation club. 2.2.3 Closure and Conclusions of the Strategic Plan 2008-2010 has adapted its Values strategy to combine Despite the difficult economic and financial the long-term Sol Meliá has also been renowned for offering the best quality at the best price, for situation in which the Strategic Plan 20082010 has been carried out, Sol Meliá has vision with shortalways satisfying its customers, for its perbeen able to successfully respond to the term measures sonalised service, and for being a family busichallenges it has faced. ness where austerity, a spirit of excellence, to counteract simplicity and ethics have always focused Over this period, Sol Meliá has adapted its the effects of the management. The values most appreciated strategy to combine the long-term vision of economic slowdown by its leaders include leading by example, employee training and promotion, and the the Strategic Plan with a number of shortterm measures to counteract the effects of delegation of responsibilities without ever the economic slowdown. This dual approach losing control. has been key to overcoming the difficult situation on a global level. Sol Meliá added 11,508 rooms to its portfolio over the 3-year period of the Strategic In mid-2008 the Company thus launched Plan 2008-2010. a Contingency Plan focusing on four key action areas: to increase and enhance revenue, to optimize costs while minimizing 2.2.2 The Sol Meliá the impact on the customer experience, to Business Model manage cash flow and financial stability; to manage risks. The Sol Meliá business model has several dimensions involving different levels of comWhile the implementation of some measures plexity in terms of management, information in the Strategic Plan were slightly delayed, reporting and data consolidation, and relagreat progress has been made in the strations with stakeholders. tegic areas of Sustainability, Talent Management and Empowerment, and Customer Hotel Management Models Knowledge and Contact. These developments are covered in various chapters in this Ownership: In this model Sol Meliá is the Sustainability Report 2010. majority owner of the property and manages the business unit and employs the staff. Great work has also been done in expanDecision-making power lies with the owner. sion, having added a total of 11,508 rooms over the period and opening new markets Lease: In this model Sol Meliá leases the in China, Greece, Bulgaria and the United building or hotel business for specified reStates. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 16 2011 and the new Strategic Plan Best known hotel company in Spain Sol Meliá views 2011 as a year for consolidaSol Meliá is the best known hotel company tion and transition. in Spain, being the first chain mentioned spontaneously by 25.4% of the population, Consolidation of the business model and according to the 3rd Hospitality Baromeachievements made over the period 2008 to ter released by the Spanish Association of 2010. A year focused on enhancing profitHotel Directors. ability and reducing any potential impact of the economic situation on results. At the end of this chapter is a list of the awards received by the Sol Meliá hotels. And transition to the new Strategic Plan, using the year to focus on the preparation of the plan. The new Strategic Plan will focus 2.2.5 Brand Architecture on taking advantage of new tourism trends and Management arising from changes in the technological environment, new customer habits or developEach of the eight Sol Meliá brands defines ing new destinations. a lifestyle and a way of interpreting hospitality and service in any part of the world. “This is the Meliá White House in London where I stayed once” Likewise, the Company will also enhance its Gran Meliá, Meliá, ME, Innside, Tryp, Sol, Clara Riera, 7 years old strengths as a leading hotel management Paradisus and Sol Meliá Vacation Club are all Corporate offices. company, both in its internal (employees) flagship brands within their respective segand external (owners and other stakeholdment markets. ers) dimensions, maintaining its commitment to sustainability as a differentiating factor. Gran Meliá Gran Meliá is a collection of the most select 2.2.4 Prizes and Awards hotels, where elegance and glamour are the cornerstones of the brand. With traMost International Spanish Hotel Chain ditional architecture, from neoclassical to contemporary styles, this portfolio of hotels Sol Meliá was ranked as the Spanish hotel and resorts is designed to please the most chain with the most extensive domestic and sophisticated travellers. Gran Meliá Hotels international presence according to the are located in the most popular leisure and ranking of Hosteltur, a leading hotel indusbusiness destinations, and thanks to their try magazine. unique product and service attributes, they challenge the concept of perfection to offer Best Spanish Hotel Chain a sublime experience that never fails to surprise. At Gran Meliá no detail is overlooked The new Strategic Sol Meliá was voted “Best Spanish Hotel to ensure that our guests enjoy a unique Plan will focus on Chain” in the eighteenth Travelranking Awards, announced annually by the Agentand unforgettable experience. Gran Meliá hotels also provide the first service concept taking advantage travel tourism magazine, and has also won with its own brand identity, the Red Glove of new trends two awards for Meliá Avenida de América Service, as well as the exclusive Red Level, and Meliá Castilla hotels, both in Madrid. an area that delivers the most refined exin tourism, new perience, with private access and the most customer habits or RCI® Gold Crown exclusive personalized service. developing new Sol Meliá Vacation Club has been awardMeliá destinations ed the prestigious Gold Crown by the RCI Group. This time around awards went to the Meliá Hotels & Resorts includes city and reSol Meliá resorts in the Dominican Republic: sort hotels with stunning facilities in fantasParadisus Palma Real, Paradisus Punta Cana tic locations in major tourism and business and Meliá Caribe Tropical. destinations all over the world. The hotels enjoy enormous international prestige and RCI® Pinnacle Award are the perfect blend of design and functionality. Meliá is the perfect choice to meet Sol Meliá Vacation Club, an affiliate of RCI, has the needs of business and leisure travellers received this award for its excellent sales volthanks to their focus on customer satisfacume and in recognition of their performance. tion and personalized service of which the Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 17 brand is proud. Meliá continues to invest in lin. Quintessentially urban hotels, modern, growth, creating new experiences and atexcellent value for money, and designed to tributes to meet customer needs. From new meet the needs of both business and leisure culinary concepts to a focus on health and travellers. The Sol Meliá team shows its pasrelaxation thanks to Spa, Wellness & Fitness sion for people and the city every day, in facilities, all of the brand attributes make everything they do. Concept rooms based every stay a journey of experiences that enon the travellers’ needs: Premium Rooms for dure over time. business travellers, Fitness Rooms for running miles without leaving the room, and Family ME Rooms, perfect for family travel. High-speed Internet and a great range of details that The most avant-garde brand at Sol Meliá, a guarantee guest comfort and relaxation. new concept in hotels with striking personalities in which cutting-edge design, internaVaried and healthy cuisine, adapted to contional cuisine, the latest technology and the temporary tastes, with special emphasis on intriguing music play a fundamental role. the “Simple Pleasures” TRYP breakfast. To ME hotels operate in both the most imporhelp easily organize all types of successful tant cities in the world and in the best recorporate events, BE SUCCESSFUL provides sort destinations, providing guests with the customers with meeting packages which truly unexpected. ME offers a personalised help simplify organisation and also include service which goes far beyond simple acall the taste of a refreshing break with our commodation. Guest service is built around TRYP Coffee Breaks and TRYP “To your four features: RememberME, ExperienceME, taste” Menus, along with all of the audioEnergiseME and DareME, the perfect comvisual and technical services guests need and bination for creating an atmosphere that the professionalism of an expert team which stimulates the senses and connects with our guarantees meeting success. life rhythms, with the AURA of each guest, the essence of the hotel. ME hotels have Sol been designed for travellers that are aware of fashion, who look not only for quality but Sol hotels are ideal for fun family holidays. for individual, vibrant experiences in a cosLocated in major tourist destinations in mopolitan atmosphere, reflecting their prothe Mediterranean and the Caribbean, Sol fessional needs and personal desires. That is hotels provide comfortable rooms, a wide why visual experiences at ME hotels are of range of restaurants and bars, large swimthe most vital importance. ming pools and an extensive programme of optional activities designed to ensure INNSIDE guests of all ages fully enjoy their vacations. Vacations take on a true dimension of FamInnside provides stylish urban hotels in Gerily Fun, a choice based on fun at all times many and Spain. Elegance and a futuristic and for all ages. The Sol brand has created orientation are key for a hotel brand with a number of innovative concepts that offer ambitious expansion plans in Europe. Atthe widest range of services to guests, inmosphere, service and pleasure, ensure a cluding Fun Food themed buffets, activity relaxing stay for guests who choose to stay programmes, and The Flintstones Land, a in the unique setting offered by hotels which new way to enjoy a fun vacation along with offer facilities different from the norm and the children’s favourite cartoon characters, adapted to the way of life of its individualisthe Flintstones. tic and demanding guests seeking a modern product with personality. Paradisus TRYP by Wyndham: Own the City Paradisus Resorts provides a sublime romantic experience for couples and an exceptional TRYP by Wyndham offers a warm welcome holiday for families, all in a sophisticated atto the passionate traveller, allowing them to mosphere where guests enjoy “all inclusive explore some of the most dynamic and culluxury”, and where the main attraction is to turally attractive cities in the world. Nearly be carried away by the exotic and privileged 100 hotels in 62 cities in Europe and Latin locations in the Caribbean. Characterized by America, including Barcelona, Berlin, Buetheir original and unique architectural style, nos Aires, Frankfurt, Lisbon, Madrid, Paris, Paradisus Resorts offer endless sensations Sao Paulo, and soon New York and Medelfor guests thanks to their exclusive services, Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 18 accompanied by an extensive and exquisite the Company’s hotels around the world are choice of fine cuisine. The highlights of the renowned, combining this with the most prestigious all inclusive service include the comprehensive and flexible vacation club in variety of the food, the adults-only Royal the hotel industry. The Club has become a Service, the Family Concierge, the ultimate strategic business for Sol Meliá and has been luxury experience designed specifically for developed as a fully integrated and self-suffamilies, plus a wide range of life-enriching ficient activity within the Company. experiences for guests. Sol Meliá Vacation Club Sol Meliá Vacation Club is a club designed to provide its members with a wide range of exotic and spectacular destinations for their vacations, year after year. SMVC provides its members with the first class service for which Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 19 Awards received by our hotels in 2010 Name of the business unit Organisation Award Germany Innside Frankfurt Niederrad Hotel.de Best rated Hotel in Frankfurt 2010 INNSIDE Dresden / Holiday Check Top Hotel Sol Meliá Deutschland GmbH Hotel.de Top rated Hotel in Dresden INNSIDE Berlin Hotel.de Top rated Hotel in Berlin Tryp Hotel Dortmund IHK Ausbildungspreis der Stadt Dortmund China Gran MeliÁ Shanghai Golden Pillow Award Best Latin-style Hotel 2010 Hurun Hot Hotels Best swimming pool Hurun Hot Hotels Best Executive Lounge Time Out Magazine Best Business Hotel in Pudong Time Out Magazine Best Executive Lounge World Hotel Association Continental Diamond Golfer’s Choice Best New Hotel 2010 Costa Rica Paradius Playa Conchal “Reading is Living” Foundation Gold Company of Excellence Conde Nast Traveler Top 10 Readers Choice Award Central and South America Spain MARBELLA BANÚS Gulet Austrian Customers Award Tez Tours Best Hotel Partner Zoover Hotel recommended by the users of Zoover Sol Ibiza Thomas Cook Gold Award MeliÁ Costa del Sol Zoover Best Hotel Torremolinos GRAN MeliÁ FÉNIX Trip Advisor Excellence Certificate MeliÁ Golf Vichy Catalán Girona Convention Bureau GCB Award for best accommodation for events in Girona 2009 SOL MENORCA TUI Environmental Champion Meliá Bilbao Basque Government – Tourism Department Tourism Accessibility – No Barriers HOTEL DE LA RECONQUISTA Association of Galicians in Asturias Best Hotel of the Year Ejecutivos Magazine Award for Business Excellence IBCA The Best Hotel 2010 Indonesia Gran MeliÁ Jakarta Local Goverment Asian Green Award 2010 Asean Green Hotel Green Hotel Award Tri Hita Karana Second Emerald Award IITA Foundation Indonesia Leading Green Hotel Award MeliÁ Purosani Indonesia Travel & Tourism Award Best Leading Hotel Italy MeliÁ ROMA AURELIA ANTICA FAI Corporate Golden Donor Luxembourg MeliÁ Luxembourg Ministry of Tourism Eco-Label Malaysia MeliÁ Kuala Lumpur HAPA Sinnature Deluxe Hotel Mexico MeliÁ Azul Ixtapa Convention Market Magazine Top 30 Convention and Congress Hotels Check Safety First Cristal Award Travel Award Leading Resort Mexico & Central America Puerto Rico Gran MeliÁ Golf Resort Puerto Rico Incentive Magazine Incentive Platinum Partners 2010 Award Meetings & Convention Magazine M&C Gold Key Award 2010 PR Convention Bureau Special Partnership Award 2010 Expedia Expedia Insiders Select Island Destination The Ultimate Family Resort in The Caribbean Meetings & Conventions Magazine M&C Gold Key Award Apple Vacation Golden Apple Award Check Safety First Cristal Award Food & Safety Venezuela Gran MeliÁ Caracas Cacique de Oro Cacique de Oro Vietnam MeliÁ Hanoi Vietnam Tourism Association Best Five star hotel in Vietnam The Guide magazine Best Hotel voted by readers of Vietnam Economic Times Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 20 3 Good Governance Value Azka Salisa Setiawan Meliá Bali, Indonesia 3.1 Key figures 45% independent directors vs. 50% in 2009 2,15 million € total remuneration for directors vs. 2.33 million € in 2009 1,85 million € total remuneration for senior management vs. 1.85 million € in 2009 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 21 3.2 Highlights 3.2.1 Corporate Governance The figure of non-executive Chairman establishes a differentiation between management The Company Bylaws, Regulations of the and leadership roles in the Company (with Board of Directors and Internal Code of the CEO as the most senior executive) and Conduct on stock market issues regulate all the supervision and leadership of the Board aspects related to corporate governance at of Directors, thus creating greater independSol Meliá and are available for shareholders ence, increasingly common in numerous corand investors in the company headquarters porations, as one of the key measures in the and on the website (www.solmelia.com) in area of corporate governance. the section on Corporate Governance. The new model has proven highly effective Consolidation of the organisational throughout 2010, both with regard to exmodel ecutive decision-making and to the projection, positioning and influence of Sol Meliá. On March 31, 2009 the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Sol Meliá organizational model. Gabriel Escarrer 3.2.2 Board of Directors: Jaume retains the position of Chief ExecuComposition and Functions tive Officer and Executive Vice Chairman, while Sebastian Escarrer Jaume took on the The highest governing body is the Board of role as non-executive Vice Chairman, resignDirectors. It currently has eleven members. ing the post of CEO. For more information on the board’s composition see section B.1 of the Financial Report. On September 15, 2009, Sebastian Escarrer created and became leader of the InstiIn 2010 the following changes occurred in tutional Office and Corporate Diplomacy, the Board of Directors: whose main function is to build bridges between the Company and society, estab• Resignation of Eduardo Punset (31/03/2010) lishing dialogue and relationships with all of for personal reasons. its stakeholders and making Sol Meliá the • Death of José Mª Lafuente López leader in responsible tourism. (31/07/2010). • Appointment of Luis Mª Díaz de BustaOnce the Chairman, Gabriel Escarrer, decides mante y Terminel (30/11/2010) as a Directo relinquish the functions he carries out at tor and Secretary to the Board. present, Sebastian Escarrer will take on the non-executive Chairmanship of the Company. Executive Director Name of director Representative Position Independent Director or company Proprietary Director Gabriel Escarrer Juliá Chairman Sebastián Escarrer Jaume Vice Chairman Gabriel Escarrer Jaume Vice Chairman; Chief Executive Officer Juan Vives Cerdá Hoteles Mallorquines Consolidados S.A. Mª Antonia Escarrer Jaume Luís María Díaz de Bustamante Secretary Alfredo Pastor Bodmer Emilio Cuatrecasas Figueras CAJA DE AHORROS DEL MEDITERRÁNEO Armando Sala Lloret Amparo Moraleda Martínez Juan Arena de la Mora Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 22 Throughout 2010, fulfilling the commitments number of Independent Directors with more to improvement in Good Governance defined than 12 years on the Board from four in 2009 in 2009, the company has reduced the to two in 2010. Executive Director Audit and Compliance Strategy Independent Director Name Position Name Position Proprietary Director Alfredo Pastor Chairman Juan Vives Cerdá Secretary Secretary Juan Vives Cerdá Hoteles Mallorquines Asociados S.A. Chairman Juan Arena Alfredo Pastor Bodmer Non-member secretary: Mark Hoddinott Appointments and Remuneration Name Position Hoteles Mallorquines Consolidados S.A. Sebastián Escarrer Jaume Gabriel Escarrer Jaume Alfredo Pastor Bodmer Chairman Amparo Moraleda Martínez Non-member secretary: Gabriel Cánaves The Company has For greater efficiency and transparency in With regard to possible conflicts of interest reduced the number the performance of its functions, the Board of Directors has gradually renewed its delthat may arise within the Board, article 28 of the Regulations of the Board of Directors of Independent egate committees, giving greater weight to defines a control mechanism which obliges Directors with more the Independent Directors and reducing the directors to report any situation or direct or presence of Executive Directors, all in line indirect conflict which may affect company than 12 years on the with the basic principles of Good Corpointerests. Furthermore, article 15.2 of the Board rate Governance. In addition to the changes same Regulations states that it is the responmade the previous year with the replacesibility of the Appointments and Remunerament of two Executive Directors on the Audit tion Committee to report to the Board any and Compliance Committee by Independent such situation and propose the measures to Directors, in 2010 the Strategy Committee be taken to avoid any such conflict. has also been reorganised, of which neither Gabriel Escarrer Jaume nor Sebastian EscarThe variable bonuses of Sol Meliá senior exrer Jaume form part. For more information ecutives is linked to the performance of the about the committees and their functions company. Part of the bonus depends directly read the Financial Report section B.2. on company EBITDA, quality and work environment. Long-term remuneration is linked The type of each of the Directors of Sol to several variables: change in share price, Meliá corresponds to the definitions set out company results and business results. There in section 3 of the Code of Good Governis no link between the remuneration of the ance for Listed Companies. members of the board and the performance of the company, as the amounts they receive are allowances for their attendance of Board 3.2.3 Transparency and Committee meetings. In 2008, the Sol Meliá Board of Directors imWith regard to the finalisation of the design plemented a self-appraisal process through of the Company’s Code of Ethics, a comwhich the Board evaluates its own performitment to improvement acquired in 2010, mance every year. there has been no significant progress, alSol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 23 though this does not mean that the comof interest and the use of confidential and pany lacks standards of conduct applicable privileged information, equal opportunities to all its employees. Specifically, the Comand complaints. pany has an Internal Code of Conduct in matters relating to securities markets and a Although there is no specific anti-corruption Human Resources Regulations which contraining programme at Sol Meliá, the fight trol, amongst other things, the conduct of against corruption is an essential part of all employees. Both documents have been Company values, which emphasis that ethreviewed and updated during 2010. ics should always guide management. Audit In addition, Sol Meliá has an internal manual on the Prevention of Money Laundering, deIn 2010 a total of 170 internal audits have signed to prevent and avoid within the orbeen carried out globally, 130 in hotels and ganization any possible use by third parties 40 in other business units and corporate ofof Group resources for money laundering fices. from, amongst other activities, drug trafficking, weapons trading, terrorism and organSol Meliá has internal These audits review compliance with quality ized crime. human resources standards, procedures and legal compliance in a total of 205 areas, divided into 25 catWithin the scope of the company, essenregulations which egories. tial administrative obligations of verificagovern the behaviour tion and, where appropriate, information The categories cover aspects such as hotel are observed, to detect and/or hinder these of all executives management (price, rooms, check-in procepractices, all in accordance with current apdure, etc.) contracts with suppliers or reguplicable legislation. lations on the prevention of occupational hazards. In 2010 Sol Meliá has made no financial contribution or payment in kind to any poIn 2010, there have been three cases in litical party. The Company is aware that, purwhich the Internal Audit Department has suant to the provisions of applicable law, FR detected fraudulent use of Company assets it were to make non-finalist contributions as or cash for the private benefit of certain emreferred to in Article 4 of Law 3 / 1987 of ployees. This has led to the immediate adopJuly 2 on the financing of political parties, tion of the appropriate disciplinary action it must obtain a receipt for the amount and (dismissal). In only one case, and given the also observe the terms and conditions progravity of the acts committed, proceedings vided for therein. have been initiated for criminal prosecution. In 2010 Sol Meliá has not been punished for Managerial Behaviour any anti-competitive practices. Sol Meliá has internal human resources regulations which govern managerial behaviour, regardless of the applicable legislation, and which must be assumed by all Group executives. These regulations govern conflicts Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 24 4 Environmental Value Lorenza Alvritalinda, 12 years old Meliá Purosani, Indonesia 4.1 Key figures 29 hotels with environmental certification Reduction of 4.3% in kg CO2 per stay (1) Reduction of 8.4% per m3 of water consumed per stay (1) (1) Average for the period 2007-2010 compared to the average for the 960 guests involved in activities period 2004 to 2006 in the 86 hotels in Spain that have participated to protect biodiversity in the SAVE project since 2007. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 25 4.2 Highlights Travel and tourism generate considerable • Availability of relevant corporate environpressure on the natural environment, not so mental information. much due to the danger of their impact, but • Waste management. rather the sheer size of the industry. • Control of liquid waste to drains or directly to the natural environment. Hotels must minimise their consumption of • Energy and water efficiency. natural resources and their impact on their • Control of atmospheric emissions. local ecosystems, balancing their business • Existence of native flora in hotel gardens. activity with a respect for and protection of the natural environment. Sol Meliá also has a Sustainable Development Manual and Design and Construction Manual that include environmental criteria 4.2.1 Environmental Management to be applied during the operation and construction stages, respectively. Environmental management forms an inteSol Meliá operates gral part of Sol Meliá strategy through its With regards to compliance with existing hotels which have inclusion in the global sustainability policy, from which are drawn a number of activienvironmental regulations, in 2010 the company has not been subject to any significant achieved four ties and principles which are included in the fines for lack of compliance with any envidifferent types of Strategic Plan 2008-2010 and in the Susronmental regulations. tainable Development Manual. These certification: the ISO activities and principles must be adhered to 14001 standards, by all company hotels and corporate offices, 4.2.2 Certifications the EMAS European and define the criteria for performance with regard to social, environmental and cultural Hotel environmental management systems regulation, the Earth issues. Corporate headquarters defines the can act as tools for constant improvement Check standards, global environmental approach designed to in day-to day operations and their impact ensure hotels reduce their environmental on the natural environment. Certification and the Biosphere footprint and assume respect for and proby independent third parties confers greater Hotel standards tection of the environment as part of their credibility and transparency on the activities daily operations. carried out by the hotel. The different activities aim to respect the In this context, in addition to the environmenprinciple of “think globally – act locally”. tal impact, hotels with management systems To achieve this, on the one hand we aim to which integrate other aspects of sustainable preserve the natural environment in the desdevelopment also focus on the impact of the tinations where the company operates, and business on the socio-economic and cultural on the other hand we attend to our activienvironment in the location. ties on a global level, aiming to reduce the overall effect of our business on the planet. Sol Meliá operates hotels which have achieved four different types of certification. There is also a forum for hotels to share their On the one hand, there are the ISO 14001 experiences and best practises. Communicaand EMAS European regulations which cover tions between hotels and corporate offices environmental management and which may is encouraged, as well as between the hotels be adopted by public and private organisathemselves, in order to convert best practistions in any industry, and on the other hand, es into standard practises. the Earth Check (previously Green Globe) and Biosphere Hotel standards covering not With regard to the initiatives to mitigate the only environmental requirements, but also impact of our activity and apply the principle other requirements related to sustainability of precaution, in 2010 a number of environsuch as socio-economic and cultural factors. mental criteria have been included in the new pre-opening procedures which must be The company ended 2010 with 29 certified reviewed before any newly-built or newlyhotels, the same as in 2009, holding a total purchased hotel is opened. The criteria to be of 32 awards as may be seen in the followreviewed include: ing table. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 26 Certified Hotels Paradisus Punta Cana (Punta Cana, Dominican Republic) Biosphere Hotel Paradisus Palma Real (Punta Cana, Dominican Republic) Biosphere Hotel Paradisus Playa Conchal (Playa Conchal, Costa Rica) ISO 14001 Meliá Palas Atenea (Mallorca, Spain) Biosphere Hotel Meliá Bali (Nusa Dua, Indonesia) EarthCheck Meliá Kuala Lumpur (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) EarthCheck Meliá Benoa (Bali, Indonesia) EarthCheck Meliá Hanoi (Hanoi, Vietnam) EarthCheck Meliá Purosani (Java, Indonesia) EarthCheck Meliá Costa del Sol (Málaga, Spain) EMAS and ISO 14001 Meliá Sitges (Barcelona, Spain) EMAS and ISO 14001 Meliá Barcelona (Barcelona, Spain) Biosphere Hotel Meliá Azul Ixtapa (Ixtapa , Mexico) EarthCheck Meliá Whitehouse (London, UK) Biosphere Hotel Meliá Lima (Lima, Peru) Biosphere Hotel Meliá Mexico Reforma (Mexico D.F., Mexico) Biosphere Hotel Meliá Caribe Tropical (Punta Cana, Dominican Republic) Biosphere Hotel Gran Meliá Jakarta (Jakarta, Indonesia) EarthCheck Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora (Tenerife, Spain) Biosphere Hotel ME Cancún (Cancún, Mexico) Biosphere Hotel ME Madrid Reina Victoria (Madrid, Spain) Biosphere Hotel ME Barcelona (Barcelona, Spain) Biosphere Hotel Tryp Bellver (Mallorca, Spain) ISO 14001 Tryp Palma (Mallorca, Spain) Biosphere Hotel Sol Pinet Playa (Ibiza, Spain) EMAS Sol Milanos Pingüinos (Menorca, Spain) ISO 14001 Sol Menorca (Menorca, Spain) Biosphere Hotel Sol Falcó (Menorca, Spain) ISO 14001 Sol Gavilanes (Menorca, Spain) EMAS and ISO 14001 Hotels in process of certification Gran Meliá Puerto Rico (San Juan, Puerto Rico) Biosphere Hotel The negative effects 4.2.3 Energy and Climate Change droughts, be exposed to forest fires, or of the impact of Effects of Climate Change lack snow in mountain destinations. • Serious damage to facilities due to the seclimate change have verity of weather events or to a possible been included in the The impacts of climate change may be conrise in sea-levels. This may lead to increassidered as both risks and opportunities for Sol es in insurance premiums and reductions Company risk map Meliá. The negative effects have been included in insurance coverage for infrastructure. in the company risk map and are listed below: • Increased labour costs due to the increase of weather extremes like hurricanes or Risks floods and how that affects local workforce in the area around tourism facilities. • Loss of attractive tourist destinations that can become too warm, suffer from Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 27 The overall guidelines are determined by the relevance of the different types of environmental impact related to the hotel industry, leading to the prioritisation of 4 major areas: • Energy and emissions: Mitigation of the effects of climate change, mainly through savings and efficiency in energy use and the control and reduction of the emission of pollutants to the atmosphere. • Water: Reduction in the consumption of water and control of the disposal of waste water. • Biodiversity: Protection and conservation of environmentally valuable habitats to preserve biodiversity. • Use of resources and waste management: Minimisation of the environmental impact generated by the consumption of resources and the creation of waste products. Opportunities The hotels involved in the project must have correct and up-to-date historical data on en• Opportunities for expansion in destinaergy use for the past five years loaded in the There are tions in which climate change increases SAP BW system. Every month energy and currently 202 hotels their tourism appeal thanks to a more pleasant climate. water use in all the hotels that take part in the project is monitored and analysed, and participating in • Extension of the high season in certain any differences are examined. the SAVE project, tourist destinations in which warm temperatures (not extreme) occur for longer The consumption of diesel oil has been recompared to 155 periods of time. duced mainly due to several hotels replacin 2009 • Possibility to generate a competitive ading it with natural gas. In 2010, savings of vantage through a positive guest percep486,374 litres were reported in the 86 hotels tion of actions carried out by the company in Spain that have participated in the SAVE to mitigate the effects of climate change project since its introduction in 2007. in its facilities, services and products. Natural gas has advantages over other fuels due to its low level of emissions, low cost, Energy savings and efficiency constant supply and reduced maintenance. In 2010, the consumption of natural gas in Energy consumption is directly related to the the 86 hotels in Spain that have participated release of pollutants into the atmosphere. in the SAVE project since its introduction That is why the Sol Meliá Works and Mainin 2007 fell by 84,556 m3. Electricity contenance Department continues to work tosumption also fell by 2.830 MWh in 2010. wards the consolidation of the SAVE project, focused on energy savings and efficiency in The methodology used for calculating savhotels. The SAVE project section on the comings, efficiency and emissions reduction is pany Intranet was created so that all employbased on the comparison of the values of ees could consult measures introduced by hoaverage consumption figures for the years tels and corporate offices, best practices for 2007 to 2010 with the average consumpeach brand, standardisation agreements and tion figures for the years 2004 to 2006. improvement measures in technical systems. The objective of this comparison over a period There are currently 202 hotels participating of several years is to provide the utmost rigour in the SAVE project, compared to 155 in to the comparison, avoiding weather distor2009. The data included in this Report only tions and biases that can be produced by comcorresponds to the hotels in Spain. parison of figures from one year to the next. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 28 Furthermore, to avoid the bias in ratios that 3. Technical and economic analysis of Energy consumption by primary are generated by increases or decreases in systems and projects to improve effisources in the 130 SAVE hotels occupation, the guest figures from 2007 ciency through investments in Spain to 2010 have also been corrected so they can be compared to the same levels of ocThe technical standardisation of efficient Source GJ cupation in the period from 2004 to 2006. lighting systems has been completed. The Eliminating impacts from occupancy differdefinition of a “sustainable lighting” master Carbon 116,740 ences and climate change, the percentage plan has been developed to integrate the best Petrol 42,054 decreases of consumption per stay allows available solutions (low consumption, LEDs, Gas 283,975 us to see real improvements in efficiency control systems) and has been introduced in Biomass 5,777 achieved in energy and water consumption. all of the hotels in Spain since the beginning Wastes 3,654 of 2010. The system combines lower energy Nuclear 137,765 The methodology for measuring consumpconsumption with a longer useful life and, Hydroelectric 60,700 tion and emissions has been evaluated and therefore, a lower production of waste. In certified by Bureau Veritas, and has led Sol the area of savings in water consumption, the Solar photovoltaic 5,985 Meliá being recognized by the Ministry of number of hotels with the standardised conSolar thermal 37 the Environment, Rural Affairs and Marine sumption reduction system has risen to 82. Wind power 75,229 Affairs with the inclusion of the SAVE proOthers 717 ject in the voluntary system of emission reEmission of pollutant gases Total 732,934 duction (http://www.sostenibilidad-es.org/ Observatorio+Sostenibilidad/Eng/REV /). The total direct and indirect emissions of * Source based on statistics from the International Energy Agency on the electricity mix in Spain, 2008. greenhouse gases in 2010 in the 130 hotels In 2010, the financial savings from energy in Spain was 130,556 tonnes of CO2, comsaving and efficiency measures of was pared to 119,150 tonnes of CO2 in the 121 492,676 €. These measures were applied in hotels in Spain in 2009. the following areas: Apart from CO2 emissions we would like 1. Monitoring and control of consumption to mention another type of emission which also plays an important role in the contamiIn 2010 energy consumption was included nation of our planet: the direct emissions of in the budgeting systems used for preparNOx and SOx. For the hotels that form part ing the 2011 Financial Budget. The SAP of the SAVE project in 2010, the emissions BW system includes three types of report, of these gases are as follows: adapted to allow access to different levels of information and to facilitate its analysis: a monthly report for general hotel staff, an NOx SOx energy consumption report, and a compara2010 2009 2010 2009 tive report on average CO2 emissions. 32.5 t 28.0 t 17.2 t 15.0 t 2. Awareness and training measures ** Only includes hotels in Spain which were 121 in 2009, while that figure reaches 130 in 2010. The SAVE project section on the Employee Portal has been updated and translated Thanks to the measures applied in energy into English, and includes information on use in 2010, the reduction in CO2 emissions best practises, frameworks for collaboration in the 86 hotels in Spain that have formed agreements and recommendations for techpart of the SAVE project since 2007 was nical systems. 3,663 tonnes of CO2. CONSUMPTION* SAVINGS** 2010 2009 Weighted 2010 2009 Weighted difference difference Electricity (MWh/GJ) 203,593 / 732,934 190,496 / 685,787 +6.87% 2,830 / 10,189 2,871 / 9,255 +10.1% Natural gas (m3/ GJ) 5,107,769 / 199,254 4,287 / 167,255 +19.13% 84,556 / 3,299 111,482 / 4,349 -24.1% GLP (t/GJ) 1,596 / 73,727 1,137 / 52,535 +40.34% ND ND ND Diesel oil (m3/GJ) 5,146 / 196,353 4,480 / 170,965 +14.85% 486 / 18,560 543 / 20,712 -10.4% Total (GJ) 1,202,269 1,076,541 +11.7% 32,048 34,316 -6.6% * Only includes hotels in Spain which were 121 in 2009, while that figure reaches 130 in 2010. ** Only includes the hotels in Spain that have formed part of SAVE since 2007, which were 90 in 2009 and 86 in 2010. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 29 4.2.4 Water consumption and In 2010, 97% of company hotels fed their spillage control waste water into the local sewage system for transportation and treatment in the public Water consumption purification plants nearby. Water is an essential part of the tourism and The other 3% are hotels that have their own travel industry. Tourism services depend to a purification systems or sceptic tanks. The large degree on water. In areas where there waste water is then treated and purified are problems of supply and levels of water in keeping with existing local legislation. deficiency, the lack of water can be an obThe total volume of this purified water was stacle to the development of tourism, and a 1,662,053 m3. Out of that volume, 831,356 m3 source of conflicts due to its allocation, pric50% was reused, generally to water garing and distribution. dens and golf courses. As part of the SAVE project a number of The company does not yet have a centralised measures to save water have been considmanagement system for the registration of the 97% of Company ered which will not only reduce consumption volume of average waste water and spillages. hotels fed waste but will also save energy due to the lower volume of hot water in circulation water into the local 4.2.5 Use of resources and sewage system for Total water consumption in 2010 for the 130 waste management hotels in Spain that form part of the SAVE their transportation project was 3,503,699 m3, and the amount Hotel waste management and treatment of water saved was 266,797 m3. To ensure appropriate waste management Spillage control the company carries out the selective collection of waste in keeping with existing legislaHotels can generate considerable quantities of tion. There are also projects which allow the waste water, both grey water from washing company to minimise the consumption of machines, fridges, showers and baths, as well resources and the generation of waste. as black water from dishwashers and toilets. Given the activity in our hotels, the waste If waste water is not treated properly, it may they generate is mainly classified as urban cause ground and surface water contaminawaste such as paper, cardboard, glass, vegetion, as well as the degradation of marine table oil, packaging and other non-separated habitats, such as coral reefs. It can also cause domestic rubbish. There is also another type infections and gastro-intestinal diseases. of waste in lesser quantities which includes printer cartridges and toners, electrical and As a general strategy for reducing the enelectronic waste not considered dangerous, vironmental impact caused by our activity, and used batteries and storage batteries spillage levels are controlled for both private (without heavy metals). sceptic tanks and for connections to the public sewage system. To a far lesser extent, there are also some dangerous waste products mainly generated from cleaning and maintenance services. These products basically consist of plastic Total volume of water treated in own purification systems and reused and metal packaging of dangerous materials (paint stripper, varnish, paint, cleaning Hotels m3 treated m3 reused % products, aerosols, etc.), contaminated rags and sponges, florescent bulbs, batteries that contain mercury, used hydraulic acids and Meliá Purosani 103,678 31,100 30% hazardous batteries and electrical materials. Gran Meliá Jakarta 128,164 8,211 6% Meliá Gorriones 116,439 98,973 85% The company is currently developing a sysMeliá Golf Vichy Catalán 15,993 15,993 100% tem to quantify and report on the generaParadisus Playa Conchal 176,508 176,508 100% tion of waste in hotels. The aim is to provide Meliá Caribe Tropical 588,594 247,209 42% reliable and consistent data, reflecting the scope of the environmental impact more acParadisus Palma Real & The Reserve 267,543 112,368 42% curately. However, given that a large part of Palma Real Villas y Cocotal Golf 214,034 89,894 42% the waste is collected by municipal services, Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora 51,100 51,100 100% it is difficult to make an exact calculation, so TOTAL 1,662,053 831,356 50% we can only make an approximate estimation of the total waste generated. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 30 From the waste generated in the hotels in Waste management 2010, we are only reporting the relative data in corporate offices from centralized management contracts in Sol Meliá is waste management in Spain. This is due to Waste management in corporate offices fodeveloping a system the process currently underway to improve the system of individual reports from hotels cuses on waste which is generated in greatest quantities, concentrating mainly on pato quantify and with regard their waste generation and reper and cardboard and, to a lesser extent, report on waste cycling. This process will make available inelectrical and electronic waste, packaging, formation more accurate and representative, fluorescent bulbs, batteries, toner and ink generation in hotels and it will standardise the systems of meascartridges, cleaning products packaging, etc. urement that up until now every hotel has defined at its own discretion. In 2010, the amount of paper and cardboard waste generated and sent for recycling in Waste collection standardization company headquarters was 12,200 kg, cominitiatives pared to 25,242 kg in 2009. Used vegetable oil This reduction is largely attributable to the centralised printing service set up at the end In 2010 agreements have been maintained of 2009. with a group of companies to manage the collection of used vegetable oil in Sol Meliá hotels in Spain. 4.2.6 Preservation of biodiversity The initiative covers owned or leased hotels Description of the most significant imlocated in Spain. Another initiative to be pacts in biodiversity continued is the donation of the bonus received for vegetable oil collection to an enOn a global scale, the tourism and travel invironmental project in cooperation with the dustry can influence the loss of biodiversity NGO Acciónatura. due to the consumption of natural resources and the contribution to climate change asThe total amount of vegetable oil collected sociated with the production of goods and in 2010 was 44,087 kg. services offered by tourism. “Meliá recycles” Pablo Fernández Fernández, Electrical and electronic waste On the local level, tourism has the potential Meliá la Quinta, Spain to create a negative impact on the surroundIn September 2010 an agreement was ing natural areas through the degradation reached with the integrated management and/or destruction of habitats and the alsystem European Recycling Platform (ERP) teration of wildlife, primarily due to: for the collection of used batteries and accumulators from hotels in Spain, together with • Actions during construction and operation, electrical and electronic waste covered by or neglect which causes physical changes in European legislation, with the exception of the location. category 5, low energy and fluorescent light • Risk of land or water contamination due bulbs which are collected separately. to the leakage of pollutants to the land or surface water, ground water or the sea. In 2010, the amount of electrical and elec• Emission of dangerous pollutants which tronic waste collected under this agreement are toxic or harmful to the atmosphere. was 1,900 kg. • Noise and vibration or heat from light emissions or electromagnetic radiation. Fluorescent and low power consump• Introduction of invasive exotic species. tion bulbs Presence in privileged natural enclaves At the end of 2009 an agreement was reached with the integrated management Sol Meliá operates numerous hotels in or system AMBILAMP for the collection of lightnear privileged natural environments of ing equipment of electrical and electronic great ecological value. The company has waste category 5, mainly low energy light hotels in a number of countries which bulbs, from any hotel in Spain. have biodiversity hotspots, regions with an enormous wealth of animal and plant speIn 2010, the amount of low energy light cies, but also with a greater level of danger bulbs collected by AMBILAMP was 5,612 kg. and fragility. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 31 List of hotels near or next to protected natural areas: Hotel Surface area (m2) Protected area Gran Meliá Cancún 75,114 Western Coast of Isla de Mujeres National Park, Punta Cancun and Punta Nizuc. Mexico Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora 78,284 Corona Forestal Natural Park. Spain Gran Meliá Puerto Rico 168,891 Río Espíritu Santo Nature Reserve. Puerto Rico Gran Meliá Salinas 59,658 Lanzarote World Biosphere Reserve. Spain ME Cancún 24,650 Western Coast of Isla de Mujeres National Park, Punta Cancun and Punta Nizuc. Mexico Meliá Cozumel 23,231 PArrecifes de Cozumel National Park. Mexico Meliá Gorriones 74,098 Jandía Natural Park. Spain Meliá Jardines del Teide 24,038 Corona Forestal Natural Park. Spain Meliá Royal Tanau Boutique 625 Aigüestortes i Estany de Sant Maurici National Park. Spain Meliá Sancti Petri 30,000 Bahía de Cádiz Natural Park. Spain Meliá Santo Domingo 19,770 Southern Coast of Santo Domingo National Park. Dominican Republic Meliá Sierra Nevada 6,107 Sierra Nevada National Park. Spain Meliá Sinaí 43,500 Ras Mohammed National Park. Egypt Meliá Sol y Nieve 7,438 PSierra Nevada National Park. Spain Paradisus Playa Conchal Tempisque Conservation Area in the Marino Las Baulas National Park. Costa Rica Sol Alcudia Center 10,691 S’Albufera de Mallorca Natural Park. Spain Sol Calas de Mallorca Resort 58,678 Natural Environment of Special Interest Calas de Mallorca. Spain Sol Cyrene 28,600 Ras Mohammed National Park. Egypt Sol Falcó 41,493 Menorca World Biosphere Reserve. Spain Sol Galúa 3,600 Calblanque Regional Park. Spain Sol Gavilanes 48,752 Menorca World Biosphere Reserve. Spain Sol Jandía Mar 17,400 Jandía Natural Park. Spain Sol La Palma 50,000 Caldera de Taburiente National Park. Spain Sol Lanzarote 20,048 Lanzarote World Biosphere Reserve. Spain Sol Menorca 10,336 Menorca World Biosphere Reserve. Spain Sol Milanos Pingüinos 7,614 Menorca World Biosphere Reserve. Spain Sol Sancti Petri Aptos. 30,000 Bahía de Cádiz Natural Park. Spain Sol Sharm 26,966 Ras Mohammed National Park. Egypt Sol Sun Beach Aptos. 13,034 Corona Forestal Natural Park Spain Sol Vielha 2,232 Aigüestortes i Estany de Sant Maurici National Park. Spain Tryp Almussafes 1,730 Albufera de Valencia Natural Park. Spain Tryp La Caleta 629 Bahía de Cádiz Natural Park. Spain Tryp Las Matas 2,291 Cuenca Alta del Manzanares Regional Park. Spain The countries with biodiversity hotspots in In many destinations, natural resources are which Sol Meliá operated in 2010 are: one of the main tourist attractions. Sometimes these areas are protected by domestic • Americas: Costa Rica, Cuba, Puerto Rico, institutions or by international agreements. Dominican Republic, Mexico, Peru, Brazil, Argentina, Panama and Uruguay. Most important activities • Europe: Spain, France, Italy and Portugal. • Asia: Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam. The United Nations declared 2010 Interna• Africa: Egypt. tional Biodiversity Year and Sol Meliá deSol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 32 cided to carry out a number of initiatives to com over the Christmas period. The three raise awareness involving both our guests species included were the Iberian lynx, the and our employees. Imperial Eagle and Marine turtles. World Biodiversity Day was celebrated 22 May, World Biodiversity Day The results of the two-week campaign were the following: with a number of Corporate activities: awareness-raising • 7,000 € donated by Sol Meliá to WWF Spain for the installation of new photoactivities carried out • Use of themed logo on all corporate emails. • Specific communication to MAS rewards graphic stations for monitoring the geoin all company hotels members. graphical distribution of the Iberian Lynx. and involving more • Information on company website solmelia. • 10,578 people “liked” the Facebook page. • 4,406 people voted. com. than 10,000 people, • Communication to employees on intranet • 357 comments. both employees and internal magazine UToo. Distribution of the TUI Guide for the and guests Through a number of awareness-raising acPreservation of Species tivities carried out in all company hotels and corporate offices for both guests and emThe tour operator TUI developed a guide to ployees, Sol Meliá involved more than 10,000 try to educate clients about the need not to people in the activities organized for the day purchase souvenirs made with parts of ani(for more information, see fact file on “Biodimals or plants in danger of extinction. versity Day 2010” in the appendix). Sol Meliá assisted TUI by distributing the Activities in the hotels: guide in 6 hotels in Costa Rica, Dominican Republic (Punta Cana) and Indonesia (Nusa • Posters displayed to raise awareness. Dua), exotic destinations where this type of • Information on natural areas near the hotel. activity is more likely to occur. • Promotion of activities in natural areas nearby. Since 2002, Sol Meliá Brazil in alliance with • Posters displayed on access routes to WWF Brazil has carried out several campaigns beaches with information on the average to promote nature conservation (for more inlife-span of waste. formation, see the fact file “Sol Meliá Brazil • Shows on biodiversity. and WWF Brazil” in the appendix). • Cleaning of the local beach or natural areas. • Planting of native plant species. • Conservation of local flora and fauna. 4.2.7 Environmental investments • Others. and expenditure Replacement of the Christmas sales camIn 2010 investments and spending on the paign with an project to protect endanenvironment accounted for in centralised gered animal species company systems amounted to the following: For the second consecutive year, www.solmelia.com replaced the traditional Christmas • Cost of separate collection of waste, bacdiscount special offers with a campaign to teriological analysis of water and environinvolve customers in our commitment to susmental certifications: 708,680 €. tainability. • Costs of sewage charges, rubbish collection and water supply: 4,949,736 €. The company developed a campaign called Help • Investments in energy efficiency as part of Save a Species in collaboration with WWF Spain the SAVE project: 492,464 €. which consisted of two main actions: • The donation of 1 euro by Sol Meliá to WWF Spain for each reservation made on the www.solmelia.com over the Christmas period. The money raised went to a recovery project for an animal species in danger of extinction. • The creation of a page on Facebook to allow people to vote on which of the WWF Spain recovery projects they would like to donate the money raised by solmelia. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 33 5 Human Value “I’ve got two mummies: the receptionist and the one who takes us to the park” Jorge de Vicente Tronco Tryp Salamanca, Spain 5.1 Key figures 35,728 employees vs. 33,378 in 2009 100 specific training courses in labour health and safety 109 nationalities vs. 94 nationalities in 2009 77,899 hours of training in Spain vs. 63,743 hours of training in Spain in 2009 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 34 5.2 Highlights 5.2.1 Employee satisfaction Video-communications from senior management At Sol Meliá, employee satisfaction is measured and evaluated so that we may share The frequency and quality of executive video and acknowledge their opinions on their communications has been improved. At the work environment, as well as the degree of start of the year, Gabriel Escarrer Jaume, acceptance of the company’s culture, manCEO of Sol Meliá, sent a message for emagement and procedures. ployee assemblies and sent another message at the end of the year, taking advantage of 20,914 surveys The Workplace Climate Survey is carried out the Christmas parties held in hotels and corwere carried out at every year in corporate offices and in the different business areas and is voluntary and porate offices, in which he explained the results of the Strategic Plan 2008-2010 and the all levels amongst totally anonymous. guidelines for priorities for the new year. employees in the The aspects measured in the survey include, Top-down communication process different business amongst others: teamwork, communicaareas to evaluate tion, motivation, pride in belonging, idenCommunication at Sol Meliá always follows a their satisfaction tification with the company, leadership and people management, clarity, working conditop-down process in which information is first transmitted to the senior levels of managelevels tions, recognition, training and personal dement and then filters down to all employees. velopment, development expectations, promotion expectations and self improvement. Employee portal An exhaustive analysis of this information Sol Meliá runs an Employee Portal which lays the foundations for a specific Action provides access to corporate and other inPlan for each of the corporate and business formation, applications and other company areas, the objective of which is to improve services. Although the portal is still yet to the least satisfactory results, as well as mainreach all of the locations in which Sol Meliá tain satisfaction levels in the more favouroperates, the company is working hard to able areas. optimise telecommunications and systems in work centres. In 2010, 20,914 surveys were carried out in six languages at all levels amongst the In hotels, access to the portal for personnel employees in the different business areas, that do not have a computer in their workcompared to the 20,762 surveys in 2009. place is available through a PC Point con829 surveys were carried out at all levels sisting of a computer in an easily accessible amongst the employees in corporate offices, location installed with direct access to the compared to 1,114 surveys in 2009. portal. 79 PC Points have currently been installed in Spain. The global result of satisfaction on a worldwide level in 2010 was 74.01% compared Internal gazette – “ UToo” to 74.12% in 2009. The internal gazette “Utoo” was created to supplement the portal and to facilitate 5.2.2 Communication channels employee access to internal communication and feedback by offering a light and easy to read format, available to all employee regardless of their At Sol Meliá employees receive information position or access to a computer. through different meetings and tools that encourage interaction between departments In April 2010, the first German and Portuand promote constant improvement, as well guese editions were published and distribas providing greater access to information: uted to Sol Meliá Hotels in Portugal, Brazil, Germany and Luxembourg, to add to the The tools include the following: traditional English-Spanish version. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 35 Breakfasts with the Executive • Essential internal promotion for the exManagement Team pansion of the company. • Support for the strategic area of talent Organised by Human Resources and led by management. the members of the Executive Management • Limitations in internal communication. Team to facilitate greater contact and dia• Continuity of the Employee Portal. logue between the upper tiers of company • CRM and the single vision project. Progress management and employees, the breakfasts has been made, but it still needs work. are a solution to some of the areas that • Greater communication between hotels needed improvement defined in the area of and corporate offices. internal communication last year. • Need to raise awareness and understand the culture of joint ventures and strategic The main objective of the breakfast is to enpartners. courage greater and more fluid communication, to share and learn more about experiFrom these conclusions an action plan is preences, and to offer a chance for employees to sented to the Executive Management Comvoice their doubts, concerns and suggestions mittee, which then approves any possible in an open and relaxed atmosphere. The CEO measures to be taken. or Executive Vice President that leads the meeting gives their point of view on different topics of interest for the company and the 5.2.3 Diversity employees. This creates an important channel of two-way communication between the The professional and human qualities of Board and company employees. every person that forms part of the company are decisive when it comes to transmitting In 2010 three breakfasts took place attendto guests the passion for service that has aled by the CEO and EVP of Hotels and 50 ways characterised the company and which members of staff. has become one of the keys to our business success over time. The breakfasts are organised by the Human Resources Department and presented In 2010 the team at Sol Meliá was formed by afterwards to the Senior Executive Team for 35,728 personas, compared to 33,378 in 2009. comments and discussions of possible action plans brought up in the meeting. The company’s excellent results during 2010 meant we were able to increase our workThe topics covered include: force by more than 2,300 people. • Sol Meliá strategy. The job rotation ratio at Sol Meliá worldwide, • The economic crisis. i.e. the ratio of people leaving the company • Sol Meliá and its strong commitment to during the year, was 3.84% in 2010. Sustainable Development. • Efforts in external communication and the need for dissemination afterwards. • Strategic areas. • Conciliation as a pending task for Sol Meliá. Workforce by region SPAIN REST OF EMEA AMERICA ASIA TOTAL FIXED CONTRACT 7,255 2,644 18,221 2,726 30,846 TEMPORAY CONTRACT 2,274 471 1,986 151 4,882 TOTAL 9,529 3,115 20,207 2,877 35,728 * Table data: Year 2010. Rest of EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa): Includes Bulgaria, Cuba and Egypt. Includes Sol Meliá Vacation Club. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 36 Workforce by levels SPAIN REST OF EMEA AMERICA ASIA TOTAL CORPORATE 629 76 239 8 952 HOTEL General staff 7,355 2,662 17,210 2,774 30,001 Heads of Department 1,360 330 2,505 86 4,280 General Managers and 185 48 253 9 495 Assistant Managers TOTAL 9,529 3,115 20,207 2,877 35,728 Table data: Year 2010. Includes Sol Meliá Vacation Club. EMEA: Europe Middle East & Africa. Age distribution (%) SPAIN REST OF EMEA AMERICA ASIA TOTAL < 20 0.28 2.49 2.04 0.53 1.26 20-30 16.28 40.13 38.49 20.98 28.48 30-40 27.97 33.14 35.42 39.24 32.81 40-50 25.52 14.82 17.73 34.28 22.10 50-60 26.91 7.82 5.64 4.92 13.78 > 60 3.04 1.61 0.68 0.04 1.58 Table data: Year 2010. Includes Sol Meliá Vacation Club. EMEA: Europe Middle East & Africa. Diversidad de género (%) ESPAÑA RESTO EMEA AMERICA ASIA TOTAL MEN 51.81 46.06 64.56 69.94 59.16 WOMEN 48.19 53.94 35.54 30.06 40.84 Table data: Year 2010. Includes Sol Meliá Vacation Club. EMEA: Europe Middle East & Africa. Women in positions of responsibility in hotels COUNTRY MEN WOMEN TOTAL COUNTRY MEN WOMEN TOTAL ARGENTINA 2 1 3 MALAYSIA 1 1 BRAZIL 8 5 13 MEXICO 8 8 BULGARIA 5 5 PANAMA 1 1 CHINA 1 1 PERU 0 CROATIA 11 6 17 PORTUGAL 9 4 13 CUBA 22 1 23 PUERTO RICO 1 1 DOMINICAN REPUBIC 5 5 SPAIN 126 23 149 EGYPT 4 4 UK 1 1 FRANCE 2 5 7 URUGUAY 1 1 GERMANY 17 5 22 USA 1 1 GREECE 3 3 VENEZUELA 1 1 INDONESIA 4 4 VIETNAM 1 1 ITALY 3 3 LUXEMBOURG 1 1 TOTAL GENERAL 238 51 289 Includes Hotel General Managers. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 37 Women in positions of responsibility in corporate offices The Sol Meliá COUNTRY MEN WOMEN TOTAL workforce was made ASIA 1 1 up of employees BRAZIL 1 1 from 109 different SPAIN 33 10 43 USA 4 4 nationalities LONDON 1 1 MEXICO 2 2 TOTAL 42 10 52 Includes Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President and Vice President. Cultural diversity The workforce at Sol Meliá is highly diverse and in 2010 consisted of 109 nationalities, compared to 94 in 2009. the nationalities are the following: Nationality % 2010 % 2009 Nationality % 2010 % 2009 Nationality % 2010 % 2009 Afghan 0.008% 0.00% Filipino 0.069% 0.10% Nigerian 0.043% 0.09% Albanian 0.015% 0.01% Finnish 0.030% 0.02% Pakistani 0.036% 0.12% German 3.648% 2.20% French 0.630% 0.71% Paraguayan 0.050% 0.05% American 0.880% 1.18% Gabonese 0.004% 0.00% Peruvian 0.921% 0.89% Angolan 0.006% 0.01% Gambian 0.018% 0.02% Polish 0.181% 0.27% Algerian 0.043% 0.08% Georgian 0.014% 0.01% Portuguese 0.517% 0.36% Argentinean 1.039% 0.98% Ghanaian 0.011% 0.03% Puerto Rican 0.004% 0.00% Armenian 1.751% 0.01% Greek 0.241% 0.21% Romanian 0.258% 0.43% Aruban 0.020% 0.00% Guatemalan 0.005% 0.00% Russian 0.097% 0.14% Austrian 0.027% 0.03% Guinea Bissau 0.009% 0.00% Rwandan 0.004% 0.00% Bangladeshi 0.042% 0.06% Guinean 0.020% 0.07% Saharan 0.020% 0.00% Belizean 0.004% 0.01% Guyanese 0.004% 0.00% Senegalese 0.070% 0.19% Belgian 0.117% 0.21% Haitian 0.241% 0.08% Serbian 0.006% 0.00% Belorussian 0.005% 0.01% Hindu 0.062% 0.06% Sierra Leonean 0.018% 0.01% Burmese 0.008% 0.01% Honduran 0.021% 0.02% Slovak 0.052% 0.07% Bolivian 0.089% 0.15% Hungarian 0.043% 0.05% Slovenian 0.007% 0.00% Bosnian 0.014% 0.00% Indonesian 5.922% 5.56% Somali 0.004% 0.00% Brazilian 4.452% 4.31% Iraqi 0.010% 0.01% South African 0.013% 0.01% British 0.266% 0.30% Irish 0.012% 0.03% Spanish 35.399% 50.09% Bulgarian 0.097% 0.11% Israeli 0.005% 0.01% Sri Lankan 0.030% 0.00% Cape Verdean 0.007% 0.01% Italian 1.347% 1.47% Swedish 0.021% 0.05% Cambodian 0.004% 0.00% Jamaican 0.004% 0.00% Swiss 0.035% 0.03% Cameroonian 0.029% 0.03% Japanese 0.014% 0.01% Thai 0.023% 0.01% Canadian 0.027% 0.01% Jordanian 0.004% 0.00% Tunisian 0.046% 0.04% Chilean 0.066% 0.12% Kazakh 0.004% 0.00% Turkish 0.046% 0.00% Chinese 2.374% 0.15% Lebanese 0.005% 0.01% Ukrainian 0.134% 0.26% Cypriot 0.012% 0.00% Lithuanian 0.024% 0.03% Ugandan 0.006% 0.01% Colombian 0.568% 1.01% Luxembourgian 0.033% 0.02% Uruguayan 0.124% 0.32% Congolese 0.046% 0.04% Macedonian 0.011% 0.00% Venezuelan 2.138% 2.08% Costa Rican 2.414% 1.87% Malaysian 0.418% 0.62% Vietnamese 0.008% 1.41% Croatian 0.030% 0.01% Malian 0.012% 0.01% Cuban 0.296% 0.40% Marfileña 0.017% 0.00% Czech 0.024% 0.07% Mauritanian 0.007% 0.01% Dominican 16.812% 11.16% Mauritian 0.575% 0.11% Dutch 0.098% 0.13% Mexican 13.529% 5.45% Ecuadorean 0.404% 0.88% Moldovan 0.016% 1.60% Egyptian 0.010% 0.00% Moroccan 0.367% 0.72% Eritrean 0.004% 0.00% Nepalese 0.009% 0.01% Estonian 0.005% 0.00% Nicaraguan 0.102% 0.09% Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 38 5.2.3 Human resources policy ence as these are normally positions of trust. Contracting policy This policy favours economic development in the areas in which the company operates Internal Human Resources regulations give prefdue to the creation of employment, and also erence to employing local managers, reducing means that the company has a better knowlthe employment of foreigners to a minimum. edge of local needs. More than 82% of Sol With regard to hotel general manager promoMeliá hotel general managers are local resitions, internal promotion is also given preferdents, compared to 18% who are expatriates. Nationality of managers America COUNTRY Gender Expatriate Local Total ARGENTINA MANAGER M 0 2 2 F 0 1 1 BRAZIL MANAGER M 1 7 8 F 0 5 5 CUBA MANAGER M 22 0 22 F 1 0 1 MEXICO MANAGER M 0 8 8 F 0 0 0 PANAMA MANAGER F 0 1 1 PUERTO RICO MANAGER M 1 0 1 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC MANAGER M 2 3 5 F 0 0 0 URUGUAY MANAGER M 0 1 1 F 0 0 0 USA MANAGER M 1 0 1 F 0 0 0 VENEZUELA MANAGER M 1 0 1 F 0 0 0 Total 29 28 57 Asia COUNTRY Gender Expatriate Local Total CHINA MANAGER M 1 0 1 F 0 0 0 INDONESIA MANAGER M 4 0 4 F 0 0 0 MALAYSIA MANAGER M 1 0 1 VIETNAM MANAGER M 1 0 1 F 0 0 0 Total 7 0 7 EUROPE COUNTRY Gender Expatriate Local Total BULGARIA MANAGER M 1 4 5 CROATIA MANAGER M 11 11 F 6 6 EGYPT MANAGER M 4 4 FRANCE MANAGER M 2 2 F 1 4 5 GERMANY MANAGER M 17 17 F 5 5 GREECE MANAGER M 3 3 ITALY MANAGER M 3 3 LUXEMBOURG MANAGER M 1 1 PORTUGAL MANAGER M 9 9 F 4 4 SPAIN MANAGER M 1 125 126 F 23 23 UK MANAGER M 1 1 Total 5 220 225 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 39 Remuneration policy Currently, 16.44% of all Sol Meliá employees form part of the performance evaluation In 2009 sustainability At Sol Meliá, the performance evaluation system, compared to 18.90% in 2009. criteria were system is a human resource management technique that determines the performance In 2009 sustainability criteria were approved approved in the of each employee, in relation with objectives in the variable bonuses of the company’s variable bonuses set at the beginning of the year which are executive management in corporate offices directly linked to the specific objectives of and business units. of the company’s the area, as well as with the overall objecexecutive tives of the company. Sol Meliá makes contributions to defined management in The performance evaluation is an analytical pension funds. The total contributed at the end of 2010 was 5.7 million euros, as recorporate offices and process that is carried out systematically and flected in the 2010 Financial report, comin business units periodically. At Sol Meliá employees are evalpared to 6.7 million euros at the end of uated every year with a formal review and 2009. The difference is due to the reduction follow-up at least once every six months. of payments as a result of the surplus that already existed. The objectives have the following characteristics: The minimum salary which Sol Meliá pays to its employees is, on average, 47% above the • The variable bonus assigned to the legal minimum in European countries, calcuachievement of objectives is a percentage lated in euros, and 30.3% above the rest of of gross annual salary. the countries, calculated in US dollars. • There are four types of objectives: economic, strategic, quality and performance. At Sol Meliá, the wage gap between men • There are corporate objectives set by senand women in Spain in 2010 was 17.12% in ior management in each area for each favour of men. The distribution per category function, and individual objectives, set by can be seen in the following tables. the business area for each employee that takes part in the variable bonus system. • The objectives are defined according to the employee’s position. Average salary by gender Minimum monthly gross salary: Sol Meliá vs. legal minimum (Men vs. Women) HOTEL 2009 (%) 2010 (%) EUROPE (€) Sol Meliá Legal AMERICAS ($) Sol Meliá Legal Minimum Minimum Minimum Minimum MANAGER 15 18.57 ASSISTANT 17 1.7 Bulgaria 256 123 Argentina 460 400 MANAGER Egypt 67 22 Brazil 322 237 HEADS OF 0 11.9 France 1,459 1,459 Costa Rica 406 406 DEPARTMENTS Germany 1,131 NA Mexico 131 131 GENERAL STAFF 6 4.33 Greece 1,064 869 Peru 550 550 Italy 1,159 NA Puerto Rico 1,257 1,257 Luxembourg 1,757 1,757 Dominican Rep. 116 116 Portugal 566,5 485 Venezuela 374 285 Spain 1,153 633 ASIA ($) Sol Meliá Legal Minimum Minimum China 300 150 Indonesia 98 83 Malaysia 165 NA Vietnam 100 60 Note: in Germany, Italy and Malaysia there is no legal minimum wage. The difference between the legal minimum salary and that paid by Sol Meliá is due to the strong devaluation of the local currency, which has seen up to 6 devaluations in 2010. There is no available data for Uruguay, Panama and USA. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 40 Flexible remuneration Conciliation policy The flexible remuneration system designed The tourism industry has an intrinsic probby Sol Meliá offers the possibility to volunlem when it comes to combining working tarily change part of the gross annual salary hours and family commitments: complex for some of the following benefits and serwork schedules and the seasonal nature of vices at cost price: health insurance, trainthe job are just two of the difficulties. ing, purchase of computers, renting property and food vouchers. In 2010, and in response to the commitment to maintaining Biosphere certification, a reThe programme is aimed at all corporate port was produced concerning the aspects employees in Spain. The products included considered to be the starting point for the in the flexible remuneration policy began to implementation of the conciliation measures. be introduced in March 2010. Here are some of them: At end of 2010, an analysis was made to Throughout the measure the degree of acceptance and the • Analysis of the environment, current situyear the company result showed that a total of 63 employees contracted at least one product, 9.55% of ation in Spain and Europe. • Benchmarking conciliation measures, carries out processes the total staff in corporate offices in Spain. companies of similar size and companies to identify high The product with greatest acceptance is medin the tourism industry. ical insurance, followed by food and comput• Survey on conciliation measures for perpotential personnel er equipment, house rental and training. sonal and professional lives in Sol Meliá corporate offices. In December 2010 the programme was • Analysis of the schedules in corporate ofexpanded and flexible remuneration was fices in Madrid and Palma. offered to all fixed contract employees in • Improve internal and external image. hotels in Spain (owned and rented), approxi• Improve productivity. mately 3,484 people, offering only medical • Analysis of cost-benefits of the conciliainsurance as an initial product. At the end of tion programme. the year, 43 people had already contracted the product. In August, a summer timetable was introduced in the corporate offices in Palma and Employee benefits Madrid, concentrating the weekly hours from Monday to Thursday, so employees As an employee of Sol Meliá, any person only worked from 8 am to 3 pm on Fridays. who works for the company and has a fixed employment contract has special reduced accommodation rates for themselves and 5.2.5 Professional development their family and friends in any company hoand promotion tel. The rates are known as “Estrellas rates”. Throughout the year the company carries There is also a section on the Employee Porout processes to identify personnel with tal listing a range of agreements with parthigh potential and then organise developner companies who offer Sol Meliá employment plans for them. ees important discounts. These agreements are achieved thanks to the negotiation powDevelopment plans for high potential er of Sol Meliá as a company. The categories personnel for key positions and number of agreements reached in each of them is listed below: Given the financial constraints for starting development plans and the need to review • Finance and Insurance: 7 the high potential group, focus and efforts • Home equipment: 4 have centred on updating and revising the • Computer / Telephone: 2 existing high potential group and the new • Travel: 4 proposals made by the Executive Vice Presi• Health and Beauty: 15 dent in each area. • Leisure and Sports: 5 • Automotive: 2 At Sol Meliá a person is considered to meet • Others: 2 the criteria of being high potential when they have been at the company for at least a The agreements all apply to any Sol Meliá year, have demonstrated excellent work peremployee worldwide, but use is limited to formance, have been trained and show a caa local level. pacity for improvement, show a positive and Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 41 proactive attitude towards work, are flexible tary, multidisciplinary and multi-departmenand demonstrate a strong commitment to tal team to detect and help cover certain the company. company needs. The resulting AVANTE group devised a social networks project for The identification process consists of three Sol Meliá, whose objective is to provide the stages: identification in the hotels by the company with tools for social interaction general manager; verification by the brand and with a vision of positioning the comhuman resources department that the canpany as a leader in social and professional didate meets the requirements; reporting to networks (For more information see the fact the central human resources department so file in the appendix “AVANTE project: dithat evaluation interviews can be planned in rect impact on internal development”). the designated periods. Hotel development programmes The assessment of high potential employees is carried out based on a competences sysIMP tem. This year, an assessment methodology The Internal Management Plan is a theoretifor potential employees has been developed cal and practical training programme in Sol as well as the design of development pathMeliá hotels to develop people with potenways focused on managerial skills and diftial to take on the position of hotel general ferent technical routes. The evaluation has manager. This plan is bi-annual and includes been achieved through the “Development specific requirements and a selection course. Centre” methodology to provide the maximum objectivity in decision-making and so DPHD that Development Plans may begin in 2011. The Development Plan for Heads of Departments is a specific programme for the develAVANTE project: opment and consolidation of hotel heads of Direct impact on internal development departments. Within the strategic area of “Talent ManageVDP ment “, the human resources department at The Vertical Development Plan aims to encourSol Meliá has designed a development proage employees to assume positions of greater gramme called AVANZA for corporate officresponsibility. This plan is geared to general es worldwide, the main objective of which is staff or assistant heads of departments. to identify and develop high potential staff. HDP In June 2010, a group of participants in the The Horizontal Development Plan is aimed second promotion of AVANZA Development at encouraging employees to assume similar Programme proposed to the Sol Meliá Execresponsibilities in another area, hence inutive Committee the formation of a voluncreasing their versatility. Development plans MANAGERS EUROPE AMERICA Total Men 45 16 61 Women 10 3 13 Total 55 19 74 ASSISTANT MANAGERS EUROPE AMERICA ASIA Total Men 13 2 3 18 Women 17 1 18 Total 30 2 4 36 Includes Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba, and Egypt. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 42 Promotion revenue generation and cost control in hotels. The aim of this training was to equip Internal promotion is a priority at Sol Meliá. managers with control tools to monitor the For this we use the PromoSol messages objectives in the different hotel departments through which we publish internally all the and to facilitate financial management. available vacant positions, providing all employees a chance to participate in company The campaign addressed the following two selection processes. business unit groups: • Hotel managers, assistant managers 5.2.6 Training and managerial assistants. 12 courses were organised for this group with the At Sol Meliá we consider the training of our participation of 189 employees, reaching The total hours of employees to be fundamental, and we try a total of 3,024 hours of training. training was 77,899, our hardest to offer training programmes that are attractive, dynamic and flexible, • Hotel middle managers. In this camcompared to 63,743 which employees can identify with and paign 59 courses were organised with the hours in 2009 which meet the specific training needs in participation of 944 employees, reaching each business unit. a total of 7,552 hours of training. In 2010 several training initiatives were carIndividual training plans in hotels ried out, of which we would like to highlight: After studying the training needs of each hotel, an individual training plan per hotel • Institutional training. was designed to respond to the individual • Individual training plans in hotels. needs of each hotel, bearing in mind the • PCI training. strategic priorities of the company. • Transient Edge training. With the training plans we have been able to: Institutional training • Reduce costs through the organization of Institutional training in Sol Meliá is training group actions and negotiation with global which supports the strategic projects and/or suppliers. the company’s general Action Plans. • Standardise and update the training content and course methodologies. In line with the company’s strategy and the • Minimise the impact of training in hotel current situation in the industry, the Instituoperations. tional Training Campaign 2010 focused on Training actions in Spain were funded through grants received through the Tripartite Foundation. The total cost of grant-assisted training in 2010 was 539,477€, compared to 592,392€ in 2009 and the total number of hours of training was 77,899, compared to 63,743 hours in 2009, which is an average of Level of studies 8.75 hours per participant. The total number of courses organised was 879, with the parTYPE TOTAL (%) ticipation of 8,274 employees. Primary education 42.69 Sol Meliá increasingly promotes the use of Secondary education 34.03 new technologies in the learning processes. University studies 15.21 In 2010, e-learning training courses were promoted in several training activities. The Other studies 8.07 company is also using this methodology in courses which are repeated every year, such as computing or language training courses. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 43 Training in corporate offices in Spain 2010 Courses Participants Hours of training per employee 59 430 14.7 PCI – DSS training – E-learning training • Operations: training is related to the functions and tasks of the employee in Sol Meliá has developed a specific training their position.. In the corporate process via an e-learning platform to facilitate • Competences: training is aimed at emoffices 59 courses the implementation of credit card handling protocols and to ensure that all Sol Meliá hoployees who require improvements in their professional skills. were organised with tels meet international data handling stand• Skills: training is aimed at the developthe participation ards according to PCI DSS regulations. ment of skills and the improvement of the capacity of the individual. of 430 employees, This training campaign is aimed at all comreaching a total pany employees who handle data suscepSome training actions common to all departof 8,911 hours of tible to a need for protection so that they understand the importance of correct treatments have also been defined: guest focus, team work and languages; all key competraining ment and are thus able to guarantee the imtences at Sol Meliá. plementation of the international standards. Training in corporate offices in Spain Transient Edge Signature training The human resources team analyse the In line with the revenue generation action training needs in all of the business areas plan, training was carried out in “transient based on the Strategic Plan, and then schededge” focused on converting customer ules training programmes to be carried out phone calls into room bookings. The trainthroughout the year. The training includes ing provides staff with a personalized serboth general skills and technical skills. vice protocol which is simple, objective and logical to respond to calls and requests In 2010 59 courses were organised with the from customers, with the goal of convertparticipation of 430 employees, reaching a ing phone calls into confirmed reservations total of 8,911 hours of training. This is an and guaranteeing a monthly increase in the average of 14.17 hours per employee. percentage of contacts converted into sales. Induction programme The transient edge pilot campaign began in some company hotels and as soon as we Sol Meliá has an induction programme have confirmed the results we will begin to which represents the first contact new emroll-out the programme to others hotels. ployees have with the company. Strategy in training of hotel staff The programme includes an introduction to the company, the brand and the hotel, as To get closer to the goal of enhancing the well as a training session on service culture, human capital at Sol Meliá and ensuring the loyalty programmes and community involveguest experience, another step has been ment. taken to improve the tools used to detect training needs in hotels. The induction for new personnel is defined as the process which facilitates the incorpoThe new tool allows us to better understand ration of new employees to their positions. the needs of hotel employees and offering quality training to meet those needs. Through It is a procedure that ensures the new emthis tool hotels have the opportunity to orployee fits into the company, understanding ganise training in different areas, such as: our style, culture and values. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 44 Work safety rates and ratios *Data for Spain 2010 2009 Average number of workers 9,641 6,078 Average hours worked 20,107,148 12,677,106 Absenteeism (in hours) 748,673 666,177 % on total hours worked 4.36% 5.25% Work-related accidents 625 411 Lost days 11,475 7,835 Incident ratio (Accidents per 1000 workers) 64.82 67.62 Frequency ratio (Accidents per million hours worked) 31.08 32.42 Gravity index (Lost days per 1000 hours of work) 0.57 0.62 The rate of At Sol Meliá we distinguish 3 types of inducworkers are represented by a Health and absenteeism was tion: Safety Committee. 4.36% in 2010 • General: providing information about the The diversity of regulations makes a standcompared to 5.25% company, its history, values, culture, straardised health and safety policy for all the tegic objectives and specific details about company’s employees very difficult to implein 2009 the hotel and brand. ment. Each case has to adapt to the local • Departmental: providing specific inforsituation in the country. mation about the work within their own department. In total, the average workforce in 2010 of • Specific induction to the position: proemployees that the company had under the viding help and the means by which the responsibility of the department of Labour new employee can fit in to their position. Health of Spain was 9,641 compared to 6,078 in 2009. In 2010, the company registered 625 work-related accidents, compared 5.2.7 Health and safety to 411 in 2009, which resulted in the loss of 11,475 days, compared to 7,835 in 2009. Sol Meliá employees are the company’s The rate of absenteeism was 4.36% comgreatest asset, and that is why the greatest pared to 5.25% in 2009. efforts are made to minimise work-related accidents and guarantee the health and Sol Meliá does not carry out specific educasafety of the workforce. tion, training, consultative, prevention or risk control programmes for workers in relaAs a company that operates in more than tion to serious illnesses. 30 countries, Health and Safety policies vary according to local legislation and the Maternity protection idiosyncrasies of each location, but in every case company policy demands strict compliThe Sol Meliá Prevention Service established “Mending the hotel roof” Alba Navarro Giner, 7 years old ance with the law and the development of a procedure for defining the actions that alSol Alcudia Center, Spain preventative measures for specific hazards low appropriate maternity protection for our detected in each area. In Spain, 100% of pregnant or breast-feeding employees. Prevention service activities Medical check-ups 3,360 Periodic check-ups 3,024 Initial check-ups 330 Check-up after IT 6 Training 300 courses Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 45 The actions included are the following: Indigenous peoples Minimum notice period concerning organisational changes • Managerial information. Sol Meliá is committed to the conservation • Information for the employee. of the tangible and intangible cultural heritAMERICA Argentina 15 • The creation of a relationship between age of the communities in which it operates. work positions for pregnant or breast Is it fully involved in the local community, inBrazil 30 tegrating the cultural, gastronomic and artisfeeding employees, categorised according Costa Rica 30 to the risk that the position entails and tic elements of each location, respecting and Dominican Rep. 3 specifying the risk itself. defending the historical heritage as its own. It aims to energise the local community, protectMexico 30 According to this procedure, in 2010 37 cering their roots and encouraging the complicity Peru 1 tificates were issued with information on the of guests in the discovery and conservation of Puerto Rico 60 risks that the position entailed for pregnant the cultural wealth of the destination. Uruguay 15 employees and proposals to change to another position. Currently, Sol Meliá has no business units Venezuela 7 or corporate offices located in areas which ASIA China 30 could affect, generate incidents or violate Indonesia 90 5.2.8 Human rights the rights of indigenous peoples. Malaysia 60 Sol Meliá has an Executive Code of ConLabour rights Vietnam 1 duct supervised by the Remuneration and EUROPE France 15 Appointments Committee of the Board of The minimum notice period concerning orGermany 15 Directors and by Group Human Resources ganizational changes depends on each counwhich deals with the following issues: try and each collective agreement. Greece 30 Italy 15 • Conflict of interest policy The company is governed at all times by the Luxembourg 60 • Non-discrimination (sex, race, religion...) relevant labour legislation, applicable collecPortugal 30 • Harassment (work, sexual...) tive convention or employment agreement • Dignity at work or company contract. Sol Meliá safeguards Spain 15 • Employment of family members the right of association in the countries which • Equal opportunities are covered by any of the bodies mentioned above, with the exception of China and Cuba, All security personnel have been trained in which do not allow that. The company always company policies and procedures with reapplies the relevant labour legislation, appligard to human rights. cable collective or employment agreement. At Sol Meliá the number of employees repIn 2010 the company did not register any resented by a collective agreement is 100% reports of discrimination of any sort. (excluding Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba and China). Sol Meliá guarantees the right of its workers to Child exploitation belong to a trade union or work association. Sol Meliá is firmly commitment to the welThe relationship of minimum notice perifare of our children, the future generations ods concerning organisational changes is for whom we are building our legacy. This is detailed in the table. These are governed in why it is fundamental that all the company each case by the legislation, convention or areas ensure that none of their activity enapplicable labour agreement in each region. tails any potential risk to children’s rights. Sol Meliá has signed an agreement to implement a Code of Conduct to protect children from sexual abuse in the tourism industry, condemning all forms of child sexual exploitation and supporting all legal actions to prevent and punish these crimes. Through the Sustainable Development clause in agreements signed with suppliers, our suppliers are also committed to not using child labour in their production processes, accepting the possibility of being audited and running the risk of contract rescission if found in contempt. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 46 6 Socio-cultural Value Matilde Pinto Maia, 4 years old Meliá Gaia Porto, Portugal 6.1 Key figures 10,925 people involved in Solidarity Day 2010 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 47 6.2 Highlights At Sol Meliá we believe tourism is a driver As an example of this active participation, of development and growth for the local since 2003 we have been collaborating economy that contributes to the developregularly with UNICEF. However, after definment of the societies in which the Company ing childhood as a priority area of Sol Meliá operates. Our firm intention is to meet the social positioning, Sol Meliá felt it necessary needs of these societies, promoting and preto strengthen this commitment through a serving both natural and cultural resources. strategic alliance. Each of the chapters of the Annual Sustainability Report 2010 aims to describe the acIn 2010, Sol Meliá thus signed a cooperativity of Sol Meliá in relation to its different tion agreement with UNICEF, an organizastakeholders. Based on these criteria, this tion that represents children’s interests in chapter outlines the Sol Meliá socio-cultural all of the countries in which Sol Meliá operstrategy in the communities where we operates. With an initial term of three years, the ate, including references to the most imporkey goals of the alliance are: to spread the tant partnerships with NGOs. The positive UNICEF message on children and combating effect that tourism generates in the progress child sexual exploitation, to raise economic Sol Meliá social of local groups, with a particular impact in resources for their priority area, shared by positioning prioritises developing countries, is one of the foundations on which to build sustainable and reSol Meliá, to protect children (for details see fact sheet on “UNICEF Agreement“ in the child protection. sponsible tourism. To consider local culture Appendix). To support this as part of corporate cultural policy can only be understood with the interrelation of the Also in 2010, Sol Meliá analyzed the status the Company has following key dimensions: of compliance with legislation on the inteformed an alliance gration of the disabled. Thanks to this analywith UNICEF • Systematic actions for the conservation, enhancement and integration of cultural sis, advances were made in terms of hiring people with disabilities while also handling heritage. alternative measures available under the • Management policies, organization and law. In line with the longer term objective, procedures that respect cultural diversity the Company began a process of negoand protect the heritage of destinations. tiation with the ONCE Foundation to make • Responsible behaviour by staff and cusprogress on integration. This process ended tomers. with the signing of a cooperation agreement in January 2011 which seeks to undertake joint actions and programmes to better pro6.2.1 Social commitment mote integration and the social and labour inclusion of people with disabilities. Each of the Sol Meliá hotels, as members of the society in which they are based, contribThrough a partnership with the CEHAT ute value to their environment, actively parFoundation, various hotels in Madrid trained ticipating in economic and social progress a group of women at risk of exclusion and with the aim of reducing inequalities and gave them the chance to do on-the-job always guided by values of coherence, baltraining in the housekeeping department ance and permanence in time. (for details see fact sheet on the “CEHAT Foundation Alliance” in the Appendix). 2010 was a transitional year in which the Company has worked primarily on the following initiatives: 6.2.2 Cultural commitment • Developing the partnership with UNICEF. Within the framework of the Sol Meliá • Preparation of the internal tool for selecGlobal Sustainability Policy, the protection tion of NGOs. and enhancement of cultural heritage is • Development of the social positioning of defined as one of the essential committhe Company. ments, with Italy and Indonesia being the • Creating a system for measuring social imbest examples. In Italy, Sol Meliá is an honpact. orary member of the association Fondo per L’Ambiente Italiano (FAI), which aims to In parallel, the hotels have continued to protect and enhance the artistic heritage of work with different organizations, not all of the country (for details, see the fact sheet which has been accounted for in corporate on “Sol Meliá Italy: Magnifico Project” offices. in the Appendix). Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 48 Within the framework of the Sol Meliá Globto sustainable development (for details, see al Sustainability Policy, the protection and the fact sheet on “Battery charging points enhancement of cultural heritage is defined for electric cars” in the Annex). as one of the essential commitments, with Italy and Indonesia being the best examples. Solidarity Day In Italy, Sol Meliá is an honorary member of the association Fondo per L’Ambiente The purpose of the Solidarity Day is to raise Italiano (FAI), which aims to protect and awareness amongst our customers about all enhance the artistic heritage of the country of the values related to sustainable develop(for details, see the fact sheet on “Sol Meliá ment and local culture, environmental proItaly: Magnifico Project” in the Appendix). tection, solidarity and teamwork, all through cultural activities implemented in the hotels As for Indonesia, the highlight is the active taking part. In particular, in 2010, 20 Sol cooperation of the Gran Meliá Jakarta in Meliá resorts took part for one day every the VIVERE project to disseminate culture week throughout the summer season. through the exhibition of works of art in the hotel. Initially, the funds raised were earmarked for infant education projects near the hotels, In March, the Meliá Mexico Reforma took thus ensuring the continuity of the project part in the Festival of Mexico which aims thanks to the greater involvement, cooperato promote Mexican and international art tion and commitment of employees. Howand culture (for more information, see the ever, in 2010, as happened in 2009, Solidarfact sheet “Promoting Local Artists” in ity Day actions were focused only on raising the Appendix). awareness amongst our guests and there was no opportunity to raise funds to support In May, Sol Meliá signed a cooperation any educational project as had been done in agreement with the Spanish Federation of previous years. Friends of Museums to stimulate and promote local heritage through a programme of awareness and promotion of cultural facilities in the Tryp by Wyndham city hotel (for details, see the fact sheet on the “Spanish Federation of Friends of Museums” in the Appendix). 6.2.3 Projects Battery charging points for electric cars In 2010, Sol Meliá opened the first smart charging points for electric cars in two of its hotels in Spain, the Gran Meliá Victoria in Palma de Mallorca and the Gran Meliá Palacio de Isora in Tenerife. This business initiative strengthens the Sol Meliá commitment Evolution of Solidarity Day Year Child Participation Adult Participation Employee Participation Funds raised 2006 3,560 9,462 310 69,398 EUR 2007 4,377 20,434 217 75,407 EUR 2008 4,475 37,529 330 99,250 EUR 2009 2,700 4,486 154 0 EUR 2010 4,215 6,508 202 0 EUR Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 49 7 Economic Value “In the garden” Reeha Poja Sri Sutadi, 7 years old Meliá Benoa, Indonesia 7.1 Key figures 1,282 million € in wealth creation vs. 1,064 million € in 2009 1,250 million € revenues vs. 1,148 million € in 2009 50 million € net profit vs. 38 million € in 2009 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 50 7.2 Highlights 7.2.1 Business performance In terms of rooms, the decline is related to the delayed opening of 2 seasonal hotels: During 2010, the RevPAR (Revenue per the Sol Antillas Barbados and Sol Magalluf Available Room) of owned and leased hoPark, both located in the Balearic Islands. tels increased by +8.9% due to increases in occupancy and ARR (Average Room Rate) Tryp of +4.2% and +4, 5% respectively. ARR increases were seen in 84 of the 157 hotels The Tryp by Wyndham brand consists en(53.5%). tirely of city hotels, and 75% of the rooms are in Spain. Revenue from Food and Beverage rose by 2.0%, below the +9.8% increase in revIn 2010, RevPAR increased by +7.5% as a enue per room. This is explained by a) the result of increased occupancy of +4.8% and level of resistance to consumption in hotel to a lesser degree, the +2.6% increase in guests and walk-in customers, and b) offers ARR. Increases in ARR were seen in 29 of made by Sol Meliá in Food and Beverages the 55 hotels. (such as breakfast promotions) to maximize total revenues. The effect of this combinaHotels in Spain saw an increase in RevPAR tion is reflected in a slight decrease in Food of +5.1%, thanks to the strong performance & Beverage department margins (30.1% of hotels in Madrid and Barcelona. In Spain, vs. 31.3%), offset by increased margins in revenue per room in the “Transient Leisure” rooms (68.6% vs 67. 1%). The overall efand “Business Groups” segments about fect is positive in view of the evolution of the 32% and 12% of room revenues for the EBITDA margin for the year (149 bps). brand increased by +10% and +23% respectively. Sol Operating expenses (excluding rental chargThe Sol brand consists entirely of resort hoes) rose in 2010 by +3.8%, while the total tels in Spain. cost per stay decreased by -0.4% due to decreases in personnel costs per stay of -1.3% In 2010, RevPAR increased by +2.7%, due as a result of adjustments of staff to the reto the improvement of +4.5% in ARR offsetduced occupancy. ting changes in occupation. Developments in the Balearic and Canary Islands, where The decline in available rooms is explained by RevPAR rose by 7.3% and 5.1% respectivethe finalisation of 4 lease contracts (Tryp Rex, ly, mainly explain these figures. During the Tryp Burlada, Tryp San Lazaro and Tryp Centro year, the brand has seen increases in ARR in Norte Apartments), all located in Spain. 19 of the 41 hotels. Meliá and Innside The decline in occupancy of -1.7% is explained by developments during the first half 48% of the rooms in Upscale brands are of the year. The volcanic eruption in Iceland in Spain, 20% in Latin America and the in April and May negatively impacted resort remaining 32% is distributed between Euhotels in Spain due to the closure of airspace rope, Middle East and Africa. in some European countries, leading to an increase in cancellations and no-shows for In 2010, RevPAR increased by +14.5% due groups from Northern Europe. to increases in occupancy and ARR by +5.7% and +8.4%, respectively. The performance In terms of feeder markets, the decline in of the hotels in European Cities (+9.9%) stays from the UK, and to a lesser degree in and Meliá Resorts (+20.8%) largely explain the Spanish market, have been partially offthese figures. During the year, increases in set by increased stays from Central Europe, ARR were seen in 31 of the 48 hotels. Benelux, Italy, Portugal and Eastern Europe . Regarding the Meliá Resorts, RevPAR inOperating expenses (excluding rental chargcreased by +20.8% for the year, mainly due es) have increased in 2010 by +1.0% while to the evolution of the Spanish resort hotels, total spending per stay has increased +3.5%. especially those located in the Balearic and The reason is related to the volume of the Canary Islands, where RevPAR increased by fixed costs of the brand, as the number of +25.5% and +28.8% respectively. Mention stays decreased by -2.4% over the period. must also be made of the performance of Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 51 resorts in the Americas, where RevPAR grew Premium brands positively (+3.4%) turning around the negative trend seen during the first half of the Premium brands have 77% of their rooms year (-0.7%). located in the Americas. The trend seen in hotels in European CitIn 2010, RevPAR improved by +2.7%, on ies during 2010 (+9.9% RevPAR) is due the back of an increase in occupation of to the United Kingdom (+17,0%), France +10.7%. The performance of the hotels in (+14.4%), Germany (+17.6% ) and, to a European Cities and Resort Hotels worldlesser extent, Spain (+8.9%). wide largely explain these figures. In Spain, the positive trend over the year During the year, the resort hotels have seen is explained by the “Transient Leisure” and an increase in RevPAR of +9.7%, explained “Business Groups” segments about 28% by the development of hotels in Spain (such and 24% of room revenue respectively an as in the Canary Islands) and Mexico, based increase of +31% and +37%, respectively. on comparable improvements due to the InThe “Transient Business” segment has influenza A outbreak. In this area RevPAR increased by +5%. creased by +20.8% helped by a recovery in occupancy levels. ARR increases were seen During 2010, operating expenses (excludin 5 of 13 hotels during the year. ing rental charges) increased by +9.7% while the total cost per room has increased Operating expenses (excluding rental chargby +4.8%. Excluding changes in scope, the es) decreased in 2010 by -3.1%, while the total cost per room has increased by +0.7%. total cost per stay decreased by -10.4%, due to a fall in food and beverage costs and perIn terms of rooms available, the increase is sonnel costs per stay by -10.5% and -11.1% explained by the addition of the Meliá Luxrespectively. embourg (May 09), the Innside Derendorf Düsseldorf, the Meliá Valencia (both in October 2009), the Meliá Bilbao (Sep. 09) Innside Hotel Dresden (January 1910), partially offset by the disaffiliation of the Meliá Palm Azur (Nov. 09) and Meliá Boutique Flora Park (Dec. 09), both in Tunisia. Owned and leased hotels 10 / 09 (RevPAR and ARR in euros) % occupancy RevPAR ARR Available rooms (000) SOL 2010 59.7% 31.6 53.0 3.128 % 2009 -1.7% 2.7% 4.5% -0.5% 2009 60.7% 30.8 50.7 3.144 TRYP BY WYNDHAM 2010 62.6% 42.6 68.1 2.866 % 2009 4.8% 7.5% 2.6% -1.1% 2009 59.7% 39.7 66.4 2.898 MELIÁ 2010 67.9% 60.5 89.2 3.952 % 2009 5.7% 14.5% 8.4% 3.7% 2009 64.2% 52.9 82.3 3.810 PREMIUM 2010 58.3% 58.8 100.8 1.700 % 2009 10.7% 2.7% -7.2% 0.2% 2009 52.7% 57.3 108.7 1.697 TOTAL 2010 63.0% 48.11 76.4 11.646 % 2009 4.2% 8.9% 4.5% 0.8% 2009 60.4% 44.19 73.1 11.549 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 52 Detail of hotel revenues 10 / 09 for owned and leased hotels Room revenues F&B and others Total revenues Total expenses (*) Ebitda SOL 2010 99.0 59.3 158.3 128.2 30.0 % 2009 2.2% -5.2% -0.7% 1.6% -9.3% 2009 96.8 62.5 159.4 126.2 33.1 TRYP BY WYNDHAM 2010 122.2 47.4 169.6 164.1 5.5 % 2009 6.3% 2.0% 5.1% 4.2% 39.3% 2009 115.0 46.4 161.4 157.4 4.0 MELIÁ 2010 239.2 151.7 390.9 301.5 89.5 % 2009 18.8% 7.9% 14.3% 11.7% 24.4% 2009 201.4 140.5 341.9 270.0 71.9 PREMIUM 2010 100.0 116.9 216.8 165.7 51.1 % 2009 2.9% 0.2% 1.4% -3.0% 19.0% 2009 97.2 116.6 213.8 170.9 43.0 TOTAL 2010 560.4 375.2 935.6 759.4 176.2 % 2009 9.8% 2.5% 6.7% 4.8% 15.9% 2009 510.4 366.2 876.5 724.5 152.0 (*) Includes lease expenses Management Fees of hotels in Brazil, where fees increased by +57.8%, and to a lesser extent hotels in Fees received from third-party in 2010 inSpain, where fees increased by +20.7%. creased by +10.9%. The fees for premium brands increased by The Sol brand fees increased by +9.2% due +8.2%, due to the performance of hotels in to the performance of resorts in Cuba (7 hoSpain, where fees rose by +26%. The protels), where fees rose by +16.8%. gressive improvement of the ME Barcelona hotel and Gran Meliá Colon, Seville, largely The management fees for Meliá increased explain this effect. The decline in incentive by +8.1% due to the evolution of managefees in the brand can be explained by the ment contracts in hotels in Spain and Latin system of variable scales for fees dependAmerica, where the fees increased by +6% ant on EBITDA in the management agreeand +10.33% respectively. ments in Cuba. The Tryp by Wyndham brand increased its fees by +24.8%, due to the performance Management Fees (Million euros) Dec 10 Var. 10 / 09 Dec 09 SOL Basic fee 4,0 4,7% 3,9 Incentive fee 3,5 14,9% 3,0 7,5 9,2% 6,9 MELIÁ Basic fee 15,2 6,0% 14,4 Incentive fee 5,3 14,7% 4,6 20,6 8,1% 19,0 TRYP BY WYNDHAM Basic fee 4,7 19% 4,0 Incentive fee 2,8 36% 2,0 7,5 24,8% 6,0 PREMIUM Basic fee 6,4 14,9% 5,5 Incentive fee 2,0 -8,6% 2,2 8,4 8,2% 7,7 TOTAL BASIC FEE 30,4 9,5% 27,7 TOTAL INCENTIVE FEE 13,6 14,1% 11,9 TOTAL 44,0 10,9% 39,7 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 53 7.2.2 Performance of sorts where sales of Vacation Club occur, Sol Meliá Vacation Club especially in the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico. Additionally, there has been The sale of the Tryp During 2010, the total number of weeks sold a significant change in some hotels in the by Windham Los directly by the Club represented 2,053 units, a decrease of -15.9% over the same period in mix of customers between groups and individual guests, thus impacting the number Gallos Hotel and the previous year, while the average price in of qualified prospects. To maintain the flow Sol Pelícanos Ocas euros increased by +10.5% due to the activof potential customers, alternative measures ity of upgrades and bi-annual sales, reflecting were implemented such as the launch of an generated 59.7 a decline in net sales of -7.0% for the Club. in-house marketing programme to increase million euros in the efficiency ratio in the closure of sales. capital gains In general, the trend in 2010 is largely due to low occupancy levels, affecting the reEvolution of Sol Meliá Vacation Club (SMVC) sales WEEKS SOLD EQUIVALENT UNITS VACATION CLUB SALES (IN ‘000 € ) 2010 %10/09 2009 2010 %10/09 2009 2010 %10/09 2009 Premium 1,615 -16.9% 1,942 22,433 10.2% 20,351 36,219 -8.4% 39,522 Meliá 888 -14.0% 1,033 13,978 13.0% 12,373 12,412 -2.8% 12,775 Total 2,503 -15.9% 2,975 19,433 10.5% 17,582 48,631 -7.0% 52,297 7.2.3 Performance of the Leisure ment of golf courses as well as the adminReal Estate Division istration of the villas located in the Desarrollos Sol complex by -11.7% (-0.5 million The 67.7 million euros at the EBITDA level are euros). mainly due to the sale of the Tryp by Wynd• The management of the Parima mall, ham Hotel Los Gallos (Cordoba Spain) and where revenues rose by +12.3% (+0.4 Sol Pelicanos-Ocas (Alicante Spain), which million euros), partially offsetting the degenerated 59.7 million euros in capital gains cline in revenue from the sale of plots of within the Company’s asset rotation activity. lands. With regard to other businesses related to In Venezuela, the rents received from comreal estate management within the Leisure mercial premises in the Hotel Gran Meliá Real Estate Division, by country: Caracas declined by -25.0% (-0.7 million euros), affected by the devaluation of the In the Dominican Republic, revenues reached Venezuelan Bolivar. 7.4 million euros, down -15.9% due to: • The decline in revenue from the manageEvolution of Asset Rotation ASSET ROOMS PRICE Capital gain (EBITDA) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Meliá Madrid Princesa 274 87.8 48.6 Tryp by Wyndham Alondras 72 12.0 8.0 Sol Pelícanos Ocas 794 73.8 54.2 Tryp by Wyndham Gallos 119 10.1 5.5 TOTAL 913 346 83.8 99.8 59.7 56.6 Note: the capital gains from the sale of Tryp are not included in the Leisure Real Estate Division. These are found in Other Businesses and Corporate, representing 33.5 million euros at the EBITDA level. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 54 7.2.4 Joint Ventures and the hosting of several tele-conferences throughout the year. Visits were also made to As an operational and strategic reinforce175 institutional investors. All of these activiment for the business, Sol Meliá maintains ties focused on increasing the transparency a portfolio of joint ventures with several of Sol Meliá in capital and debt markets. partners. The rationalisation of these alliances aims to support the growth of the The road shows are used to report company group, taking advantage of synergies from performance and strategy to the markets, the strengths of both parties to add value to provide a view of how events may affect to the business. The most important advanresults, and offer information on advances tages include optimum use of capacity, the in distribution, research, development and minimisation of risk and the diversification innovation, the financial situation and the of specialties. development of new hotels and new business units. In total, Sol Meliá had 25 Joint Ventures in 2010, 14 in Spain and 11 international Minority shareholders ventures. Outside Spain, partnerships are located primarily in Latin America especially In relation to the ways that minority shareMexico, Peru, Panama and the Dominican holders can make recommendations or disRepublic and in Asia, where the Company cuss other issues with company managehas 2 joint ventures in Indonesia. ment, all of the Sol Meliá S.A. shareholders owning 300 shares or more have the right to Of these, the Company has a majority in 10 attend the General Shareholders’ Meeting of them and a minority stake in 15. (Article 22 of Company Bylaws). The General Shareholders’ Meeting allows shareholdThe majority are purely hotel ventures, alers direct contact with the Board of Directors The Annual General though there are also joint ventures dedicated to the exploitation of apartments and and provides them with a right to request information, clarification and/or ask quesMeeting is the the development of mixed use hotel-resitions. All shareholders authorised to attend way in which dential concepts, the latter referring to the may also be represented at the Meeting by another authorised shareholder. residential-hotel project in Zaragoza and to shareholders can the much larger 5 million m2 development have direct contact in Brazil. Sol Meliá also has some alliances The Company offers diverse channels for with the Board of focused on the operation of shopping centres, such as Sierra Parima (Punta Cana, Dodirect communication with shareholders to ensure they are kept up to date with all Directors minican Republic) and Venezuela (Caracas). company developments and regulatory notifications, and also provide them with an The partners include real estate companies, opportunity to make suggestions which may industrial corporations, banks and partners, improve service. in the long-term not related to the hotel industry. Every shareholder member of the Investors’ Club receives a card which, in addition to In 2010 the contribution of these partnerproviding mas rewards points which can be ships to EBITDA was 8.5%. exchanged for free stays in company hotels, also provides access to a number of benefits More specific information on these partnerin company hotels such as the guaranteed ships can be found in the Financial Report lowest online rate (also available by telfor Sol Meliá, Appendix 2 Associates and ephone), priority booking, priority check-in, Joint Ventures. free newspapers, free breakfast for companion, late check-out and priority in receiving exclusive offers. Mas rewards gold share7.2.5 Investor relations holders with more than 1,000 shares and holders of the mas rewards gold shareholder In 2010 the Sol Meliá Investor Relations Decard, can also enjoy additional benefits such partment has carried out a large number of as an upgrade to a superior room, 20% boactivities focused on communication with nus points for their stays, discounts in à la company shareholders and potential invescarte restaurants, welcome gifts and more. tors. The most relevant actions focus on road The Company has a telephone hotline for shows in major European (Madrid, Paris, Lonshareholders for advice and information on don, Milan, Andorra, Nice, Stockholm and any questions they may have and also has Lisbon) and American (New York) financial an Investors’ Club which provides shareholdmarkets, private visits to Spanish and interers with a direct line of communication with national investors, participation in seminars company management. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 55 As for the Calling of the General Meeting, in The section also contains updated informaaddition to the announcement in the Official tion on quarterly results, the issue of securiRegister and in one of the leading newspaties, regulatory notifications, financial news, pers in the province, indicating the date and share price, and information from the Gentime, venue and agenda, it is also posted on eral Shareholders Meeting, Board of Directhe company website in the Investor Relators meeting, as well as information on the tions section, sufficiently in advance for Investors Club in a section specially designed shareholders to be aware of its celebration. for members. Another method of encouraging participaThe Sol Meliá Investor Relations Department tion, though not attendance, is the broadis always available to shareholders to guarcasting of the Annual General Meeting antee the availability at all times of the most through a live webcam on the Sol Meliá webaccurate market information and are always site so that all of the Company shareholders open to constructive suggestions on how and stakeholders can follow the event live they may provide better service. online from anywhere in the world. Attendees are presented with a copy of the 7.2.5 Social cash flow The Investors Annual Sustainability Report of the Compaor income redistribution Club acts as a ny, as well as a gift to thank them for their attendance. In 2010, Sol Meliá created wealth of more communication than 1,200 million euros, compared to channel between To join the Club, shareholders can register over 1,000 million euros in 2009, achieving through the website or by phone with the 1,106 million euros in revenues from cusminority Loyalty Department: 901 34 44 44 for mas tomers compared to 1,031 million in 2009. shareholders and rewards blue shareholders with less than These collections allowed it to pay 334 milthe Company and 1,000 shares, and 901 10 00 02 for mas rewards gold shareholders. In addition to lion euros to its employees, up from 332 million in 2009, more than 112 million euros sends information on registration, mas rewards gold shareholders to the government compared to 93 million news and regulatory must also provide a bank statement which in 2009, 587 million euros to its suppliers proves that they have held their shares for compared to 528 million in 2009, and about notifications a period of at least one year. This statement 8 million to its shareholders, compared to can then be sent by e-mail (club.accionista@ nearly 12 million in 2009. This is the effect solmelia.com) or fax 971 22 45 15. of wealth creation. At the end of 2010, there were 152 mas reDuring this period the company invested wards gold shareholders compared to 257 more than 164 million euros in the enlargein 2009, and 2,774 mas rewards blue sharement, improvement and accessibility of its holders compared to 2,766 in 2009. Every hotels, new hotels, brand equity and techmonth they receive an online newsletter, nology, compared with more than 71 million every two months a points account stateeuros in 2009. ment, and every three months an exclusive printed newsletter with special offers and Sol Meliá has taken out loans from the Offibenefits. Every year they also receive a newscial Credit Institute (ICO) public corporation letter with news on company performance under the Ministry of Economy and Finance in its different business units. of the Government of Spain amounting to 10 million euros, belonging to the FuturE solmelia.com Plan, and 2 million are included in the Renewal of Tourist Facilities Plan (Renove). The Sol Meliá website at www.solmelia.com has a special section for shareholders availIn addition, the Company has received able through the “Investor Relations” link on grants from institutions and tax credits the Home page. The pages provide full inforworth 667,306 euros, mostly granted by mation on finance and corporate governance the Government of Granada as a subsidy for in a simple, accessible format. The section our Sol Meliá Hotel School of, as part of the is in full compliance with the directives on MEMTA Plan in the Meliá Granada hotel. transparency in financial information issued by the Spanish Stock Exchange Commission. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 56 Social Cash Flow (in million euros) Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 57 8 Commercial value “At Sol Meliá we all play” Gema Escobar Cossi, 8 years old Corporate Offices Palma de Mallorca 8.1 Key figures solmelia.com received 41 million visitors in 2010 vs. 40.3 million in 2009 2,300,000 members of mas rewards vs. 2,500,000 in 2009 More than 25,000 contracts signed with Tour Operators vs. more than 24,000 in 2009 Global Company reputation above 80% Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 58 8.2 Highlights 8.2.1 Sales Since 2009 sustainable development criteria have been added to contracts with tour opsolmelia.com erators obliging them to comply with guidelines on human rights and minimising the In 2010, Sol Meliá strengthened its strategic environmental impact of their activities. commitment to innovation and new technologies, with the renewal of its website, In 2010 Sol Meliá organised 57 road shows the launch of specific products for mobile and 69 sales blitzes in countries such as bookings and strengthening its presence in Spain, Germany, Russia, USA and Canada. It social networks. also carried out door-to-door visits in Spain, Portugal, Italy, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Sol Meliá has With a new design and the optimization of Poland, Switzerland, USA, Canada and Latin specialist sales teams its functionality, solmelia.com has become a market leader in the hotel industry, where America, and carried out more than 127 presentations and training sessions at call in 13 European and the presentation of the hotels uses the most centres, travel agent associations and EuroAmerican countries innovative tools, incorporating rich media pean tour operator reservation centres. technology and the location of hotels on Google Earth, 3D models of the rooms, 360º Trade Fairs photography and virtual tours, amongst other functions. In 2010, Sol Meliá took part in 9 tourism trade fairs in 8 countries compared to 12 in The technological capability, the variety of 10 countries in 2009: information provided, the simple reservation system and lowest price guarantee all con• BTL Lisbon. tributed to solmelia.com reaching sales of • FITUR Madrid. more than 130 million euros in 2010. • ITB Berlin. • MITT Moscow. The Company also became a pioneer with • IMEX Frankfurt. the creation of the first specific booking • IT&ME Chicago. platform for mobile phones, with over one • WTM London at the TurSpain stand. million visits in the year, which was added to • CITM Kunming China. in October with the launch of booking appli• EIBTM Barcelona. cations for iPhone, Blackberry and Android smartphones. Meetings and Events Tour Operación Sol Meliá Meetings and Events covers all the activities related to the conventions, incenContracting at Sol Meliá is a centralised tives and events segment, currently reprefunction involving the planning, negotiasenting a selection of more than 90 hotels tion, signature and monitoring of contracts worldwide. between the company and international tour operators. In 2009 25,000 contracts Sol Meliá has specialist sales teams in 13 were signed compared to 24,000 in 2008, countries in Europe and the Americas, fogenerating revenues of 421 million euros cused on different Key Accounts and with com-pared to 481 million euros in 2008. the objective of identifying and attracting new customers, while Corporate Group Contracting is the basis for the Key Account Desks manage the commercial and operaManagement structure introduced in 2007, tional relationship between hotels and the in which each Key Account Manager carsmall and medium-sized businesses that reries out contracting and is responsible for quire their services. the monitoring and monthly evaluation of the revenues their accounts bring to hotels. In December 2010, the Company presented They also programme promotional activiits first Meetings & Events Directory, a printties (including private meetings, road show ed and online manual (www. solmelia.com/ presentations, workshops, and stands at the MeetingsDirectory), which describes the major tourism fairs, amongst others) and general characteristics of each hotels, dealso monitor sales forecasts for their key actailed floor plans, technical data on meeting counts to en-sure correct decision making rooms, and additional information on the for the future. facilities and services they offer. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 59 Sol Meliá Meetings & Events continues to hotel services and communications (email, make progress in the creation of new standtext messages, direct mail or telemarketing). ardized packages designed for each type of The CRM centralized database contains inevent, and multiplying synergies with clients formation on 7.6 million customers, of which and meeting planners through the Loyalty 3.4 million have expressed a willingness to reProgramme mas amigos. Also during 2010, ceive sales information from Sol Meliá. the design and planning of a programme of Sustainable Events was initiated for impleCustomer knowledge mentation in 2011. One of the strategic priorities of CRM is to Tradyso maximize customer knowledge and process information with the objective of offering Tradyso is a global hotel distribution platbetter services which meet customer needs. form, created in 2007 and 50% owned by Sol Meliá and 50% by Talonotel, providing The use of SAS software allows the extracintegrated technological solutions for multition and transformation of information into channel hotel sales and distribution. knowledge obtained through algorithms and statistics. This allows us to understand Tradyso’s main services are: each customer’s profile and anticipate what they may need, thus improving our person• Reservation services for hotels includalized communication to each of them. ing: centralized reservations, Internet booking engine, call centre and access to major online booking systems and travel 8.2.3 Loyalty agencies. • Online marketing systems includmas rewards ing: presence and positioning in social networks, positioning in Internet search The mas rewards loyalty programme was engines, web design, web usability, web created in 1995 to reward members with analytics and e-mailing. advantages and privileges, and has gone on to become one of the most important foundations of Company success. In 2010 8.2.2 Customer knowledge the programme had 2.3 million members, compared to 2.5 million in 2009, and its Customer Relationship Management is one own communications channel, a monthly of the key strategies of the Company, which newsletter personalised to each individual is why the CRM department plays a fundacustomer’s profile. The programme offers mental role in marketing, assuming a dual 3 different membership levels: mas rewards role of: blue, gold and platinum, and cooperates with a total of 35 partners in different in• Earning customer loyalty, enhancing their dustries with whom members may transfer value to the Group, and and redeem points. • Encouraging conversion between the difThere are currently ferent businesses (hotels, Sol Meliá VacaIn 2010, in line with the objective to form two major CRM tion Club and Real Estate). alliances with leading companies, Sol Meliá and American Express launched the “Ameriprojects: the “single There are currently two major CRM projects: can Express mas rewards” credit card which customer view” the “single customer view” and “customer enables cardholders to earn mas rewards knowledge”. points for every purchase made with the and “customer credit card. knowledge” Single customer view This project is based around the creation of a centralised Sol Meliá master customer database storing standardised data collected from every customer contact point (see diagram) and allowing that information to be used legally and securely. This information allows Sol Meliá to know more about the preferences and interests of guests, thus enabling the personalization of Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 60 Club Amigos programme In 2010, Sol Meliá received 174,857 completed questionnaires, obtaining as a result a In 1997, Sol Meliá created a special loyalty Company-wide satisfaction index of 80.6% In 2010, Sol programme for travel agents to strengthen compared to 79.7% in 2009, with the ME Meliá received relations with travel bookers, reward their loyalty and maintain more frequent and perby Meliá and Paradisus brands the highest ranked. 174,857 completed sonalised contact with them given their vital questionnaire from importance in hotel sales. The programme In 2010 questions were also added about currently has almost 85,000 members. the guest perception of the Sol Meliá social guests, achieving an and environmental commitment, obtaining overall quality rating a satisfaction rate of 77.4%. of 80.6% Guests by country of origin Brand audit 2010 2009 Sol Meliá audits each of its hotels through visits by specialist consultants to determine Spain 31.8% 35.2% the degree of standardization of the brands. UK 13.0% 14.0% We evaluate products, services, processes and infrastructure, and the results are preGermany 11.0% 10.0% sented in detailed reports. In 2010, a self asUSA 9.0% 7.0% sessment tool was also introduced in hotels Mexico 3.2% 3.3% to identify specific areas for improvement. Italy 3.5% 3.4% France 2.7% 2.4% Social networks (ReviewPRO) Venezuela 2.0% 2.1% In 2010, Sol Meliá replaced ASOMO with Canada 3.3% 2.0% the ReviewPro tool to manage its online Russia 1.8% 2.0% reputation, allowing an analysis of the views Others 3.7% 18.6% of customers from more than 45 sources, in English, Spanish, German, Portuguese, ItalTOTAL 100.0% 100.0% ian and French. The results are processed to obtain the rep8.2.4 Quality and Guest Satisfaction utation score of each hotel as well as the Global Reputation Score for the Company, Quality and customer satisfaction is measits brands and its competitors. ured using four tools: From 1 April 2010, 257 hotels have been usOnline guest satisfaction questionnaire ing ReviewPro, earning a global reputation (Market Metrix) index of 80%, with Paradisus and Innside being the best rated brands in Internet. Sol Meliá has been using this tool for three years, using specific questionnaires for each brand and for the Vacation Club. Satisfaction Level Value for money 2010 2009 2010 2009 Paradisus 85.8% 86.90% 80.2% 79.60% ME by Meliá 84.7% 86.50% 78.2% 80.30% Gran Meliá 83.8% 83.20% 78.4% 76.90% INNSIDE 83.9% 80.5% Meliá 81.2% 80.30% 77.6% 78.20% Tryp 79.1% 78.10% 76.5% 77.30% Sol 79.8% 79.70% 79.8% 76.40% Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 61 Incidents and packaging. The hotels generally use nonrechargeable bath gel, shampoo and hand The Sol Meliá Quality department manages soap to avoid possible cross contamination. all incidents and customer feedback received through the e-mail calidad@solmelia. Washing systems and dishwashers are regucom, redirecting queries to the area responlarly checked by a SAT chemical product sible for each case and providing a response suppliers to ensure that both facilities and within 48 hours. products and their dosage mechanisms are in optimum conditions. With regards to In 2010, we received 2,059 comments, 76% swimming pool chemicals, suppliers carry The Sol Meliá Quality of them answered within the deadline. out regular checks on the product dos-age department manages mechanism, making sure it is working properly and supplying the correct doses. all incidents and customer feedback Our hotels use different warning signs to Loyalty programmes in which signal doors and windows and to warn of received by e-mail Sol Meliá participates wet floors etc. AAdvantage (American Airlines) The hotels also have medical contracts both AMC Miles (ANA) for individual guests staying at the hotel and for medical attention in emergencies. Binter Mas (Binter Canarias) Club Premier (Aeroméxico) In 2010, Sol Meliá has not received any sigClub Ave (AVE_Renfe) nificant fines for non-compliance in relation Cobrand mas rewards American Express (AMEX) to the provision and use of any products and Distancia (Grupo Taca) services. Fly Pass (Meridiana) Food and beverage Hi-Fly (Meridiana) Iberia Plus (Iberia Lineas Aereas) All company hotels employ strict controls Jal (Japan Airlines) carried out by external companies to moniKrisflyer (Singapore Airlines) tor all of the departments that handle food Lanpass (Lan Chile) and beverage products, making sure that they are safe for guest consumption. Malaysian Airways Miles & More (Lufthansa) The monitoring scheme followed by Sol Millemiglia Club (Alitalia) Meliá in each area includes the following PhoenixMiles(Air China) analysis: Victoria (Tap Air Portugal) Operation and maintenance of Sky Miles (Delta Airlines) infrastructure, machinery and utensils Spanair Plus (Spanair) Top Bonus (Air Berlin) • Guaranteeing the correct operation of Travel Club (Air Miles Spain) machinery operated by gas and electricity. Wyndham Rewards (Cendant) • Ensuring that the temperature of fridges, cupboards, defrosting areas, buffet, etc. meet health regulations. • Ensuring work utensils are in appropriate 8.2.5 Guest Health and Safety condition and that they are made of appropriate materials. Products and services • Monitoring the condition of work surfaces such as tiles and ceilings to avoid any type The Purchasing Department monitors the of contamination from animals. quality and guarantees provided by different suppliers, with one of the most important Cleanliness of all areas and utensils pre-conditions being the possession of a used for handling and/or storing food valid health and safety permit. Samples of and beverage products products are also tested on a regular basis to ensure their quality. • Monitoring cooking areas and machinery, fridges and stores, buffet area, dishwashAll chemical and hygiene and personal hyer, etc. giene products undergo strict safety and qual• Adhering to a strict cleaning programme ity controls, and in the case of hygiene prodwhich defines the area to be cleaned, the ucts the law requires that manufacturers must frequency, the method and the cleaning also include a tracking code for production products. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 62 Food handling training and control of 8.2.6 Data protection personal hygiene In 2010, Sol Meliá SA received a data ProtecSol Meliá was • Monitoring of correct product labelling. tion audit in order to check compliance with subject to a data • Defining rules for the correct receipt of goods as well as storage systems which Spanish regulations on data protection, and update action plans, recommendations and protection audit to guarantee the control of use-by dates, measures implemented in the different areas ensure compliance such as the FIFO system (First In First Out). of corporate offices and the business. • Definition of control rules and checklist with Spanish for the correct storage of products and No claim or compliant in regard to data data protection avoidance of cross contamination. protection has been registered in Spain or regulations • Regular checks of hotel staff concerning correct personal hygiene, correct dress abroad. code and correct use of utensils. To carry out these evaluations each department has a Critical Point Control Analysis system which monitors the points mentioned above on a daily basis, noting any lack of compliance and the corresponding corrective measures. As well as all measures which guarantee the health and safety in food and beverage, Sol Meliá also attends to the different dietary needs of certain minorities groups. Some brands have a special menu for celiacs, athletes, children and low calorie diets. In 2010, there have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the impacts of products and services on health and safety during their life cycle. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 63 9 Business Value Pedro Torres Perelló, 11 years old Gran Meliá Victoria, Spain 9.1 Key figures 8,658 suppliers vs. 8,778 in 2009 2.3 million € in purchases from special employment centres vs. 2.72 million € in 2009 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 64 9.2 Highlights The volume of In terms of relations with our suppliers, Sol 9.2.2 Purchasing statistics purchases in 2010 Meliá considers itself an “extended” company in the sense that it not only manages The volume of data processed in the system in hotels and its own value chain, but also takes into acand from which the Purchasing Department corporate offices was count the rest of the links in the chain in the gets its in-formation about purchasing patindustry, from the guest to the suppliers of terns according to geographical location, 232,322,517 euros raw materials. category and hotel brand for 2010 were: • 8,658 suppliers receiving orders in 2010, 9.2.1 General purchasing policy compared to 8,778 in 2009. and supplier management • The total volume of purchases made via a purchase order in 2010 by hotels and corThe general Sol Meliá purchasing policy aims porate offices was 232,322,517 €, comto meet the operational needs of hotels and pared to 235,515,986 € in 2009. corporate offices that may be covered by acquisition or contracting in order to generate In 2010 Sol Meliá invested € 2,304,700 in revenue increases or cost reductions at acpurchases from special employment centres ceptable quality levels. compared with € 2,702,360 in 2009. The total weight of products consumed made The mission of the Purchasing Department is from recycled materials rose to 92 tons, and thus to apply supplier management criteria the corresponding invoice value of 133,800 that meet the needs of hotels and corporate euros was 0.05% of total turnover. offices in a balanced and sustainable way. In 2010 Sol Meliá had expenses of € The following criteria, however, are also tak232,322,517 in procurement, with over en into account: 80% related to the consumption of food, beverages and equipment, as shown in the • The geographical limits of the supplier chart below. Sol Meliá does not currently • Type of industry: manufacturer, importer, have the functionality required in its proexporter, distributor, installer and/or maincurement systems to provide reliable data Local purchases by country: tenance supplier on the raw materials consumed by mass or • Quality certification volumetric units. In this regard, Sol Meliá is Purchases 2010 2009 • Environmental certification working on the parameters of their systems • Health and safety certification to provide this information in the short term. SPAIN 2,946 3,108 • Special Employment Centre certification MEXICO 2,160 2,065 • Economic conditions DOMINICAN REP. 852 942 • Non violation of human rights BRAZIL 575 536 VENEZUELA 309 393 Sol Meliá aims to achieve a satisfactory and long-lasting relationship with suppliers. PERU 278 379 GERMANY 239 203 Sol Meliá considers that a vendor is of local COSTA RICA 233 267 origin when it is registered in the country in PUERTO RICO 206 226 which the Company purchases its products. UK 126 113 ITALY 125 227 100% of the contracts, a total of 48, signed ARGENTINA 123 89 in Spain in 2010, included the provision of minimum compliance on Corporate Social FRANCE 76 112 Responsibility, which includes respect for USA 31 0 human rights. Of the 867 total global agreeLUXEMBOURG 29 57 ments this represents 5.5%. Chile 0 125 At present, no specific controls have been TOTAL 8,308 8,658 developed to ensure compliance. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 65 % of purchases from local suppliers Total purchasing Total purchasing volume 2010 volume 2009 2010 2009 Spain 129,862,151 EUR 152,149,678 EUR 96.7% 98% Dominican Republic 36,186,208 EUR 36,978,440 EUR 94.5% 96% Mexico 33,910,526 EUR 19,706,228 EUR 99.3% 100% Venezuela 6,467,685 EUR 5,192,888 EUR 100.0% 100% Costa Rica 5,513,588 EUR 5,084,078 EUR 97.5% 96% Germany 4,996,250 EUR 4,012,557 EUR 93.5% 95% UK 3,992,135 EUR 2,019,781 EUR 95.4% 92% Puerto Rico 3,100,847 EUR 2,948,676 EUR 94.6% 94% Italia 2,707,156 EUR 3,088,709 EUR 90.9% 95% Brazil 2,202,237 EUR 1,742,032 EUR 100.0% 100% France 1,574,163 EUR 855,953 EUR 54.5% 86% Peru 816,642 EUR 846,230 EUR 100.0% 100% Luxembourg 587,936 EUR 388,575 EUR 60.6% 66% USA 219,790 EUR 0 EUR 100.0% 0% Argentina 185,202 EUR 140,320 EUR 100.0% 100% Chile 0 361,833 EUR 0.0% 100% TOTAL 232,322,517 EUR 235,515,986 EUR 96.3% 98% Percentage of purchases corresponding to each product family compared to total procurement cost 2010 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 66 10 Media Value Lidia Aracelli Castillo Tejada, 5 years old Meliá Barcelona 10.1 Key figures 130 press releases vs. 157 in 2009 6,664 appearances in the media vs. 6,107 in 2009 Coverage in the media valued at 41,038,865 euros in countries where the company has communication and public relations representation Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 67 10.2 Highlights 10.2.1 Media tively, compared to 545,293€ and 616.818€ in 2009, above a 25% increase in both cases. Sol Meliá continues to work hard to maintain strong relationships with the media. With regard to the public relations networks The company’s strategy to expand into inin other countries, there is no historical data ternational markets means we have to make available, but we would like to highlight the a greater effort to create and consolidate impact of the media in USA where, due to bonds with the media in countries which the the size of the country, the value is always Company operates, thus making Sol Meliá greater than that of Spain, exceeding 30.8 an increasingly global company. million euros, approximately 75% of the total impact in media worldwide. 2010 has been a year for consolidation in the Sol Meliá Communications and Public Relations model. The presence of the com10.2.3 Ethics pany in 27 countries in 4 continents has led to a model based around a public relations The relationship with stakeholders is very network which combines Company personstrong at Sol Meliá, especially with regard to nel with external communication agencies in guests. This relationship is created in many countries that require increased activity. different ways, amongst them marketing and communications. To ensure that these From the headquarters in Palma de Mallorca, activities respect the rights of everyone, meet the Communication department centralises the ethical criteria and codes defined, and and defines guidelines and clear action plans are aligned with the company’s sustainability concerning the publication of press releases and social responsibility policies, the Comin each country, also incorporating the monmunications area developed a new marketitoring of the news and impact generated. ing and communication policy in 2010 which This provides a much broader global view of was approved at the beginning of 2011. This the impact generated by the company on a policy is governed by the general principles global level. which guide all Sol Meliá communications, whether published, informative or internal; In 2010 a total of 130 press releases were the recommended use of language; the use prepared, 27 less than in 2009. All of them of specific terms and commercial resources. are available in the press room via the link http://prensa.solmelia.com. Even though respect for customer rights is a basic priority in communication at Sol Meliá, In 2010 Sol Meliá In 2010 three meetings the company comin 2010 Sol Meliá was given a small adminappeared 6,664 mitted to in 2009 were carried out with istrative fine related to consumer and user times in the media in media specializing in Corporate Social Responsibility. In addition to the presentation rights due to a campaign carried out in conjunction with Vodafone. The campaign conSpain, a 9% increase of the Annual Report, Sol Meliá in Asia and tained an error which was immediately corwith respect to 2009 Brazil also hosted meetings with specialist rected. The fine amounted to 1,800 euros. media to present the actions carried out to assist children, and the social, cultural and environmental programmes which Sol Meliá 10.2.4 Communication in crisis is developing in each area. management In 2010, the Communication department 10.2.2 Summary of appearances coordinated all crisis management with potential impact on Sol Meliá stakeholders, In 2010, Sol Meliá appeared 6,664 times in contributing at all times to the prevention the media in Spain, a 9% increase with reand avoidance of greater impacts on the spect to the previous year and an average company’s corporate reputation. of 18.25 appearances per day on a total of 703 pages. The estimated financial value of Due to its global nature, we would first like these appearances is more than 3.7 million to highlight the management of the crisis in euros. Throughout the year this means that the tourism and travel industry and in our Sol Meliá was seen by an audience of more company by the air space blockade that folthan 1,329 million readers. lowed the eruption of the Icelandic volcano and the resulting volcanic ash cloud. At Sol In the media in the UK and Germany, the Meliá hotels throughout the world, guests estimated financial value of appearances for found themselves either trapped and unable 2010 was 1.5 and 1.7 million euros respecto leave, or unable to get to the hotels they Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 68 had booked. The Communications departThe Communication department aims to ment coordinated two action areas: provide information in a constant, transparent and non-alarmist manner to the media 1º. External communication: managing about the way the situation develops. Proincidents and responding to the needs tocols for the prevention and management of the media. of possible cases of disease, control of their transmission, hygiene, disinfection and iso2º. Internal communication: coordinating lation protocols, etc. are developed and disthe response of each hotel to the varitributed to corporate offices and business ous problems that the crisis was causunits, in addition to cooperation with the ing our guests. The directions given to health authorities in the destination whose the hotel general managers were: the guidelines are different according to the most satisfactory solution for the guest type of health warning. As in 2009, in 2010 for their accommodation and/or booka protocol on the prevention and manageing problem, at the least possible cost ment of influenza A and the management to the guest and to the company; not protocol for possible outbreaks of cholera, to seek any benefit from the problems designed specifically to cover the hypothetifor guests regarding flight cancellations; cal spreading of the epidemic in Haiti to the and the most responsible behaviour toneighbouring Dominican Republic, were wards guests, tour operators and group produced and distributed. managers, etc. We would like to point out that, in this The result of the action contributed to the case, the alarm did not arise from existing work done by the Risk Management and cases of the disease, but was raised from Hotels team to moderate the impact on a purely preventive perspective given that company accounts, which finally amounted some European travel agencies and tour to 1.8 million euros, with all of the input reoperators began to take an interest about ceived indicating that the crisis management possible infection in our resorts in the Dohad had a positive effect on the image of minican Republic. The protocol was distribthe brands and on corporate reputation. uted and disseminated amongst workers in the area so they would be in a better posiThe emergence of epidemics and pandemics tion to respond to any possible outbreaks in areas around the world in which Sol Meliá of the disease. operates may generate two types of fundamental impact which the Communications area (in coordination with Labour Health and Human Resources) aims to prevent and mitigate as much as possible. This refers to impacts on both the health and safety of employees and guests as well as on the continuity of operations and on financial results. Evolution of global media impact Financial value (E) 2010 2009 2008 2007 Spain 3,734,693.93 3,908,241.75 3,760,124.63 2,021,447.89 UK 1,468,153.56 545,293.00 n/a n/a Germany 1,665,661.00 616,818.00 n/a n/a Russia n/a 115,584.00 n/a n/a USA 30,855,968.82 n/a n/a n/a Brazil 2,655,696.97 n/a n/a n/a Mexico 658,690.86 n/a n/a n/a Radio 198,000.00 328,000,00 n/a n/a Radio interviews 3,825,498.00 n/a n/a n/a Prize draws 657,820.00 n/a n/a n/a PR actions 324,950.00 n/a n/a n/a Total 46,045,133.14 5,513,936.75 3,760,124.63 2,021,447.89 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 69 Corporate Corporate Headquarters Institutional Office and Corporate Diplomacy Information Gremio Toneleros, 24 Polígono Industrial “Son Castelló” Tel. +34 971 22 45 98 07009 Palma de Mallorca Spain Fax +34 971 22 44 96 Tel. +34 971 22 44 00 gabinete.institucional@solmelia.com Fax +34 971 22 44 08 http://www.solmeliacerca.com Corporate Headquarters Madrid Sustainable Development Department Mauricio Legendre, 16 desarrollo.sostenible@solmelia.com 28046 Madrid Tel. +34 91 315 32 46 Fax +34 91 315 62 31 Investor Relations Department +34 971 22 45 43 Corporate Headquarters investors.relations@solmelia.com North and Central America http://inversores.solmelia.com América Centro-norte Communication Department 800 Brickell Avenue 10th floor 33131 Miami Florida USA +34 971 22 44 64 Tel. (1) 305 350 98 28 comunicacion@solmelia.com Fax (1) 305 350 99 60 http://prensa.solmelia.com Corporate Headquarters Shareholders hotline South America +34 971 22 45 54 Av. Naçoes Unidas, 12551 club.accionista@solmelia.com 04578-903 Sao Paulo SP Brazil Tel. (5511) 3043 8484 Fax (5511) 3043 8466 Date of the most recent previous annual report: 2009 Corporate Headquarters Cuba External Auditor of Financial Report: PwC Ave. 3ra entre 76 y 80 External Auditor of Sustainability Report Miramar Havana 2010: PwC Tel. (53-7) 554 712 Fax (53-7) 832 1969 Corporate Headquarters Asia www.solmelia.com 6 Battery Road # 18-07 info@solmelia.com (049909) Singapore Tel. (65) 6.3343332 Central Reservations (SolRes): Fax (65) 6.3342065 902 14 44 44 Sol Meliá GDS access codes: Sol Meliá Vacation Club AMADEUS:SM GALILEO:SM 47 Millenia Blvd., suite 240 SABRE:ME Orlando /Fl 32839 WORLDSPAN: SM Tel. 1 (407) 370-3671 info@solmeliavc.com www.smvc.com Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 70 About this 1.1 Preparation method report The objective of the Sustainability Report 2010 is to provide information to all company stakeholders regarding financial, environmental and social results for 2010, although many more subjects are dealt with later within each of the dimensions mentioned. Sol Meliá is also responsible for providing truthful, comprehensive and relevant information for all of its stakeholders, adopting a series of significant measures to ensure this. This year there has been progress in the evolution and improvement of the reporting model, which have allowed us to considerably increase the number of indicators reported as well as their reliability and quality with respect to last year (this year we have responded to 110 indicators compared to 100 in 2009). We have also encouraged dialogue with stakeholders, having held 5 consultation sessions (2 panels of experts and 3 themed panels) with 37 external stakeholders involved (14 stakeholders with the panel of experts, 10 with academic panels, 7 with healthy eating panels and 6 sustainable construction panels) resulting in a total of 2,290 initiatives. Sol Meliá now thus comes even closer to the maximum standards required by European regulations. This is also the first Sol Meliá Annual Report subjected to review and validation by PwC as a show of our strong commitment to sustainability and in a spirit of constant improvement and progress, showing our trust in the results achieved thanks to actions and improvements introduced in the reporting process during 2010. Our Sustainability Report 2010 has been produced following the general guidelines to the preparation of the Sustainability Report from the Global Reporting Initiative (3rd edition); protocols of the Global Reporting Initiatives indicators (3rd edition) and the recommendations collected from the panel of experts and themed panels held in 2010. Sol Meliá has chosen to define a global process of evaluation, analysis and risk control which will identify, update and monitor the most important risks which might impede the fulfilment of objectives or the successful implementation of strategies. The integrated risk management model defined by Sol Meliá follows the criteria set in the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Tradeway Commission report. This report defines an integrated framework of internal control and corporate risk management which can be applied periodically and in a standardised manner to the different business units and support group. This allows Sol Meliá to produce risk maps for each business unit and consolidate them to generate a risk map for the company as a whole. Within this management model the following types of risks are considered: • Global risks. Resulting from events that are beyond the performance scope of economic agents. • Financial risks. Relating to financial variables and resulting from the difficulty the company may have in meeting its commitments or liquefying assets. • Business risks. Resulting from the evolution of intrinsic business variables, such as the demand, competitors and markets, strategic uncertainties or major changes. • Operational risks. Relating to the failure or inadequacy of internal processes, human resources, physical equipment or computer systems. • Compliancy risks. Resulting from changes in regulations defined by different regulators and/or non-compliance with applicable legislation or internal policies and norms. • Information risks. Related to events caused by inappropriate use, generation and communication of information. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 71 1.2 Collection and consolidation of the information • The principles, policies and activity that Sol Meliá includes in this report and the business strategy defined to move forward on sustainable development have been designed to be applied throughout the company. Nevertheless, there is some margin to take into account the different personality of each of the company’s brands and also the different social, labour, cultural and political aspects of each geographical region where Sol Meliá operates. The report refers to the full year 2010. • The report includes all owned, leased and managed hotels; a total of 310. The franchised hotels are not included in the report. On a regional level, there are four regions not included (Cuba, Egypt, Croatia and Bulgaria), as well as some regions excluded only for certain indicators due to the absence of data or data unreliability. The specific scope of each of the indicators and its degree of consolidation is indicated in each case. Finally, we must mention that Sol Meliá has made great efforts to respond to the different indicators with the greatest possible detail and with the aim of ensuring maximum candour and reliability in the information presented in this report. With regard to the data and the bases used to make calculations, the company has made several different tools (SAP, Access, Employee Portal etc.) available to employees to help in the process of collecting and processing information, and has also developed collection processes (for example, consumption statistics for which hotel Engineering Managers can report meter readings) to minimise estimations. • The report includes quantitative, performance-related, qualitative, strategic and narrative information from all sustainability-related points of view: financial, social, cultural, labourrelated, environmental, products, human rights etc. Thus, we can describe a global focus on all the matters reported on in this report, offering more complete information for stakeholders. In matters related to the travel and tourism industry use has also been made of the indicators monitored by the World Tourism Organisation. 1.3 Opportunities and commitments to improvement The main challenges in the preparation of the next Sustainability Report are: • Differentiation with respect to the competition, being recognised as market leader in sustainability and carrying out, for example, an analysis of the company’s positioning in sustainability. • Sol Meliá’s objective is not only to increase the indicators reported but also broaden their scope and completeness, an objective achieved in 2010 compared to the previous year and which will continue over the next few years until 100% of the indicators are reported. We will thus continue to make progress on the quality and quantity of the information to be reported in the Sustainability Report via: · Improvements in data collection processes, documentation and control and validation systems, especially on an international level. · Creation of a Workbook or Reporting Manual clearly indicating the information that needs to be reported, who needs to report it, how to report it and the degree of data consolidation. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 72 • Improve communication channels and dialogue with all Sol Meliá stakeholders. This includes: · Defining action plans and follow-up from the conclusions of the panel of experts and specialist panels. · Reporting the ideas adopted to stakeholders after consultation with the panel of experts and specialist panels, something that will continue throughout 2011 as an important factor in the success of the Public Positioning Action Plan. • Greater internal distribution of the Sustainability Report 2011. We understand that everyone who forms part of Sol Meliá needs to be aware of the achievements in sustainability thanks to the actions the company carries out and which would be impossible without the direct cooperation of the team. 1.4 Verification of the information / audits / certification With regard to financial performance, the information available in the Annual Report has been processed under applicable law and audited by PwC. The results may be viewed in the Financial Report and, more briefly, in the chapters on finance in this report. As mentioned previously, non-financial information has also been subject to external verification for the first time, also by PwC. The decision to do so has been a test for us and for our reporting system, obtaining a Verification Report as a result which reviews the adaptation of the contents of the Sustainability Report 2010 to the GRI-G·Guide and the validation of the performance indicators proposed in the guide. Furthermore, through the production of the Recommendations Report issued by PwC, we were able to identify areas for improvement on which we need to focus our attention, as well as our strong points that we must maintain and consolidate in the years to come. 1.5 Your opinion / feedback system If you require any additional information, please do not hesitate to contact us. Institutional Office and Corporate Diplomacy: gabinete.institucional@solmelia.com Sustainable Development Department: desarrollo.sostenible@solmelia.com Communication Department: comunicacion@solmelia.com Or visit the Sol Meliá sustainable development website at the following link: http:/www.solmeliareach.com Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 73 Appendix Sol Meliá Brasil y WWF Brasil UNICEF agreement Since 2003, Sol Meliá has supported a number relationship in the future which allows us to of UNICEF campaigns and projects, and until develop and work together on the promotion 2009 the Company cooperated regularly in of values and rights and the transformation of solidarity with the organisation. society. As a family company, Sol Meliá is committed The fundraising activities will be carried out to society and has strong traditional values. In through different projects in hotels and cor2009, the Company reviewed its social stratporate offices and will involve both employees egy and created its social value proposal with and guests. the priority focus on the wellbeing of children. On 17 November Sol Meliá and UNICEF signed an alliance agreement to work together in achieving the United Nations objectives on child education and protection and in the fight against child sexual and commercial exploitation. The cooperation agreement has two main goals: to raise funds and to transmit UNICEF’s message about the plight of children and their sexual exploitation. We also aim to forge a Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 74 Appendix CEHAT Foundation alliance In 2010 Sol Meliá signed a cooperation general information about hotel operations agreement with the Spanish Confederaand structure, and more specific information tion of Hotels and Tourist Accommodation about the housekeeping department, guest (CEHAT) Foundation and the Tomillo Founservice, company standards and departmendation in Madrid to take part together in a tal vocabulary and methodology. programme to help women victims of domestic abuse and female immigrants in risk The Gran Meliá Fénix, ME Madrid and Meliá of social exclusion to get work in the hotel Barajas also joined the project for the more industry in Madrid and elsewhere. practical part of the course. The participants were accompanied by an experienced The CEHAT Foundation thus aims to help housemaid to guide them and advise them the social and labour integration of these during their practical training. women into the Spanish tourism and travel industry. Since 2005, the city of Madrid At the end of the programme diplomas were has strengthened its commitment with presented to the participants by the Presithe constant introduction of experimental dent of the Comunidad de Madrid, Esperemployment programmes and the Tomillo anza Aguirre and the Vice Chairman of Sol Foundation provides its knowledge and exMeliá, Sebastián Escarrer. perience in helping introduce these types of programmes especially designed for socially Currently, 4 of the women who took part in marginalised groups. the programme have obtained employment. The labour insertion project consists of a 5-week training period (2 weeks of theory and 3 weeks of practice) for housemaids. A total of 20 women took part in the project. The team from the Meliá Madrid Princesa Hotel designed the theoretical part of the course and gave the two-week training session in the hotel. The training included Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 75 Appendix World Biodiversity Day 2010 Sol Meliá operates in many destinations Support actions in corporate offices: of great ecological value, home to a wide range of fauna and flora. The company is • Inclusion of the biodiversity year logo on aware of the importance the tourism indusall the company e-mails. try plays in biodiversity and vice versa. Sol Meliá understands that the conservation of • Banner on solmelia.com with information biodiversity is not an option but a mandaon company activities. tory obligation for the tourism industry. • Promotion of campaign to employees Given that 2010 was declared International through the Sol Meliá Employee Portal. Biology Diversity Year by the United Nations, the Company decided to celebrate World • Information about the campaign to mas Biodiversity Day with a global awarenessrewards members through the newsletter. raising project involving both guests and employees and held on May 22. • Information about the campaign to the media through a press release. Activities in the hotels: • Cleaning or restoration of beaches, forests and mangrove forests near company Summary of results hotels, etc. • Customers who received • Planting of seeds of native plant species. awareness-raising message: more than 10,000 • Protection of the nesting sites of marine • Employees involved turtles or release of young turtles, ringing in activities: 109 of birds, etc. • Guests involved in activities: 960 • Fundraising for environmental NGOs. • Total initiatives: 216 • Shows related to biodiversity. • Awareness-raising activities for children, for example the Ecological Detective game. • Promotion of environmentally-friendly visits to natural areas near the hotel. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 76 Appendix Spanish Federation of Friends of Museums (FEAM) In May, as part of the Company’s sustainPromote and sponsor the work ability policy Sol Meliá signed a cooperation of FEAM agreement with the Spanish Federation of Friends of Museums to stimulate and proOne of the initiatives is the “Museum of the mote local heritage through a programme Month” programme which included several to promote cultural attraction in TRYP by actions which took place simultaneously in Wyndham city hotels. several hotels in Madrid featuring a different art museum (Thyssen Bornemizsa Museum, The agreement involves the introduction of Museum of Romanticism and Museum of a pilot programme in all TRYP by Wyndham the Americas). The programme aimed both hotels in Madrid which includes the followto teach employees more about the city’s ing areas of activity: museums and also help them transmit that information to guests to help them learn • Educate hotel employees about their role more about our heritage. in the defence and dissemination of local heritage and sustainable tourism. An event on the “Gran Vía Centenary” was also carried out in the TRYP Cibeles and an• Promote the relationship between the difother about “ Impressionist Gardens at the ferent local tourist and cultural agents. TRYP Atocha, both aimed at company staff and the general public. • Improve knowledge about the local cultural attractions through personalized These measures were developed initially in tours and appropriate training. Madrid and will then be extended to other cities. • Promote and inform about local heritage. Creation of specific information for guests TRYP by Wyndham has developed the “City with visit recommendations and basic inExpert “ programme, an internal tool to formation on each museum, opening stimulate knowledge about the local culturhours, ticket bookings, etc. al attractions among employees so that they can then transmit heritage values to guests. The programme has been introduced in all of the brand hotels worldwide. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 77 Appendix SI Sustainability and Innovation Awards On October 5 the first Sustainability and Cultural: Includes landscapes, historical Innovation Awards were launched to sites and built environments, as well as past identify innovative ideas and projects in the and present traditions. It also includes scensocial, environmental and cultural develery as one of the top tourism attractions, opment, financially support their developincluding urban, monumental or natural ment, and, in successful cases, extend them mountain or coastal scenery, etc. to other hotels. Environmental: the way Sol Meliá acts The awards are aimed at any Sol Meliá homust be determined by the relevant envitel employees excluding general managers. ronmental impacts that is typically associated with the hotel and travel industry. The SI awards are presented to the best initiatives in each of the sustainability areas: To select the winners of the awards, the projects of candidates were evaluated takSocial: Understanding the company as an ing into account criteria such as outstandagent of social transformation, able to coning innovation, feasibility, expected impact, tribute, promote and generate social and preliminary cost/benefit analysis, alignment economic change, resulting in a more eqwith the global sustainability policy, possiuitable society. bility of implementation in other areas and growth potential. The jury was made up of employees from each brand as well as corporate office staff. A total of 31 nominations were put forward, and one winner was named in each of the three categories (social, cultural and environmental), in addition to two special mentions for candidates. The prize consisted of a financial donation to the hotel to implement the winning idea, as well as a personal award to the person who designed the project. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 78 Appendix Promotion of local artists The Mexico Festival was held in March and comprised 280 activities and 160 events with the participation of 535 artists from 21 countries. The Mexico Festival in the historical centre of Mexico City aims to offer a broad sample of the best of Mexican and international art and culture. For 18 days artists appear at 91 sites and squares in the city. The festival takes place in forums, theatres, streets, squares and strategic spaces in the city– especially in the historic centre -, with numerous activities including opera, music, theatre, dance, animation, film, visual arts and gastronomic events. The Meliá Mexico Reforma supported the Festival by offering accommodation to participating artists, providing space for press conferences to report on the different events, and providing facilities to artists for rehearsals before their presentations. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 79 Appendix AVANTE project: direct impact on internal development Within the strategic area of “Talent Manageand positioning the company as a benchment”, Sol Meliá introduced a Development mark in social and professional networks. Programme called AVANZA in corporate ofWith that objective, the group carried out a fices with the main objective of identifying comprehensive analysis during the second and developing high potential employees. half of the year of the different company areas, identifying the main points of interIn June 2010, a group of participants from est for each of them and the opportunithe second edition of the programme proties that social networks may provide. In posed to the Sol Meliá Executive Committee addition, the “objective” networks were the creation of a voluntary, multi-disciplinary identified in order to define an action plan, and multi-departmental team project to dedepending on the type and number of nettect and cover certain Company needs. Thus works on which the project focuses. the AVANTE group was born. At the end of 2010, the group presented It is a spontaneous and innovative proposal, the results of the analysis to the Executive which showed that there are people with Committee, including information on the concerns and talent, willing to fulfil their networks recommended according to compotential and training received, with the full pany needs, a network presence strategy, support of the Sol Meliá executive team, an internal structure proposal for monitorgrateful for the unconditional confidence ing the project, indicating the departments of employees, satisfied by their enthusiasm, that needed to provide the information recapacity and commitment of the people that quired by the group, and finally, an analysis form part of the company and convinced of potential costs and revenues generated that this type of project reinforces the values by the project. of teamwork, constant improvement, pride of belonging, leadership and motivation. AVANTE is an innovative project for Sol Meliá both for the practical application of a clear According to the group’s members, the first commitment to internal talent promotion challenge was to decide how to present the and teamwork, and also for the progress AVANTE project to the company and how in social networks that implementation will to transmit the group’s real objective. They bring to the company. also had to define “internal rules” to reconcile the project with their day-to-day work, designating spokespeople, distributing tasks and arranging meetings. The AVANTE group created a social networks project for Sol Meliá to provide the company with tools for social interaction Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 80 Appendix Sol Meliá Italy: “Magnífico” Project A demonstration of Sol Meliá’s cultural commitnation. It also increases the expectations of ment is the cooperation with MECENATE90, potential tourists and improves the receptive a non-profit organization founded in 1990 system to help make Italy become a more which manages and promotes cultural heritcompetitive destination. age and local tourism, offering technical assistance and consultation via its “ Magnífico” Sol Meliá Italy helps give greater visibility project in cooperation with the Italian Ministo cultural activities promoted by the Italian try of Heritage and Activities. Ministry of Heritage and Activities by providing direct access on the Sol Meliá Italy The “ Magnífico” project is an integrated website to the ministry website, and by excommunication and promotion system crehibiting a guide to help guests enjoy the ated in 2006 which aims to spread knowlspirit of local culture in hotel public areas edge about Italian heritage and the most and guest rooms. Many of the initiatives important events behind that heritage. formed part of the 150th anniversary of the unification of Italy aiming to raise awareThe project has been organised with the ness and make cultural heritage a source of cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Heritpatriotic pride. age and Activities, MECENATE90 and several Italian tourist and transport companies, including Sol Meliá Italy. The project is mainly aimed at travellers who organize their vacations themselves and so need to find out information (cultural events, opening times /days of museums, exhibitions, public services, etc.) before they arrive at their destination. This includes both Italian and foreign tourists travelling through the country to learn about Italian culture. The strength of the network information is a strategic tool and a key factor in the choice of destiSol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 81 Appendix Battery charging stations for electric cars In 2010, Sol Meliá, opened the first smart At the Gran Meliá Victoria the initiative battery charging stations for electric cars at strengthens the commitment of the City the Gran Meliá Victoria (Palma de Mallorca) Council in the “Palma, responsible tourism” and Gran Meliá Palacio of Isora (Tenerife). project, which aims to improve the competitiveness of the city, promote responsible N2S, a company that specializes in providtourism, and publicise the importance of ing intelligent buildings, was responsible for tourism as a driver of development. the installation of a battery charging station called POWER2DRIVE in the car parks at the In the case of the Balearic Islands, it also two hotels. The system identifies the vehiresponds to a growing demand for electric cle, authorises the service and notifies the cars, expected to surpass 7,500 in the isuser by e-mail or SMS when the charge is lands by 2015, due to the development of completed. the rental car market and the fact that the islands are ideal for this type of vehicle given The installation of the charging stations in their size. the two hotels is a pioneering initiative that consolidates Sol Meliá’s commitment to sustainable development. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 82 Appendix Sol Meliá Brazil and WWF-Brazil Since 2002, Sol Meliá Brazil Division in allito donate R$ 10.00 during check-out. The ance with WWF-Brazil has carried out camguests that made the donation received a paigns in nature conservation. In 2007, a WWF-Brazil pin and, as a company commitcorporate agreement was defined in which ted to sustainability, on 5 June, the hotels all Sol Meliá Brazil hotels invited guests doubled the value of the amount raised. throughout the year to participate in a WWF Brazil project by voluntary donations of R$ • In 2009 R$ 1,250.00 1.00 on their bill when they check out of • In 2010 R$ 2,350.00 the hotel. In addition to these actions, “Meliá Brasil The funds raised each year are as follows: Administração Hoteleira e Comercial Ltda.” also decided to contribute to the action and • In 2007 R$ 18,640.55 donate R$ 10.00 per occupied room on the • In 2008 R$ 88,923.91 day for environmental conservation projects • In 2009 R$ 93,776.56 organised by WWF-Brazil. The total raised • In 2010 R$ 129,519.91 was R$ 10,510.00. The alliance gave rise to Sol Meliá Brazil cooperating on other projects with the WWF, promoting sustainable management in hotel reservations. One of them, coinciding with the World Environment and Ecology Day (June 5), was a campaign held in cooperation with WWF-Brazil, inviting guests Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 83 Progress Report Period covered by Progress Report From: 2008 To: 2010 Declaration of constant support As already mentioned in our subscription to the Global Pact in 2008, its ten principles have become part of our strategy, culture and day-to-day business. Human rights, labour rights, the environment and the struggle against corruption are of the utmost importance to Sol Meliá, and that is why we have made the principles of the Global Pact one of our four public commitments. These four commitments represent a merger of the external dimensions of sustainability and corporate social responsibility with the operational and internal dimension, due to the actions plans that we have to introduce to maintain our commitments. All four focus on continuous improvement. In this, our first Progress Report, we renew our commitment to these principles. We believe we have significantly improved in several areas, but we know there is still much work to be done, and we are confident that, with time and perseverance, we will become much more than just a leader in our industry. We will become an example of a sustainable and profitable business. Sebastián Escarrer Jaume Sol Meliá Vice Chairman Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 84 Human rights principles Principle 1: Companies should support and respect the international protection of human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in the abuse of rights human. Evaluation, policy and objectives Sol Meliá has adopted an Executive Code of Conduct under the supervision of the Appointments and Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors and the Human Resources Department, dealing with the following points: • Conflict of interest. • Non-discrimination (sex, race, religion...). • Harassment (labour, sexual...). • Dignity at work. • Employment of family members. • Equal opportunities. Implementation Sol Meliá has a firm commitment to the well-being of children, the future generations for whom we are building our legacy. For this reason, it is essential that all areas of the company guarantee that none of its activities involves any potential risks to the rights of children. Sol Meliá has signed an agreement to implement a Code of Conduct which protects children from sexual abuse in the tourism industry, condemning all forms of infant sexual exploitation and supporting all legal actions to prevent and punish these crimes. Sol Meliá does not employ anyone under the age of 16 and the Sustainable Development clause in the agreements signed with suppliers ensures they also commit not to use child labour in their production processes, accepting the possibility of being audited and the risk of cancellation of the contract FR they are found in contempt. Measurement of results Sol Meliá is committed to be randomly audited every year to ensure that hotels and suppliers comply with the following principles. Labour principles Principle 3: Companies should respect freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective negotiation; Principle 4: The elimination of any type of forced or compulsory labour; Principle 5: The complete elimination of the exploitation of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and job-placement. Evaluation, policy and objectives The company is governed at all times by applicable labour legislation, applicable collective conventions or labour agreements or company contracts. Sol Meliá safeguards the right of association in countries which are covered by any of the entities mentioned above, with the exception of China and Cuba, which do not allow it. The company always applies relevant labour legislation, the applicable collective agreement or labour agreement. At Sol Meliá the number of employees represented by a collective agreement is 100 per cent (except Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba and China). Sol Meliá guarantees the right of workers to join a trade union or work association. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 85 Sol Meliá employees are the company’s greatest asset, and that is why the greatest efforts are made to minimise work-related accidents and guarantee the health and safety of the workforce. As a company that operates in more than 30 countries, health and safety policies vary according to local legislation and the idiosyncrasies of each location, but in every case company policy demands strict compliance with the law and the development of preventive measures for specific hazards detected in each area. Implementation The diversity of regulations makes a standardised health and safety policy for all the company’s employees very difficult to implement. Each case has to be adapt to the local situation of the country. In total, the average workforce in 2010 of the employees that the company had under the responsibility of the Labour Health Department of Spain was 9,641 compared to 6,078 in 2009. In 2010, the company registered 625 work-related accidents, compared to 411 in 2009, which resulted in the loss of 11,475 working days, compared to 7,835 in 2009. The rate of absenteeism was 4.36% compared to 5.25% in 2009. Minimum monthly gross salary: The minimum wage which Sol Meliá pays to its employees is, on average, 47% higher than Sol Meliá vs. legal minimum the legal minimum in the countries in Europe, calculated in euros, and 30.3% higher than in other countries, calculated in US dollars. EUROPE (€) Sol Meliá Legal Minimum Minimum In 2010 the wage gap between men and women in Sol Meliá Spain was 17.12% in favour of men. In the corresponding table the differences in each professional category can be Spain 1,153 633 seen. The global average difference in Spain is 20%, according to the UGT Salary Equality Germany 1,131 NA report 2011. France 1,459 1,459 Greece 1,064 869 Italy 1,159 NA Luxembourg 1,757 1,757 Environmental principles Portugal 566,5 485 Bulgaria 256 123 Principle 7: Companies should support a focus on preventative measures to face the chalEgypt 67 22 lenges of the environment; AMERICA ($) Sol Meliá Legal Principle 8: Launching initiatives to promote greater responsibility towards the environMinimum Minimum ment; and Argentina 460 400 Principle 9: Promote the development and diffusion of technologies which respect the enBrazil 322 237 vironment. Costa Rica 406 406 Mexico 131 131 Evaluation, policy and objectives Peru 550 550 Puerto Rico 1,257 1,257 Travel and tourism generate considerable pressure on the natural environment, not so much Dominican Rep. 116 116 due to the danger of their impact, but rather the sheer size of the industry. Hotels must Venezuela 374 285 minimise their consumption of natural resources and their impact on local ecosystems, harmonising their business activity with respect for and protection of the natural environment. ASIA ($) Sol Meliá Legal Environmental management forms an integral part of Sol Meliá strategy through its inclusion Minimum Minimum in the global sustainability policy, from which are drawn a number of activities and principals which are included in the Strategic Plan 2008-2010 and in the Sustainable Development China 300 150 Manual. These activities and principals must be adhered to by all company hotels and corIndonesia 98 83 porate offices, and contain the criteria for performance with regard to social, environmental Malaysia 165 NA and cultural matters. Corporate headquarters defines the global environmental approach Vietnam 100 60 designed to ensure hotels reduce their environmental footprint and assume respect for and protection of the environment as part of their daily operations. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 86 Implementation The different activities aim to respect the principle of “thinking globally – acting locally”. To achieve this, on the one hand we aim to preserve the natural environment in the destinations where the company operates, and on the other hand we attend to our activities on a global level, aiming to reduce the overall effect of our activity on the planet. There is also a forum for hotels to share their experiences and best practises. Communications between hotels and corporate offices is encouraged, as well as between the hotels themselves, in order to convert best practises into standard practises. Measurement of results Energy consumption is directly related to the release of pollutants into the atmosphere. That is why the Sol Meliá Works and Maintenance Department continues to work towards the consolidation of the SAVE project, focussed on energy savings and efficiency in hotels. The SAVE project section on the company Intranet was created so that all employees could consult measures introduced by hotels and offices, best practices by brand, standardisation agreements and improvement measures in technical systems. There are currently 202 hotels participating in the SAVE project, compared to 155 in 2009. The hotels involved in the project must have correct and up-to-date historical data of their energy use from the past five years loaded in the SAP BW system. Every month energy and water use in all the hotels that take part in the project is monitored and analysed and any differences are examined. The consumption of diesel oil has been reduced mainly due to several hotels replacing it with natural gas. Natural gas has advantages over other fuels thanks to its low level of emissions, low cost, continuous supply and reduced maintenance. The methodology used for calculating savings, efficiency and emissions reduction is based on the comparison of the values of average consumption figures for the years 2007 to 2010 with the average consumption figures for the years 2004 to 2006. The objective of this multi-annual comparison is to provide the utmost rigour to the comparison, avoiding weather distortions and biases that can be produced by comparison of figures from one year to another. This also avoids the bias that is produced by increases or decreases in guest ration occupation. The guest figures from 2007 to 2010 are also corrected, so we can compare it with the same levels of occupation in the period from 2004 to 2006. The percentage of consumed energy per stay fall with the real comparison of occupations, eliminating the climate element and observing real improvements in energy efficiency due to in the different energy and water consumptions. This methodology for measuring consumption and emissions has been evaluated and certified by Bureau Veritas and has led Sol Meliá to be recognized by the Ministry of the Environment, Rural Affairs and Marine Affairs, and its SAVE project has been included in the voluntary system of emission reduction. Principles of anticorruption Principle 10: companies should work to combat corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Evaluation, policy and objectives Since 2008, the Sol Meliá Board of Directors has a process of self-evaluation by which the Board assesses its own performance annually. With regard to the potential conflicts of interest that may arise within the Board, article 28 of the Regulation of the Board of Directors includes a control mechanism which requires directors to report any direct or indirect situation or conflict directly or indirectly which may affect the company. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 87 In 2010 total of 170 internal global audits were carried out, 130 in hotels and 40 in other business units and corporate offices. These audits assess compliance with quality standards and procedures and legal compliance in a total of 205 points, divided into 25 categories. During 2010, the Internal Audit Department detected three cases of fraudulent use of assets or company funds for the private benefit of certain employees. This circumstance gave rise to the immediate adoption of disciplinary action (dismissal). Only in one of the cases, due to the seriousness of the actions, criminal proceedings were begun. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 88 Evaluation and renovation of commitments to improvement 2010 Area Objective Evaluation Sustainability Development of an Action Plan 2010-2011 for the Global Compact, quantifying progress in each of the areas of at Sol Meliá the pact by 2010. Reduction of the number of unavailable indicators in the Sustainability Report 2010. Leadership Value Expand indicators relating to sustainability in the Company control dashboard. Good Governance Reduce the number of independent directors who have been in office for more than twelve years. Value Close the design phase of the company’s Code of Ethics project. The design phase began, but has not been finalised. It has been rescheduled for 2011. Environmental Current environmental certificates will be maintained in 2010 and the certification of the 2 hotels which are Value currently in the process of implementation will be completed. 1 of the 2 hotels selected for 2010 was certified. Available information on activities related to waste management in hotels and corporate offices will continue to be consolidated. Revision of waste was included in internal audits, but waste management information has not yet been consolidated. This objective has been included in the Sol Meliá environmental footprint project. Continue to consolidate information available on hotel activities in biodiversity protection. Creation of a system of guest involvement in selective waste collection. Forty new owned or leased hotels will be added to the SAVE project. Performance of noise pollution measurements in hotels in Spain. Human Value Development of an Equality Plan including action plans. The negotiations for the plan have not yet been finalised. Tentative date of 2011. Quarterly verification of compliance with the training plan. Review and update of human resources regulations including a chapter on equal opportunities and complaint management. Socio-cultural Calculate the number of employees involved in Sol Meliá community involvement. Value The company will increase the participation of stakeholders in social projects. Preparation and distribution of a guide for business units with recommendations on how to develop cooperative social responsibility activities. Consolidate actions that enable the integration of cultural elements in destinations. Financial Value Create a regular publication for shareholders with information on sustainable development activities at Sol Meliá. The publication was not created in 2010. It has been rescheduled for 2011. Completed: 25 In progress: 5 Rejected: 3 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 89 Area Objective Evaluation Commercial The company will provide mechanisms and processes to ensure regulatory control of data protection at the interValue national level as well as information on any claims in this regard. The training of staff in hotel food and beverage departments on how to handle products in the best possible way for celiac suffers will be extended to the Meliá brand in Spain. Measure direct guest involvement in hotels that possess a sustainability certificate. Create a Ethical and Responsible Advertising Manual. Carry out actions related to the mas rewards programme under the slogan “more sustainable”. Business Value Monitor the procurement of valued articles through SAP to be able to report their percentage of the total. New system of objectives for 2010. New objectives have been introduced to extend the application of the basic principles of the Sol Meliá purchasing policy. The monitoring carried out in 2010 will control new parameters which should provide further reductions in costs and ensure that the various departments are aligned with guidelines. Develop a new control dashboard to improve the monitoring of major purchasing indicators in the different offices in countries in which we operate. Completion of the first phase of the renegotiation and grouping of all maintenance contracts for hotels in Spain. Media Value The company will work to create specific codes of conduct regulating the advertising and marketing areas to serve as a guide for all communications. At least three annual meetings will be held with media specialising in sustainable development / CSR. Three meetings with specialist media were held: one for the presentation of the Annual Sustainability Report 2009; one in Brazil and one in Shanghai. Give wider distribution to sustainability projects developed in hotels through the support of external communication, the CheckIn magazine. There will be another 2 meetings with specialist media which will be supplemented with greater knowledge of the scope and nature of the company (Brazil, Asia, etc). Integration into the PR network of agencies from the United States and Mexico in order to exploit synergies between the different countries. Completed: 25 In progress: 5 Rejected: 3 Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 90 Commitments to improvements 2011 Area Objective Evaluation Leadership Value • Introduce concepts related to the three dimensions of sustainability into the management model. • Achieve value through biosphere certification. Good Governance • Close the design phase of the company’s Code of Ethics project. Value Environmental • Measurement of the Sol Meliá environmental footprint. Value • Definition of the sustainable construction model. • Create audits in hotel waste management. Human Value • Integration of people with disabilities: add the ONCE Foundation as a recruitment source. • Follow-up on annual Labour Health audits. • Consolidate the inclusion of sustainability objectives in the Variable Remuneration manual. Socio-cultural • Guarantee the Sol Meliá commitments to UNICEF. Value Economic • Improve the perception of our stakeholders (investors) with regard to sustainability, organising road shows Value with sustainable development content. Commercial • Improve the perception of our guests with regard to sustainability, measuring the result with the Market Value Metrix tool. • Integrate healthy eating as a differentiating attribute of Sol Meliá. Business Value • Define a sustainable supply chain model. • Make a diagnosis of integrating environmental aspects into purchasing procedures at Sol Meliá. • Develop a plan to raise awareness for suppliers and internal partners. Media Value • Set a timetable for key milestones in communication related to sustainability. Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 91 GRI indicators 1. Strategy and analysis Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages report (1) reported omission 1.1 Statement from the CEO about decision making in the Complete 6 organisation. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. Complete 6, 71 2. Profile of the organization Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages report (1) reported omission 2.1 Name of the organisation. Complete 4 2.2 Major brands, products, and/or services. Complete 16-19 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including the Complete 4, 16-19 major divisions, subsidiaries, operational entities and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of the headquarters of the organisation. Complete 70 2.5 Number of countries in which the organisation operates, Complete 4 and name of countries in which significant activities are being developed or those that are specifically relevant with regard to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Complete FR 10 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, Complete 4 supplied sectors and types of customers / beneficiaries). 2.8 Dimension of the reporting organisation. Complete 4 2.9 Significant changes produced during the period covered Complete 4, 51-54 in the report with regard to size, structure, and property. 2.10 Awards received during the reference period. Complete 17, 20 3. Parameters of the report Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages report (1) reported omission Profile of the report 3.1 Period covered (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) by the inforComplete 71, 72 mation provided. 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report (if any). Complete 71 3.3 Frequency of report (annual, biennial, etc.). Complete 71 3.4 Contact point for questions on the report or its content. Complete 73 Scope and coverage of the scope 3.5 Process for defining the content of the report. Complete See note 1 72, 101 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., cities, divisions, subsidiaries, Complete 72 leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 92 3. Parameters of the report Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages report (1) reported omission 3.7 Indicate the existence of limitations to the scope or Parcial Franchised hotels; Information not Sol Meliá is in the process 72 boundary of the report (see the full principle for explahotels in Cuba, available. of redefining the scope of nation of the scope). Egypt, Croatia and its Sustainability Report. Bulgaria. From the Annual Report 2011 onwards, the scope will be the same as for the Financial Report. 3.8 Basis for the inclusion of information in the case of joint Complete 72 ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, subcontracted activities and other entities that may significantly affect comparability between periods and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis to make Complete 72 calculations, including the underlying assumptions and techniques behind estimates applied in the compilation of indicators and other information contained in the report. Explain the decisions to not apply or deviate substantially from GRI indicator protocols. 3.10 Description of the effect that re-expression of information Complete 72 pertaining to previous reports may have, and the reasons that led to its re-expression (e.g., mergers). 3.11 Significant changes relating to prior periods in the scope, Complete 72 coverage or assessment methods applied to the report. Index of GRI content 3.12 Table that indicates the location of the report’s basic Complete 92-101 content. Verification 3.13 Current policy and practice with regard to the application Complete 73 of external verification of report. 4. Governance, commitments, Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages and stakeholder participation report (1) reported omission Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including Complete 22, 23; the specific tasks of committees of the highest body FR 105-106 of responsible governance, such as the definition of company strategy or supervision of the organization. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chairman of the highest body of Complete 22; FR 106 governance is also an executive officer. 4.3 In those organizations that have direct unitary structure, Complete 22; FR 106-108 indicate the number of members of the maximum body of governance that are independent and/or non-executive. 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to comComplete 55, 56; municate recommendations or directions to the highest FR 126, 150, body of governance. 151 4.5 Link between compensation for members of the highComplete 21, 23; est body of governance, senior managers and executive FR 113-115, managers (including agreements for abandonment) and 148 performance (including their social and environmental performance). 4.6 Procedures implemented to avoid conflicts of interests in Complete 23, 24; FR 116, the highest body of governance. 127, 131 4.7 Procedures for determining the capacity and experience Complete FR 119 required from the members of the highest body of governance to guide the organisation’s strategy in social, environmental and economic aspects. 4.8 Statement of mission and values developed internally, Complete 8, 16 codes of conduct, and principles relevant to the economic, environmental and social performance, and the status of their implementation. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 93 4. Governance, commitments, Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages and stakeholder participation report (1) reported omission 4.9 Procedures of the highest body of governance to monitor Complete 14, 24, 40, the identification and management of the economic, 48; FR 128, environmental and social performance, including related 132-134 risks and opportunities, as well as the adherence to or compliance with international standards, codes of conduct and principles. 4.10 Procedures to evaluate performance of the highest body Complete FR 119, 127, of governance, particularly with regard to the economic, 145 social and environmental performance. Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of how the organization has adopted a Complete 71 precautionary approach or principles. 4.12 Principles or social, environmental and economic programmes Complete 11, 14 developed externally, as well as any other initiative to which the organization subscribes or approves. 4.13 Main associations to which it belongs (such as sector Complete 11 associations) and/or national and international authorities to which the organisation supports and; is present in the organs of government, participates in projects or committees, provides substantial funding that exceeds the obligations of members, and has strategic considerations. Stakeholder participation 4.14 List of stakeholders the organisation has included. Complete 9-13 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders, Complete 9-10 including the frequency of their participation by type and category. 4.16 Approaches to the inclusion of stakeholders, including Complete 9-10 the frequency of their participation by type and category. 4.17 Key concerns and issues of interest that have arisen Complete Specific aspects. See note 2 9-10, 101 through the participation of stakeholders and the manner in which the organisation has responded to them in the making of the report. GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments To be Pages report (1) reported omission reported on Information on the management approach economic performance EC Economic performance Complete 51 Market presence Complete 4 Indirect economic impact Complete 57 Information on the management approach environmental performance EN Materials Complete 66 Energy Complete 28, 29 Water Complete 30 Biodiversity Complete 31 Emissions, effluents and residues Complete 29, 30 Products and services Complete 17-19 Regulatory compliance Complete 24; FR 133-135 Transport Not available In 2011 Sol Meliá began the 2012 NA calculation of its environmental footprint in order to be able to report this indicator. General Complete 28 Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 94 GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments To be Pages report (1) reported omission reported on Information on the management approach labour practices and work ethics LA Employment Complete 39 Company/workforce relationship Complete 46 Health and safety at work Complete 45 Education and training Complete 43 Diversity and equal opportunities Complete 36 Information on the management approach human rights HR Practices of investment and purchases Complete 33, 54, 55, 65 Non-discrimination Complete 46 Freedom of association and collective agreements Complete 46 Abolition of child exploitation Complete 46, 48, 74 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Complete 46 Safety practices Complete 45 Rights of indigenous peoples Complete 46 Information on the management approach society SO Community Complete 48 Corruption Complete 24 Public policy Complete 10 Unfair competition Complete 24 Regulatory compliance Complete 24 Information on the management approach – product liability PR Guest health and safety Complete 62 Labelling of products and services Complete 62 Marketing communications Complete 68 Guest privacy Complete 63 Regulatory compliance Complete 63, 68 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission Economic performance indicators Aspect: Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, Complete 4, 50, 57 including revenues, operating costs, compensation to employees, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and capital payments to suppliers and to governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Partial Quantitative Not available. We do not yet have an 27, 28 for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. estimation is not estimation of the financial published. impact. We are working on reporting on this indicator in the 2012 report. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s obligations due to social Complete 40, 41 benefit programmes. EC4 Significant financial aid received from governments. Complete 57 Aspect: Market presence EC5 Range of relationship between the standard starting Complete 40 salary and the local minimum wage at locations of significant operations. EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending to local Complete 65, 66 vendors in locations of significant operations. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 95 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Complete 39 managers from the local community in locations of significant operations. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Partial Investments or Sol Meliá has See note 3 47-49, 102 and services provided primarily for public benefit through economic support. no standardized pro-bono or in-kind commercial commitments. procedures for the analysis of needs of infrastructure investment or services in communities where it operates. EC9 Understanding and description of indirect significant Not available Sol Meliá does not have NA economic impacts, including the scope of such impacts. standarised procedures to analyse significant indirect financial impacts. To be reported on in the 2012 report. Environmental performance indicators Aspect: Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Partial Raw materials See note 4 65, 66, 102 consumed by weight or volume. EN2 Percentage of materials used that have been valued. Partial Percentage of maSee note 4 65, 102 terials valued over total consumption. Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary sources. Complete 29 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources. Complete 29 EN5 Energy savings due to conservation and efficiency Complete 28, 29 improvements. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy efficient products and Complete 28, 29 services or based on renewable energy, and reductions in energy consumption as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Not available Sol Meliá only has To be reported in the NA the reductions achieved through these initiatives. global data, not for 2011 report. each activity. Aspect: Water EN8 Total water catchment by sources. Partial Registration by Sol Meliá does To be reported in the 30 source. not currently have 2012 report. standardised procedures to measure registration by source. EN9 Water sources that have been significantly affected by Not available Sol Meliá has no Pending water sources NA water catchment. standardised proinventory. To be reported cedures to identify in the 2012 report. affected sources. EN10 Percentage of total volume of recycled and reused water. Complete 30 Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 96 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission Aspect: Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of owned, leased, or managed land Complete 32 of high biodiversity value in areas outside protected areas. EN12 Description of the most significant impacts in biodiversity Partial Specific impacts of No detailed analysis To be reported in the 31, 32 in protected natural areas or in high-value biodiversity in hotels identified in of environmental 2012 report. unprotected areas, derivatives of the activities, products protected natural impact of these and services in protected areas and in areas of highspaces. hotels has been value biodiversity outside protected areas. carried out. EN13 Protected or restored habitats. Partial Specific information There is no To be reported in the 32, 33 of hotels. centralised 2012 report. management system that allows consolidation of reliable data at a group level. EN14 Introduced strategies and actions, and plans for the Not available There is currently To be reported in the NA impact management on biodiversity. no defined strategy 2012 report. with regard biodiversity. EN15 Number of species, broken down according to their Not available There is no To be reported in the NA danger of extinction, included on the IUCN Red list and centralised 2012 report. on national lists and whose habitats are found in areas management affected by operations according to the degree of threat system that allows to the species. consolidation of reliable data on this subject. Aspect: Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse emissions, by weight. Complete 29 EN17 Other indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by weight. Not available Not available There See note 5 102 is no centralised management system that allows the collection of data required for the calculation of these emissions at a group level. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Partial Emission savings in Does not calculate 28, 29 reductions achieved. indirect emission the indicator EN 17. sources. EN19 Emissions of substances which deplete the ozone layer, Not applicable Sol Meliá does not NA by weight. undertake activities of production, exportation or importation of any substances which deplete the ozone layer. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant emissions into the air by Partial Polluting gas The bibliographic To be reported in the 29 type and weight. emissions derived reference source 2012 report. from electricity used by Sol Meliá consumption; does not provide emissions of these emissions. VOCNM, PM However, they will and CO derived be considered in from fossil fuel coming years. consumption. EN21 Total dumping of waste water, according to their nature Complete 30 and destination. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 97 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission EN22 Total weight of managed waste, depending on type and Partial Does not include There is no centralTo be reported in the 30, 31 method of treatment. all hotels nor all ised management 2012 report. managed waste. system to enable the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. EN23 Total number and volume of most important accidental Complete See note 6 102 spillages. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated Not applicable There is no centralSee note 7 102 waste that are considered dangerous according to the ised management classification of the Basel Convention, annex I, II, III and system to enable VIII, and percentage of internationally transported waste. the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. EN25 Identification, size, state of protection and value of Not available There is no centralTo be reported in the NA biodiversity of water resources and related habitats, ised management 2012 report. significantly affected by water spillages and water runoff system to enable of the reporting organization. the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. Aspect: Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Partial Initiatives related There is no centralTo be reported in the 28, 29, 32, 33 and services, and degree of reduction of that impact. to waste, effluents ised management 2012 report. and material system to enable consumption. the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. EN27 Percentage of sold products and packaging materials Not applicable Sol Meliá does not NA that are recovered at the end of its useful life, by product sell products with categories. any packaging. Aspect: Compliance EN28 Cost of significant fines and number of non-monetary Complete 26 penalties for non-compliance with environmental regulations. Aspect: Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport of Not available There is no centralTo be reported in the NA products and other goods and materials used for the ised management 2012 report. activities of the organization, as well as the transport system to enable of staff. the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. Aspect: General EN30 Breakdown by type of total expenses and environmental Complete 33 investments. Social performance indicators: labour and work practices Aspect: Employment LA1 Breakdown of the company employees by type of Complete 36, 37 employment, by contract and by region. LA2 Total number of employees and turnover of employees, Partial Itemised turnover. We do not have the To be reported in the 36 broken down into age, gender and region. systems required 2012 report. to itemise this information. LA3 Social benefits for full-time employees that are not Complete 41 offered to temporary or part-time employees, broken down by main activity. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 98 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission Aspect: Company/workforce relationship LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective Complete 46 agreement. LA5 Minimum period(s) of notice(s) of organisational Complete 46 changes, including if these notifications are specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Health and safety at work LA6 Percentage of the total number of workers who are Complete 45 represented in health and safety employee-management committees, established to help control and to advise on health and safety programmes at work. LA7 Rates of absenteeism rates, occupational illnesses, days Complete 45 lost and number of deaths related to work by region. LA8 Programmes on education, training, advice, prevention Complete 45 and control of risks that apply to the employees, their families or to the members of the community in relation to illness serious. LA9 Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements Not available There is no centralTo be reported in the NA with trade unions. ised management 2011 report. system to enable the consolidation of reliable data at the group level. Aspect: Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per employee, per year broken Complete 43-45 down by category of employee. LA11 Management skills and constant training programmes Complete 41-45 which promote the employability of workers and support them in the management of the end of their professional careers. LA12 Percentage of employees who receive regular evaluations Complete 40 of performance and professional development. Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunities LA13 Composition of bodies of corporate governance and Complete 22, 23, 37, 38 workforce, broken down by gender, age, minorities and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Relation between base salary of men with regard that of Complete 40 women, broken down by occupational category. Social performance indicators: human rights Aspect: Investment and supply practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Complete See note 8 102 agreements including human rights clauses or which have been objective of analysis with regard human rights. HR2 Percentage of major distributors and contractors that have Complete 65 been objective of analysis with regard human rights, and measures taken in response. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Not available This information will NA procedures relating to those aspects of human rights be dealt with with the that are relevant to their activities, including the publication of the Code of percentage of employees trained. Ethics. To be reported in the 2012 report. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 99 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission Aspect: Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and Complete 46 measures taken. Aspect: Freedom of Association and collective bargaining agreements HR5 Company activities in which the right to freedom of Complete 46 association and to collective agreements can run major risks, and measures taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child exploitation HR6 Identified activities that involve a potential risk of child Complete 46 exploitation incidents, and measures taken to contribute to their elimination. Aspect: Forced labour HR7 Operations identified as being of significant risk due Complete 46 to episodes of forced or non-consented labour, and measures taken to contribute to their elimination. Aspect: Security practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel that has been trained in Not available See note 9 102 the policies or procedures of the organization with regard to human rights that are relevant to their activities. Aspect: Indigenous rights HR9 Number of incidents related to violations of the rights of Complete 46 indigenous people and measures taken. Social performance indicators: society Aspect: Employment SO1 Nature, scope and effectiveness of programmes and Partial Partial Programmes We do not have the To be reported in the 26 practices to assess and manage the impacts of operations to assess the systems required to 2012 report. in the communities, including entry, operation and exit of impacts during the evaluate impact in the company. operation and before these stages. the exit of Sol Meliá in communities. Number and percentage of operations analyzed. Aspect: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed Complete 24 with regard to risks associated with the corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies Complete 24 and procedures of the organization. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Complete 24 Aspect: Public policy SO5 Position in public policy and participation in the Complete 10 development and activities of lobbying. Complete SO6 Total value of the financial contributions and in-kind Complete 24 contributions to political parties or institutions, by countries. Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of actions due to causes related to Complete 24 monopoly practices and against free competition and their results. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 100 GRI GRI description Level of Issues not Reason for Comments Scope (2) Pages Code report (1) reported omission Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and sanctions and Complete 24, 62, 63, total number of non-monetary sanctions arising from 68, 69 the failure to comply with the laws and regulations. Social performance indicators: product liability Aspect: Investment and supply practices PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services in Complete 62, 63 which the impacts on the health and safety of guests are assessed, to be improved where appropriate, and percentage of categories of significant products and services subject to such procedures of evaluation. PR2 Total number of incidents arising from the breach of Complete 62 ,63 legal regulations or voluntary codes related to the impacts of products and services in the health and safety during their life cycle, distributed depending on the result of such incidents. Aspect: Labelling of products and service PR3 Types of information about products and services that Complete See note 10 102 are required by the existing procedures and regulations, and percentage of products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of infringements of the regulation and Complete 62 voluntary codes related to information and labelling of products and services, distributed depending on the type of result of such incidents. PR5 Practices with respect to guest satisfaction, including the Complete 61 results of guest satisfaction studies. Aspect: Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for compliance with the laws, standards and Complete 68 voluntary codes mentioned in marketing communications, including advertising, other promotional activities and sponsorships. PR7 Number of incidents resulting from failure to comply Complete 68, 69 with regulations relating to marketing communication, including advertising, promotion and the sponsorship, distributed depending on the result of such incidents. Aspect: Customer privacy PR8 Total number of duly substantiated claims with regard Complete 63 to respecting privacy and the leakage of personal data of customers. Aspect: Compliance PR9 Cost of significant fines as a result of failure to comply Complete 62 with the rules in relation to the supply and the use of products and services of the organization. Note 1: In the Panel of Experts session of November 2010, a strategic prioritisation exercise was carried out to determine the most important aspects of the Sol Meliá sustainability strategies. Note 2: Although this report has tried to answer our stakeholders’ concerns detected in our REACH stakeholder communication model, they have not been specifically reported in the report’s contents. This specific information will be reported in the 2011 report. ... Continues on the following page. Profile Indicator Main Indicator Additional Indicator FR: Financial Report Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 101 Note 3: In 2010 there has been no investment in infrastructure for public benefit in any of the countries in which Sol Meliá operates, beyond those related to Sol Meliá business operations. However, as far as is possible, Sol Meliá attempts to evaluate the needs for services and structures for public benefit in the communities in which it operates. Note 4: Currently, Sol Meliá lacks the functionality required in purchasing systems to be able to provide reliable data for raw materials consumed in mass or volumetric units. Sol Meliá is working on the set up of its systems to be able to provide this information in the future. Note 5: In 2011 Sol Meliá will begin the calculation of its environmental footprint which will allow the reporting of indirect emissions of greenhouse gases. Note 6: Sol Meliá is not aware of any significant accidental spillage in any of its hotels in 2010. Note 7: Sol Meliá will begin the calculation of its environmental footprint, which will serve as a basis for initiatives to reduce their environmental impact. Note 8: Sol Meliá has not signed any investment agreement in 2010 with human rights clauses. Note 9: Sol Meliá does not have a centralized management system that enables the consolidation of reliable data at the group level, due to the fact that security personnel is outsourced. (1) Complete: all aspects according to the protocol indicator of the Global Reporting Initiative, version 3, are reported. Partial report: still depending on the report of some indicators according to the protocol indicator of the Global Reporting Initiative, version3. Not available: indicators not reported, where the absence of data or the lack of data reliability has resulted in the decision to exclude them. (2) This information has been provided by Sol Meliá to clarify the scope of each indicator within the scope of the Annual Sustainability Report and does not form part of the review conducted by PwC. The approach used by Sol Meliá to reflect the scope of each indicator has been the number of corresponding rooms for each of the hotels included in the above-mentioned indicator with respect to the number of total rooms of the hotels included in the scope of the Annual Sustainability Report. According to this criterion there are four ranges to describe the scope of each indicator: 75-100% Alcance 50-75% Alcance 25-50% Alcance 1-25% Alcance The full scope of the report refers to the owned, managed and leased hotels, a total of 310 hotels (equivalent to 54,218 rooms). The franchised hotels are excluded from the scope of the report. Geographically, there are four areas that are excluded from the scope (Cuba, Egypt, Croatia and Bulgaria). Sol Meliá Sustainability Report 2010 102 Printed on Cyclus Offset paper, 100% recycled, manufactured without chlorine and optical whiteners. This paper has been internationally certified by “Blue Angel”, “Nordic Swan” and “NAPM”. The inks do not contain pigments made from toxic heavy metals. The report has been printed by AMADIP.ESMENT, a special employment centre. DL. PM-783-2011
