UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 Generating Futures: Providing quality education for disadvantaged communities remains the centrepeice of Pakistan Petroleum Limited’s Corporate Social Responsibility Programme Principle 1 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Commitment Pakistan Petroleum Limited (PPL) respects the dignity and rights of its human resource. Through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Programme, we also support the right to education, healthcare and basic civic amenities for communities. 3 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Strategic System for Organizational and Human Development ACTIONS Benefits Performance The company provides its staff with competitive remuneration Organizational Surveys packages as well as strives to facilitate enabling working environment with ample capacity Performance development and career PPL conducts and participates regularly in organizational progression opportunities. surveys, enabling the company management to review and  In line with the Companies adopt best practices from benchmark companies. This Profits (Worker’s Participation) proactive approach helps in continuous improvement of Act 1968, PPL contributes 5 systems and procedures. percent of its net profit to the  PPL participates in various countrywide Human Resource Workers Participation Fund. (HR) benchmarking surveys to assess prevailing and emergent  PPL follows the Employees Old trends. The findings enable the company to align its HR system Age Benefits (EOB) Act 1976, Pakistan Petroleum Limited with leading companies and consolidate best practices already contributing 5 percent of followed by the company. minimum basic salary to EOB  PPL engaged an external management consultancy firm to institutions with employees independently conduct and analyze Employee Satisfaction participation of 1 percent. Survey in 2010 to obtain objective feedback from employees  The company pays Statutory on their satisfaction and engagement levels. Based on the Bonus under Section 10-C of the recommendations, a comprehensive action plan has been West Pakistan Industrial and prepared to further enhance staff commitment in line with the Commercial Employment company’s vision. (Standing Order) Ordinance  As a contender for the 2009 and 2010 awards, PPL 1968 as well as Annual participated in Management Association of Pakistan’s (MAP) Settlement Bonus to nonassessment process to evaluate and confirm its adherence to management staff. best practices. PPL won the prestigious MAP Award for three  Annual Leave Fare Assistance is consecutive years from 2008 to 2010. given to non-management staff  The company sends its head office staff on regular field visits in addition to monthly to seek their opinion and suggestions for work-related remuneration. improvements.  PPL also extends loans to staff for house construction/ renovation and purchase of vehicle.  Free bachelor accommodation 2 Industrial Relations and Employees along with necessary utilities is given to field-stationed staff.  Gratis Haj and Umrah facilities are provided to workers. ACTIONS  PPL provides pick-and-drop Fair Investigation Procedures transport facility to women staff.  For senior executives and women employees, the company Performance provides a nutritious and PPL protects employee rights, ensuring equitable treatment balanced lunch facility at the and opportunity for all to voice their views. head office.  The company has an effective policy for redressal of staff 4 grievances, if any.  Based on laws relevant to its various locations, PPL follows the Standing (Orders) Ordinance 1968 for official reprimand of staff. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Employee Recognition Preventing Forcible Performance Displacement PPL follows fair and transparent policies and procedures to of Individuals recognize and reward high standards of performance and enhance staff motivation. Performance  Performance Excellence Awards are given on an annual basis Due to its strict adherence to to employees in recognition of their outstanding achievements prescribed laws, PPL has never in both tangible and intangible categories. The company had a case of forcible recognizes and rewards individual efforts for extraordinary displacement of employees. performance, innovation, creativity, cost savings, productivity gains and complexity reduction. The scheme also sets out to establish role models within the organization that other Employment Policy employees can emulate. for Handicapped and  PPL considers human capital its premium asset and Disabled People acknowledges longevity of service, ranging from 15 to 40 years, through annual long service awards.  PPL follows the Disabled  The company arranges farewells for retiring staff in appreciation Persons (Employment and Rehabilitation) Ordinance 1981 Pakistan Petroleum Limited of their services. and ensures employment of handicapped personnel.  In line with the Workmen Healthy Entertainment Compensation Act in matters for Employees related to disability, alternate job assignments are given to disabled staff. Performance PPL attaches great importance to providing sports facilities and entertainment for staff. 3  PPL encourages sports among head office and field employees such as the Annual Interlocation Cricket Tournaments. Besides Employee Safety the company has teams for various sports that participate in contests/ matches with other organizations. and Security  PPL organizes annual golf tournament for employees and other enthusiasts. The 6th tournament in this series was held in ACTIONS February 2011.  PPL has a dedicated Exploration Library that subscribes to Safe Working leading industry journals to enhance staff knowledge. Conditions  Current reading material, including newspapers, magazines and periodicals are provided to keep staff updated on latest trends Performance and information. Employee safety and security is  The company’s monthly newsletter Progress, now in its 55th one of PPL’s top priorities. The year of publication regularly reports on company activities and company has dedicated Security industry-related news. and Health, Safety and  PPL maintains a fully equipped health and fitness facility to keep its Environment (HSE) departments employees mentally and physically fit. There is a Head Office to ensure hazard-free working Sports Club for staff recreation during lunch break or after working conditions and has taken the hours. The club at Sui Gas Field also has a jogging track, following initiatives to help badminton, tennis and squash courts and a swimming pool for staff protect its employees from risky use. Besides, the company has proper indoor games/ recreation situations and conditions: facilities at all field locations. The company also organizes indoor  Safety alerts and travel advisories games competition among the head office employees. are sent regularly to employees. 5  PPL organizes musical and other cultural programmes for its  Employees are provided employees. personal protective equipment  Company management and staff celebrate religious and cultural (PPE)and clothing according to festivals as well as national days. the nature of their job. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  Safety and fire drills are regularly conducted as per HSE Indicators, including Loss Time requirements at head office and all field locations. Injury Illness target rate for the  HSE awareness and training sessions are held regularly in year, PPE compliance by English and Urdu on fire fighting, incident investigation and management, non-management reporting and permit-to-work system. and contract staff in routine and  Security passes are compulsory for PPL employees at the project activities and implementation of annual work head office and field locations. plans, is undertaken through  HSE procedure on ‘Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment regular monitoring and conducting and Management’ is developed and distributed to all awareness sessions.  As a result of rigorous planning concerned. Field HSE representatives provide training to all concerned for conducting risk assessment of routine and and implementation of HSE project activities at PPL locations. procedures at all company  Head Count System in the form of TCard is being implemented locations, PPL was able to surpass at all PPL fields. As a quick and accurate estimation of its 2010 target Loss Time Illnesses personnel’s location at various field sites, the T-Card boards are and Injuries rate of 1 percent, already in use at Adhi, Chachar and Hala fields. which was actually 0.03 percent. Employee Travel Safety Basic Health Facilities Pakistan Petroleum Limited Performance Performance PPL extends a comprehensive PPL regularly arranges training programmes on defensive health plan and medical policy to and evasive driving. Awareness programme on road sense employees and their families. The and safety has been initiated for company staff.  Any unsafe driving practices, travel route issues, vehicle or company has qualified doctors for providing medical consultation and employee complaints regarding transport are reported to the treatment in the head office and Administration Department for necessary countermeasures. field locations.  Wearing seat belts is mandatory for company transport drivers  The company provides medical and employees using company vehicles. assistance to all employees,  All PPL employees are insured while travelling locally, including their immediate family, domestically or internationally. and pensioners as per medical  Use of mobile phones is prohibited while driving company policy. vehicles.  PPL maintains a city clinic in  First aid boxes are placed in all company vehicles. Karachi to ensure easy access for its employees and their families. Besides, PPL has a full-fledged hospital located within the 4 premises of the Sui Gas Field. At other company fields and locations, Health Kandhkot, Adhi, Mazarani, Chachar and Adhi fields, proper arrangements for emergency medical care are in place. ACTIONS  PPL follows the Factories Act – 1934, Mines Act – 1923 and Oil Healthy Environment for Employees and Gas (Safety in Drilling and Production) Regulations – 1974, Performance which include employee personal hygiene, environment, emergency PPL’s goal is to support a safe and healthy workplace by medical assistance and periodic enhancing staff health and well-being. medical checkups. 6  Periodic check-ups are carried out to check fire extinguishers,  Exgratia payments are made to fire alarms and sprinklers at all field locations. staff in case of prolonged sickness.  Assessment of Occupational Health, Safety and Environment  Clean drinking water is provided to (OHSE) performance against identified Key Performance staff at all locations. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 5 Corporate Social Responsibility PPL stands committed to community development in were also constructed. These facilities were provided with an investment of Rs. 14 million. Besides, the company also renovated Government Boys education, health, infrastructure development, livelihood Middle School Naban Janjua generation and post-disaster rehabilitation and has allocated near Adhi Field. minimum 1.5 percent of its pre-tax profit for CSR activities.  PPL regularly provides furniture, The company spent around 1 billion rupees for CSR stationary and other relevant initiatives during April 2009 to March 2011 which is over items/ equipment to schools near and above its minimum benchmark. its operational areas to support their curricular and co-curricular activities. To this end, classroom furniture, stationery and sports ACTIONS items were provided to various government schools around Education Chachar Gas Field. The company regularly supports its adopted Performance government schools in Ghabi Dero and Ghazi Khan Chandio, Pakistan Petroleum Limited PPL assigns top priority to promoting education in some of near Mazarani Gas Field. the country’s most remote areas.  PPL has committed to provide  The company has been providing quality education to local 100 Frequency Modular (FM) children at Sui Model School since 1957.  The company offers eight scholarships to children of permanent Systems to the Institute for Special Children (ISC), Quetta. workers, with two scholarships for post-intermediate and FM is a state-of-the-art hearing professional and six for post-matriculation education. instrument that directly transmits  To promote reading culture at the local level, PPL constructed the teacher’s voice to students, public libraries at Dadhar Town, Balochistan, together with an regardless of distance, and auditorium and parking shed, Tando Allah Yar and Kamber reduces grey noise to make towns, Sindh and provided relevant books and magazines. The audibility clear. So far, 80 FM company invested Rs. 4.26 million for these facilities. Besides, systems were provided to ISC Bhaoo Dur Mohammed Trust Public Library at Kambar Town during the last four years. The was constructed by PPL with a contribution of Rs. 2 million in last tranche of 20 will be 2009 and Rs. 1 million in 2010. delivered in 2011.  The company earlier constructed and operationalized in 2010  PPL has constructed two primary the first ever Computer Training Centre and Library (CTCL) at schools in Kandhkot, near its Sui for general public. PPL has engaged Kalsoft, an Information operational field. These schools Technology company, to operate the centre. Currently, CTCL are run by The Citizen’s offers basic computer courses for local communities. Two Foundation as part of the MOU batches of CTCL students, 60 in each, completed three-month signed between the two basic course in Microsoft Office. Besides, the centre also houses organizations to provide quality a reading area where books and selected magazines are education to the children from provided. local communities. The company  PPL encourages development of libraries and computer has created an endowment fund centres at the school level to promote reading habits and worth Rs. 78 million for computer literacy from an early age. To this end, books, construction and furniture and office equipment were donated for a library at operationalization of these Government Inter College, Dera Bugti. The company also schools over a period of 10 donated Rs. 3.6 million for construction of a library and years. The third primary school computer centre at Dawood Model School, Kalat. as part of the plan is being  The company provides free-of-cost transport facility to students constructed. Later, a secondary school will be built to of Taleem Foundation and Federal Government High School, Sui. accommodate students moving  The company constructed academic blocks at Chhab and 7 to higher grades.  PPL has provided Rs. 2.75 Kani, District Attock, Government School, Miana Mora near Adhi Field, District Rawalpindi and Government Girls’ High million to the Chemical School, Barkhan Town, Balochistan where an auditorium was Engineering Department, also built. Besides, sanitary facilities at Thraty near Adhi Field University of Karachi for the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress upgradation of laboratory facilities. Earlier, the company provided Rs. 8.5 million for this initiative. Healthcare Initiatives  To encourage education in remote areas, PPL has given generous donations for: Performance PPL cares for local communities Activities Spending in 2010 wherever it operates. The 12 Annual Scholarships for Balochistan Rs. 0.654 million company has provided extensive Public School for 6 years medical facilities in some of the most remote regions of Pakistan Higher Secondary Scholarships for females, Rs. 0.209 million District Dera Bugti through hospitals, mobile dispensaries and medical camps.  PPL runs a fully equipped Sui Scholarship Scheme for Higher Professional Rs. 4 million Education (60 students annually) Field Hospital (SFH) at Sui Gas Twenty scholarships for diploma in Rs. 0.441 million Field since the early 1960s. The Associate Engineering for students of Technical hospital caters to a large number Training Centre, Sui of local patients, free-of-cost, in Tameer-e-Millat Foundation, Nushki, Balochistan Rs. 0.5 million addition to the field staff. Besides, majority of locals residing near the field are treated through the mobile medical dispensary. The Pakistan Petroleum Limited dispensary refers cases for Social Welfare further investigation and treatment, including minor and Performance major surgeries, to SFH. Despite these efforts, a large number of PPL draws strength and direction from the government’s patients in Sui could not be policy of encouraging the corporate sector to extend a reached. For this, PPL in helping hand to people living in remote areas of the country. partnership with Government of The company has formulated a diverse, need-based social Balochistan (GoB) is welfare policy. Though concentrated around its locations, constructing a 50-bedded PPL PPL’s CSR initiatives are spread across the country. To Public Welfare Hospital at Sui ensure optimum on-ground implementation and impact, PPL Town. The land is provided by works through government, local civil society institutions GoB while PPL will invest Rs. and communities. 243 million for construction and  The company won the Pakistan Corporate Philanthropy furnishing the hospital together Awards instituted by the Pakistan Centre for Philanthropy with providing basic equipment. (PCP) for six consecutive years from 2004 to 2009. The hospital will be run by GoB  PPL sponsored construction of four youth hostel blocks at the and have the necessary facilities SOS Children’s Village of Balochistan, situated in Quetta, such as gynaecology and through a support of Rs. 20 million. In 2010, the company obstetrics, emergency, operation provided support for building a mosque at the village. Similarly, theatre and service of specialist PPL supported the construction of SOS village, Jamshoro doctors. Additionally, PPL through a donation of Rs. 10 million, including a last tranche of provides medicines to Rural Rs. 2.5 million handed over to the management in 2010. Health Centre, Sui on a monthly  To support organizations delivering social and health services basis. to the needy, PPL has given generous donations to the  The company also operates mobile medical dispensaries for following: local communities living around PCP, Islamabad Rs. 10 million Mazarani and Kandhkot Gas fields.  PPL holds bi-annual free eye and The Helpcare Society, Lahore Rs. 8 million Karwan-e-Hayat, Karachi (on an annual Rs. 3.6 million medical camps for treatment of basis since 2002) critical epidemic/ contagious diseases such as scabies around 8 its operational areas in Sui, Adhi, Kandhkot, Mazarani, Chachar and Hala fields. Cataract surgeries are also performed at the eye camps. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress  To provide effective healthcare facilities to local women, PPL has PPL initiated a 12week training provided relevant facilities in the marginalized areas. In this scheme for Heavy Transport connection, a female surgical ward was constructed at District Vehicle drivers at National Headquarter Hospital, Khuzdar and a mother and child Logistics Cell Driving School healthcare centre at Kandhkot Town. Dina, Jhelum. Under this  PPL has adopted Marie Adelaide Leprosy Centre’s Triple programme 100 participants, Merger programme housed at Turbat and Panjur, Balochistan living around PPL’s operational and Kandhkot, Sindh. These centres extend free-of-cost areas, will receive an internationally recognized HTV diagnosis and cure for treatment of leprosy, blindness and driving certificate on completion tuberculosis (TB) to local communities. of the course.  The company supports awareness raising campaigns and seminars for polio, malaria and other ailments.  To support viable community health projects and services, PPL has given generous donations to the following: Infrastructure National Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Karachi Rs. 10 million Development Sindh Institute of Urology and Transplantation, Rs. 5 million Performance Karachi & Patient Welfare Society, PPL recognizes that provision of Pakistan Petroleum Limited Aga Khan University meaningful, durable infrastructure Sponsored 20 patients for dialysis at Rs. 3.4 million is a key to development and Zubaida Medical centre, Karachi sustained economic growth, Bait-ul-Sukoon Cancer Hospital, Karachi Rs. 3.5 million especially in the far-flung areas of the country. The company’s Donation to ‘JANUM’ a project of Murshid Hospital Rs. 1 million business takes it to the remotest Donation to Javed Medical Complex, Panjgur Rs. 5.5 million and usually the disadvantaged Constructed TB ward at Jinnah Post Graduate Rs. 5 million areas of the country, where it has Medical Centre focussed on developing infrastructure and civic amenities, Malaria Eradication Campaign around Rs. 0.2 million including roads, bridges, culverts, Chachar Gas Field water supplies and construction of basic facilities, not only for its own use but also for local communities. Enhancing Livelihood Opportunities  PPL provides free-of-cost gas and water supplies to Sui Town and Performance villages around Sui Gas Field. Approximately 2 million gallons of PPL realizes that changing the fate of marginalized drinking water is daily supplied to communities is better addressed through creating livelihood these areas at an annual cost of options on a sustainable basis. The company has invested Rs. 100 million. In order to fully substantially in engaging people, both men and women, in address the need of local earning livelihoods through sustained sources of income. communities, PPL in partnership The company has been supporting the infrastructural and with the GoB is developing a new operational costs of the Women Handicraft and Welfare Centre water scheme for residents of Sui at Sui since 2006. The centre provides skill learning Town with a contribution of Rs. opportunities for young local women who could not complete 62.4 million. their formal education and are interested in enhancing their  To provide free-of-cost potable income potential. A purpose-built facility for this centre has water to Ghabi Dero (GB) and its been constructed at Sui and relevant equipment and teaching surrounding villages near material was provided. Mazarani Gas Field, PPL has PPL is extending infrastructure and maintenance support for initiated a water supply scheme Technical Training Centres (TTC) in Sui and Daultala, near using a bowzer facility which 9 Adhi Field, since the 1990s. The courses offered at these carries water through a safe centres include automobile, wood work and carving, welding, source. The water is stored in two tailoring, car painting and plumbing. Besides, PPL is tanks built in the GB village. The supporting 10 students of TTC-Sui through provision of company bears an annual cost of scholarship for diploma in associate engineering. Rs. 1.5 million for the scheme. UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress staff and workers also Post-disaster Relief contributed one day’s salary amounting to Rs. 6.3 million to Performance PMFRF. Besides, PPL also In times of national emergencies, PPL has always come distributed relief goods, including forward to give generous donations in cash and kind to dry food packages, tents and victims of disaster-hit areas. Following the 2005 earthquake, other basic necessities the company moved a step forward by assisting amounting to Rs. 30 million, to rehabilitation efforts so that affectees can once again affected areas. To provide become productive members of society. Likewise, for the healthcare facility to the flood devastating floods in July 2010, PPL not only provided affectees around its operational generous donations for victims but it is also working on a fields, PPL set up medical camps strategy for their long-term rehabilitation in partnership with in collaboration with local rural local civil society organizations. healthcare centre. The service PPL established and operationalized a Rehabilitation Centre in included on-spot diagnostics, oral and clinical administration of Bagh in 2006 for the October 8, 2005 earthquake victims, medicines and provision of free needing prostheses and orthoses treatment. The centre is medical supplies worth Rs 2.7 managed by Chal Foundation and extends physiotherapy and million to over 6,000 patients. counselling for physical and psychological management of the PPL has also earmarked Rs. 50 disability besides provision of limbs to affectees. Since 2010 Pakistan Petroleum Limited million for the rehabilitation work. PPL has created an endowment fund worth Rs. 24 million to support the centre’s operational cost for another three years. The fund also enables a 50 percent contribution for operational expenses of Pakistan Institute of Prosthetic and Orthotic Services Rehabilitation Services Project, Balakot. PPL extended generous support for flood affectees of July 2010. Initially, the company donated Rs. 20 million in cash to the Prime Minister’s Flood Relief Fund 2010 (PMFRF). PPL 10 Principle 2 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is highly committed to conducting its business in accordance with the highest ethical and legal standards. 11 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 • Awareness session for staff was organized on PAHWW Act ETHICS 2010 and PPL’s harassment policy.  Any suspected violations or actions that create hostile or ACTIONS offensive work environment such as sexual harassment or Adherence to Highest Corporate Values insensitive comments concerning gender, religion, race, disability Performance or age are promptly reported to management that ensures PPL’s vision, mission and values are testament to the appropriate actions in line with importance the company places on corporate ethics. As Standard Operating Procedures.  Violations of the Code of such, it expects its employees to adhere to the following core values:  Recognizing that leadership, empowerment and accountability Business Ethics are viewed seriously and have often resulted are essential for corporate success in disciplinary action and, in  Pursuing the highest standards of ethical behaviour and some cases, led to termination of integrity service.  Considering people as the most important resource Pakistan Petroleum Limited  Valuing creativity and innovation  Committing to excellence in all spheres of performance  Advocating team spirit and work  Respecting environmental imperatives and striving for its conservation Based on the recommendations of the Employee Satisfaction Survey, PPL is planning to hold a series of staff workshops to improve their understanding of the values in order to meet the company’s expectations for excellence. Code of Business Ethics Performance Ethical commitments and values remain the centrepiece of PPL’s code of conduct, compliance to which is mandatory for all employees.  All employees sign and submit annual compliance certificates to ensure clear understanding and acceptance and uphold PPL’s Code of Business Ethics.  PPL requires its employees to maintain an environment free from prejudice, harassment and disruptive activities.  In compliance with Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority’s directives to implement ‘Protection Against Harassment of Women at Workplace (PAHWW) Act 2010’, the company took the following measures: • Circulated brochures on salient features of the Act, including instructions on compliance, to all employees. 12 • Company’s harassment policy was prominently placed on the PPL website and portal. • A three-member committee, including a female staff, was constituted to address staff grievances. Principle 3 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT We acknowledge and respect rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining. We are committed to addressing issues, problems and grievances proactively to regulate the company’s operations with dignity of labour, minimization of animosity and fostering a relationship of trust between 13 management and workers. Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1  All terms and conditions of Industrial Relations employment of workers are reviewed bi-annually and discussed in a friendly environment with CBA. After bilateral negotiations, a ACTIONS handsome increase in wages Freedom Of Association and other allowances are paid to them through settlement.  Policies on salaries and Performance allowances as well as other The company believes in the freedom of opinion and benefits such as medical, leave expression of all stakeholders and seeks to ensure a and travel are duly discussed congenial and equitable working environment as per law: and finalized with the CBA every  The company complies with the Industrial Relations Act, two years. wherein employees are free to join any trade union of their  The Collective Bargaining choice. agreement is concluded through  PPL has a registered trade union, Pakistan Petroleum Workers bilateral negotiations. Union, of which most workers are members.  The company has not witnessed any strike, legal or illegal, or Pakistan Petroleum Limited lockout during the last five years.  No cases of unfair labour Collective Bargaining practices have been filed by the union. Performance  The company provides special leave to CBA union/employees The company management and Collective Bargaining Agent for appearance in court cases, if (CBA) work towards creating a cordial working environment it is party to disputes. for workers at all field locations.  The CBA together with stewards and union members, coordinates with management to improve working conditions and redress job-related issues.  Negotiations of the Charter of Demands are always settled amicably with CBA representatives.  Initiatives for change are undertaken by incorporating the union’s suggestions to ensure hassle-free implementation.  The office bearers of the trade union enjoy freedom to discharge their legal responsibilities without any interference from management. 14 Principle 4 Business should support the UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL supports abolition of child labour and elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour in its areas of operations or by any of its business partners and contractors. 15 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Employees Record of Checking Minimum Wage Rate Against Regulated Amount ACTIONS Procedure for Preventing Performance Under-age Employment The company keeps its wage policy in line with governmental Performance directives to ensure fair corporate governance.  All workers in the company (both The company strictly forbids child labour and actively prevents hiring under-age workers.  All PPL permanent workers are in the adult person (18 years permanent and contract) are employed above the minimum and above) category, in accordance with the law. wage rate as specified by the  To prevent under-age hiring, the ages of all workers are government and are paid confirmed through national identity cards, birth certificates, competitively in accordance with educational certificates or Form ‘B’ issued by the National market norms. Pakistan Petroleum Limited Database and Registration Authority. Procedure for Preventing Forced Labour Performance The company follows strict procedures to prevent forced labour.  Employment agreement clearly states terms and conditions of service, voluntary nature of employment, freedom to leave and any conditions associated with departure or cessation of work.  Employment agreements do not violate any human rights or labour laws.  Either party can terminate employment contracts within the notice period.  Exit notice period for workers is 30 days and for management, professional and technical staff is 90 days.  Exit interviews are taken to solicit feedback and institute corrective measures, if necessary. 16 Principle 6 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to providing equal opportunities for employment as well as growth opportunities without any discrimination on the basis of race, sex, religion, language, social origin, birth or other status. 17 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Recruitment ACTIONS 2 ACTIONS Employees Equal Employment Opportunity Enabling working Performance conditions for PPL’s employment policy provides equal opportunities for diversified workforce employment and discourages all forms of employee discrimination. Performance  PPL is an equal opportunity employer and provides equal As a leading employer and opportunity to women employees. responsible corporate citizen,  Women employees are placed at various levels in the PPL provides an enabling organization, ranging from non-management to senior environment for professional management positions. growth, with equity, security and Pakistan Petroleum Limited  The company employs men and women employees under human dignity, irrespective of gender or religion. standard screening processes based on merit and job suitability.  PPL has a diversified workforce  There are equitable career paths and career opportunities for and does not discriminate on the basis of race, colour, gender, women employees. religion, disability or family status in the recruitment, training or advancement of its employees.  Minorities are given special holidays in accordance with their religious festivals to ensure an open and moderate culture and environment across the company. Career Plan: No Discrimination in Staff Promotions Performance  Hiring and promotions are done on merit, professional performance and qualification. 18 Principle 7 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environmental conservation by complying with National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS). 19 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Environment Management  PPL is an active corporate member of the Pakistan chapter of World Business Council for Sustainable Development. The company works with other corporate partners to bring together organizations in Health, Safety and Environment Pakistan to adopt business practices based on sustainable development principles. During Performance 2010, PPL played a lead role in HSE is recognized as a crucial management responsibility. organizing a Dialogue on Energy The company is committed to the health and safety of all and Environment: An Industryits employees and other personnel involved in its Academia Partnership. operations. Similarly, PPL strives to conserve the natural environment by minimizing its ecological footprint. PPL’s HSE Policy recognizes its management’s commitment to the health and safety of its employees, Environmental contractors and visitors and ensuring environmental Studies Pakistan Petroleum Limited conservation during the company’s operations. The policy is displayed at prominent locations at the head, regional and field offices and can be accessed through the Performance company’s website: www.ppl.com.pk  Initial Environment Examination The company has a well-defined HSE Management System (IEE) and Environment Impact developed in line with internationally recognized ISO 14001 Assessment (EIA) studies are Environment Management System (EMS) and Occupational consistently undertaken for all Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) 18001. The development projects, including system provides a continuous assessment and monitoring drilling and seismic operations process against standard parameters to ensure the highest and projects, in compliance with level of safety and minimal damage to the surrounding the Pakistan Environmental natural environment. Protection Act, 1997. IEE/ EIA The OHSE committee monitors HSE activities in PPL at aim to identify potential environmental impacts at regular intervals and holds quarterly meetings to review development sites and advise results of internal and external audits, carry out key mitigation measures accordingly. investigation and reviews progress and performance against These studies are submitted to set objectives. relevant provincial Environmental PPL was awarded Occupational Safety, Health and Protection Agencies (EPA) for Environment Award in 2010 by Employers’ Federation of approvals. Once approved, IEE/ Pakistan in recognition of improved OHSE performance EIA provide a benchmark for during external audits. regular internal and external monitoring against suggested mitigation measures.  For seismic operations in Enhancing Environmental Awareness Protected Areas (PAs), independent monitoring is Performance organized through specialized  Awareness raising sessions and trainings with special focus consultants to ensure that the on environment and sustainable development are regularly methodologies used in carrying held to apprise staff on key environmental issues, their out the survey and mitigation causes and solutions at various levels, including individual, measures adequately address organizational and national. In addition, HSE safety talks the environmental sensitivities of and bulletin boards are effectively utilized to promote PAs, while meeting legal awareness on environmental conservation. requirements and company’s 20  PPL offices and fields have been declared ‘No Smoking HSE standards. Zones’ and separate smoking areas are designated for  Monthly environmental smokers. The non-smoking policy is displayed in all monitoring is carried out through departments and locations. an external laboratory for UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress compliance with local regulatory requirements. Environmental  Noise monitoring and abatement reports are communicated to concerned EPAs through the Self is ensured for safe working Monitoring and Reporting Tool (SMART) programme with environment in high noise areas. copies to all concerned within the organization for information For this, enclosures and sound and necessary action, if needed. barriers are provided, as appropriate.  To control accidental leakage, adequate control arrangements Environmental Aspect Impact Analysis such as bunds and spill control kits are available at all Performance operational areas. Besides,  The company has devised Environmental Aspect Impact designated teams are trained to Analysis (EAIA) procedure for small to medium operations at handle incidental spills. its fields/ exploration blocks in line with the international EMS and OHSAS standards. EAIA helps in proactively identifying, evaluating potential environmental hazards and taking appropriate precautionary control measures to mitigate environmental impacts. Pakistan Petroleum Limited 21 Principle 8 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to raising environmental awareness within the company, suppliers and dealers through encouragement of eco-friendly practices. 22 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 together with duplex printing to Environmental Responsibility reduce paper usage.  PPL was given the Annual Environment Excellence Award for four years in 2006, 2007, ACTIONS 2009 and 2010 by the National Forum for Environment and Setting up Environment-friendly Models Health on account of its effective environment management Performance practices. PPL ensures proactive acceptance of responsibility and accountability for environmental imperatives. The company recognizes conservation as a key component of operational excellence and actively incorporates industry best practices Evaluation of HSE in its overall operations. Performance  The company-operated latest producing asset, Hala Early Production Facility, inaugurated in February 2010, is designed Performance  The OHSE committee, in line with environmental imperatives. Some of the key features include: Pakistan Petroleum Limited comprising field management • Chlorofluorocarbon (CFC) free natural gas refrigeration and senior management from system in compliance with the Montreal Protocol to address head office, regularly evaluates ozone depletion and global warming. Propane is used activities at various company instead of CFC. locations, provides feedback and • Containment of water (produced during the operations) in monitors compliance. properly lined evaporation ponds, ensuring zero land  Internal audits of departments/ discharge and preventing soil and ground water fields are carried out in line with contamination. the annual HSE audit plan to • Procurement of material according to the NEQS such as assess implementation of HSE generator sets and asbestos free material, including fire suits Management System and and storage sheds. performance. In addition, • Minimal flaring and venting of sales gas during external audits are also carried commissioning phase. out to verify compliance to ISO  NEQS compliant equipments are also procured at the newly 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001 commissioned Kandhkot Field Gas Compressor Station. certifications. HSE inspections, spot checks and suggestion forms are utilized with participation of all staff in Eco-friendly Practices accordance with the guidelines provided in the HSE Management System for Performance eliminating hazards. PPL is gradually moving towards eco-friendly practices to  As a result,12 company fields minimize damage to natural resources through its regular and facilities are certified for ISO operations to support company’s commitment towards 14001 EMS and OHSAS 18001. sustainability: These include Adhi, Mazarani  Tree cutting/ logging is avoided during seismic operations while and Chachar fields, Sui Field site restoration is simultaneously carried out, even for a small Gas Compressor Station, Sui vegetation patch. Production and Sui Field  Tree plantation campaigns are undertaken at all PPL-operated Engineering, Sui Stores and Sui Hospital together with Drilling production and exploration assets to off-set emissions and Operations, Design and improve ambience. Construction, HSE and Projects  For drilling operations, water-based mud, which is known for departments. Certification for 23 compatibility with natural soil, is preferred over oil-based mud, remaining facilities is underway which requires special treatment for disposal. for ensuring continual  Use of biodegradable explosives in exploration activities. improvement.  Promoting electronic communication for official purpose. Principle 9 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to environment-friendly technology to reduce its carbon footprint. 24 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 Environment-friendly Technologies Besides, PPL encourages use of environmental-friendly equipment, especially for its new facilities. Emissions from company equipment, at fields, is also ACTIONS monitored and controlled through in-house maintenance Waste Management and programme and end of pipeline solutions. A defined system for Emission Control monitoring, root cause analysis of excursions in emission test Performance results and subsequent remedial actions is in place for NEQS The company seeks to minimize adverse environmental compliance.  Optimum measures are impact of its operations through the use of innovative technology. undertaken to process waste  The company has a well-defined waste disposal and water to avoid further pollution. management process in place that follows the corporate HSE Usually, effluent water is Standard Operating Procedures, including waste segregation contained in ponds lined with pit at source, waste minimization strategy, preference to recycling line for evaporation. Alternatively, Pakistan Petroleum Limited and reuse, safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste as waste water evaporator is per good practices such as landfill, composting and installed to reduce contamination incineration. of underground water through  All company-operated fields are registered with the Federal EPA seepage of effluents carrying salt under SMART programme for monthly testing through external and oil droplets in the shape of laboratory and reporting of emission against NEQS parameters. emulsion. 25 Principle 10 UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Pakistan Petroleum Limited COMMITMENT PPL is committed to eliminating corruption through implementation of ethical codes and policies that govern business operations and relationships with external stakeholders. 26 Management Systems UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress 1 ACTIONS Employees 2 External Interface ACTIONS Credible Disclosure Code of Ethics of Information to Performance Investors and The company has zero-tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery and extortion. Stakeholders  All employees are required to sign the Code of Business Performance Ethics at the time of joining and submit compliance every year.  PPL ensures transparency in  All employees are forbidden to give or receive any bribes or business transactions and rejects other payments intended to influence business decision or any business practice which may compromise fair judgment. be deemed improper.  All financial reports are properly  No employee can give money to obtain business for the audited by external auditors.  PPL’s Annual Report 2009 was company or receive money for giving company business to an Pakistan Petroleum Limited external agency.  All employees are forbidden to accept gifts from suppliers, chosen as the best report among all categories under the Best contractors, dealers or competitors, who have or wish to have Corporate Report Award, besides a business relationship with the company. securing the top slot among the  Rumour mongering and gossiping is strictly prohibited. five selected companies from the  All employees are required to declare their assets on a Fuel and Energy sector. The annual report also received the yearly basis. Best Presented Accounts Award by the South Asian Federation of Accountants in 2010. Corporate Governance  Quarterly briefing on financial statements is given to Performance management.  Meeting of PPL’s Board of  PPL promotes fair business practices and ensures compliance Directors is held on a quarterly with regulatory and legal requirements. basis.  The company uses internationally acceptable accounting  Media/press briefings and standards to maintain transparency. interviews are given on demand.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly  Consultative meetings with CSR recorded in the books of the company. partners are held for social  The company complies with regulations of the Security and development initiatives. Exchange Commission of Pakistan.  The company ensures timely  Signed statement of compliance is included in the company’s payment of taxes.  Checks such as annual annual reports. declaration of assets, notifying the  No incident of corruption has been reported in the company. company in case of receipt of gifts  All business units were analyzed for risks related to corruption. above a certain value, hospitality  Regular checks by Internal Audit Department are carried out and potential conflicts of interest are in-built into the system to for all departments to ensure compliance with company preempt corruption.  Similar checks and balances are procedures and ensure course correction, if required.  In recognition of its management practices and extensive built into organizational processes, social contributions, PPL was adjudged the winner of the 26th governing procurement, materials and 27th Corporate Excellence Awards in the Fuel and Energy and personnel in accordance with Sector in 2009 and 2010. This award was conferred by MAP. the Manual on Delegation of 27 PPL’s exemplary performance was accredited by MAP, Authority and Public Procurement following a detailed review not only of the company’s Regulatory Authority, a public management systems and policies and procedures but the sector entity to monitor procurement in a transparent efficacy of their implementation. manner. 4th Floor, PIDC House Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road P. O. Box 3942, Karachi-75530 UAN: +92-21-111-568-568 Tel. Nos: +92-21-35651480-89 Fax Nos: +92-21-35680005 & 35682125 Email: info@ppl.com.pk Website: www.ppl.com.pk
