Annual report Annual report 2010 Worldwide presence The extensive global network of offices is one of DNV’s key strengths. In 2010 we brought more decisionmaking power closer to the customers by creating four geographical divisions with their head offices in Oslo, London, Houston and Singapore. Division Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa Houston Figure 01 employees by division Figure 02 employees by nationality Asia, Pacific & Middle East 1,671 19.8% Norwegian 2,119 Polish 223 Norway, Finland and Russia 1,570 18.8% Chinese 721 Swedish 204 DNV Business Assurance Group 1,525 18.0% American 590 Singaporean 195 Europe & North Africa 1,122 13.3% Indian 490 French 194 Americas & Sub-Saharan Africa 889 10.5% British 420 German 190 Independent Business Units 652 7.7% Korean 305 Danish 174 Governance & Global Development 519 6.1% Brazilian 285 Malaysian 105 Sustainability & Innovation 398 4.7% Italian 282 Spanish 95 Corporate Units 94 1.1% Dutch 271 Japanese 91 DNV Total 8,440 100.0% Division Europe and North Africa Division Norway, Finland and Russia Høvik, oslo (headquarters) london Division Asia, Pacific and Middle East singapore offices worldwide employees worldwide 300 8,440 With 300 offices in 100 countries, The number of employees DNV has extensive global reach. was 8,440 at the end of 2010. This is DNV Companies and organisations Companies and authorities all over operating in the global economy the world rely on our independent continue to increase in complexity. assessment and non-compromising New technologies, global value standards of quality, safety and chains and uncertainties related integrity to build the trust and to future regulatory requirements confidence of their stakeholders. are examples of risks and oppor­ tunities that need to be managed. By combining risk methodology, technology expertise and in-depth At the same time, consumers, industry knowledge, we enable our owners and other stakeholders customers to safely and responsibly are adopting a zero tolerance for improve their business performance failure and demand improved and turn risks into rewards. performance, safety, transparency and accountability. It is a balancing As a self-owned independent founda­ act. DNV helps to identify, assess tion, any profits are ploughed back and manage risks in order to into the company, allowing us to invest promote the right balance. a significant share of our revenue in research and development. Our purpose To safeguard life, property and the environment Our vision Global impact for a safe and sustainable future Our values We build trust and confidence We never compromise on quality or integrity We are committed to teamwork and innovation We care for our customers and each other Highlights important contract award Acquisition of renewable Clean Technology Centre after Deepwater Horizon accident energy company opened in Singapore DNV was awarded a contract by the Joint DNV acquired Behnke, Erdman DNV opened a Clean Technology Investigation Team of the departments & Whitaker (BEW) to offer a more Centre to meet the growing demand of the Interior and Homeland Security complete service portfolio for for clean technology innovation in the USA. DNV’s experts conducted renewable energy developments and incubation services in Singapore a forensic investigation into the blowout in North America. BEW’s office in and South East Asia. The Centre preventer and lower marine riser package San Ramon, California is now DNV’s delivers innovative projects fitted to the Macondo well in the Gulf centre of excellence in solar energy, together with partners in the fields of Mexico. The forensic investigation is just power transmission and grid inteof renewable and clean energy, one, albeit important aspect of the much gration for renewable energy. green ship and offshore solutions, broader comprehensive investigation green ports, climate change, and into the causes of the Deepwater Horizon grids and electro mobility. explosion and sinking, which led to the loss of life and a subsequent oil spill. New organisational structure New environmentally Cost efficiency measures friendly ship concepts Implementation of a new organisation DNV presented two ship concepts Due to overcapacity in the world with geographical divisions with the during the year to inspire innovative fleet and the delayed effect of objective to serve our customers environmentally friendly thinking the global economic downturn, better. Elements include to move in the industry. The crude oil tanker DNV’s level of activity in the senior executives closer to customers, concept (Triality) and the container ship newbuilding market fell in to increase the focus on the maritime ship concept (Quantum) also show2010. The company responded by and energy sectors and to build cased LNG as a fuel option – someimplementing efficiency and cost stronger positions within the sustainthing DNV advocated through saving measuers totalling ability domain. DNV Business Assurance various reports and papers during some NOK 500 million. Group is established as a separate DNV the year. entity to support its goal of becoming the world’s leading certification body. Contents who we are what we deliver how we work financial IFC Worldwide presence 18 Ship classification 36 Corporate 50 Financial review 02 This is DNV 22 Oil and gas Responsibility 55 Notes 03 Highlights 26 Cleaner energy 38 Managing 66 Auditor’s report 04 Key figures 30 Certification our people 67 Global Reporting 05 Services 32 Sustainability 40 Environmental Initiative (GRI) 06 CEO’s outlook management Index 08 Board of Directors’ report 44 Health and safety 70 Contacts 12 Organisation 14 History Key figures Figure 01 revenue (million NOK) Figure 02 operating profit (million NOK) 9,792 810 Figure 01 revenue; last five years Figure 02 operating profit; last five years MNOK MNOK 10,283 9,792 1,188 10,000 9,560 1,200 1,108 8,126 1,000 8,000 7,297 873 794 810 800 6,000 600 4,000 400 2,000 200 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Figure 03 equity ratio (%) Figure 04 number of employees 70.6% 8,440 Figure 03 equity ratio; last five years Figure 04 number of employees; last five years % employees 70.6 70 67.4 10,000 64.9 61.0 8,867 8,694 8,440 60 53.6 8,000 7,691 50 6,765 6,000 40 30 4,000 20 2,000 10 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 4 Main services Maritime energy As a classification society, we help We provide solutions to help energy shipowners, yards, authorities and companies manage technical and business risks, safety and environmental perforother maritime players to manage mance across the entire value chain. risks in all phases of a ship’s life. Services are to both the oil and gas sector and the renewable energy sector. Services include: Services include: Classification of ships and mobile offshore units Certification of materials and components Verification Technical, business risk, and environmental Safety, health and environmental services advisory services Asset risk management Training and competence-related services Technology qualification Fuel testing Enterprise risk management Software and IT risk management Software and IT risk management Business assurance CERTIF Sustainability IED CE RTIF IE D As a certification body, we help We help businesses address two of create trust and confidence and assure the world’s most pressing concerns: sustainable performance for companies safeguarding the environment across a variety of industry sectors. and balancing the needs of business and society. Services include: Management system certification Services include: Product certification Supply chain certification and assessment Climate change and environmental services Food safety certification Corporate Responsibility Training Enterprise risk management Healthcare accreditation and rating services 5 A balancing act One certainty follows in the aftermath of the tragic Deepwater Horizon disaster: offshore drilling will never be the same – even outside the Gulf of Mexico. Tougher safety and environmental protection legislation is on its way, but it is not clear how it should be enforced. This could entail changes for all industry players, including independent classification, certification and verification bodies such as DNV, and as such creates risks and opportunities that we are focused on addressing in the coming period. New environmental protection regulabunkering infrastructure. However, LNG tions will also be a major driver of change is already a proven solution within specific in the maritime industry in the years to come. segments and we believe that LNG fuel will CEO’s Ballast water management and emission be a game changer in shipping addressing outlook restrictions will require new solutions with respect to ship designs and operations, proseveral environmental challenges. The present and expected future cost of pulsion fuels, power generation, materials natural gas is a key enabler. Recently, the and equipment. The green agenda is a cornernatural gas market has undergone dramatic stone of DNV’s strategy. We support legischange mainly triggered by the massive lators and commercial players with a broad shale gas resources found in North America range of initiatives and services to meet the and elsewhere around the world. DNV’s independent status and industry environmental and sustainability challenges Gas is the cleanest of fossil fuels, but the and technology experience were called facing the maritime industry. This has to go need for affordable renewable energy sources upon in the Deepwater Horizon response hand in hand with cost-efficiency in a shipping remains essential in addressing the pressing operations and in the investigation into market hit by overcapacity in most tonnage climate change and energy security challenges. the disaster. We are also providing input segments. Again, it is about striking the We see strong indications that we will on key elements for a future offshore right balance. reach an irreversible tipping point within safety regime in the Gulf of Mexico and the next ten years if we do not implement other regions. We advocate a risk-based Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) as marine effective solutions to curb greenhouse gas and less prescriptive approach that ensures fuel is one of many new solutions that emissions. This is a balancing act where the safer operations while accommodating will gain ground in the shipping industry, world cannot afford to fail. the rapid technological developments in particular for new ship construction. I am an optimist about finding technoin the field of offshore drilling and Some challenges still have to be solved logical solutions to many of the world’s production. It is a balancing act. – in particular related to a global LNG challenges. I am convinced that, collectively, 6 commercial enterprises, regulators, research we aim to obtain certification of our on implementing the new organisational institutions and others are capable of finding occupational health and safety managestructure and making it work optimally. sustainable solutions. The lack of stable ment system and to use our Corporate Another organisational change was the global governance that seems to be emerging Integrity Profile tool on our own operaestablishment of our certification business is therefore worrying, because it creates tions. as a separate legal entity in order to allow uncertainty about the future policy framefor more autonomy and flexibility. This is work, both for regulators and commercial Nevertheless, it is through our services to enable increased efficiency and faster enterprises. and business performance that we have growth in a consolidating certification the most impact on delivering on our vision market, where DNV aims to become the DNV addresses the climate change chalof having a global impact for a safe and world’s leading certification body. Growth lenge in numerous ways: firstly, through sustainable future. One of DNV’s chalalso characterises our emerging healthcare the services, best practices and standards lenges in the next few years will be to activities. From established positions in the we provide within the fields of renewable secure ships and mobile offshore units to US and UK, we plan to launch healthcare related services to more geographical markets over the next few years. DNV provides risk management DNV provides risk management services to industrial businesses, helping services to industrial businesses, helping them to balance risks and opportunities. Given our independent status, we also act them to balance risks and opportunities. on behalf of authorities and legislators and thereby take on the role of being an objective voice for business and society. energy, energy efficiency, climate change DNV Class in a fiercely competitive, costCombining technology and industry insight and sustainability; secondly, by applying focused market, while meeting our strict with high integrity, is almost always a these standards and best practices for quality targets. That includes being the complex undertaking. Few do it better sustainability in our own operations. best performing class society measured by than DNV and that is why we thrive when Our commitment to the principles of the port state detentions. A key measure in performing this balancing act. UN Global Compact, our recently certified 2010 was the reorganisation to serve our environmental management system and customers better, to secure better utiliour WE Do programme for employees sation of our resources and bring decisionto reduce their private environmental making authority closer to our customers. footprint are all examples of that. In 2011, There will be a continuous focus this year Henrik O. Madsen, CEO 7 Board of Directors’ report 2010 saw DNV strengthen its leading position in helping companies worldwide to manage business, operational, technical and societal risks. The contracting shipping market interrupted several years of growth in revenue, but early measures to achieve cost efficiency ensured that the company is well placed to reach its ambitious strategic goals. same time, there were significantly fewer position as an innovative force for a greener cancellations than in 2009. But there are still and more sustainable maritime industry. board of multiple challenges facing the shipping industry. With a world order book of nearly 7,500 Oil and gas companies decreased their spending in 2009 by 18% after the surge in directors’ report ships there will most likely be an increasing oversupply and potentially pressure on freight 2007–2008. In 2010, spending rose again by 14%, driven mainly by the national oil comrates in the coming years. panies with strong capital resources. The oil DNV managed to secure 302 new contracts price has recovered from less than USD40 per in 2010, corresponding to 7 million gross tonnes barrel at the end of 2008 to over USD90 at (GT), which gives an estimated market share the end of 2010. Verification, offshore classifiof 15.1% measured in numbers and 17.2% cation, asset risk management, enterprise risk Companies need to have safe and sustainable measured in GT. The DNV classed fleet grew management and technology qualification operations and meet increasing stakeholder from 5,725 (136.2 m. GT) ships and mobile offservices have contributed to a growth of 5% scrutiny. Services for identifying, assessing shore units in 2009 to 5,923 ships (145.6 m. GT) for DNV energy sector services in the past year. and managing risk are in high demand, and in 2010. This represents a growth of 3.4% The tragic Deepwater Horizon accident in DNV is in a unique global position to respond and 6.9% respectively. A programme to the Gulf of Mexico last April will lead to major to most of these needs. secure the transfer of more vessels to DNV changes in offshore safety regimes for deep Class was initiated and has resulted in a water activities. DNV’s key role in the aftermath Market positions. The maritime industry significant improvement compared to the of the incident is believed to have enhanced its witnessed a recovery in 2010, with more activpast ten years. position in the North American energy market. ity in the market than previously expected. Continued efforts to promote LNG as a DNV further strengthened its position in the The increased availability of financing cleaner fuel for vessels strengthened DNV’s growing renewable and cleaner energy seccombined with large discounts in the ship position within this domain. The development tors, notably in wind energy certification and newbuilding market resulted in more than and showcasing of a container and a VLCC technology services. The acquisition of the 2,000 newbuilding contracts globally. At the concept ship helped to strengthen DNV’s North American renewable energy consultancy 8 Behnke, Erdman & Whitaker Engineering, Inc. NOK 6,261 million, or 71% of its total assets. regimes during a rolling three-year period. (BEW) further contributed to this. Accredited The equity increased by NOK 120 million in DNV intends to be the number one classifimanagement system certification represents 2010, mainly due to unrecognised net gains cation society measured by revenue from class close to 15% of DNV’s total revenue, positioning on the plan assets in the defined benefit activities. In addition, the company aims to DNV among the top three certification bodies pension plans. grow its advisory services that help shipping in the world in all industry sectors. The increased The accounts of the parent company, companies run safe, clean and efficient focus on cost efficiency and adding value Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, show a profit operations. Based on these measures, DNV to the customers has enabled DNV to tackle after tax of NOK 61 million, which will be intends to demonstrate that it is the world’s fiercer competition and increase its revenue. transferred to other equity. The Board of leading classification society. 2010 also saw DNV enter into a strategic Directors confirms that the company is a Sustainability has been singled out as an area alliance with JACO, a Japanese certification going concern and that the financial statewhere DNV aspires to take a leading future provider. Negotiations on a strategic partments have been prepared on this assumption. position, not only by building on its existing nership with Intertek were not successful. The Board of Directors acknowledges the strengths within climate change services, Within the area of climate change, DNV hard work performed by DNV’s dedicated healthcare and corporate responsibility, continues to be an international market staff. Based on the goals achieved in 2010, the but also by actively building completely leader in the validation and verification of Board of Directors has decided to pay a bonus new positions during the strategy period. greenhouse gas emission reduction projects. of 2.5% of basic salary to each employee. Based on the approach of Risk Based CertifiFurthermore, the Board regards DNV’s cation™, DNV has succeeded in differentiating Operational efficiency and innomarket positions as satisfactory and the itself as a management system certification vation to mitigate the recession. financial status as strong. Both aspects give body that provides added value. Its goal is The general downturn in the global economy the company a robust platform from which to become the world’s leading certification hit DNV with around a nine months delay, to achieve its strategic growth targets and body. Key success criteria will be to continue notably because record-high order books for maintain its independence as a financially to focus and grow in the food and beverage new ships and mobile offshore units prostrong and trusted foundation. segment and to expand in the product longed the high activity level. This level was certification segment. significantly lower in 2010, and will fall even Strategy. The 2010–2014 strategy was further in 2011. However, DNV has responded formulated in 2009, but underwent a review Organisation. On 1 April 2010, DNV effectively by introducing cost cutting measures in 2010. The strategy clearly defines the mariimplemented a new organisation. The overintroduced in 2009, aiming to increase organitime and energy sectors as DNV’s focus areas. riding objective of the reorganisation was to sational efficiency and maintain financial These are industries where the company has bring DNV closer to its main markets and robustness. These measures were maintained a strong position built on in-depth knowledge customers by having four geographical diviin 2010 and included moderate salary increases, of the business drivers and the technologies sions. In addition, Division Governance and re­duced travel expenses for internal activities, required for safe and sustainable operations. Global Development was set up to support restricted external recruitment and local The services to the maritime and energy sectors the maritime and energy operations in the capacity adjustments, with cost savings represented 73% of the business volume in 2010. geo-divisions, as well as to establish governance totalling some NOK 500 million. During the strategy period, the strongest for DNV’s services. Division Sustainability and DNV continued to invest around 6% of growth is expected to come from the energy Innovation includes climate change, healthcare, its revenue in research and development sector, spanning upstream and downstream bio risk, corporate responsibility and risk activities. Extraordinary innovation projects oil and gas markets as well as renewable and management services. It also incorporates were also launched as a means of taking a cleaner energies. DNV aims to be the world’s DNV’s strategic research unit. proactive approach to the economic down­ lead­ing risk management service provider The market for accredited management turn, and these focused on the novel applito the oil and gas industry in challenging system certification is exposed to extensive cation of existing technology. operational environments. That includes competition from both global certification revenue growth of more than 20% year-oncompanies and local providers. Certification Financial performance. Difficulties in year in the deep water, pipeline and ageing services are organised in a separate Business the global economy and the expected reduced offshore structure seg­ments, while mainAssurance unit. The Business Assurance unit activity in the ship new-building sector contritaining a dominant share of the market for which has been established as a separate group buted to a 5% drop in operating revenue to NOK classification of mobile offshore units in harsh of companies. The main objective is to obtain 9,792 million from NOK 10,283 million in 2009. and deep water environments. DNV aspires the flexibility, autonomy and efficiency The operating profit decreased by NOK 298 to become the world’s largest provider of needed to achieve growth and profitability. million or 27%, from NOK 1,108 million in 2009 combined certification and technology At year-end 2010, DNV had 8,440 employees, to NOK 810 million in 2010. This represents services to the wind energy industry. compared to 8,866 the previous year, reflectan operating margin of 8.3%. After experiencing something of a crisis ing recruitment restrictions and local capacity The sound return on the short-term financial in 2009, the maritime sector showed signs adjustments to mitigate market developments and constraints. The turnover of personnel was 8.2% in 2010 compared to 6.4% in 2009, the increase being partly due to the actions Sustainability has been singled initiated by DNV. The sickness absence rate remains low at 2.2%. The company has 99 out as an area where DNV aspires nationalities represented in its staff. DNV has to take a leading future position. an equal opportunity policy for all employees, irrespective of their nationality, gender or age. As a result of systematic efforts to improve diversity in the organisation, 67% of all maninvestment portfolio and positive interest marof recovery in 2010, much earlier than agers are from countries outside Scandinavia. gins on the forward exchange contracts are the anticipated. However, new-building contracThe percentage of female employees is relamain contributors to the net financial income of ting is expected to be at a dramatically lower tively stable at 32% of the total workforce, NOK 101 million in 2010. The net profit after tax level in the coming years compared to the while 21.4% of all managers are female, for 2010 is NOK 613 million, compared to NOK record years of 2007 and 2008. As a consecompared with 19.7% in 2009. 854 million in 2009 and NOK 642 million in quence, the strategy focuses on securing 2008. The cash flow for 2010 is positive. more ships in operation to DNV Class, while Environment. DNV affects the environDNV has a strong balance sheet with no maintaining high quality levels, measured by ment through its services and operations and interest-bearing debt and a total equity of being the best performer in port state control through the behaviour of its employees. DNV’s 9 own activities do not have a significant negative brand risk. The risks are systematically updated to consume more energy. Globalisation conimpact on the environment. Procedures and and handled on an operational level in the tinues with few signs of national or regional programmes for continuous improvement regions and divisions and then aggregated, protection measures being introduced. are in place for waste handling and energy monitored and managed at a corporate level. However, it is too early to call off the crisis, savings in the international network of offices and there is still a risk of a challenging as part of DNV’s environmental management Corporate Responsibility. Corporate financial market in the future. system, which is certified to the ISO 14001 Responsibility (CR) can be defined as the overall The Board of Directors believes that there standard. There has also been tighter control sum of an enterprise’s financial, environmental will be a continued difficult period for shipping on air travel, and advanced video conference and social responsibilities. It entails a commitahead with overcapacity and hard compefacilities have been introduced to reduce nonment to promote sustainable economic developtition in most shipping and service segments, essential air travel. The company’s largest ment and to collaborate with employees, their including ship classification. Shipbuilding impact on the environment is estimated to families and the local community and societyhas historically been more supply driven than be indirectly through the services it provides. at-large to help foster a better quality of life. demand driven which delays the recovery DNV’s impact on its customers’ environmental DNV signed the UN Global Compact in 2003, of this and other segments. footprint has been estimated for key services. and in addition to its financial reporting DNV Investments in the energy sectors have For the third consecutive year, DNV made is committed to reporting according to the returned to high levels and will create many NOK 40 million available for its employees principle of triple-bottom line reporting, based opportunities for DNV in the coming years, to introduce emission-reduction measures in on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This within both the oil and gas and the renewable their private life. 3,705 employees applied for represents a balance which increasingly energy sectors. The environmental and sustainfunds in 2010. Typical initiatives have been to focuses on the necessity of aligning corporate ability aspects of business will increase in cycle to work, to buy energy-efficient home goals with those of society. The reporting for importance and DNV will continue to develop appliances, hybrid cars and solar water 2010 meets the requirements of level B in the and take on roles and positions in these areas. heaters and to improve insulation in homes. GRI reporting system. The Board of Directors believes that DNV’s performance in 2010 demonstrates that DNV Corporate risk management. DNV Future outlook. In general the financial has the resource base, the capabilities and the continuously monitors its risk exposure on situation in the world has improved over the aligned strategies needed in order to respond corporate and operational levels. This includes last 12 months. The volume of international effectively to the challenges ahead. the SHE risk, market risk, political risk and trade is increasing and the world continues The Board of Directors of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, Høvik, 5 April 2011 Atle Bergshaven Leif-Arne Langøy C. Thomas Rehder John H. Wiik Hilde M. Tonne Chairman Frances Morris-Jones Christine Maidment Odd Sund Sille Grjotheim David McKay The Council. The main functions of the three members to the Control Committee Council are to supervise the activites of the from among its own members. Members of Governance Foundation, to appoint the Chairman and the non-executive directors of the Board of the Control Committee cannot hold any other position in the Foundation than their memberDirectors and to approve amendments to the ship of the Council. The Chairman of the DNV is incorporated as a Norwegian private DNV Statutes. The Council has 40 members Control Committee is Mr Erling Øverland. foundation, and is as such self-owned and who represent customers and other stakeindependent. Its governance structure holders. Six of the members are elected from The Election Committee. The Election ensures that no single stakeholder group among the employees. The membership Committee submits recommendations on all can have decisive control. structure ensures that no single stakeholder elections to be held by the Council. It consists group has decisive control. The acting of three members elected from among the The Board of Directors. This is the Chairman of the Council is Mr Walter Qvam. Council members who hold no other office in foundation’s highest authority. The Board the Foundation, and of the Council Chairman of Directors consists of a Chairman and nine The Control Committee. The Control and Vice Chairman. The Election Committee members. Six of these are non-executive Committee supervises the Foundation’s Chairman is always the same as the Council directors elected from different business finances, accounts and audit activities, and Chairman, currently Mr Walter Qvam. sectors served by DNV. Four members are inspects records, correspondence, accounting elected from among the employees. The vouchers and other information to the extent See full member lists on: Chairman of the Board is Mr Atle Bergshaven. it finds necessary. The Council appoints dnv.com / moreondnv / profile / management 10 2 3 4 5 1 6 8 7 9 10 Board of Directors 1 Atle Bergshaven 2 Christine Maidment 4 Hilde M. Tonne 5 John H. Wiik 7 C. Thomas Rehder 8 Sille Grjotheim Chairman of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board Member of the Board since of Directors. Member since 2009, elected by since 2008. Executive VP since 2003. Managing since November 2009. 2007. Elected by the Norweof the Board since 2003. the European employof Telenor Group since Director of the Managing partner of gian employees of DNV. Chairman and CEO of ees outside Norway. HR 2007, Deputy head of Norwegian Hull Club. Carsten Rehder GmbH Head of the Department the Bergshav Group. Manager for DNV UK. Asia region, Telenor Chairman of the board & Co KG. Member of the Rules and Standards at DNV Member of the boards Joined DNV in 1984. Group since 2010. of Fana Sparebank. board of the Hamburg Høvik. Joined DNV in 1993. of the Norwegian ShipFormerly VP of Hydro Shipbrokers’ Association, owners’ Association and 3 David McKay and Saga. Member 6 Leif-Arne Langøy member of the council 9 Frances Morris-Jones North of England P&I Elected Deputy Member of the boards of Vice Chairman and of German Shipbrokers’ Member of the Board since Club. Council chairman of the Board in June Grameenphone Ltd member of the Board Association. Member of June 2009. Global Business of the Norwegian Hull 2009 by the employees (Bangladesh), Dtac Plc since June 2010. the board of BIMCO Development Manager of Club and Council member of DNV outside Europe, (Thailand) and Digi.Com Former chairman and member of the Conoco-Phillips. Formerly of Intertanko and and joined the Board in BHD (Malaysia). and CEO of Aker ASA. council (plenum) of the VP of BP. Newcastle University. August 2010 following Former chairman of Hamburg Chamber of the death of Yan Ma. Aker Solutions ASA. Commerce. 10 Odd Sund Joined DNV in 1990. Vice chairman of The Elected Member of the Board Principal Surveyor based Resource Group AS. by the Norwegian employees in Houston, Texas. Chairman and CEO in June 2009. Principal engiof Lapas AS. neer at the Høvik office. Joined DNV in 1981. Aknowledgement. The Board of Directors was shocked and deeply saddened to learn of the sudden passing of Yan Ma on 26 June 2010. Yan Ma served as employee representative on the Board of Directors from 2007 and was a great resource to DNV and the Board and will be greatly missed. 11 Organisation Since 1 April 2010, DNV has been organised into six divisions: four geographical divisions, a ‘Sustainability and Innovation’ division and a ‘Governance and Global Development’ division. DNV Business Assurance Group AS has been established as a separate entity. Division Norway, Finland and Russia Division Sustainability and Innovation DNV Petroleum Services offers fuel management solutions and performs fuel quality Serving primarily the maritime and energy This division provides climate change, test services and bunker quality surveys. sectors. The divisional head office is environmental services, corporate responsico-located with the corporate headquarters bility, risk management, biorisk and healthDNV IT Global Services provides IT risk at Høvik, Norway. care services. It also comprises both DNV’s management services. Research and Innovation unit and the Division Asia, Pacific and Middle East Sustainability Centre in Beijing. DNV Business Assurance Group AS Serving primarily the maritime and energy Division Governance and Global Development Comprises DNV’s certification business, sectors. The divisional head office is in and was established as a separate legal Singapore. Established to drive the global development entity with its own management system. of services and technology expertise, enable This was to create greater flexibility and Division Americas and Sub-Saharan Africa cross-divisional synergies and drive operational autonomy to grow both organically and synergies and consistency throughout DNV. non-organically. The entity is headed by Serving primarily the maritime and energy Thomas Voght-Eriksen, who reports to the sectors. The divisional head office is in Independent Business Units CEO. A Governing Committee for the entity Houston, US. has been established comprising DNV’s CEO, DNV Software develops software systems the HR director, the CFO and the head of Division Europe and North Africa for design, strength assessment, risk Business Assurance Group. analysis, asset life cycle management Serving primarily the maritime and energy and knowledge-based engineering. sectors. The divisional head office is in London, UK. Management: The Executive Committee The Executive Committee deals with issues In order to reduce travel, DNV has invested in advanced is the CEO’s management team. It consists and decisions related to strategy, budgeting, video conferencing facilities in all of its main locations. Many of the Executive Committee meetings in 2010 of the President, who also acts as the deputy financial development, investments, pricing were conduced via video conferencing, connecting CEO; the Chief Operating Officer of each strategy, major management appointments Høvik, Singapore, London and Houston. of the divisions; the Corporate HR and and issues related to markets and customers. Organisation Director; and the Chief Financial Officer. 12 CEO President Finance and legal human resources Business Assurance Group Division Asia, Pacific Division Americas and Division Europe Division Norway, Division Division Indenpendent and Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa Finland and Russia Sustainability Governance and Business Units and Innovation Global Development Petroleum Services IT Global Services Software Executive Committee Henrik O. Madsen Tor E. Svensen Jostein Furnes Cecilie B. Heuch CEO President Finance and legal human resources Appointed CEO of DNV Appointed President in CFO since 2006. He joined Director of Corporate HR in 2006. He joined DNV in 2010 and has acted as DNV in 1988 and has held and SHE since 2006. She 1982 and has held senior deputy CEO since 2006. various financial positions previously worked for Norsk positions in all of DNV’s Chief Operating Officer both at Høvik and abroad. Hydro in Norway and Italy. business areas, both at of the Maritime business headquarters and at area since 2003. Has held regional level. senior positions both at Høvik and abroad. Division Asia, Pacific Division Americas and Division Europe Division Norway, Division Sustainability Division Governance and Middle East Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa Finland and Russia and Innovation and Global Development Remi Eriksen Elisabeth H. Tørstad Ioannis Kourmatzis Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen Bjørn K. Haugland Olav Nortun Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Appointed COO of Division Appointed COO of Division Appointed COO of Division Appointed COO of Division Appointed COO of Division Appointed COO of Division Asia, Pacific and Middle East Americas and Sub-Saharan Europe and North Africa Norway, Finland and Russia Sustainability and Innovation Governance and Global in 2010 after being COO Africa and joined the Execand joined the Executive and joined the Executive in 2010 after being COO Development and joined of the Energy business area utive Committee in 2010. Committee in 2010. Held Committee in 2010. Has of DNV Business Assurance the Executive Committee since 2006. Joined DNV in Appointed Head of the the position as Regional held several senior positions since 2008. Former Regional in 2010. Previously Maritime 1990 and has held various Cleaner Energy unit in 2006. Maritime Manager for within the energy business Manager and Area Chair Technical Director. Has held positions in Norway and Has held several other Southern Europe since 2001. area and worked for DNV in for Region Greater China. several senior positions at in the US. seniors positions since Has also been Regional Japan. Joined DNV in 1990. Joined DNV in 1990. Høvik and abroad. Joined she joining DNV in 1995. Manager of Japan, the NetherDNV in 1990. lands and North America. Joined DNV in 1976. 13 The history DNV’s history is rooted in the maritime 200 plo ees em 19 47 sector, starting in 1864. Since then, b y DNV has added new dimensions to its business: Energy, Internationalisation, Certification and lately Sustainability. 1948 The International Maritime Organisation 1864 DNV was established 1945 After the war, this (IMO) was created. by Norwegian insurance compacooperation culminated in a nies as a national alternative to proposal by Lloyd’s to buy DNV, foreign classification societies. and thereafter to a liberalisation 1951 Georg F. Vedeler was process in DNV and the work appointed managing director of aimed at developing new class DNV. He introduced a scientific 1867 Agents, and later rules. The cooperation between approach to ship construction. permanent surveyors, Lloyd’s and DNV was subseHis vision was to build safer appointed in a number quently terminated in 1952. ships in a more profitable way. of countries to serve Norwegian vessels abroad. 1940 During the Second 1953 As the first classifiWorld War, DNV was divided cation society to do so, DNV 1870 Steamships were in two; one half in Newcastle, published new rules, based introduced in the 1870’s, UK, and one half remained in on an analytical and theoand most of the sailing the occupied Norway. This led to retical scientific approach. ships had been phased out a close cooperation with Lloyd’s. by the 1920’s. 1954 DNV took a signif1920 From 1920 to 1940 icant and pioneering step 1872 Samuel Plimsoll diesel engines were introduced by establishing a dedicated started the process leading as propulsion on new ships. Research department. to the compulsory load DNV was quick to adopt this lines on every British ship, new technology and ‘engineerput into force in 1891. ing surveyors’ were recruited. 400 ees 1864–1880 First 1914 The first International plo em 1957 by phase of growth, both in Convention for the Safety of shipping in general and Life at Sea (SOLAS) was adopted in the DNV Classed fleet. in response to the sinking of the Titanic. 1883 Norway had the third largest fleet 1912 Following the Titanic in the world, measured in registered tonnage. disaster, safety at sea became the subject of increasing public 1964 DNV was finally united in one headquarters. concern, and grew from simply The DNV fleet was almost 1888 First DNV surveyor safeguarding the ship to safeguarding passengers. 20 million gross tonnes (GT), to operate in China. twice as much as in 1960. 1900 Close to 100% of 1910 The Norwegian 1967 The golden age parliament voted on the DNV Classed ships were for both shipping and DNV. regulations for compulsory for Scandinavian shipowners. The internationalisation Norwegian load lines. and expansion of the Society took off. 1907 DNV loosened its ties to the insurance clubs and became a regular certification 1968 Foundation of the International Association and classification society. of Class Societies (IACS). maritime 1864– 1864–1970 1970–1980 1980–1990 1990–2004 CERTIF IED CE RTIF IE D 2004–2004 CERTIF IED CE RTIF IE D certification 1990– CERTIF IED CE R TIF IE D 1981 DNV Petroleum 2010 The Deepwater Horizon Services was established addaccident in the Gulf of Mexico. ing marine fuel management 1987 The ISO standards to DNV’s expertise. were introduced worldwide by the ISO organisation, and DNV 2010 DNV acquires Behnke, quickly grew its management Erdman and Whitaker Engineer1980 The Alexander system certification activities ing (BEW) to strengthen its Kielland platform disaster in based on these standards. position within solar, wind, the North Sea. Regulations This became an independent power transmission and grid were subsequently improved. business area in DNV in 1995. integration. 1992 DNV replaced Det 2010 DNV opens Clean Norske Veritas as the global Technology Centre in Singapore. brand name and a new logo was introduced. 0 1997 Managing Risk was 8,m5pl0oee0s e 01 introduced as DNV’s corporate by 2 promise, reflecting DNV’s core competence of identifying, Internationalisation 1980– assessing and managing risk. 1978 DNV became an 2000 International owners independent foundation. represent 70% of the DNV fleet. 2009 DNV opens a Sustainability Centre in Beijing. 1975–1979 The Berge 2002 DNV-classed vessels Istra and Berge Vanga accidents pass 5,000. 2008 DNV approved to occured. accredit hospitals in the US. 0 2008 DNV acquires 1,m0p0 loe es 2 Global Energy Concepts, a US based wind power consule 97 by 1 ting firm with 95 employees. sustainability 2004– 2006 DNV IT Global Services was created to focus 2004 DNV became the first on addressing IT risks. company to be accredited by 1970 DNV entered the oil the United Nations Framework business, in both the offshore Convention on Climate Change 2005 DNV acquired Cortest installations and cargo sectors, to validate climate change Columbus Technologies (CCT) – including pipelines and vessels. mitigation projects under specialising in corrosion control, This developed into a new the CDM (Clean Development pipeline and plant integrity important market. Mechanism) scheme. analyses and material evaluation for the pipeline industry. 2004 Risk Based Certification introduced, representing a revitalisation of management system certification. 0 5,m8pl0oee4s 2004 DNV-classed vessels e by 2 00 passes the 100 million gross tonnes mark. Energy 1970– 16 What we do We enable our customers to turn risks into rewards by helping them to identify, assess and manage their most critical risks. That includes assisting customers in balancing a wide range of technical, operational, business and societal aspects to optimise performance. In addition, we verify or certify compliance with standards, rules and regulations in order to safeguard life, property and the environment. As such, we perform a balancing act between business and society. ship classification oil and gas cleaner energy business assurance sustainability 17 Towards greener shipping Investing in innovation and technology was one of our responses to a crisis-hit shipping market. This resulted among other things in presentations of two new concept ships in 2010, with the intention of inspiring the industry with innovative new ideas. As a result of the large number of contracts years, and combined with an increased drive for signed before the financial crisis in 2008, the further globalisation, we expect that shipping total global fleet increased by 76 million GT demand will continue to grow in the long term. focus on ship in 2010 – more than in any previous single year. classification At the end of last year, more than 60,000 vessels were trading globally. Overcapacity is Extended requirements, regulatory changes and the need for innovation. a problem in almost all the main ship segments, Shipping is a unique mode of transport due and most freight rates are at low levels. to its high energy efficiency and low CO2 Even though 2010 was much more positive emissions per unit cargo carried. Despite this, than expected, this trend may not continue. work has continued throughout 2010 within In 2011, global growth is expected to be around the framework of the IMO to develop an The shipping market in 2010 – an Early 3% while the fleet growth will most likely energy efficiency index for ships. An agreerecovery? Although the maritime industry be 7% – compared to 8.5% in 2010. Hence, ment on such a technical regulation during faced major challenges in 2010, contracts for shipping must expect to meet heavy waves 2011 will represent a significant step forward more than 2,000 new ships were signed on ahead and the whole industry, including class, in curbing future CO2 emissions from ships. a global scale. This was around double that of has to be prepared for ups and downs. During 2010, DNV has participated in a number the year before, but still significantly less than In addition, shipping is expected to feel the of studies of various abatement options for the peak years of 2006 and 2007. There were effects of last summer’s oil catastrophe in the reducing emissions from ships. A major policy also much fewer cancellations and lay-ups Gulf of Mexico. Risk management and new safety point still open for discussion is: can shipping than in 2009. regulations will emerge, and zero tolerance for achieve the required CO2 emission reductions The number of vessels sold for recycling large scale oil pollution will be more in focus through technical and operational means or increased to around 1,400 in 2010. This is than ever before. will taxes or other market based measures more than twice the average figures for Ships carry more than 80% of the world cargo be introduced? This has been a major part 2005 – 2008, but is still far less than the figures and do so with an efficiency superior to any of policy discussions during 2010 and will from the mid 80s, when the maritime industry other means of transport. As the world’s popucontinue in 2011 at a global level through was also facing challenging times. lation is still growing by some 1 billion every 14 IMO as well as at a regional level. 18 In addition to emissions to air, another New business opportunities will emerge as demand for clean technology innovation major concern is the practical implemena result of the widening of the Panama Canal. and incubation services in South East Asia. tation of ballast water treatment. The This expansion project will double this canal’s The centre works on innovative projects International Convention for the Control capacity by 2014, impacting trade routes and together with partners in the fields of green and Management of Ships’ Ballast Water the whole maritime industry. shipping, green ports, renewable and clean and Sediments, is probably one of the most New developments like large-scale offenergy, climate change adaptation and carbon significant challenges facing the maritime shore wind farms are becoming increasingly markets. industry over the next 3-4 years. common worldwide. The installation of these A global network of experienced chief The convention will require compliance wind turbines requires specialised vessels surveyors was established in 2010. The main by all ships and offshore structures designed where the combined experience from shipping purpose has been to provide a high service to carry ballast water, regardless of age and offshore can be utilised. level through a rapid local response on opeand size. It is expected that the criteria for rational and technical issues related to DNVratification will be met by mid 2011, with Technology innovation. DNV has been classed ships in operations. By doing so, entry into force one year later. The decision quick to respond to the changes in the marthe decisions have been moved closer to by the US and Canada to establish an ECA itime industry in recent years. More importhe customers. along their 200 mile coastline limit represents tantly, DNV continued in 2010 to position Energy efficiency and safety excellence a considerable expansion of regional emisitself for future changes facing the industry. have been major areas of focus for our advisory sion control schemes, having initially only Ballast water management and type services throughout 2010. Useful tools like been inforced in the Northern European and approval of treatment technologies is one Marlen, which analyses the transport chain, Baltic areas. Combined with the decision by such area. So far, we have been the approval and a simulation tool have been launched. the EU to implement a 0.1% sulphur limit in body for 15 treatment systems, and are providSafety Insight is another important service ports for all ships, the pressure on shipping ing IMO with input on the development of to detect facts behind the companies’ safety to find new solutions in the form of exhaust new guidelines. culture in order to initiate safety improvements. gas cleaning or alternative fuels has increased In 2010, DNV was the first classification significantly. society to publish rules for the classification of ships with safety and performance requireOther achievements in 2010 New market conditions. Inter-Asian trade ments for the installation of ballast water has seen steady growth, and thus absorbed treatment systems that comply with the new First rules for wind service some of the fleet overcapacity resulting from ballast water convention. the economic downturn in North America and 2010 saw DNV play an active role in provessels. Development and release Europe. New trading patterns, such as the moting LNG as a solution for the future. of the world’s first class rules for wind China /Africa and Brazil / Asia routes, are gainFocusing on necessary rule developments, farm service vessels in order to improve ing in importance. A strong driver behind DNV has actively worked with European safety and promote uniform standards. these new routes is China’s increasing need regulatory authorities, supported work on for raw materials such as oil, gas, iron ore, the IMO Gas Code and initiated ISO discuscoal and cereals. sions related to safe LNG operations in ports, 30 years of bunker testing. The Arctic areas are expected to become and has also been involved in numerous LNG DNV Petroleum Services crossed a milemore important and open up new opportunipropulsion projects. stone by having supplied marine residties in the near future. Several new oil and gas To contribute to continuous innovation in ual fuel testing services for 30 years. fields have been discovered north of Russia, shipping, DNV launched two concept vessels in and fields like Shtokman, Yamal and Varandrev 2010: the container ship concept Quantum – NEW VESSEL PERFORMANCE are to be developed. running partially on LNG and having improved The arrival of the DNV-classed SCF Baltica fuel efficiency and higher cargo carrying capacity BENCHMARK TOOL. Building on at Ningbo in China in September 2010 proved compared with present designs; the very large DNV’s vast vessel database (NPS), that an Arctic route to the Far East is viable crude carrier concept Triality – that is completely an advanced benchmarking tool, was even for large tankers for some of the year. ballast free, runs on LNG and has 30% reduced launched to allow shipowners and The voyage from Murmansk in Russia to fuel consumption. These projects demonstrate managers access to valuable perforNingbo was cut by 16 sea days compared to how it is possible to make step changes by mance data to reduce operational the traditional route through the Suez Canal, using existing, available technology solutions. costs and improve vessel safety. saving about 800 tonnes of fuel oil. New market opportunities. DNV has had a strong presence in Asia and the Middle East DNV SOFTWARE OPENS OFFICE IN for decades. More than 2,000 employees in ABU DHABI. The office was established 302 new DNV contracts close to 80 offices in that region represent the backbone of DNV’s strategy of achieving fast growth in Asia. The only way to achieve such an ambitious goal is to deliver services rooted to be better positioned to tap into one of the world’s largest energy clusters by providing DNV’s software suites, including Sesam, Nauticus and Safeti. Of the more than 2,000 contracts for new ships signed in 2010, in deep technological expertise, combined DNV secured 302, or 17.2% with an understanding of international measured in gross tonnes. shipping trends and local market conditions. As most of the world’s new tonnage is built in Asia, a close relationship with the leading yards in China, Korea, Japan, 60,000 Singapore, India and other countries is vital trading vessels in order to serve the maritime industry. globally DNV now has major approval centres in Korea, Japan and Singapore. A record number More than 60,000 vessels were of 91 ships (7.5 mill DWT) to DNV Class were trading globally by the end of 2010. delivered from China in 2010, which is almost Overcapacity is still an issue in double that of the year before. most ship segments. In March 2010, DNV opened its Clean Technology Centre in Singapore to meet the 19 COULD LNG FUELLED SHIPS BE A STEP CHANGE FOR SHIPPING? ECA (Emission Control Area): An Emission Control Area European ECA requirements can be designated for SOX and PM, or NOX , or all three types of emissions from ships. The Baltic Sea and the North Sea Maximum level of sulphur in fuel are already defined as ECAs. The North American coast (all ships): is designated as an ECA as from August 2011 and 1,0% by 1st July 2010 with NOx and SOx control from 2015/16. Other 0,1% by 1st January 2015 areas in the world are also being considered. 0,1% sulphur in ports and inland ECA waterways now Nitrogen emission for newbuildings: 80% reduction in NOX emission from 2016 two innovative ship concepts LNG is part of the solution in the two innovative ship concepts that DNV developed in 2010. container concept ship tanker concept ship DNV Classed Quantum Triality Global fleet The concept vessel is designed to 10.5 A new crude oil tanker concept that is fuelled by LNG, has a hull shape transport more cargo while using less that removes the need for ballast water and will almost eliminate local 20 of the world’s LNG fuelled fuel and with a reduced environmental air pollution. This VLCC concept vessel, named Triality, was developed ships are classed by DNV, impact. Among many innovative through a DNV innovation project. As its name indicates, it fulfils three which represent approximately solutions is the introduction of LNG main goals: it is environmentally superior to a conventional crude oil 95% of the total. 15 more as part of the ship’s fuel using a dual tanker, its new solutions are feasible and based on well known technology, have been contracted, and fuel engine. and it is financially attractive compared to conventional crude oil tankers most of these are also to operating on heavy fuel oil. DNV Class. DNV was the first to issue Class Rules for LNG fuelled INFRASTRUCTURE THE MAIN CHALLENGE: For LNG fuelled ships to become a viable solution on a large ships more than ten years scale, the issue of LNG bunkering infrastructure must be solved: LNG must be more easily available through ago. terminals in strategic places and enough bunkering ships. While land-based industries have been faced with stricter environmental requirements for years, the shipping industry has escaped most of these. This era has come to an end. Liquified Natural Gas (LNG) could be part of the solution. the baltic report – For a typical cargo ship operating in the Baltic Sea. pointing to solutions NOx CO2 180 7,600 In 2010, DNV issued its Baltic Report. The conclusion SOx of the report is that LNG is the cheapest and most environmentally friendly solution. It also concludes particle 5.0 that LNG fuel is most suited for short-sea shipping. 3.8 LOW sulphur FUEL1) The Baltic Report looks at three obvious fuel alternaCO2 NOx tives for ships to meet the strict ECA requirements: a) Shift to low-sulphur fuel 180 7,600 b) Implement SOX-scrubbing and use conventional fuel SOx c) Shift to LNG fuel particle 5.0 5.8 For a typical cargo ship operating in the Baltic Sea. 10.5 Conventional FUEL 2.3 -1.5 Marine gas oil heavy fuel oil (HFO) LNG + scrubber NOx (MGO) CO2 25 The cheapest solution 5,500 SOx While the two other solutions to meet ECA emission 0 particle requirements represent a net cost, the LNG solution pays off over 20 years. 0 Facts about Baltic sea shipping LNG fuel More than 2,000 ships are operating at any time in the Baltic Sea. Annual emissions from ships in that region: SOX: 135 000 tonnes Best environmental impact NOX: 400 000 tonnes Of the three options for meeting the ECA requireCO2: 19 million tonnes ments, LNG fuel has the lowest emission of all three These emissions correspond to all landbased local pollutants; NOX, SOX, and particles. It also NOX emissions and twice the SOX emissions reduces CO2 emissions. from Denmark and Sweden combined. All figures in tonnes / year Source: DNV’s Baltic Report, 2010 A new era for offshore safety At 9:45 pm on 20 April, the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig exploded, causing the loss of 11 lives and three months of a seemingly unstoppable flow of oil from the Macondo well into the Gulf of Mexico. Offshore safety was put on the world’s public agenda. A swarm of new and improved offshore safety Affecting Arctic operations. As a and environmental legislation was launched consequence of the accident in the GoM, too, with more to come in 2011 and beyond. there was an ambition in Europe to assess if focus on The US authorities asked DNV to perform the safety regime in the EU could be improved. oil and gas the forensic examination of the blowout preventer (BOP) and lower marine riser packIn Norway, the Oil Industry Association (OLF) asked DNV to immediately carry out a thorough age fitted to the Macondo well, to which review of Norway’s and the US’s safety regimes, the Deepwater Horizon was connected. In the first of its kind. The report concluded that parallel, DNV helped the industry with several the regulations are fundamentally different in lead tasks in one of the most challenging structure. The importance of roles and responoil recovery operations in offshore history. sibilities, risk management and technology The blow-out of the Macondo well caused To support the ongoing discussion about an are some of the key elements, and they are the largest oil spill ever in the US, and the improved regime in US waters, DNV supplied approached differently in the two countries. accident may create a paradigm shift for most recommendations based on its accumulated Norway has furthermore included systematic oil producing countries. Regulatory changes knowledge and several investigations of risk management practices in its regulations are likely to occur far beyond the Gulf of major accidents. DNV suggested that the with more emphasis on a functional safety Mexico (GoM). A number of nations with a introduction of a risk management approach regime, as opposed to a dominantly prescripcontinental shelf are reviewing their regulawould make offshore oil exploration and tive safety regime as applied in the US. tions, and the industry players are looking production safer and more reliable. Throughout 2010, stakeholders in Norway into how their own challenges and opporAdditionally, DNV’s response to the US debated heavily on the future management tunities can be managed better. Department of the Interior’s new regulations plan for the areas in the north of the country. In addition to the US government’s for the immediate re-certification of subsea Here, both tourism and fisheries are vital, and drilling moratorium which affected 33 rigs blow-out preventer stacks was to issue the question is whether or not to allow oil and in the GoM, there was a major reorganisaa Recommended Practice guiding owners gas exploration on the doorstep of Lofoten, one tion of the American offshore regulatory and operators through the requirements of the world’s most unique tourist attractions. agencies and their associated management. and technical aspects. 22 The debate was reinforced by the unforeseen Since the autumn of 2008, there has been a Many of the big reservoirs of natural gas accident in the GoM, although an indepenvery quiet period for new contracts for yards. are located further away from the main dent basis for the debate was, among other This was interrupted by a clear increase in consumption areas. Russia and Australia are things, DNV’s environmental risk studies, which the order books for both deepwater rigs and now key areas for natural gas developments, were carried out on behalf of the authorities. jackups at the end of 2010. The main reasons although some of the volumes are too far Another major related issue was the long for this change of pace were too few deepaway from the markets to make pipelines awaited agreement between Norway and water rigs being built throughout the financial economically viable. The consequence is that Russia concerning the division of the Barents crisis and the trend towards a two-tier market the share of future volumes of natural gas Sea. This agreement may open up a new era for jackups, with premium rates for new units. transported as LNG is forecast to grow from of oil and gas development in the Arctic, New generation offshore operations create 20% to 50% by 2020. Close to 50% of the which is expected to hold 22% of the world’s extra requirements as to state-of-the-art well global LNG production investments and much undiscovered oil and gas reserves. In light technology, automation, degradation and of the new volumes of LNG in this period will of the accident in the GoM, many question integrated software-dependent systems, and come out of Australia. This was the rationale whether the world is ready to take on the not least the safety competence and culture of for DNV’s establishment of a new office in responsibility of operating in these sensitive, the organisations playing key roles in offshore Perth in May 2010. Technology qualification dark, remote and harsh areas. DNV points out exploration. Linked to this is one of the biggest has been one of the services which has been that the Arctic introduces new and other levels risks for an operator – downtime, unplanned in great demand by the industry. of known risks. Therefore, the same safety level or planned maintenance. Solving this challenge The distribution of gas through pipelines as in normal climates must be attained in the fits well with DNV’s strategy of working with has developed rapidly and new records are Arctic through new technology, more adaptthe most complex units and going beyond being set on length and size. For example, the able regulations and knowledge. A proactive commodity services. Efficient methodologies world’s largest offshore pipeline project, Nord approach to assessing these challenges has for managing these risks are DNV’s strengths Stream, is well under way. Crossing the waters been taken in the groundbreaking Barents throughout the operational phase. of five Baltic Sea countries, from Russia to 2020 project involving Russia and Norway. Germany, Nord Stream will be an important This DNV-led project harmonises cross-border Age matters. The industry expects future oil pipeline which may provide gas supplies for standards for health, safety and the environand gas resources to be found in deep, harsh 25 million European households. The project mental standards in the Barents Sea. and remote areas of the world, paralleled with consists of two 1,220 km long 48” pipelines an extension of the lifetime of ageing fields. that are being built according to DNV’s pipeIncreased offshore complexity. 25% of the Norwegian and 40% of the UK line standard and will be certified by DNV. Although the economic crisis has slightly units have reached their design lifetime. Offshore pipelines are increasingly being reduced the energy demand since 2008, the Therefore, the authorities have increased their built and certified to DNV’s offshore pipeline predicted demand for energy is again walking focus on ageing installations and life extension standard, which is the world’s most commonly hand in hand with the increased population in order to ensure that the risks are managed used standard and has a market share of and GDP growth, especially in the BRIC couneffectively by the offshore industry. This involves about 70%. It covers all phases of a pipeline tries. By the end of 2010, the oil price was plants, processes and people, as well as new techand allows operators to manage cost issues approaching USD 100, providing evidence nologies and investments in tail end production. without compromising safety and integrity. of the expected increase in demand. Currently, there is, however, little guidance The consequence of an increased oil price is available to perform the required analyses and Looking forward. While oil demand that most offshore projects are economically assessments. Hence there is a need for close growth may slow, oil will remain the world’s viable, including the pre-salt play in Brazil, co-operation with the offshore industry to main energy source. Natural gas will evolve the world’s largest emerging oil development. develop common approaches through research, into part of the low carbon economy, and Driven by this and other emerging deepwater networking and the development of guidance, the Deepwater Horizon catastrophe in the areas, the offshore sector and market for codes and standards. DNV is working with GoM will lead most probably lead to a special vessels, drilling units and FPSOs will authorities and the industry to develop such game-change in offshore safety and the therefore continue to develop and grow. standards which will ensure the continued safe application of new and more sophisticated operation of ageing offshore installations. risk manage-ment practices. On an operational level, DNV is already To meet the new demands and cope with 70% significantly involved in the Norwegian sector the more complex exploration and production offshore and is expected to expand in the UK sector in harsh, remote and deep waters, the oil and pipelines and potentially to other regions. gas industry will benefit from the integrated solutions provided by DNV’s technology, About 70% of all offshore pipelines Gas to secure energy supply. Access classification, verification, qualification are designed and built to DNV’s to energy is essential to all countries, while and certification services. pipeline standards. many are not self-sufficient in oil, gas, coal or renewables. This issue of uneven distribution has and will continue to be a political issue Other achievements in 2010 between countries and continents. 40% There is a clear growth in the interest in natural aging UK gas as a source of energy. In addition to the Ramping up in Australia. offshore units security of supply aspect, this is a consequence To be able to participate in major of the increased focus on environmental new LNG projects in Australia, DNV 25% of Norwegian and 40% of UK emissions. Gas fired power plants are becoming expanded its Perth office to include offshore units have reached their more common in many areas of the world, senior staff in the fields of LNG, design lifetime. DNV is working to natural gas is now seen as an alternative to pipelines, subsea operations and CCS. develop standards for the safe operation heavy fuel oil for small scale power producof ageing offshore installations. tion, and LNG is gaining momentum as a fuel for both land based and maritime transportation. 23 The Gulf of Mexico incident Gulf of Mexico DNV’s immediate and long-term responses immediate Ensuring safe marine operations IN A CRISIS. Dealing with this major incident was a complex operation involving a large number of vessels, responses: many of which carried out operations and handled equipment they were not originally constructed for. Operations that would normally require long planning were decided and executed within very short time frames. Safety studies and verifications DNV carried Flaring studies: A number of the vessels were out safety studies and modification verifications to flaring gas and burning oil – many of them not ensure that vessels could operate safely and that originally made for that operation. DNV carried out they were fit for their new purpose. a number of flaring studies. Mississippi Alabama Louisiana VERIFICATION Texas The containment marine risers and subsea equipment were designed at a fast pace. DNV accepted the role of Certified Verification Incident site Agent for the risers, on The Gulf of Mexico behalf of the US regulator. Response operations: RISK ASSESSMENT DNV supported the intervention activities with hazard identification (HAZID and HAZOP) reviews of about half of the Om 200 newly developed procedures, contributing ROV to a result where no ROV 500 m one was injured in the response and the situation was not made worse. 1000 m BOP BOP BOP Classification 1500 m A number of the vessels involved in the response were to DNV Class and needed continuous Relief wells support. ROV: Remotely Operated Underwater Vehicle Well BOP: Blow Out Preventer FABRICATION SURVEYS New equipment was designed, modified and produced in a very short time. DNV carried out fabrication surveys to verify quality and safety Mexico requirements. The blow-out of the Macondo well on 20 April 2010, involved in the response efforts to stop the oil spill leading to the tragic explosion and sinking of the and recover the spilled oil. It took three months and Deepwater Horizon offshore drilling rig, is the largest many attempts before the well was finally capped. accidental offshore oil spill in the history of the The illustration below shows elements of the petroleum industry. Close to 48,000 people were response operations and DNV’s involvement. LONG-TERM towards a better safety regime . The incident is a game changer for the offshore oil and gas industry. DNV responded RESPONSE in numerous ways to help improve the safety and environmental performance of the offshore sector going forward using its wide knowledge and expertise. Comparison of Norwegian and Some offshore accidents US regulations DNV was asked to with high impact on offshore safety regulations produce an independent assessment 1975 for the Norwegian Oil Industry Association (OLF) comparing drilling safety regulations in the US and Norway. It concluded that 1977 Ekofisk Bravo regulations in the two countries are (Norway) fundamentally different. . 1980 1980 Alexander Kielland Florida (Norway) 1982 Ocean Ranger (Canada) 1985 Forensic examination of Suggestions for a new safety regime the BOP DNV was awarded DNV produced a position paper that presents the contract by the Joint the collective knowledge of regulatory regimes 1988 Investigation Team of the and global operations to identify key aspects Piper Alpha 1990 Departments of the Interior of an effective offshore safety regime. (UK) and Homeland Security in the USA to conduct a forensic We believe major improvements are possible examination of the blowout with a safety regime possessing the following preventer (BOP) and lower characteristics: marine riser package fitted 1995 to the Macondo well. • Performance-based supplemented by DNV’s forensic investigation prescriptive regulations and subsea equipment blowout • Consideration of technology, organization preventer experts carried out and people the investigation from NASA’s • Clear roles and responsibilities 2000 secure facility in Michoud, • Enforced identification, reduction and 2001 control of risks P36 Louisiana. (Brazil) The examination was com• Shared performance monitoring pleted 20 March 2011 and • Practical and economic feasibility the report is available from • Balance between risk, control and condition 2005 www.deepwaterinvestigation.com 2010 Deepwater 2010 horizon (US) A new Recommended Practice for re-certification of blow-out preventers (BOPs) and well control equipment for the US outer continental shelf was issued by DNV. JIP ON STRUCTURAL INTEGRITY A Joint Industry Project (JIP) was initiated by DNV on the structural integrity of drilling and well systems was initiated by DNV. The JIP involves several global oil and gas operators. Pushing cleaner and renewable energies Renewable energy developments have seen several highlights throughout the year, despite the pessimistic results of global climate agreements and the financial crisis. This progress is supported by DNV on several levels. 2030 will be invested in renewable energy this is that natural gas is the cleanest of all and power generation and transmission. the fossil fuels and emits almost 30% less CO2 Despite the failures of COP15 in 2009, the than oil and approximately 45% less than focus on Cancun Agreements from COP16 in 2010 coal. Financially, gas fired power generation cleaner energy provided more positive, albeit weak, signals that will help to focus action and efforts on requires much less capital expenditure and can be built quickly, but has long term higher a more complete set of agreements at Durban fuel and carbon costs compared to renewable COP17 in 2011. This means that renewable and energies. cleaner energies must become even more imThree of the world’s largest economies portant on the world governments’ agendas. – the US, China and India – also have the largest Developments in 2010 and the future outcoal reserves, and security of supply and employThe need for renewable energy will grow as look mirror DNV’s goal of positively encouragment issues will politically drive their use of governments and societies react to climate ing the development of a low-carbon economy coal to generate power. change, providing great opportunities for as a world leader in risk management services Related to both these energy sources, investment. In many cases, investments in for cleaner energy industries. power generation associated Carbon Capture cleaner energy sources are more expensive and Storage (CCS) is therefore critical for than fossil fuels, but they will become more Cleaner hydrocarbons. The world minimising climate change effects. However, valuable as concerns about oil depletion, needs the rapid development of cleaner CCS is a transitional technology which is still political turmoil and CO2 emissions increase. energies in order to stay within 2°C average not developed and operated on a full scale. As renewable energy is mostly locally sourced, temperature increase set by the Copenhagen Most importantly, the speed of its development it is also attractive from a security of supply Accord and reduce the energy sector’s carbon still depends on a realistic price for carbon, standpoint, becoming politically critical for intensity. During this transitional period, public acceptance of the associated risks, technation states that are overly dependent on two fossil markets will grow: gas and coal. nology development, lower capital and operothers for traditional supplies of oil and gas. Throughout 2010, gas began to emerge ational costs and regulatory frameworks. Almost 50% of the USD 20 trillion expected as an accepted part of the low carbon econDuring 2010, DNV became a driving force in to be invested in energy developments by omy in several places. The main reason for the CCS field to deal with a number of these 26 challenges. Over the past few years, we have of renewable energy projects into the power Until now, the US has not had any offshore been working on developing unified best transmission grid, in addition to solar power wind activity, but the approval of the Cape Wind practices for the capture, transport and and wind energy. BEW is a world leading advisory project on the east coast is a promising start. storage of CO2. These were launched in 2010, company in solar power, which experienced The Cape Wind project has nominated DNV to and especially the latter is being used as the an enormous growth in 2010 and continues act as the Certified Verification Agent (CVA) basis for several countries’ and companies’ to grow exponentially. for this first offshore wind project in the US efforts to create national regulations and on behalf of Bureau of Ocean Energy Managebusiness strategies. Empowering wind. Wind energy has the ment, Regulation and Enforcement (BOEMRE). During the last two years, a number of potential to increase ten-fold, becoming One of the biggest challenges facing the governments, such as those of Australia, second only to hydropower in the renewable wind industry is the training of enough skilled Canada, Japan, Norway, the UK, Korea, sector. It is becoming global, and it is increasworkers to support the projected growth. the US and some European countries, have ingly moving offshore. According to a study DNV is addressing this need through several committed substantial funding to facilitate by the Global Wind Energy Council and activities. Under contract to the US Departthe deployment of large-scale CCS demonGreenpeace International, wind power may ment of Energy, we are developing comprestration projects. DNV has been involved provide one fifth of the world’s global power hensive training curricula and materials aimed in several of these important projects. demand by 2030. at professionals entering the wind energy DNV has also been working on the chalTo support the growth of the wind industry, field from other technical disciplines and lenge of turning carbon dioxide into useful DNV develops standards, specifications and industries. commercial products. Our research demonguidelines and cutting edge knowledge, DNV was chosen by Statoil to carry out the strates the conversion of CO2 which can be used often together with the key industry players. concept evaluation of installation options for as chemical feedstock, antibacterial agents, an This knowledge is utilised to optimise techthe Dogger Bank offshore project in the UK, energy storage medium and in steel pickling nology and investment returns. which will be the world’s largest offshore and de-icing solutions. DNV has supported the industry for over wind project. It will comprise about 2,000 25 years and is now established in major wind turbines covering an area of 8,660 km2 Transmitting energy. Renewable wind, markets in North America and Europe, as in the North Sea, similar to the size of Cyprus. solar, tidal and wave energy generators are well as having offices in most of the emerging Located between 125 and 290 km from the increasingly being installed on a large scale. markets throughout the world. After the UK shore, with water depths spanning from This poses a significant risk to the uninterruptacquisition of GEC in 2008, DNV has extended 18 to 63 m, it is also considered the most ability of power supplies, and DNV’s response its service portfolio to include advisory and challenging project. is to provide support throughout the value certification services throughout the whole DNV is adapting to the growing wind market chain with a combination of skills and risk value chain. DNV is the leading wind consuland aims to be the most complete and signimanagement services. Decades of expertise tancy company in the US and among the ficant player for advisory and certification in wind, solar, offshore and subsea technology largest in the world with more than 250 services. As wind turbines and fields grow have resulted in services ranging from strateemployees dedicated to wind and many more in size DNV’s risk advisory, classification, gic advice, concept evaluation, product developcontributing to wind projects from related verification and certification service portfolio ment and installation to operation and units. 2010 also saw DNV being selected as will be important for handling both technical maintenance. the Type Certification Body for Chinese, Indian and financial risks for the owners and In addition to organic growth in the power and Korean manufacturers and 30 wind engineers operators. transmission field, DNV acquired the Californiawere employed in Asia. based Behnke, Erdman & Whitaker Engineering, Being a leader in risk management services, Inc (BEW Engineering) in 2010, adding 30 experts the classification of marine vessels and offshore to DNV’s cleaner energy service line. With units is important to our growth in the wind Other achievements in 2010 this acquisition, DNV has obtained a more segment. DNV has obtained a dominant complete service portfolio for the integration position, especially in the type certification of wind turbines and project certification GUIDELINE TO BOOST CCS. DNV of offshore wind farms. Several major turbine and the energy industry, with valu250 suppliers have signed new framework agreeable contributions from government employees ments for type certification during 2010 and agencies, launched the world’s most dedicated to comprehensive guideline for the safe much of our work for these suppliers in the wind energy coming years will be focused on new larger and sustainable geological storage More than 250 employees are turbine models designed specifically for the of CO2. The purpose is to help both dedicated to wind energy and many offshore wind market. DNV is also providing industry and regulators speed up more contribute from other units. project certification services in a number of the large scale deployment of Carbon This makes DNV the largest wind UK projects under development or recently Capture and Storage (CCS). consultancy company in the US placed in operation. One of our most promiand one of the largest in the world. nent projects was Vattenfall’s Thanet project which came online in September 2010. At 300 MW, the Thanet project is the largest offshore OFFSHORE FLOATING WIND wind project in the world. STANDARD. In order to support faster 2,000 The Dogger Bank offshore wind turbines In North America, DNV also has a leading position in providing accredited testing services for onshore wind energy clients. We obtained accreditation for noise testing progress in the offshore floating wind industry, DNV and key players commenced the development of a common design standard. The conclusions of this project off the coast of the UK will in 2010 to add to our other accredited test joint industry project will provide best be the world’s largest with 2,000 services which include power performance practices on principles and technical turbines. DNV was chosen to carry and load testing. Related to this and as part requirements for the design, construcout the concept evaluation of of a collaborative effort in the industry, DNV tion and in-service inspection work. installation options. is leading an instrumentation and testing programme related to gearbox durability. 27 A complex life cycle The wind industry is becoming mainstream, but there are still many technical, environmental and financial challenges that investors, manufacturers, and developers need to understand thoroughly in order for their businesses to be successful. DNV provides services, standards and guidelines to address this throughout the value chain. india 6.7% cumulative capacity Dec 2010 15.8% World total: 194 GW Europe 6% rest of 18.4% new installed capacity the world Jan-Dec 2010 15.2% World total: 36 GW 35.1% 14.3% 20.7% 46.1% US china 21.8% Trading of emission reducing projects The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is an offshore suBstation arrangement under the Kyoto Protocol. It allows credits from emission reducing projects, including wind energy projects, to be traded. DNV is the world’s leading validator of such projects (see more on page 32). cable ship Installation and service vessels The rapid development of offshore wind is driving growth in the market for installation and service SERVICE SHIP vessels, and DNV has become the leading classification society for newbuildings of such units. In order to improve safety and promote uniform standards, DNV launched the world’s first class notation for both wind farm installation vessels and wind farm service vessels. Of the current global order books for installation vessels and service vessels, DNV is to class a lion share of the newbuildings. Onshore and Offshore Though offshore wind is growing fastest, the onshore wind market is still dominating the total wind power production. In Europe, onshore wind will be the largest contributor to meeting the 34% share of renewable Power systems electricity needed by 2020, as envisaged by the 2009 EU Renewable Energy Directive. While traditional sources, like oil and gas produce stable power generation, Total installed worldwide capacity in 2010 future power systems will have to manage is 36 GW, where about 1 GW comes from the variability and uncertainty in output offshore installations. Total cumulative from renewable energy sources like wind worldwide capacity is approximately 194 GW, and solar. New grid solutions and energy where 2.9 GW comes from offshore wind suBstation storage will be essential and DNV (Global World Energy Council). But offshore established in 2010 a new segment capacity is steadily increasing its share or to cover the related challenges. total wind energy output. 2010 numbers The growth of the wind industry in China Floating wind turbines continued to dominate the headlines in 2010, when it reached a total of 42 GW of installed Most offshore installations are fixed to the seabed. wind power capacity. Consequently, China However, on deep water new types of floating units surpassed the US and Europe in terms of total must be used. In order to support faster industry installed wind energy capacity. The Chinese progress for this development, DNV and key players turbine manufacturers, supported by a strong started in 2010 a joint industry project with the home market, are beginning to explore export aim to develop a common design standard for opportunities. Europe and North America saw such floating offshore wind turbines. a decline in installations of 10 and 5 GW respectively during the year. However, there has been significant growth in other parts of the world including Canada, Brazil, India and Australia. The offshore wind industry is growing with major activities in several continents. Between 2008 and 2010 expenditures has doubled year-on-year. Total forecast investment for the period of 2011-2014 is expected to reach €38 billion. In Europe, where the total growth declined, offshore growth in 2010 was almost 50%, with 308 new installation vessel offshore wind turbines installed. The UK is the leading market for offshore 38,610 wind, followed by Germany and China, which Global Annual Installed Wind Capacity (MW) 35,802 could become the leader during the next 1996-2010 decade. Another important player in Asia 26,560 is South Korea, which has an ambitious plan of delivering 5GW by 2019 (Douglas-Westwood). 19,866 The US has so far not had any offshore 15,245 activity, but the approval of the Cape Wind 11,531 project on the east coast and President 6,500 7,270 8,133 8,207 Obama’s push towards greener energies are 3,440 3,760 providing the kick-off for a new area of 1,280 1,530 1,520 opportunity. 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Gaining trust from all stakeholders Building trust and creating a platform for sustainable performance are as important as ever for today’s companies. In a challenging economy, where competition is fierce, gaining consumer trust and operating sustainably have become vital factors in gaining and sustaining competitive advantages. a much clearer positioning as a certificaDespite previous predictions of stagnation body and its certification division tion, we see healthy growth in most focus on BUSINESS named Business Assurance became an autonomous legal entity within the DNV certification segments: quality, environment, information security, safety, and ASSURANCE group during 2010. occupational health and safety. A partnership with JACO (Japan Audit We also continue to see growth in and Certification Organisation), a leading new certification services, especially when provider of certification services in Japan, it comes to industry specific standards. was formed in 2010. This strategic alliance With increased demands on and accountwill support DNV’s positioning in the ability for companies who today operate Globalisation and the growing volume domestic market while Japanese internain a complex business environment, there of international trade create a fertile tional and global customers gain access is a move from generic to industry-specific landscape for certification services. to highly experienced auditors outside standards to better manage risks and The certification industry is dominated Japan. improve performance, not to mention the by a plethora of national players, constimanagement of complex supply chains. tuting around 70% of the global market. Growth in the traditional certifiAs more and more companies are lookA few, large international or global certication segment. DNV sharpened its ing to manage their energy consumption fication bodies hold the remaining 30%. focus on third party services with certififrom both a cost efficiency and environThere is a clear trend towards consolidacation schemes, assessment and training mental perspective, DNV improved its tion, and DNV wishes to be a part of this. services at its core. In 2010 we saw strong environment portfolio with a suite of With the aim of becoming leading in the growth across the board in the traditional energy management certification services certification segment, DNV solidified Management System Certification market. and training. 30 Sustainable PRODUCTS. Product certificaPutting trust in what we eat and Other achievements in 2010 tion is an important means for companies drink. Food and beverage companies to communicate their sustainable behavare challenged to produce and supply iour and values to consumers. While interhealthier products and to raise confidence Freight security certification national market access is often linked to in food safety. Consumers are holding The transportation of high-value product safety and quality, consumers are them accountable for their entire value goods and products has become increasingly looking at a product’s impact chain and the food industry must gain a challenge for the industry owing before making purchasing decisions. their trust and confidence and demonto a rapid increase in cargo theft. DNV’s ProSustain™ standard was develstrate sustainability. Globalisation, trade, Such goods are prime targets for oped in co-operation with leading indusand complex value chains contribute to thieves when stored in warehouses try organisations to establish a credible, the complexity that food and beverage or while in transit. Freight Security objective and transparent approach companies must manage. Also in 2010, Requirements (FSR) governed by to assessing and communicating a the world saw a number of food scares, the Transported Asset Protection product’s sustainability performance. resulting in the hospitalisation of conAssociation (TAPA) are designed to The standard takes into consideration sumers and, sadly in some cases, fatalensure that the Association‘s members’ a wide range of environmental, social ities. For emerging countries in Asia and high-value goods and products are and economic impacts arising during the Africa food safety is a growing concern safely and securely handled, transcourse of a product’s life cycle. In 2010, in domestic markets and is a prerequisite ported and stored. DNV has signed a we saw increasing interest in ProSustain™ for access to foreign markets. Memorandum of Understanding as companies sought to continually improve As a consequence, there is a strong (MOU) with TAPA to provide FSR and comply with an increased demand drive towards food safety in all markets, certification services to the market. for sustainable products. a continued need for co-operation and harmonisation of food standards, and a collective movement in the industry Food safety study 27% to restore consumer confidence. A 2010 DNV and Michigan State University certification study conducted for DNV by Michigan (MSU) conducted a food safety study services State University underscored the growing in the US – the first of its kind. growth consumer concern and consumers’ incliThe study reveals changing shopping DNV’s certification services to nation to look – and pay more – for certihabits and demand for certification the food and beverage industry from consumers and industry fied products. continued to grow strongly, Certification is a vital part of the soluprofessionals. Both consumers and increasing by 27% in 2010. tion, and DNV experienced continued food suppliers view the producers strong growth in its certification services and manufacturers as key players in (27%) for the Food & Beverage sector. the supply chains for assuring safe 70,000 Our commitment to this industry continfood. The study also showed that ues to be strong both as a service provider both consumers and food suppliers and by being involved in developing new recognise that certified products are certification customers standards. A stronger focus on the seafood somehow safer than non-certified DNV now has 70,000 certification segment was launched in 2010, and we are products, and that certified products customers globally and the market for continuing to develop our services within are received more positively by Management System Certification both wild catch and aquaculture. We have consumers. experienced solid growth in 2010. a strong position in the Nordic countries and will make efforts to expand in 2011. 30% certification Training. Competence development is market share a critical factor for companies in general, held by internaand a key element in the certification tional players process, in risk management and in buildA few, large international certification ing trust and fostering sustainable operabodies hold 30% of the certification market, while national players account tions. As such, training services constitute for the rest. DNV aspires to become an important part of our business and we the world’s leading certification body. see great growth opportunities here. 31 Sustainability to the fore As the demand for sustainable development is becoming increasingly prevalent in the market, DNV is continuing to build new positions beyond its traditional services to help businesses assume a leadership role and sustainable advantage in the market. impact on the sustainability agenda and, change talks in Cancun made tangible proin particular, on industries and sectors gress in putting multilateral negotiations focus on where DNV is not yet seen as a global player. Among the areas the division is specifically back on track. A number of agreements were reached, notably plans to launch a USD 100 sustainability concentrating on initially are climate change, healthcare and biorisk services, and our risk billion Green Climate Fund to finance mitigation and adaptation in developing countries, management & corporate responsibility serthe reporting and verification of emission vices. We are leveraging on the rising global reductions, and principles for reducing demand for innovation by further developing emissions from deforestation and forest DNV’s strategic research unit and the provision degradation. Essentially, the agreements The sustainability movement has of holistic risk management services through reached in Cancun mean that the emissions become increasingly important for busiour Sustainability Centre in China. reduction targets set out in Copenhagen can nesses worldwide as they face rising comIn 2010 DNV maintained its leading greennow be formally recognised within the UN petition and the need to meet economic, house gas validator position with a 25 per negotiating process. Countries will now social and environmental requirements. This cent market share of all clean development continue to work towards agreement on factor is exacerbated by the challenges facing mechanism (CDM) projects globally, offering other elements, such as the Kyoto Protocol, the world, such as climate change, feeding a a wide portfolio of related services ranging given that the first commitment period growing population, meeting the increasing from carbon footprinting to the risk expires in 2012. demands for energy and tackling disease. management of carbon projects. Also, it is encouraging to see that the devIn an effort to address these issues and meet eloped countries have committed to the UN changing customer needs, DNV set up a dediThroughout the year, the intense debate Framework Convention on Climate Change cated Sustainability & Innovation division in about climate change continued. Unlike in and pledged to mobilise funds to finance April 2010. The division aims to have a global Copenhagen 12 months earlier, the UN climate technology transfer, capacity building, miti32 gation and adaptation activities in developing countries. DNV is well positioned to build trust and confidence in the new fund TECHNOLOGY OUTLOOK 2020 – PREPARING FOR THE FUTURE mechanisms by ensuring reliable results and managing technology transfer risks. DNV’s Research and Innovation unit has a long tradition of publishing Technology Outlook, which looks at the key technologies and trends that will have an In 2010 we leveraged our experiences impact on the maritime and energy sectors towards the end of this decade. within the healthcare sectors in the US The objective is two-fold: to stimulate open discussion about future technologies and the UK to expand our healthcare risk and trends with customers and other stakeholders, and to provide input to management services to central Europe. DNV’s strategy and service development in order to prepare DNV for this future. In addition, China is implementing a completely new healthcare reform for 1.3 billion people. Through DNV’s Sustainability Centre in Beijing, we have formed a joint Get a 3D glimpse of Technology Outlook 2020! venture with the Chinese Ministry of Health to support the implementation with DNV’s risk management approach. If you have a computer with a webcamera, you can experience a unique feature and get a snapshot Corporate social responsibility is of the contents of Technology Outlook 2020. now seen by many companies as mainstream. To meet the growing customer needs the Go to the web page: dnv.com / 2020 range of services offered by our global hubs were expanded throughout the year. More Point your webcamera at the square marker for a importantly, our clients now open their doors little while. You will then see Director of Research and do not question the “business case” for and Innovation, Elisabeth Harstad ‘come alive’ being responsible. and pop out of the page! She will introduce a DNV’s services within this domain range short video about Technology Outlook 2020. from third party Management System Certification to the verification of Corporate Responsibility reports and advice on strategic sustainability and emerging risk management issues. innovation activities in several position papers Other achievements in 2010 One example of this is “conflict minerals” relating to climate change issues. We also which can be found inside small components started work on our Technology Outlook in your electronic devices. Were you to trace 2020 report (see top of the page for more Best Verifier. DNV was selected the materials you might find that the ore information). as ‘Best Verifier’ in the 11th annual comes from mining in the Congo, funding Environmental Finance and Carbon a bloody civil war. Recent US legislation Other areas DNV is addressing are the Finance market survey of environrequires all electronic manufactures (or the climate change adaptation challenges for offmental markets. brand owners) to trace and audit their supply shore oil and gas and wind turbine installachains and avoid Congolese minerals. DNV tions, ships, ports, seaways and Arctic operahas helped a well-known American brand tions, and solutions in selected energy Technology Team award. to develop an audit protocol to verify and production, distribution and con­sumption DNV’s Research & Innovation team demonstrate compliance. facilities. In addition, work is underway to won the ‘Outstanding Technology Last year we actively shared knowledge develop expertise and offer services relating to sustainable mobility and cities for the future, Team’ award for 2010 Tech and insight gained from our research and and investigate whether water related services Columbus Innovation. can represent a significant future for DNV. 25% CDM market share Recognising the need for collaborative business models, we continued to work closely in 2010 with industry groups, public authorities, universities, the EU Commission joint research centre for health care. The China National Health Development Research Centre and DNV established a DNV maintains its leading global position as greenhouse gas validator and sustainability organisations such as the joint research centre in Beijing. with a 25% market share of all clean World Business Council for Sustainable development projects (CDM) in 2010. Development and the UN Global Compact. New social responsibility In spite of increasing evidence that standard. After five years of more and more companies are adhering to 180 work involving participation from responsible practices, challenges still remain. 100 countries and 40 international hospitals If globalisation has taught us anything, it accredited organisations, including DNV, should be that we are all inextricably linked a common international social and that our actions all impact upon one DNV accredited over 180 hospitals responsibility standard (ISO 26000) another. Rising to the sustainability chalin the US according to the DNV was launched 1 November. The standard. Interest in DNV’s healthlenge will therefore require a huge, coordinated effort going forward, and we remain standard is a major global reference care services is increasing in the US and increasingly in Europe and Asia. committed to making a global impact for point for social responsibility. a safe and sustainable future. 33 Y N OM O EC N ME NT I RO E NV SOC I ET Y 34 How we work The main way in which we try to achieve our vision of making a global impact for a safe and sustainable future is through the services we offer. In addition, we have a responsibility to ensure that we adopt best practices in the way we run our business; from the way we manage our key stakeholders to the actions we take to reduce our impact on the environment. Corporate responsibility People Environment Health and safety 35 Integrating corporate responsibility in our business Corporate Responsibility in DNV is about enhancing the positive impacts that our core business activities have on society; through how we conduct our business and how the company is managed. Integrating CR. The Executive Committee and corruption assessment. In 2011 assessand each Chief Operating Officer are ments will be made in China, Benelux and Corporate responsible and accountable for Corporate Responsibility (CR) in DNV. CR is a regular Norway, and additional countries/regions will be included in subsequent years. Responsibility agenda item at top management meetings. The Corporate Social Responsibility Officer More information on CIP can be found at: coordinates CR activities in order to ensure dnv.com / focus / cr that they meet the expectations of our stakeholders, represent a common corporate platform and are implemented in all In order to ensure that we live up to our business areas and in all regions. value of never compromising on quality and Our progress is reported under the integrity, we offer a range of training activifollowing areas: Business ethics. DNV’s Corporate Social ties to all employees and at the end of 2010 Responsibility (CSR) Board continuously nearly 60% of all employees had completed Business ethics monitors the risks and opportunities associour mandatory “Dealing with Dilemmas” Society and stakeholder engagement ated with our global presence. The corporate training. In addition, all new employees International collaboration responsibility risks that are considered undertake compulsory training on living our People material to our operations are included corporate values, our vision and our purpose, Environment in DNV’s corporate risk management tool, creating awareness of behavioural norms Health and safety Easy Risk. In addition to this, the Executive and expectations in line with DNV policies Committee and CSR Board approved the and instructions which set out clear expectThe latter three will be described on the internal use of our own Corporate Integrity ations for personal and professional conduct. next pages. Profile (CIP) tool in 2010, further consoliOur focus on raising awareness on issues dating our risk-based approach to fraud relating to business ethics will continue in 2011. 36 Support of UN Global Compact principles DNV is committed to the universal prinresponsible practice in these areas within ciples of human and labour rights, envirits own organisation as well as advancing onmental standards and anti-corruption these principles with others through its and signed the UN Global Compact in 2003. objective to safeguard life, property and DNV works to continuously demonstrate the environment. Misconduct is defined as a breach of Our membership of the World Business Red Cross partnership. DNV completed DNV policy, national or international law Council for Sustainable Development its sixth year of partnership with the Red or relevant regulatory frameworks, pro(WBCSD) continues to provide an excellent Cross. We continued supporting water and tocols and standards, and our guideline platform for enabling businesses globally sanitation projects in the provinces of Jilin Crossing the Line provides additional to adopt more responsible business prac(China) and Phu Tho (Vietnam). Two addipractical support. There are a number tices. Particular attention is paid to work tional projects were supported in 2010 of channels for reporting misconduct, on Climate Change, also a key strategic in the Vietnamese province of Yen Bai. either by colleagues, suppliers or agents growth area for DNV, whose core team Components of these projects include working on behalf of DNV. These are includes DNV’s CEO, Henrik O.Madsen. supporting a new water system construcclearly defined in our Reporting of MisWe also use other opportunities to tion, providing cows to families and transconduct in DNV guidelines. promote CR issues. An example is faciliferring the know-how of cow breeding in While we encourage reporting through tating workshops for the Confederation a sanitary manner, and training in vegethe line, the Ombudsman route is available of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO) to enable table cultivation and personal hygiene. for all to use where it is deemed approbusinesses to properly assess the CR risks Furthermore, we decided to financially priate or preferable. Where relevant, the related to market opportunities in Angola. support a project to improve the living Ombudsman seeks support from the CSR conditions in the favelas in Brazil from Board, which consists of senior management More information on international 2010 to 2012. The aim is to provide health representatives of each geographical division, collaboration partners can be found at: and safety training, primarily to children, and a nominated employee representative, dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / mothers and people with disabilities. and is chaired by the CSR Officer. In 2010, collaboration Our international collaboration with ten cases of suspected misconduct were the Red Cross has inspired a number of reported to the Ombudsman. Of these, six volunteering initiatives in DNV. Some were related to discrimination, while four Committees – ensuring relevant examples include collecting used bikes for were related to other breaches. The Ombudsservices and standards. On a more opesale in the Red Cross second hand store, man also acts as an ethical helpline and rational and technical level, DNV has estahelping the local Red Cross to organise the vast majority of issues brought to the blished a wide range of advisory committees a Christmas party for children living with Ombudsman in 2010 were to seek advice consisting of customers and technical their mothers in women’s refugee homes, and guidance on ethical dilemmas. This competence centres. These committees and a donation of CNY 1.4 millionto to the is seen as being a positive indication of CR advise on how to develop our services and China Red Cross Society from the company pervading everyday business decisions standards and how to promote our interests and individual employees in DNV Greater at all levels in the organisation. in the countries and industry segments we China. operate within. The committees are often In Norway, all employees chose to collecSociety and stakeholder involvechaired by a customer representative. tively donate NOK 1.2 million to Cancer ment. DNV actively supports several national Similarly, the DNV units holding accrediResearch instead of receiving a personal and international initiatives focussing on tation from national accreditation bodies Christmas gift. sustainable development and responsible have set up advisory boards. Committes business practice. We are strongly committed and advisory boards are examples of our More on our Red Cross partnership to the principles of the UN Global Compact, commitment to embracing the notion can be found at: and are represented on the advisory comof multi-stakeholder engagement. Also, dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / mittee on Supply Chain Sustainability. DNV regular customer surveys provide essential collaboration / redcross is an organisational stakeholder and member feedback to continuously improve the of the Stakeholder Council of the Global quality and relevance of our services in Reporting Initiative (GRI) and continuously alignment with stakeholder expectations. works to ensure transparency in its corporate reporting. It aims to have achieved A+ level For a full overview of the committees and on the GRI index by 2014. We are members advisory boards and their members: of AccoutAbility (AA) Technical Committees, dnv.com / moreondnv / profile / and were members of the AA Standards committees Board until it was dissolved at the end of 2010. 37 Making the organisation fit for purpose 2010 in DNV was characterised by a reorganisation and an economic downturn with its subsequent effects on the headcount. Despite these pressures, competence development and employee enablement remained high on the agenda. Allocate resources where they can have Impact of the financial crisis. DNV the highest impact. started the year suffering from the lagging Increase the focus on technology, effects of the financial crisis, including reduced people sustainability and innovation. activity in ship new-building, uncertainty and postponed investments in the energy sector, The reorganisation went smoothly and was opeand fierce price competition. The mitigating rational as planned as of 1 April. All employees actions taken, such as not replacing all staff who were assigned to a home unit as part of the left or retired, transfers between services and reorganisation. More than 60 positions, many geographies, early retirement and a recruitmanagerial, in the new divisional structure ment freeze, affected headcount numbers. Reorganisation. In 2010, DNV changed were advertised internally and filled through While the overall headcount decreased, back to an organisation based on geographical an extensive and thorough HR process. DNV managed to avoid major layoffs. At divisions. DNV has reorganised at 8–10 year There are still some adjustments to be the end of 2010, DNV had 8,440 employees, intervals over the past decades acknowlmade before the new organisation is working compared to 8,867 the previous year. Only edging that there is no perfect structure. at its full potential. An element that needs 440 new employees came on board in 2010. The rationale for the reorganisation was attention is the ‘one DNV’ culture to avoid A number of other measures to reduce to make DNV ‘fit for purpose’ for the new the building of new silos between geographic operational costs were implemented in 2010–2014 strategy period. The new organiareas, and to ensure global processes and 2010, which placed additional demands on sation is designed to: a rapid flow of information and knowledge employees. Nevertheless, employees made Ensure full focus on the maritime and across organisational boundaries to better a strong contribution, and DNV was able energy industries. serve our customers. Therefore, the corporate to achieve a satisfactory result for the year. Unleash the full potential for utilising intranet is designed around common tools DNV continues to strive for diversity in the the breadth of DNV’s competencies and resources, services and segments, rather employee base, and for this to be reflected Ensure high-impact customer service than organisational units. There is also a series at management levels. A managerial career management. of WE in DNV courses (web-based and classshould not be hindered by nationality or Position senior executives closer to customers. room) for new employees. gender if the employee has the competence, 38 Sum of Registered employee hours Employee classes table 01 workforce by employment contract table 02 training in Internal classroom courses A – Permanent employee: DNV has employers’ responsibility and employee is on DNV payroll. C – Contract: Same as ‘A’ but time limited: Personnel, with a defined contract end date. Contract is typically for over one year. Employee class 2009 2010 Employee class Sum hours Employees Hours/empl. X – Extraordinary: Temporary personnel: paid either by invoice or by DNV. Examples: A – Permanent employee 8,488 8,151 A – Permanent employee 97,104 8,151 11.91 Summer temps, maternity leave cover, seasonal worker, graduates. S – Sub contractor: ConC – Contract 379 289 C – Contract 2,422 289 8.38 sultants, long-term hired. Paid by invoice only. The differentiation of employees is necessary S – Subcontractor 3,079 3,120 S – Subcontractor 301 3,120 0.10 for DNV especially regarding the employment regulations in these different classes. Full-time and part-time employees (Class A) generally have X – Extraordinary 419 347 X – Extraordinary 427 347 1.23 the same benefits per salary grade per country. Some benefits vary between permanent and temporary employees, e.g. eligibility for pensions. table 03 workforce worldwide was expanded to include a 0–5 year individual competence development goal. The participation rate for the MIP continues to be very Employees1 Females (%) Turnover2 (%) Expatriates (%) Local mgmt 3 (%) high at 97%; the focus now is on continuous 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 improvement in the quality of the process. Africa 73 67 25 22 11.9 9.0 13.7 11.9 40.0 40.0 In addition, The Global Employee Forum (GEF), which ensures employee input and Americas 1,146 1,114 35 35 10.7 13.8 2.9 4.6 76.8 79.0 representation in corporate processes, Asia / Oceania 2,482 2,367 28 28 5.7 9.1 9.8 9.3 67.4 69.1 continued to develop in 2010. For example Europe 2,012 1,906 37 36 7.7 9.3 2.2 1.7 89.4 87.5 more time was dedicated to preparation for meetings in order to strengthen the presenMiddle East 226 218 27 25 10.2 15.6 12.8 12.4 20.6 16.3 tation of employee views. Nordic / Baltic 405 401 34 34 7.8 9.6 2.2 2.5 85.7 86.3 Norway 2,523 2,367 32 32 3.3 5.8 1.3 0.8 92.3 91.9 Simplified management system. In line with the new organisation, a new 1 Number of Class A and C employees 2 Calculated only for Class A 3 Local management – managers with country’s citizenship DNV Management System was launched on 1 November 2010 to replace the former attitude and values needed. In 2010, the former Maritime and Energy business areas Corporate Governing Manual and the manpercentage of female managers reached an was carried out to support the potential for agement manuals for the former Maritime all-time high of 21%. In addition, we have utilising the breadth of DNV’s competencies and Energy business areas. The system is calculated the discrepancy in salary between in the new organisation. The trainee pronow simpler and the number of instructions male and female employees and find that grammes – both technical and managerial employees must relate to has been reduced. women earn 0.6% less than the average salary – also continued, as well as the dedicated In addition, the updated Code of Personal when accounting for salary grade, education programme for technical specialists. Conduct describes the requirements and level, years of experience and country. At On-the-job training remains the most imporexpectations as to DNV employees while the Senior Management Council level there tant part of competence development. Thus performing work on behalf of DNV, which remains an overweight of Scandinavians. the reorganisation offered extensive opporis designed to help employees protect Thorough succession management processes tunities for employees to take on new resDNV’s integrity, as well as their own. are being rolled out in DNV as one way of ponsibilities, work with new types of projects increasing the number of local managers. and cooperate with new colleagues. In addiFigure 02 workforce by age group tion, in-house training courses were conDeveloping competence. Competence ducted, using a variety of media including classNo of employees Calculated from Class A and C employees. development, e.g. technical and manager room, web courses, and nano-learning modules. training, remained at a high level during Investment in research and innovation 3000 2010. Cross-training of managers from the also continued in 2010. DNV took advantage 2009 2500 of the downturn by allocating additional 2010 resources to several important innovation 2000 projects which will benefit us going forward. 1500 Figure 01 employees, level of education 1000 Engaging and enabling employees. A new People Engagement Process was 500 launched in 2010. The process includes an 0 annual People Engagement Survey, which Age < 31 31-40 41-50 51-60 > 60 was conducted for the first time in June. 91% of employees responded to the survey. This was followed by the most extensive post-survey process DNV has ever conducted. Figure 03 turnover by age group Based on the results, all units were to identify areas of strength or weakness to follow-up % Calculated from Class A and C employees. Turnover by gender is 8.4% females and 9.1% males. during the next 12 months in order to lower 14 barriers that limit employees’ engagement 2009 12 or ability to perform to their potential. 2010 The Managing Individual Performance (MIP) 10 process plays a key role in the engagement 8 Master 39% process by providing a framework for a con6 Bachelor 39% structive dialogue between employees and Other 11.5% 4 managers in order to define useful, challenging Doctorate 5.2% 2 and motivational goals. In addition to the 2-year college 3.8% business-related goals and normal job expecta0 Technical / professional 1.5% tions included in the MIP framework, in 2010 it Age < 31 31-40 41-50 51-60 > 60 39 Reducing our environmental impact The annual environmental reporting in DNV is mandatory for our five Petroleum Services (PS) laboratories and all office locations with more than 40 employees. In 2010, environmental reports represented approximately 67% of our organisation in terms of number of employees. The fraction of renewable energy decreased factors, the emissions of nitrogen oxides from 72% in 2009 to about 68% in 2010. (NOx) and sulphur oxides (SOx) have been ENVIRONMENT This was primarily due to a cold winter demanding increased use of heating oil at estimated at a high level only. the Høvik offices. A planned change to TABLE 04 ANNUAL ENVIRONMENTAL a more effective heat pump at Høvik by REPORTING STATISTICS September 2011 will reduce the need for oil significantly. 2008 2009 2010 Hydropower continues to be the dominant source of renewable energy, but the Reporting: ENERGY CONSUMPTION. The reported amount of the energy consumed from Locations 22 26 39 energy consumption for 2010 was 52.5 GWh. other renewable sources than hydropower Employees 1 4 351 4 876 5 659 About 3 GWh was reported from locations increased by about 13% compared to 2009. that did not participate in the environDNV total: mental reporting for 2009. For the locations EMISSIONS TO AIR. The emissions to air Locations 2 292 297 284 reporting both in 2009 and 2010, there was were calculated from the reported consumpEmployees 1 8 694 8 867 8 440 an increase of about 0.4% in the reported tion of energy reported by the office locations energy consumption. Percentage and PS laboratories. The emissions of green50% 55% 67% reporting3 The specific energy consumption in house gases (GHG) were calculated in the office locations continued to decrease accordance with the guidance given in 1 Employees on permanent and long term contracts in 2010, to about 8.6 MWh / person from the Greenhouse gas protocol. Due to the 2 Includes minor site offices 9.4 MWh/person in 2009 (-9%). lack of regionand source specific emission 3 Based on number of employees at reporting locations 40 For 2010, the calculated emissions to air TABLE 05 ENERGY CONSUMPTION FROM REPORTING LOCATIONS (GWH) include the following sources: Direct emissions (Scope 1): emissions from combustion of oil and gas 2008 2009 2010 Change for the production of heat at locations managed by DNV. Offices Hydro 23.6 26.7 25.5 -4% Indirect emissions (Scope 2): Renewable 7.1 7.9 9.0 13% emissions from the production of heat or electricity procured by DNV, but produced Non-renewable 10.1 10.8 13.6 26% at sites not managed by DNV. PS laboratories Hydro 0.5 0.5 0.5 The emissions of CO2 at the reporting locaRenewable 0.1 0.1 0.1 tions in 2010 was approximately 8,697 tonnes, Non-renewable 3.2 3.3 3.8 14% of which the offices reporting for the first time represented about 758 tonnes. For the Total Hydro 24.1 27.2 26.0 -4% locations reporting both in 2009 and 2010, Renewable 7.2 8.0 9.1 13% there was an increase of CO2 emissions of about 25% compared to 2009. Non-renewable 13.3 14.1 17.4 23% For the office locations, the specific Sum 44.6 49.4 52.5 6% emissions increased from about 1.0 tonnes CO2 per person in 2009 to 1.2 tonnes CO2 per Locations reporting 18 23 39 61% person in 2010 (25%). The estimated emisMWh / person in offices 9.4 9.4 8.6 -9% sions of NOX and SOX increased by 6% and 7% respectively when compared to 2009. This was a result of the more extensive use of oil and gas for heating purposes at some TABLE 06 CO2 EMISSIONS FROM REPORTING LOCATIONS (TONNES) office locations in 2010. REDUCED CARBON FOOTPRINT IN IT. DNV took an aggressive approach to energy con2008 2009 2010 Change sumption throughout the company in 2010. Offices Scope 1 398 512 918 79% It took two major initiatives in the Information Technology area: DNV moved to Scope 2 4 477 4 088 5 747 41% (1) reduce the environmental impact of PS laboratories Scope 1 24 25 43 69% computing within the company Scope 2 2 000 1 748 1 990 14% (2) promote collaborative tools and video conferencing to reduce travel Total Scope 1 422 537 960 79% Scope 2 6 477 5 836 7 737 33% Data centres compromise a considerable portion of the total energy consumption related Sum 6 899 6 373 8 697 36% to computers, 50% of which is consumed by Locations reporting 22 26 39 50% servers, 40% by cooling and 10% by power conversion and distribution. Virtual server Tonnes CO2 / person in offices 1.1 1.0 1.2 25% capabilities have made possible the successful elimination of 366 physical servers and the associated power and cooling costs and emissions. This represents a 35% reduction in TABLE 07 ESTIMATED EMISSIONS OF NOX AND SOX FROM REPORTING LOCATIONS (TONNES) physical servers across DNV. Future progress will be measured against this baseline. Aside from the risks and increasing costs 2008 2009 2010 Change associated with travel, it is also a major contributor to carbon emissions in today’s Offices SOX 89 98 104 6% global workplace. In 2010 DNV worked to NOX 45 49 51 5% reduce the by-product of unnecessary travel through collaborative computing tools and PS laboratories SOX 10 10 11 10% video conferencing. The company’s current NOX 5 5 6 10% use of video conferencing is at approximately 30% of capacity. Internal meetings Total SOX 99 109 116 7% represent 90% of that time, with the remainNOX 49 54 57 6% ing 10% made up of meetings with clients. 41 As technology improves along with the Rewarding what employees do to To earn this award, DNV did the following: increasing ease of using cross platform limit their environmental footprint. (1) Implemented Environmental Managecommunications, these figures will improve. ‘WE do’ is an environmental programme ment System certified to ISO 14001 Microsoft’s Live Meeting, for example, with the purpose of influencing the DNV (2) designed and moved into new office makes conferences between two large culture. It is designed to clarify what DNV facilities using Energy Star guidelines sites possible. expects, reinforces and rewards in terms of and LEED’s Gold level design standards personal behaviour. In 2010, the company in construction. set aside NOK 40 million in order to partially Figure 04 reported energy consumption finance personal environmental actions. The Houston office moved in 2009 to the The programme provides financial support new facility in Katy, Texas, that is designed GWh Average MWh / person (up to 2/3 the cost, before taxes) for employto reduce energy consumption, lower energy 9.45 ees investing in personal environmental costs, reduce solid waste and minimise harm55 9.38 9.4 projects such as purchasing a low emission ful pollutants released to the atmosphere. 50 car or solar water heating. The low energy appliance project was the most popular, Also in 2010, DNV Poland opened its first 45 9.2 with 1,607 applicants. ‘green’ building, specifically designed For one of the projects, employees were and constructed to realise cost-effective 40 9.0 encouraged to cycle to work. Those cycling measures to enhance energy efficiency. 35 a certain distance (800 km) or certain The building, which was constructed to meet number of days (minimum 40) between voluntary standards recommended by the 30 8.8 their home and the office were eligible to European Union’s Green Building Programme, receive a monetary bonus. In 2010, nearly is located in Gdynia, Poland along the public 25 1,300 employees took part in the project. rail system about 20 km from the Gdansk 8.6 20 Over 865 cyclists (approximately 10.2% of airport. No one single component of the 8.56 all employees) have cycled 800 km or more, building makes it green, rather its design is 15 8.4 a total distance of 1,218,281 km. Assuming based on a broad range of initiatives from that cyclists have switched from using their temperature control systems to building 10 cars to cycling and that their cars represent material and energy efficient solutions – 8.2 5 a mix of 70% petroland 30% diesel cars, including energy friendly transport solutions. a total CO2 emissions of 209.7 tonnes have The Building management system (BMS), 0 8.0 been avoided. As with the previous year, which was developed by a recognised global 2008 2009 2010 cycling was the second most popular specialist in energy management, regulates WE do project in 2010. lighting and temperature in different parts Hydro Non-renewable of the building using a network of sensors. Renewable MWh / person in offices The Houston, Beijing and Gdynia At present, only 200 buildings in Europe Offices’ Green Building Projects. meet the demanding programme criteria The Houston (US), Beijing (China), and – this includes five in Poland. Figure 05 reported co2 emissions Gdynia (Poland) offices have all launched green building projects aimed at taking Benelux green mobility project. Two environmentally friendly approaches to years ago, the Benelux offices replaced the CO2 (1,000 tonnes) t CO2 / person in offices building construction and use. traditional car lease policy with a ‘Green 10 1.3 The Beijing facilities were awarded its Gold mobility policy’ that encourages the use 1.20 1.2 LEED Certificate in April 2010. This is the next of public transport, provides only company 9 1.14 to highest certification from Leadership in cars with below average emissions, and also 1.1 Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) gives employees incentives for selecting the 8 1.0 – a voluntary certification programme to lowest emissions category cars. The target promote sustainability by focusing on a has been to reduce average emission per 7 0.95 0.9 number of key areas. These include water car by at least 20% by the end 2012. The 6 0.8 energy and resource efficiency, indoor enviBenelux employees have enthusiastically ronmental quality, location and linkages, supported the project – and it is ahead of 0.7 5 regional priority and innovation in design. its target. At the end of 2010, the average 0.6 The Beijing office focuses on a range of CO2 emission per company car has already 4 initiatives, including the use of natural light been reduced by 15%.This is a further reduc0.5 to decrease the use of electrical lighting tion over the 8% reduction by the end of 3 0.4 as well as plants and CO2 measurement 2009 which covered the first 18 months as a tool to improve indoor air quality. in which the policy was implemented. 0.3 2 Then in June, the Houston office in its Based on current progress, the Benelux 0.2 new facility in Katy, Texas earned the US region is considering increasing its target 1 0.1 Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA’s) for CO2 emissions reduction even further ENERGY STAR , the national symbol for – perhaps as much as 25–30%. 0 0.0 superior energy efficiency and environ2008 2009 2010 mental protection. Commercial buildings Waste. The amount of waste generated and industrial plants that rate in the top at the reporting locations for 2010 was Scope 1 25% of facilities in the nation for energy approximately 1,100 tonnes, of which Scope 2 t CO2 / person in offices efficiency may qualify for the ENERGY STAR. the offices reporting for the first time 42 represented about 24 tonnes. For the locatable 08 Amount of waste generated by reporting locations (tonnes) tions reporting both in 2009 and 2010, there was a decrease in generated waste of about 19% compared to 2009. 2008 2009 2010 Change For the office locations, the specific waste generation decreased from about 261 kg Offices Recycled 532 708 580 -18% per person in 2009 to 181 kg per person Residual 277 522 410 -21% in 2010 (-31%). PS laboratories increased their recycled Hazardous 60 28 21 -26% waste by 24% and decreased their residual PS laboratories Recycled 3 7 8 24% waste by 74%. PS laboratories’ hazardous waste is mainly from tested oil samples Residual 34 19 5 -74% and 98% are delivered to licensed handlers. Hazardous 130 125 136 9% The remaining 2% are incinerated on-site. Total Recycled 536 714 589 -18% Residual 311 541 415 -23% Figure 06 Hazardous waste in ps laboratories Hazardous 190 153 157 2% Sum 1 036 1 408 1 160 -18% Locations reporting 22 26 39 50% kg / person in offices 203 261 181 -31% Environmental impact of our services Values 2010 The positive impact we have on the environment through the services we deliver to our customers is estimated to be far bigger than the negative impact of our operations. Below are selected indicators that reflect the positive performance of our services against significant environmental risks and issues of global concern. Delivered to licensed contractors: services to the Maritime industry services to the energy industry Chemicals 51% Waste oil 39% Emergency Response Service (ERS) for Wind energy projects involving DNV. Other 8% assistance on the stability and residual Through 2010, DNV has worked on Incinerated on-site: strength of vessels in an emergency. more than half of the installed wind Waste oil 2% The total number of vessels enrolled capacity in the US and the majority of for this service by the end of 2010 the offshore wind projects worldwide. was 2045. This is up 11.7% from 2009. These projects displace approximately Figure 07 reported waste generation The total number of ERS cases 60 million tonnes of CO2 emissions each year. handled in 2010 was 16 of which: Carbon capture and storage (CCS) tonnes kg / person – 6 were groundings projects involving DNV. 261 – 6 were collisions In 2010, DNV worked on CCS projects 1,400 – 3 were structural collapses 250 that potentially contribute to an annual – 1 was water ingress reduction of CO2 emissions of 21 million 1,200 Class notation that reduces the tonnes. 203 environmental impact from ships due 200 1,000 to air emissions and sea discharges. services to the carbon market Ships in operation with Clean 181 and / or Clean Design: 600 800 150 DNV verified CDM projects and their New buildings with Clean / CO2 reductions (1 CER is equal to one Clean Design: 400 tonne of CO2 equivalent) 600 Ships in operation wih VOC (Volatile By the year end, DNV had verified 100 Organic Compound) notation: 886 projects with a reduction of 386 million New buildings / in order / 400 CERs per year, which is 29% of the total pre-contract with VOC notation: 199 CDM verification market. 50 Use of cleaner fuel. 200 DNV validated CDM projects and their DNV Classed ships using LNG as fuel: CO2 reductions. – Ships in operation: 20 By the year end, DNV had validated 0 0 – Ships in order book: 15 2008 2009 2010 2,000 out of 7,000 projects totally. The approved and registered projects Recycled Hazardous represent 200 million CERs per year. Residual kg / person in offices 43 Managing health and safety Certification of DNV’s occupational health and safety management system is high on the agenda in 2011. A pre-assessment was completed by a third party certification body in 2010, and the official process of certifying DNV to the OHSAS 18001 standard has now begun. This increase is not believed to reflect deteis distributed organisation wide for use in rioration in health and safety standards, unit meetings to raise awareness amongst health but to be the result of a DNV-wide focus on the importance of reporting incidents and employees. Worked hours in the safety and health and safety hazards. 35% of the reported incidents incidents statistics represents hours worked and hazards were assessed as high and by employees on permanent and longmedium loss potential. More than 60% term contracts. The number of incident of the medium and high loss potential reports per million worked hours varies for incidents and hazards are related to surveys the different regions (figure 8). To some and inspections and 16% are related to extent, these differences are assumed to transport and travelling. reflect differences in reporting culture. health and safety reports. Reporting Knowledge gained from our incident The high injury accident frequency for is an important part of the occupational and hazard reporting system is shared Africa represents two accidents with health and safety management system. throughout DNV using an incident and minor injuries. Our safety and health reports include hazard experience online database. hazards and incidents involving employees This experience database contains deSickness absence. The total sickness and contractors working for and on behalf personalised information about serious absence rate has increased from 2.1 in of DNV, as well as members of the public incidents and hazards and the preven2009 to 2.2 in 2010 but is still considered visiting DNV premises and DNV’s property tative/corrective actions taken, and is to be acceptable. The increase is partly due and operations. There were 606 work-related available to all employees. In addition, to more consistent reporting of million incidents and hazards reported in 2010, an a monthly presentation containing a worked hours, as subcontractor work hours increase of 22% compared to 2009. selection of the most significant incidents have partly been included in earlier years. 44 Accidents and occupational health 60% of the absence hours relating to occupasafety risks has been arranged from issues. The accident categories ‘Slips, trips tional health issues were due to muscular Høvik. The course participants, who are or falls’, and ‘hitting or being struck by sprains/strains, and 10% to stress. The hours located in a range of countries, took part via objects’ each represent more than a third of absence due to occupational health issues DNV’s video conferencing facilities. of the 147 accidents resulting in personal per million worked hours has increased from The plan is to run this kind of course injury. 4.7 in 2009 to 5.0 in 2010. This increase is also twice a year, starting in 2011. As driving is Almost 40% of the 49 occupational health due to the improved quality in reporting of seen as one of the significant risks faced issues reported were caused by exposure to occupational health issue absence hours. by our employees, defensive driver training noise, extreme temperatures or inadequate For type of accidents and occupational is being implemented in larger organisaair quality, and another 40% were caused health issues leading to absence ≥8hrs per tional units. by overstrain, exertion or repetitive strain. work processes, please see table 10. Figures 9 and 10 show how accidents and Global safety awareness: ‘DNV life occupational health issues are distributed Employee survey reveals positive savers’. DNV initiated a global safety on work processes. feedback on safety. The result of the awareness programme in late 2010. Based ‘people engagement survey’ carried out on DNV’s safety and health risk assessment Lost time accidents and occupaamong all employees in 2010 revealed very and an in-depth analysis of incident and tional health issues with absence positive feedback on the questions related hazard reports across the company over ≥8hrs. 23% of the absence hours linked to safety. On the question of whether the past several years, 12 of the highest to work related accidents were due to ‘my line manager always promotes safety risk areas in the company were identified. broken or fractured bones, 18% to contufirst’, less than 4% of the respondents Icons representing these 12 high-risk areas sions, 18% to muscular sprains, and 10% working at customers’ sites or in laborawere then developed – and named the to cuts, gashes and puncture wounds. The tories answered in the negative. To the ‘DNV Life Savers’. The ‘DNV Life Savers’ number of lost time accidents per million question of whether ’I have been provided are meant to remind our employees of worked hours (LTA) was the same as in 2009, with sufficient safety training and personal our main risks and to promote safe workwhile the number of days absence due to protective equipment for my job’, less than ing behaviour. They are also meant to lost time accidents per million worked hours 1% of the respondents working in Laborasupport the regions in their job of (SAI) has increased by 10.3% (table 9). The tories and 4% of the respondents working prioritising local safety improvement increase in SAI is due to improved quality at customers’ sites answered in the negative. programmes. in reporting of accident absence hours. 40% of the accident absence hours are Travel safety. Visits to customer sites health and Safety training. The related to transport and travelling, 28% and offices are an important part of the basic health and safety e-learning course to surveys and inspections, 16% to teamexecution of DNV’s services and sometimes module for all employees was made manbuilding, and 9% to office work. Almost require travel to challenging destinations. datory during 2010, following its develall of the absence hours related to transPrinciples for restricting business travels opment in 2009. The two-and-a-half day port and travelling were due to motor to extreme and high risk areas have been safety induction course for newly vehicle accidents. In 2010 there were no improved. A pilot project involving a new employed surveyors was also established reported accidents leading to absence that supplier of training courses for employees as a refresher course for experienced were related to laboratory work. travelling to areas with medium and high surveyors in 2010. table 09 health and Safety incidents statistics (for all of DNV) Definition of terms used in the statistics: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Lost time accident: SAI (Severity Accident Index): Accident resulting in injury Number of days absence to people and work absence due to Lost Time Accidents Fatal accidents 0 1 1 0 0 >= 8 hrs / million worked hours Lost time accidents 32 41 34 43 39 Injury accident: IAF (Injury Accident Accident resulting in injury Frequency): Injury accidents 61 66 85 82 108 to people and work absence Number of Injury Accidents < 8 hrs / million worked hours Occupational health issues, with absence 10 14 13 15 13 Occupational health issue: Accident absence rate (%): Work environment conditions (Accident absence Near accidents 107 93 137 175 202 (including psychosocial work / number of worked hours) environment and musculox 100 LTA 2.8 3.1 2.1 2.5 2.5 skeletal load) where exposure over a period of time results Total Sickness in illness to people, or a work Absence Rate (%): SAI 24.3 50.8 23.0 26.1 28.8 activity resulting in illness Average last 12 months to people. ((Accident+Sickness absence) IAF 5.3 4.9 5.2 4.8 6.8 / Number of worked hours) LTA (Lost Time Accident x 100 Accident absence rate (%) 0.02 0.04 0.02 0.02 0.02 Frequency): Number of Total Sickness Absence Rate (%) 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.1 2.2 Lost Time Accidents / million worked hours 45 This course is tailor-made for DNV and management team in Greater China During 2009, we saw a drop in the number consists of a half a day of theoretical continued its programme of visiting and of lost time accidents at the same time introduction followed by two days of evaluating safety conditions at all shipyards as the number of reported incidents and practical training. The practical safety in China where DNV has operations. The hazards increased. The positive trend training takes place at specialized exterinitial programme, which started in 2007, appears to have continued in 2010, with nal training centres in Korea, Norway, the aimed to increase the focus on safety at a further reduction in LTA’s of 40%. Netherlands and three locations in China. production sites. During the programme’s Employee awareness of the benefits of We are also evaluating similar arrangefirst phase, tours were held at most sites incident reporting has greatly improved ments in the Middle East and India. to assess local conditions and discuss daily and has resulted in a near doubling in the During 2010, there was a focus on further challenges with surveyors. A second phase number of reports. 73% of the reports are implementation of the high-risk training focused on implementing a four-point hazard and near accident cases. modules for our surveyors. Modules have improvement programme including: been developed for confined spaces, (1) supplying standard Personal Protective Korea safety programmes. DNV working at heights, transfer at sea and Equipment (PPE) to all DNV operations, continued to be part of the successful other high-risk operations. A new module (2) providing training in ‘confined spaces’ Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) programmes for laboratory safety was developed in and ‘working at heights’ for all surveyors that have led to progress on almost all 2010 for implementation during 2011. in China, (3) establishing positive coopsafety measures in a number of shipyards A three-day SHE course for internal SHE eration with yard management on safety in Korea. The basic objective of BBS is to specialists was developed and launched in and health matters, and (4) improving involve all employees actively in the work 2010 for implementation in all regions incident and hazard reporting with a to improve safety performance. The yards during 2011 / 2012. focus on corrective action implementation. also work closely with all parties, such as In addition, in 2010, a major focus has been customers, suppliers, sub-suppliers and Safety programmes in China. Even to run joint safety tours with yard personnel contractors, to involve them in their safety considering the recent economic downusing a Health and Safety observation card. focus. Through participation in these turn, the Chinese shipbuilding industry has These tours place an emphasis not only programmes DNV both learns from and experienced aggressive growth in recent on potential risks, but also on existing contributes to progress on safety in the years. In 2010, the DNV Maritime regional practices that effectively support safety. yards. Figure 08 Number of incidents per region / million hours worked 20 18 Injury Lost Time Occupational Accidents Accidents Health issues 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 Africa Asia / Oceania Europe Middle East Nordic / Baltic Norway NorthSouthAmerica America 46 DNV Dubai tank survey simulator. table 10 type of accidents and occupational health issues In 2010, DNV in Dubai began using a with absence ≥ 8 hours per work processes Survey Simulator as a powerful tool for conducting safety training for its surveyors. The survey simulator recreates a realistic Transport / travelling Working at height picture of the situation on board a VLCC cargo tanker in various situations. This Inspections Office work Teambuilding Grand total includes entering and working inside a dry Lab work Transfers tank, as well as tank rafting. The simulator Other Walking has been used in team training to promote Type of accidents active discussions of risks and mitigating factors as surveyors move across the vessel Caught up in (e.g. machinery / equipment) 1 1 2 to the survey site and inside the tanks. The simulator has already proven effective Fire / explosion 1 1 in promoting knowledge sharing and Heat 1 1 experience transfer of accident cases. These include incidents such as falling Hit against / struck by 1 2 11 2 1 17 through an unprotected opening or an Inadequate air quality 3 3 open hatch, the danger of climbing ladders and also oxygen deficiency. The virtual Other 1 1 2 4 rafting survey brings out all the risks associated with rafting. The Dubai approach Overstrain / exertion / repetitive strain 1 1 3 5 provides a good foundation for a new Slips / trips / falls 4 3 1 3 1 5 1 18 generation of safety training. DNV is investigating how this approach can be Squeezed / trapped / nipped 1 1 integrated into its global safety training Grand total 10 1 12 1 1 5 12 8 2 52 programme. Figure 09 Accidents distributed Figure 10 Occupational health issues Turbine blade inspection suit. BY work processes distributed BY work processes A special suit designed to deal with the challenging wind turbine blade inspection environment was developed in 2010 on the initiative of the country SHE representative in Denmark. Work space inside the wind turbine is cramped with difficult working conditions including rough fiberglass surfaces. A standard boiler suit does not prevent fiberglass dust from penetrating through the fabric and onto an inspector’s skin. In addition, inspections often require crawling in awkward positions. The solution, developed in Denmark, is a boiler suit produced with a Polyester / Cotton 65/35 ratio that resists glass dust and protrusions. Additional wear-resistant Inspections 22% Office work 68% patches were added, with overlaps that Transport / travelling 17% Inspections 16% protect stitches from being cut, as well Office work 17% Lab work 8% as special pockets that hold cell phones, Walking 17% Catering (food / refreshments) 2% pencils, rulers, and notebooks. Special Lab work 8% Confined spaces 2% knee pads with Velcro straps that allow Transfers 6% Walking 2% them to be released when not crawling Working at heights 5% Other 2% were also added. In initial tests the suit Confined spaces 3% has proven to meet the demanding condiMeetings / conferences 2% tions of turbine blade inspection, and Teambuilding 2% information on this innovation is being Pressure testing 1% made available across DNV. 47 48 Financial statements As a private, self-owned foundation, DNV has no shareholders. The group’s financial accounts show DNV’s consolidated income statement, balance sheet, statement of cash flow and notes. The consolidated financial statements (Det Norske Veritas Group) include the foundation (Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas) and all subsidiaries in which Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas directly or indirectly has actual control. key figures income statement balance sheet cash flow statement notes auditor’s report 49 Key figures amounts in NOK million Definition of ratios 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Profitability Income statement Operating margin: Operating revenue 9 792 10 283 9 560 8 126 7 297 Operating profit x 100 / Depreciation 200 235 189 166 140 Operating revenue Operating profit 810 1 108 1 188 873 794 Pre-tax profit margin: Profit before tax x 100 / Net financial income (expenses) 101 129 (82) (1) 31 Operating revenue Profit before tax 911 1 237 1 106 872 826 Net profit margin: Profit for the year 613 854 642 536 546 Profit for the year x 100 / Operating revenue Return on total assets: Balance sheet (Operating profit Fixed assets 2 334 2 300 2 467 2 120 2 027 + Financial income) x 100 / Average total assets Current assets 6 529 5 903 6 015 4 803 4 362 Return on equity: Total assets 8 863 8 203 8 482 6 922 6 389 Profit before tax x 100 / Average equity Equity 6 261 5 528 4 545 4 492 3 895 Liquidity Provisions and long-term liabilities 338 523 919 409 536 Cash flow: Current liabilities 2 264 2 152 3 018 2 021 1 958 Profit before tax + Depreciation Taxes payable Cash flow items, working Current ratio: capital and investments: Current assets / Current liabilities Purchase of tangible fixed assets 169 349 234 176 112 Working capital 4 265 3 751 2 997 2 781 2 403 Liquidity reserves: Cash and bank deposits + Cash flow 809 1 186 803 749 710 Short-term financial investments Liquidity cover: Number of employees 8 440 8 866 8 694 7 691 6 765 Liquidity reserves x 100 / (Total operating expenses-Depreciation) Financial ratios Profitability: Leverage Operating margin 8.3% 10.8% 12.4% 10.7% 10.9% Equity ratio: Pre tax profit margin 9.3% 12.0% 11.6% 10.7% 11.3% Equity x 100 / Total assets Net profit margin 6.3% 8.3% 6.7% 6.6% 7.5% Return on total assets 11.1% 15.9% 16.2% 14.4% 15.3% Return on equity 15.5% 24.6% 24.5% 20.8% 23.1% Liquidity: Current ratio 2.9 2.7 2.0 2.4 2.2 Liquidity reserves 3 320 2 867 2 118 2 206 2 031 Liquidity cover 37.8% 32.1% 25.9% 31.1% 31.9% Leverage: Equity ratio 70.6% 67.4% 53.6% 64.9% 61.0% 50 Income statement STIFTELSEN 1 january 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2010 2009 2008 Note 2010 2009 2008 Operating revenue 0.0 1.2 0.0 Sales revenue 9 791.7 10 283.1 9 560.3 0.0 1.2 0.0 Total operating revenue 3 9 791.7 10 283.1 9 560.3 Operating expenses 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payroll expenses 4,6,7 5 613.7 5 632.1 4 986.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation 13,14,15 199.7 214.8 176.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Write down of goodwill 13 0.0 19.9 12.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other operating expenses 5 3 167.9 3 308.1 3 196.8 0.0 1.2 0.0 Operating profit 810.4 1 108.2 1 188.2 Financial income and expenses 82.2 128.7 (76.2) Financial income 135.7 215.7 61.0 (0.1) (0.8) 0.5 Financial expenses (35.0) (86.5) (142.9) 82.1 127.9 (75.7) Net financial income (expenses) 9 100.7 129.2 (81.9) 82.1 129.1 (75.7) Profit (loss) before tax 911.1 1 237.4 1 106.3 (21.4) (24.3) (27.2) Tax expense 11 (298.3) (383.2) (464.7) 60.7 104.8 (102.9) Profit (loss) for the year 612.8 854.2 641.6 60.7 104.8 (102.9) Transferred to other equity 51 Balance sheet STIFTELSEN as per 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2010 2009 2008 Note 2010 2009 2008 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax assets 11 233.3 283.1 486.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Goodwill 13 114.4 120.0 215.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other intangible assets 14 12.9 18.9 29.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total intangible fixed assets 360.6 422.0 731.9 Tangible fixed assets 6.4 6.4 6.4 Land, buildings and other property 1 123.2 1 118.4 942.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Office equipment, fixtures and fittings 344.9 357.1 378.9 6.4 6.4 6.4 Total tangible fixed assets 15 1 468.2 1 475.5 1 321.2 Financial fixed assets 10.1 10.1 240.0 Investments in subsidiaries 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in associates 0.0 0.0 59.9 0.3 0.3 0.3 Long-term shareholdings 16 22.6 25.5 22.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prepaid pension 7 126.1 0.0 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.3 Other long-term receivables 18 356.4 376.9 331.4 10.7 10.8 240.6 Total financial fixed assets 505.2 402.4 413.9 17.1 17.2 247.0 Total fixed assets 2 333.9 2 299.9 2 467.0 Current assets Debtors 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade debtors 2 060.1 2 004.5 2 567.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Work in progress 771.6 716.6 1 011.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other debtors 377.5 314.4 317.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total debtors 3 209.3 3 035.5 3 896.2 782.6 712.2 834.2 Short-term financial investments 8 782.6 712.2 1 134.4 444.4 458.7 21.2 Cash and bank deposits 19 2 536.9 2 155.0 984.0 1 227.0 1 170.9 855.4 Total current assets 6 528.8 5 902.7 6 014.6 1 244.1 1 188.1 1 102.4 TOTAL ASSETS 8 862.7 8 202.6 8 481.6 52 STIFTELSEN as per 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2010 2009 2008 Note 2010 2009 2008 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Paid-in capital 283.5 283.5 283.5 Foundation capital 283.5 283.5 283.5 Retained earnings 937.7 877.0 772.1 Other equity 5 977.2 5 244.3 4 261.7 1 221.2 1 160.5 1 055.6 Total equity 21 6 260 .7 5 527.8 4 545.2 Liabilities Provisions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension liabilities 7 141.7 367.2 722.8 0.2 0.3 0.0 Deferred tax 11 17.1 11.6 15.7 0.0 0.0 17.0 Other provisions 179.6 144.5 180.2 0.2 0.3 17.0 Total provisions 338.4 523.3 918.7 Current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdrafts 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade creditors 238.5 259.7 257.9 22.7 27.3 26.7 Tax payable 271.7 244.0 429.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Public duties payable 277.5 259.3 313.7 0.0 0.0 3.2 Other short-term liabilities 17 1 476.0 1 388.3 2 016.8 22.7 27.3 29.8 Total current liabilities 2 263.6 2 151.5 3 017.7 22.9 27.6 46.8 Total liabilities 2 602.0 2 674.8 3 936.4 1 244.1 1188.1 1 102.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8 862.7 8 202.6 8 481.6 The Board of Directors of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, Høvik, 5 April 2011 Atle Bergshaven Chairman Leif-Arne Langøy C. Thomas Rehder Sille Grjotheim Hilde M. Tonne Henrik O. Madsen Frances Morris-Jones David McKay Christine Maidment Odd Sund John H. Wiik CEO 53 Cash flow statement STIFTELSEN 1 january 31 december DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS amounts in NOK million group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATIONS 82.1 129.1 (75.7) Profit before tax 911.1 1 237.4 1 106.3 0.0 (1.2) 0.0 Gain / loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets (5.2) (0.9) (1.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain on sale of investment in associates 0.0 (40.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciations and writedown 199.7 234.7 188.6 (21.5) (24.0) (26.7) Tax payable (302.0) (321.3) (492.2) Change in work in progress, 0.0 0.0 0.0 trade debtors and trade creditors (124.2) 862.4 (1 163.8) (4.5) (19.6) 16.5 Change in other accruals (46.6) (1 036.1) 800.0 56.1 84.3 (85.9) Net cash flow from operations 632.8 936.2 437.6 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENTS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Acquisitions (39.3) (19.0) (228.4) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Divestments 0.0 106.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investments in tangible fixed assets (168.6) (349.2) (234.1) 0.0 1.2 0.0 Sale of tangible fixed assets (sales value) 25.0 13.0 16.3 Currency effects on tangible and 0.0 0.0 0.0 intangible fixed assets (0.3) 70.8 (50.2) 0.0 230.0 1.2 Change in other investments 2.9 (9.6) (23.5) 0.0 231.2 1.2 Net cash flow from investments (180.3) (187.5) (519.9) CASH FLOW FROM CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in overdrafts (0.2) 0.2 (5.6) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from capital transactions (0.2) 0.2 (5.6) LIQUIDITY 56.1 84.3 (85.9) Net cash flow from operations 632.8 936.2 437.6 0.0 231.2 1.2 Net cash flow from investments (180.3) (187.5) (519.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow from capital transactions (0.2) 0.2 (5.6) 56.1 315.5 (84.7) Net change in liquidity during the year 452.3 748.9 (87.9) 1 170.9 855.4 940.1 Liquidity at 1 January 2 867,2 2 118.3 2 206.2 1 227.0 1 170.9 855.4 Liquidity at 31 December 3 319.5 2 867.2 2 118.3 54 Notes all amounts in NOK million 01 Accounting principles The financial statements have been prepared in accordance is caused by circumstances which may not be regarded with the Norwegian Accounting Act of 1998 and generally as incidental and deemed necessary by generally accepted accepted accounting principles in Norway. accounting principles. Write downs are reversed when the cause of the initial write down is no longer present. Consolidation principles. The consolidated statements An associate is an entity in which the Group has a signi­ficant include Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas and all companies in which influence but does not control the management of its finances Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas directly or indirectly has actual and operations (normally when the Group owns 20%-50% of control. The group accounts show Det Norske Veritas’s consolithe company). Investments in associates are valued in accorddated income statement, balance sheet and statement of cash ance with the equity method. The share of profits is based on flow as a single economic entity. Subsidiaries follow the same profits after tax in the associate, less internal gains and possible accounting principles as the parent company. Intercompany amortisation of surplus value caused by the cost of shares being transactions have been eliminated in the consolidated accounts. higher than the acquired share of equity. In the income Acquired subsidiaries are reported in the financial state­ments statement, the share of profit is stated as financial income/ on the basis of the parent company’s acquisition cost. The cost financial expenses. of the shares in the parent company’s books is eliminated When the Group’s share of a loss exceeds the Group’s investagainst the equity in the subsidiary at the date of acquisition. ment in an associate, the amount carried in the Group’s balance The acquisition cost is allocated by attributing fair values to sheet is reduced to zero and further losses are not recognised the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Surplus value in unless the Group has an obligation to cover any such loss. excess of the fair value of identifiable net assets is reported in In the parent accounts, dividends, group contributions and the balance sheet as goodwill. Goodwill is amortised linearly other distributions are recognised in the same year as they are through the income statement over its expected useful recognised in the subsidiary’s financial statement. If dividends / economic life. group contributions exceed withheld profits after acquisition, The allocation of costs in a business combination is changed the excess amount represents repayment of invested capital if new information on the fair value becomes available and the distribution will be deducted from the recorded value and is applicable on the date when control is assumed. of the acquisition in the parent company’s balance sheet. The allocation may be altered until the annual accounts are presented or prior to the expiry of a 12-month period. Use of estimates. The management has used estimates and assumptions that have affected assets, liabilities, income, Translation of foreign subsidiaries. When trans­lating expenses and information on potential liabilities in accordance the financial statements of the foreign subsidiaries to Norwegian with generally accepted accounting principles in Norway. Future currency, the items in the income statement are translated at events may lead to a change in the estimates. Estimated and the average exchange rate for the financial year. Assets and underlying assumptions are assessed on a continuous basis. liabilities in foreign operations, including goodwill and fair Changes in accounting estimates are included in the period value adjustments, are translated into NOK using the exchange when the change occurs. rate applicable on the balance sheet date. Exchange-rate differences are recognised in equity. Revenue recognition and work in progress. Forward exchange contracts related to hedging of net Revenue from the sale of services is recognised according to investments in foreign subsidiaries are treated as hedging the percentage of completion method. Work in progress is instruments where the exchange rate differences of the recognised at its estimated sales value. Movement in work hedging instrument are recognised in the equity. in progress is included in operating revenue. Revenue from the sale of services is recognised in the income Cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the gain or loss statement according to the project’s level of completion provided on the hedging instrument established for hedging cash flows the outcome of the transaction can be estimated reliably. Progress is not accounted for. Gains or losses on the hedging instrument is measured as the number of hours spent compared to the are recorded as financial income or expenses at realisation. total number of hours estimated. When the outcome of the Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement. transaction cannot be estimated reliably, only revenue equal to the project costs that have been incurred will be recognised Subsidiaries/ associates. Investments in subsidiaries are as revenue. The total estimated loss on a contract will be valued at the cost method in the parent company accounts. recognised in the income statement during the period when The investment is valued as the cost of acquiring shares in the it is identified that a project will generate a loss. subsidiary, provided write down is not required. Write down to fair value is carried out when the reduction in value 55 notes Classification and valuation of assets and The economic life is either definite or indefinite. Intangible liabilities. Assets meant for permanent ownership or use assets with a definite economic life are amortised over their are classified as fixed assets. Other assets are classified as current economic life and tested for impairment if there are any assets. Receivables to be paid within one year are always indications of this. The amortisation method and period are classified as current assets. Shortand long-term liabilities assessed at least once a year. Changes to the amortisation are classified correspondingly. method and/or period are accounted for as a change in estimate. Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable Intangible assets with an indefinite economic life are tested value. Short-term debt is recognised at its nominal value at the for impairment at least once a year, either individually or time of establishment. as a part of a cash-generating unit. Fixed assets are valued at cost. However, if a decline in value is not expected to be temporary, fixed assets are written down Goodwill. The difference between the cost of an acquisition to their recoverable amount. Fixed assets with a limited useful of business and the fair value of net identifiable assets on economic life are depreciated in accordance with a linear the acquisition date is recognised as goodwill. For investment depreciation plan. Long-term debt is recognised at its nominal in associates, goodwill is included in the investment’s carrying value at the time of establishment. Direct transaction costs are amount. capitalised over the loan period. Goodwill is recognised at cost in the balance sheet, minus any accumulated amortisation. Goodwill is amortised linearly Debtors. Trade receivables and other current receivables are through the income statement over its expected useful recorded in the balance sheet at nominal value less provisions economic life, normally considered to be a period of 5 years. for doubtful debts. Provisions for doubtful debts are calculated on the basis of individual assessments. In addition, for the Research and development. Research and development remainder of accounts receivables, a general provision is made costs are expensed when incurred. Cost incurred related to to cover expected losses. development projects entering into a commercial product or service phase are capitalised. Foreign currency. Monetary items denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate on Pensions. Pension costs and pension liabilities for the defined the balance sheet date. Financial instruments, mainly forward benefit plans are estimated on the basis of linear earnings exchange contracts and currency swaps, are used to hedge and assumptions of the: discount rate, projected annual salary all significant items denominated in the most common foreign adjustments, pension and other payments from the national currencies. These hedges are included at market value insurance fund, expected annual return on plan assets and as at 31 December. actuarial assumptions of deaths, voluntary resignations, etc. Realised and unrealised currency effects are included on Plan assets are valued at fair value and deducted from net a net basis in either other financial income or other financial pension liabilities in the balance sheet. Actuarial gains and expenses. losses are recognised directly in the equity. Premiums paid for currency and interest rate options are capitalised and amortised over the life of the contract. Tax. The tax expense in the income statement includes taxes payable and change in deferred taxes. Deferred taxes are Financial investments. Short-term financial investments calculated based on the temporary differences existing between which are defined as part of a trading portfolio are valued book values and tax values, together with tax loss carryat their market value on the balance sheet date. Dividends and forwards at the end of the accounting period. Tax increasing other distributions are recognised as financial income. and tax reducing temporary differences expected to reverse Long-term shareholdings where DNV does not exercise any in the same period are offset and calculated on a net basis. significant influence are recognised at cost. Each investment Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent utilisation is written down to its net realisable value if this is lower than of these assets can be justified. cost. Provisions. A provision is recognised when the Group has Property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and an obligation (legal or self-imposed) as a result of a previous equipment are capitalised and depreciated over their estimated event, it is probable (more likely than not) that a financial useful economic life. Maintenance costs are expensed as incurred, settlement will take place as a result of this obligation and whereas improvement and upgrading costs are assigned to the the size of the amount can be measured reliably. If the effect acquisition cost and depreciated along with the asset. If the is considerable, the provision is calculated by discounting carrying value of a non-current asset exceeds the estimated estimated future cash flows using a discount rate before tax recoverable amount, the asset is written down to the recoverthat reflects the market’s pricing of the time value of money able amount. The recoverable amount is the greater of the net and, if relevant, risks specifically linked to the obligation. selling price and value in use. In assessing the value in use, the If Det Norske Veritas Group is involved in litigation, and a estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value. claim has been made, then provisions for these claims are made in the accounts based on a best estimate of the validity and Intangible assets. Intangible assets that have been amount of the claim. acquired separately are carried at cost. The costs of intangible assets acquired through an acquisition are recognised at their Cash flow statement. The cash flow statement is presented fair value in the Group’s opening balance sheet. Capitalised using the indirect method. Cash and cash equivalents include intangible assets are recognised at cost less any amortisation cash, bank deposits and other short-term, highly liquid and impairment losses. investments with maturities of three months or less. Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised but are expensed as occurred. 56 02 Subsidiaries of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas Stifelsen Det Norske Veritas owns 100% of the shares in Det Norske Veritas Holding AS. Business Share OwnerBook Company office capital ship value Det Norske Veritas Holding AS Bærum 10.1 100% 10.1 Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has three wholly owned subsidiaries, Det Norske Veritas AS (83 subsidiaries), DNV Business Assurance Group AS (29 subsidiaries) and Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS. With the exception of some financial transactions, Det Norske Veritas operates through the subsidiaries of Det Norske Veritas Holding AS. 03 Operating revenue DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2010 2009 2008 Geographical area Nordic countries 3 343.9 3 640.8 3 513.8 Europe and Africa 2 146.7 2 490.5 2 325.3 Asia Pacific 2 804.3 2 708.9 2 549.0 North and South America 1 496.8 1 442.9 1 172.1 Total operating revenue 9 791.7 10 283.1 9 560.3 04 Payroll expenses STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 0.0 0.0 0.0 Salaries 4 310.2 4 289.9 3 858.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Payroll tax 572.7 586.7 550.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension costs 398.8 412.9 279.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other contributions 332.0 342.6 298.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total payroll expenses 5 613.7 5 632.1 4 986.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Man years 8 303 8 737 8 557 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total incentive expenses 90.0 0.0 86.7 57 notes 05 Other operating expenses STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 0.0 0.0 0.0 Travel expenses 637.9 668.7 730.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Hired assistance 458.8 539.3 547.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 ICT and communication expenses 356.4 371.9 306.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loss on claims 65.9 60.9 48.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other expenses 1 648.9 1 667.3 1 563.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total other operating expenses 3 167.9 3 308.1 3 196.8 06 REMUNERATIONs AND LOANS TO CEO, EXECUTIVE committee, BOARD OF DIRECTORS ETC. Chief Executive Officer Henrik O. Madsen has a pensionable annual base salary of NOK 2 695 000 and a functional allowance including free housing of NOK 1 405 000. Mr. Madsen has a right to retire at 62 years with a yearly pension equal to 66% of his pensionable annual base salary at the date of retirement. Remunerations and loans to the Executive committee in 2010 Remunerations: Salary & Pension benefit functional Other earned / Name allowance benefits cost to DNV Henrik O. Madsen 4 303 448 326 771 1 689 998 Tor E. Svensen 3 030 943 169 968 941 659 Remi Eriksen1 2 080 498 1 331 837 365 860 Bjørn K. Haugland 1 687 139 154 660 316 353 Jostein Furnes 2 164 143 184 652 543 747 Cecilie B. Heuch 1 731 366 157 896 56 405 Ioannis Kourmatzis 1 2 756 960 594 912 386 435 Elisabeth Tørstad1 1 753 012 633 959 233 669 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 1 335 318 145 431 201 378 Olav Nortun 1 699 427 131 099 406 879 Loans at 31 Dec. 2010: Repayment Name Loan amount Interest rate period Security Henrik O. Madsen 2 778 522 1.4 % Nov. 2018 Mortgage Tor E. Svensen 562 600 1.4 % Mar. 2028 Mortgage Remi Eriksen* 0 Bjørn K. Haugland 2 419 200 1.4 % Dec. 2034 Mortgage Jostein Furnes 2 305 298 1.4 % July 2031 Mortgage Cecilie B. Heuch 0 Ioannis Kourmatzis1 0 Elisabeth Tørstad1 0 Knut Ørbeck-Nilssen 0 Olav Nortun 0 1) Expatriate assignments 58 Remuneration to the Board of Directors paid out in 2010: board board name Remuneration Comp. travel time name Remuneration Comp. travel time Atle Bergshaven 400 000 0 Odd Sund 200 000 0 Leif-Arne Langøy 163 333 0 Sille Grjotheim 200 000 0 Hilde Tonne 200 000 0 Christine Maidment 200 000 0 John H. Wiik 200 000 0 David McKay 100 000 0 C. Thomas Rehder 200 000 20 833 C. Maury Devine 140 000 30 000 Frances Morris-Jones 200 000 0 Yan Ma 100 000 0 Remuneration to the Control Committee paid out in 2010: name Remuneration Erling Øverland 105 000 Herbjørn Hansson 2 35 000 Per Terje Vold 70 000 Arne Thorsen2 35 000 2) Arne Thorsen replaced Herbjørn Hansson from June 2010 Remuneration to the Compensation Committee paid out in 2010: Remuneration Remuneration name for 2008-2009 for 2010 Atle Bergshaven 24 000 12 000 Leif-Arne Langøy 0 8 000 John H. Wiik 8 000 8 000 C. Maury Devine 16 000 0 Fees to the auditors for 2010: Statutory Tax consulting Other attest non-audit Name audit services services services Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas 300 000 0 0 0 Group auditor other Norwegian entities 2 170 000 198 120 267 000 1 762 568 Group auditor non-Norwegian entities 9 030 000 2 295 231 491 329 6 769 Other auditors 1 211 491 421 437 0 514 170 Total 12 711 491 2 914 788 758 329 2 283 507 07 Pension costs, plan assets and defined benefit pension liabilities Det Norske Veritas has both defined benefit pension plans are related to the defined benefit pension plans and NOK 225.6 and defined contribution pension plans. The defined benefit million are related to the defined contribution pension plans. pension plans are covered through separate pension funds or The Norwegian companies in the Group are subject to through arrangements with insurance companies. The future the Norwegain Pensions Act. The companies’ pension schemes pension benefits are based on the employee’s salary level fulfil the Act’s requirements. at the time of retirement and on the number of years of Norwegian employees are covered either by the Norwegian membership. This is the basis for calculating the pension cost defined contribution pension plan (mainly employees hired and the pension liabilities included in the accounts and in after 1 January 2005), or the defined benefit pension plan this note. Contributions to the Group’s pension plans are made organised in one Norwegian pension fund (employees hired in accordance with common actuarial methods in the country before 1 January 2005). where the pension plan is administered. Total pension costs The pension assets in the Norwegian pension fund are for 2010 were NOK 395.3 million, of which NOK 169.7 million invested as follows: 59 notes Market value of plan assets in Norway 31 DEC 10 31 DEC 09 31 DEC 08 Buildings and property 220.7 221.9 234.5 Mutual equity funds and hedge funds 1 827.3 1 554.8 884.0 Norwegian bonds and bond funds 431.0 226.0 326.7 Non-Norwegian bonds and bond funds 669.3 606.2 228.6 Money market, bank accounts, other assets and liabilities 1 032.7 1 124.0 1 558.4 Total market value of plan assets 4 181.0 3 732.9 3 232.2 Actual return on plan assets 358.8 510.0 (337.3) Funded Norwegian defined Other defined benefit pension plans benefit pension plans 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Net present value of this year's pension contribution 147.9 142.6 127.8 38.4 40.7 38.9 Interest expense on pension liabilities 165.2 155.5 151.4 55.3 53.0 51.5 Expected return on plan assets (186.6) (161.6) (190.4) (58.1) (49.6) (49.4) Payroll tax 17.8 19.2 12.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 Curtailment / pension plan changes 0.0 0.0 0.0 (10.2) 0.0 (0.7) Net pension cost 144.3 155.7 101.4 25.4 44.1 40.4 Plan assets and pension liabilities: Market value of plan assets 4 181.0 3 732.9 3 232.2 931.0 1 031.1 963.4 Actuarial present value of pension liabilities (4 006.7) (3 725.3) (3 500.1) (1 072.7) (1 334.3) (1 307.7) Payroll tax (48.2) (71.6) (110.5) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net prepaid pension (liabilities) 126.1 (64.0) (378.5) (141.7) (303.2) (344.3) Hereof recorded as plan assets 126.1 Hereof recorded as pension liabilities (64.0) (378.5) (141.7) (303.2) (344.3) The assumptions for calculation of the pension liabilities in Norway have been changed. The consequence in 2010 is increased pension liabilities of NOK 361 million. End of service benefit schemes in some countries outside Norway, considered to be defined benefit schemes, have been actuarially calculated in accordance with NGAAP. A positive implementation effect of NOK 6 million has been credited to the equity in 2010 (NOK 22 million in 2009). The total liability at year-end is NOK 61 million (NOK 48 million in 2009). The final calculation of the defined benefit pension liabilities is based on the following assumptions: norwegian schemes other schemes 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Discount rate 4.0% 4.5% 4.5% 4.7%–5.4% 4.0–5.7% 4.0–6.3% Projected annual salary adjustment 4.0% 4.0% 4.0% 2.0–4.4% 2.2–5.1% 3.0–4.3% Projected annual increase in pension benefit 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 0.0–3.3% 0.0–3.0% 0–2.7% Projected annual increase in Norwegian government basis pension 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Expected annual return on plan assets 4.5% 5.0% 5.0% 3.8–6.7% 4.5–7.8% 4.5–7.8% The ordinary retirement age in Det Norske Veritas is 67 years. Some managers and employees are entitled to retire before the age of 67. 60 08 Short-term financial investments STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group market market purchase value book purchase value book price regulation value price regulation value 182.2 0.0 182.2 Money market funds 182.2 0.0 182.2 210.6 4.8 215.4 Bond funds 210.6 4.8 215.4 303.8 81.2 385.0 Equity funds 303.8 81.2 385.0 696.6 86.0 782.6 Total short-term financial investments 696.6 86.0 782.6 09 Financial income and financial expenses STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 69.6 111.2 (85.6) Return on financial investments 69.6 111.2 (154.5) 0.0 1.7 0.0 Dividend from subsidiaries 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Profit from investment in associates 0.0 6.7 16.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 Gain from sale of associates 0.0 40.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 2.5 Net interest received from Group companies 0.0 0.0 0.0 12.5 15.2 (0.1) Other interest received 59.1 5.4 41.7 0.0 (0.3) 0.0 Currency gains (losses) (15.4) (27.8) 41.7 0.0 0.0 7.5 Other financial items (12.7) (6.3) (27.0) 82.1 127.9 (75.7) Net financial income (expenses) 100.7 129.2 (81.9) 10 Financial market risk The Group’s main financial market risks are liquidity risk, The most important contracts are in USD (39%) and EUR (16%). foreign currency risk, credit risk and interest rate risk. The unrealised net loss at the year-end was NOK 36 million. Liquidity risk. The Group monitors its liquidity risk on an Credit risk. Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. The liquidity planning considers the maturity ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to of both the financial investments and financial assets (e.g. bad debts is limited. There are no significant concentrations accounts receivable, other financial assets) and projected of credit risk within the Group. With respect to credit risk cash flows from operations. arising from the Group’s other financial assets, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale Foreign currency risk. The Group has revenues and financial investments and certain derivative instruments, expenses in approx. 50 currencies. Of these, six currencies the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from the default (NOK, EUR, USD, CNY, KRW and GBP) make up approximately of the counter-party, with a maximum exposure equal to 75% of the total revenue. In many currencies DNV has a the market value of these instruments. natural hedge through a balance of revenue and expenses. Major imbalances on the balance sheet are hedged through Interest rate risk. The Group’s exposure to the risk forward exchange contracts. As part of this hedging, DNV of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to has forward exchange contracts in 21 currencies, totalling a the Group’s short-term financial investments and forward net amount of approx. NOK 2 400 million. exchange contracts. 61 notes 11 tax STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 The tax expense consists of: 15.0 16.2 16.3 Norwegian wealth tax 15.0 16.2 16.3 6.5 7.8 10.4 Norwegian income tax 31.7 43.6 224.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax outside Norway 255.3 225.7 251.5 21.5 24.0 26.7 Total tax payable 302.0 285.5 492.2 (0.1) 0.3 0.5 Change in deferred tax in Norway 25.7 83.0 (41.3) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Change in deferred tax outside Norway (29.4) 14.7 13.8 (0.1) 0.3 0.5 Total change in deferred tax (3.7) 97.7 (27.5) 21.4 24.3 27.2 Tax expense 298.3 383.2 464.7 23.0 36.1 (21.2) Tax on profit at 28% 255.1 346.5 309.8 Tax effect of: 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign tax exempt branches (13.4) (18.6) (19.3) (1.2) 0.0 0.0 Changes to previous years’ taxes 6.9 (3.9) 23.0 15.0 16.2 16.3 Wealth tax 15.0 16.2 16.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax assets not recognised current year 24.7 16.7 14.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Differences betw. tax rates in Norway and abroad (4.4) (26.1) 26.1 (15.4) (28.0) 32.1 Permanent differences 14.4 52.4 94.8 21.4 24.3 27.2 Tax expense 383.2 383.2 464.7 Effective tax rate 33% 31% 42% Net tax-reducing / tax-increasing temporary differences: 0.9 1.1 0.0 Fixed assets 128.5 160.6 142.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets (1.9) 6.2 56.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Liabilities (821.6) (1 082.7) (1 825.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax loss to be carried forward 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.9 1.1 0.0 Basis for deferred tax asset / liability (695.0) (915.9) (1 625.9) 28% 28% 28% Tax rates applied 10%-43% 10%-45% 10%-43% 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax asset (233.3) (283.1) (486.8) 0.2 0.3 0.0 Deferred tax liability 17.1 11.6 15.7 12 Changes in the group structure Purchase Acquisition cost local External revenue incl. in 2010 acct. company Acquired ownership currency currency NOK BE&W Engineering Inc October 2010 100% USD 6.7 15.2 The acquisition cost in excess of net book value of the equity has been allocated to goodwill. 62 13 Goodwill Goodwill Cost at Accum. depr. Reval. This year’s This year's Write Goodwill company / business activity 1 Jan. 1 Jan. effects additions depr. down 31 dec. Global Energy Concepts Inc 129.3 (40.9) 1.5 0.0 (27.1) 0.0 62.8 Jardine Technology Ltd. 11.7 (3.3) (0.2) 0.0 (2.3) 0.0 5.9 SOF Conseil SAS 16.0 (0.3) (0.9) 0.0 (3.1) 0.0 11.8 CC Technologies Inc. 48.7 (47.5) 0.1 0.0 (1.3) 0.0 0.0 Healthcare Inc. 12.1 (5.9) 0.1 0.0 (2.5) 0.0 3.9 BE&W Engineering Inc 0.0 0.0 0.1 31.6 (1.6) 0.0 30.1 Total 217.8 (97.9) 0.7 31.6 (38.0) 0.0 114.4 Goodwill is depreciated linearly over a 5-year period, based on an evaluation of economic life. 14 Other intangible assets Cost at Accum. depr. Reval. This year’s This year's book value Company / intangible assets 1 Jan. 1 Jan. effects additions depr. 31 dec. Norwegian Maritime Advisors – Technology 2.0 (1.0) 0.0 0.0 (0.4) 0.6 Tüv Healthcare Inc – Licence 7.6 (3.7) 0.1 0.0 (1.6) 2.4 Global Energy Concepts Inc – Customer relations 20.4 (6.5) 0.2 0.0 (4.3) 9.9 Total 30.0 (11.1) 0.3 0.0 (6.3) 12.9 Other intangible assets are depreciated linearly over a 5-year period, based on an evaluation of economic life. 15 fixed assets Land, buildings and other property Office equipment, fixtures and fittings Cost at 1 January 2010 1 588.7 1 940.8 Revaluation effects (3.6) 2.9 Additions from acquisitions in 2010 0.0 1.1 Other additions in 2010 41.8 125.7 Disposals in 2010 (1.7) (18.1) Accumulated depreciation at 31 December 2010 (502.0) (1 707.5) Book value at 31 December 2010 1 123.2 344.9 Depreciation 2010 31.7 123.8 Economic life 20-100 years 3-10 years Depreciation plan Linear Linear Det Norske Veritas Eiendom AS has a tenancy agreement with Det Norske Veritas Pension Fund for an office building in Stavanger. In 2010, the rent amounted to NOK 7.7 million. The tenancy agreement is nonterminable for 30 years starting in 1984. Det Norske Veritas Pension Fund has an option to sell the property to Det Norske Veritas for NOK 147.0 million at the end of the period (year 2014). The market values of the property as at 31 December 2010 is NOK 239.0 million 63 notes 16 Company long-term shareholdings Ownership Book value Røisheim Eiendom AS 3.2% 0.3 Shares owned by Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas 0.3 Shenzhen Huatongwei International Testing Co., Ltd 49.0% 7.3 Ship Manoeuvring Simulator Center AS 34.6% 1.8 Vité Inc. 24.0% 0.0 TT Holding AS 11.1% 0.0 Marintek AS 9.0% 0.0 ECA International 2.7 % 0.0 Kapnord Fond AS 6.0% 3.2 CCS-DNV Technology Institute 50.0% 5.4 Blade Test Centre AS 25.0% 4.6 Shares owned by subsidiaries 22.3 Total long-term shareholdings 22.6 17 Other short-term liabilities 2010 DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2009 2008 Advances from customers 717.9 562.0 695.4 Accrued expenses 465.5 450.1 567.4 Accrued holiday allowances 271.6 287.9 281.5 Unrealised loss (gain) and interest related to forward contracts (36.3) 32.0 372.6 Other short-term liabilities 57.2 56.3 99.9 Total other short-term liabilities 1 476.0 1 388.3 2 016.8 18 other long-term receivables 2010 DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2009 2008 Loans to employees 68.2 70.8 70.2 Other long-term receivables 288.3 306.1 261.2 Total other long-term receivables 356.4 376.9 331.4 64 19 cash and bank deposits Det Norske Veritas Holding AS has a corporate bank account Det Norske Veritas AS has a cash pool system with Handelssystem with DnB NOR Bank ASA, in which most of DNV’s legal banken, in which all DNV’s legal entities in Sweden participate. entities participate. This system includes an overdraft facility This systemincludes an overdraft facility of SEK 10 million. of NOK 50 million. Balances on bank accounts participating in the corporate DNV’s wholly owned subsidiary in China, Det Norske Veritas bank account system/cash pooling systems are considered China Company Ltd has a CNY 150 million credit facility with as internal assets or liabilities vis-à-vis other DNV participants. Citibank in China. The facility is guaranteed by Det Norske For DNV on a consolidated basis, the net total balance of Veritas AS through a parent company guarantee. The facility NOK 276 million with DnB NOR Bank ASA and SEK 18 million was undrawn at year-end 2010. with Handelsbanken are included in Cash and Bank Deposits in the balance sheet as at 31 December. 20 guarantees STIFTELSEN DET NORSKE VERITAS DET NORSKE VERITAS – group 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Guarantee commitments 0.0 0.0 0.0 not included in the accounts 49.1 49.9 45.2 21 equity Foundation capital Other equity Stiftelsen DNV Subsidiaries of Stiftelsen DNV dnv group Equity 31 December 2009 283.5 877.0 1 160.5 4 367.3 5 527.8 Change in unrecognised net loss in defined benefit pension plans 2010 150.0 150.0 Foreign currency translation (10.6) (10.6) (Gross) loss on hedge of net investments (20.7) (20.7) Tax effect from hedging of net investments in foreign subsidiaries 1.3 1.3 Profit for the year 60.7 60.7 552.1 612.8 Equity 31 December 2010 283.5 937.7 1 221.2 5 039.5 6 260.7 65 Auditor’s report Those standards require that we comply with Report on other legal and regulatory To the Board of ethical requirements and plan and perform requirements the audit to obtain reasonable assurance Opinion on the Board of Directors’ Directors of Stiftelsen about whether the financial statements report. Based on our audit of the financial Det Norske Veritas are free from material misstatement. statements as described above, it is our opinion An audit involves performing procedures that the information presented in the Directors’ to obtain audit evidence about the amounts report concerning the financial statements, and disclosures in the financial statements. the going concern assumption and the proposal The procedures selected depend on the for the allocation of the result is consistent auditor’s judgment, including the assessment with the financial statements and complies We have audited the accompanying financial of the risks of material misstatement of the with the law and regulations. statements of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas, financial statements, whether due to fraud comprising the financial statements for the or error. In making those risk assessments, Opinion on registration and docuFoundation and the Group. The financial the auditor considers internal control relevant mentation. Based on our audit of the statements for the Foundation and the Group to the entity’s preparation and fair presenfinancial statements as described above, comprise the balance sheet as at 31 December tation of the financial statements in order and control procedures we have considered 2010, the statements of income and cash flows to design audit procedures that are appronecessary in accordance with the internafor the year then ended and a summary priate in the circumstances, but not for the tional standard on assurance engagements of significant accounting policies and other purpose of expressing an opinion on the (ISAE) 3000, «Assurance Engagements Other explanatory information. effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial An audit also includes evaluating the approInformation», it is our opinion that the Board The Board of Directors’ and Chief priateness of accounting policies used and of Directors and Chief Executive Officer Executive Officer’s responsibility the reasonableness of accounting estimates have fulfilled their duty to properly record for the financial statements. made by management, as well as evaluating and document the Foundation accounting The Board of Directors and Chief Executive the overall presentation of the financial information as required by law and generally Officer are responsible for the preparation statements. accepted bookkeeping practice in Norway. and fair presentation of these financial We believe that the audit evidence we statements in accordance with the Norwegian have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Opinion on asset management. Based Accounting Act and accounting standards to provide a basis for our audit opinion on on our audit of the financial statements as and practices generally accepted in Norway, the financial statements for the Foundation described above and control procedures we and for such internal control as the Board and the Group. have considered necessary in accordance of Directors and Chief Executive Officer with the international standard on assurance determine is necessary to enable the Opinion. In our opinion, the financial engagements (ISAE) 3000, it is our opinion preparation of financial statements that statements of Stiftelsen Det Norske Veritas that the Foundation has been managed in are free from material misstatement, have been prepared in accordance with accordance with laws and the foundation’s whether due to fraud or error. laws and regulations and present fairly, objectives and articles of association. in all material respects, the financial position Auditor’s responsibility. Our responsiof the Foundation and the Group as of bility is to express an opinion on these financial 31 December 2010 and their financial Oslo, 5 April 2011 statements based on our audit. We conducted performance and cash flows for the ERNST & YOUNG AS our audit in accordance with laws, regulayear then ended in accordance with the tions, and auditing standards and practices Norwegian Accounting Act and accounting Finn Ole Edstrøm generally accepted in Norway, including standards and practices generally accepted State Authorised Public International Standards on Auditing. in Norway. Accountant (Norway) Note: This translation from Norwegian 66 has been made for information purposes only. GRI content index The selection and prioritisation of reporting The GRI content index shows where you Scope and boundary parameters is based on a materiality assesscan find information on the main reporting ment conducted in 2009-2010 and a survey elements and indicators of the GRI and the of the report of key stakeholders concerning reporting UN Global Compact. References are also preferences conducted in 2008. made to information that can be found on The materiality assessment was performed our web site: www.dnv.com. The number using a risk-based approach and revealed of indicators reported upon has increased the following six areas as being material for since 2009 as a result of continuous focus our business: business conduct; corruption; on transparency in reporting. The indicators products and services; marketplace; working that are not reported upon are listed at the This annual report presents conditions; recruitment and retention. These end of the index. The financial statements DNV’s financial, social and were closely followed by labour relations are the only part of this report that have and diversity. Workshops were held in five been externally assured. environmental performance. locations globally using our protocol for CR The financial review has been prepared DNV’s vision of a global impact assessments, and the results were consistent pursuant to the Norwegian Accounting for a safe and sustainable future across all locations. Act and accounting standards and principles The survey of key stakeholders in 2008 generally accepted in Norway. Information is reflected throughout the involved 11 semi-structured interviews with on the accounting principles applied to report. In addition DNV has people chosen from 300 recipients of the subsidiaries is given in the notes to the applied the GRI Sustainability annual report that year. The respondents financial statements. represented customers, potential employees, Due to organisational restructuring, there Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3) current employees and NGOs in the Americas, have been some changes in the reporting in preparing this annual report. Europe and Asia. Respondents were chosen boundary and scope, which now reflect perto provide equal representation from the formance indicators and reporting protocols maritime and energy sectors as well as our for the new organisational structure. In addicertification business (Business Assurance). tion, we entered a new strategy period lasting The results indicated that the report met from 2010 to 2014, and this is reflected in the expectations of key stakeholders, and our reporting of key achievements for 2010 also revealed opportunities for improvement. and focus areas for the coming years. These are reflected in our continuing efforts to increas stakeholder engagement. Application Level Furthermore, DNV is continuously working to Following an internal assessment of this extend the report’s scope and boundary, as report against the criteria in the GRI Appliindicated by our commitment to reaching cation Levels, we are confident that this A+ in the GRI Application Level by 2014. report meets the requirements for Level B. This report also takes into account our This Application Level has been checked reporting commitment to the UN Global by the GRI. The annual financial statements Compact and our Communication of Progress have been audited by Ernst & Young. is integrated with the GRI content index. 67 GRI content index Strategy and Profile Environmental Performance Indicators 1.1 3.5 3.11, 3.13 4.8 Disclosures on GC9 Statements from CEO Scope and boundary Internally developed management approach and Board of Directors of report statements of mission page 9-10, 40-43 page 6-7 and 8-11 3.5 page 67 or values, codes of dnv.com / moreondnv / cr/wedo 3.6 page 67 conduct, and principles dnv.com / moreondnv / cr/she 1.2 3.7 page 67 page 2 and 36 Description of key impacts, 3.8 page 55 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / GC8 EN3-EN4 risks and opportunities 3.9 page 60 (partial) business_ethics/code_ GC9 Energy consumption page 6-7, 8-10 3.10 Not applicable business_conduct.asp page 40-41 and 67 (partial) 3.11 page 67 and page 3 3.13 page 67 4.10 GC8 EN5-EN7 2.1 2.9 Processes for evaluating Energy efficiency initiatives Organisational profile 3.12 highest governance EN5 page 40, 42-43 (partial) 2.1 back cover Table identifying the body’s own performance EN6 page 40-43 2.2 page 5 location of the Standard principles EN7 page 40-42 2.3 page 12-13 Disclosures in the report page 10 2.4 inside front cover this table dnv.com / moreondnv / GC7 EN16 2.5 inside front cover profile / governing_bodies / GC8 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2.6 page 2 4.1 4.4 dnvcouncil.asp GC9 by weight 2.7 page 5 and 12 Governance, Commitpage 41 2.8 page 4, 18-33, 38-39, ments and Engagement 4.11 4.13 52-53, 57 4.1 page 10-11 Principles, initiatives and GC8 EN17 2.9 page 4, 9-10, 30, 33, dnv.com / moreondnv / associations supported Other indirect GHG emissions 38-39, 62 profile by DNV by weight 2.10 page 33 4.2 page 11 4.11 page 6-7 page 41 dnv.com / moreondnv / dnv.com / moreondnv / 3.1 profile / organisation / cr / collaboration GC8 EN18 Reporting period management.asp 4.12 page 37 Initiatives for reducing GHG emissions 1 Jan to 31 Dec 2010 4.3 page 11 dnv.com / moreondnv / page 41-42 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / collaboration 3.2 profile / governing_ 4.13 page 37 GC8 EN20 Date of most recent bodies/ dnv.com / moreondnv / NOx, SOx and other significant previous report 4.4 page 10 cr / collaboration air emissions by type and weight April 2010 dnv.com / moreondnv / dnv.com / moreondnv / page 41 profile / organisation / profile/committees 3.3 management.asp GC8 EN22 Reporting cycle dnv.com / moreondnv / 4.14 4.17 Total weight of waste by annual cr / business_ethics/ List of stakeholder groups type and disposal method engaged by the organisation page 41-43 3.4 4.5 4.7, 4.9 and key topics raised Contact point for Governance, Commit4.14 page 67 GC8 EN23 questions regarding ments and Engagement 4.15 page 67 Total number and volume the report or its contents – procedures and processes 4.16 page 37 and 67 (partial) of significant spills inside back cover 4.5 page 58 (partial) 4.17 page 39 and 67 none 4.6 page 10 4.7 dnv.com / moreondnv / GC8 EN24 profile / governing_ Weight of transported, imported, bodies / dnvcouncil.asp exported or treated waste deemed 4.9 page 10 hazardous page 43 EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions suspension of ISO 14001 accreditation by ANAB from 20.10.2010-2.2.2011 EN29 Workforce transportation page 41-43 EN30 Total environment protection expenditures page 42 (partial) Social Economic Performance Indicators Performance Indicators Labour practices Human rights Disclosures on – disclosures on – disclosures on management approach management approach management approach page 9-10, 50-56 page 9-10, 12, 38-39, 44-47 page 9-10, 38-39 dnv.com / moreondnv / people dnv.com / moreondnv / cr / EC1 dnv.com / moreondnv / cr/she business_ethics Direct economic value generated and distributed LA1 HR4 page 50-56 Total workforce by employTotal number of incidents ment type, employment of discrimination GC7 EC2 contract and region Page 37 (partial) GC9 Financial implications and page 39 other risks and opportunities GC1 HR5 for the organisation’s activities GC6 LA2 GC2 Operations identified in which due to climate change Total number and rate of GC3 the right to exercise freedom page 6-7, 20-21, 26-29 employee turnover by age of association and collective group, gender and region bargaining may be at signifiEC3 page 39 cant risk Coverage of the organisation’s dnv.com / moreondnv / people defined benefit plan obligations LA3 /employee_management_ page 56 and 59 Benefits provided relations.asp (partial) to full-time employees GC6 EC7 page 39 Procedures for local hiring and Society proportion of senior management GC1 LA7 – disclosures on hired from the local community Rates of injury, occupational management approach page 39 (partial) diseases, lost days and absenpage 10, 36-37 teeism, and number of workdnv.com / moreondnv / cr / related fatalities by region business_ethics/index.asp Product responsibility page 45 – disclosure on SO2 management approach GC1 LA8 Business units analyzed for risks page 12-13 (partial) Education, training, counseling, related to corruption prevention, and risk-control page 36 (partial) PR9 programs Monetary value of significant fines page 44 (partial) GC10 SO3 for non-compliance with laws and Percentage of employees trained regulations concerning the provision LA10 in organisation’s anti-corruption and use of products and services. Average hours of training per policies and procedures none year per employee page 36 page 39 GC10 SO4 LA11 Actions taken in response Programs for skills management to incidents of corruption and lifelong learning page 37 page 39 (partial) GC1 SO5 LA12 – Public policy positions and Performance and career GC10 participation in public policy development reviews development and lobbying page 39 page 37 (partial) GC1 LA13 SO7 GC6 Composition of governance Total number of legal actions for bodies and diversity anti-competitive behaviour and breakdown of employees anti-trust and monopoly practices page 11 and 39 (partial) and their customers ENI-2, EC4-EC6, EC 8-EC9, LA4-LA6, LA9, SO1, SO6, none HR1-HR3, PR1-PR8: Information not compiled for LA14 current report. HR6-HR 9, EN8-EN15, EN19, EN21, and Ratio of basic salary of men SO8 EN25-EN27: DNV is a professional service provider. Our impact in relation to these indicators is not to women Monetary value of significant currently deemed significant to be monitored as part page 39 fines and total number of of our Management Systems. non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations none G3 disclosures GC = UN Global Compact reference Page / comment This report is printed on paper from responsible sources. The paper is FSC and RA certified. The printer holds a Nordic Swan and a FSC certificate. IC E C O L A RD B N O EL 241 148 PR IN T ER ED MATT Feedback: Please let us know your views or comments on this report by email to dnv.corporate@dnv.com or write to us at DNV, Corporate Communications, NO-1322 Høvik, Norway. Subscription: You can subscribe to printed copies of the report and other DNV publications on www.dnv.com / resources / publications Published by: Idea and design: F A S E T T Photo: DNV /Nina E. Rangøy (portraits) Paper: Artic Volume (130 / 200g) DNV Corporate Communication, Infographics: F A S E T T Johs. Bøe (Board of Directors) Circulation: 16,000 Print: Grøset Det Norske Veritas AS Editor: Per Busk Christiansen Det Norske Veritas AS Corporate Communications NO-1363 Høvik, Norway Tel: +47 67 57 99 00 Fax: +47 67 57 99 11 www.dnv.com
