our commitment in action CSR RepoRt 2010 corporate social responsibility public accountability statement 2001 2002 2003 2004 celebrating 2001-2010 10 yeaRS of RepoRting 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Our commitment in action CSR REPORT 2010 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Public Accountability Statement bUilding on a Solid FoUndation oF key principleS: oUR CoRpoRate goveRnanCe • Scotiabank was the highest-ranked canadian financial institution p4 on The Globe and Mail’s 2010 ranking of corporate governance, board games. • Scotiabank is the first canadian bank to adopt the Un global compact. • 13 of the board’s current 14 directors are independent. oUR CUStomeRS • Scotiabank has more than 18.6 million customers. p6 • We have operations in more than 50 countries around the world. • Scotiabank authorized $9.2 billion in debt financing to small and medium-sized businesses in canada. case study: Water and Sanitation program oUR employeeS • For the second year in a row, Scotiabank was named one of canada’s best diversity employers. p10 • We have more than 70,000 employees worldwide. • close to 55% of our employee base is now outside of canada. case study: Her Success, Her Way program oUR enviRonment • in canada, we have 20 “green” branches. • Scotiabank was named by Maclean’s and p14 Canadian Business magazines to the green 30. • Scotiabank Mexico received an environmental award for best practices to reduce its carbon footprint from ceMeFi. case study: ecoliving program oUR CommUnitieS • We launched the global Scotiabank bright Future program – www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com. p18 • Scotiabank contributed about cdn$50 million in donations and philanthropic sponsorships. • employees spent more than 324,000 hours volunteering and fundraising. case study: Scotiabank bright Future program Un global CompaCt in 2010, Scotiabank became the first canadian bank to adopt the Un global compact (Ungc), a commitment to uphold and protect human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption standards through business practices. in this report, we have identified the areas in which we are working towards the Ungc principles with the Ungc logo. For more detailed information on how we are working towards the 10 Ungc principles, please visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/ataglance. scotiabank is one of north america’s premier Scotiabank’s strength is evident in financial institutions, and canada’s most our solid results for 2010* international bank. through our team of more than 70,000 employees, scotiabank total net inCome Group and its affiliates offer a broad range of products and services, including personal, $4,239 million commercial, corporate and investment banking to more than 18.6 million customers in more than 50 countries around the world. oUR CoRe pURpoSe to be a leading multinational financial services provider, based in canada – by being the best at helping customers become financially better off. oUR CoRpoRate pRioRitieS • Sustainable and profitable oUR fiSCal 2010 bUSineSS platfoRmS of gRoWth revenue growth • capital management • leadership • prudent risk management and appetite • efficiency and Canadian banking offers a diverse range expense management $2,315 of financial advice, solutions and service to net income retail, small business, commercial and wealth 2010 ($ millions) management customers through a multihow we work channel delivery network across the country. CollaboRation taking full advantage of business opportunities, synergies, best practices and our global talent pool. inteRnational banking provides a wide $1,262 array of financial services to Scotiabank’s retail net income and commercial banking customers in more than 2010 ($ millions) 45 countries across the caribbean, Mexico, latin oUR valUeS america and asia. integRity We interact with others ethically and SCotia Capital is the wholesale banking arm of honourably. $1,350 the Scotiabank group, offering a wide variety of products to corporate, government and institutional ReSpeCt We empathize and fully consider the diverse net income investor clients. it is a full-service lender and needs of others. 2010 ($ millions) investment dealer in canada and Mexico; offers Commitment We achieve success for our customers, a wide range of products in the U.S. and latin our teams and ourselves. america; and provides select products and services to niche markets in europe and asia. inSight We use a high level of knowledge to proactively respond with the right solutions. on october 1, 2010, global Wealth management was established SpiRit We enrich our work environment with teamwork, as a fourth business line, combining our wealth management contagious enthusiasm and a “can-do” attitude. and insurance businesses in Canada and internationally, along with our global transaction banking group. bUilding on oUR StRengthS 43%: net income before government taxes 29%: employees after 179 years in business, common themes emerge as the 19%: Suppliers defining characteristics of who we are and who we strive to be. 8%: loan losses the framework takes into account our traditions and the 1%: non-controlling interest in the net reputation we have enjoyed since we were founded. We are income of subsidiaries defined by our culture and values that are rooted in our key strengths of diversification, execution, efficiency and expense management, and risk management. our unity as an organization 37%: government taxes and collaborative approach – one team, one goal – is a powerful 63%: dividends to shareholders/ competitive advantage. reinvestment in bnS *as at october 31, 2010. See the 2010 annual report for complete details on these figures. a MeSSage FroM oUr preSident and cHieF execUtive oFFicer, rick WaUgH rick Waugh, president and chief executive officer “the scotiabank bright Future program takes us to the next level by reinforcing our commitment to being excellent global citizens.” Welcome to the tenth edition of our corporate social responsibility helps homeowners make greener choices for their homes. the (cSr) report. over the past decade, Scotiabank’s commitment to cSr Scotiabank ecoliving awards recognize canadian businesses, has evolved and strengthened, and this report has become a valuable individuals and students for excellence and innovation in home tool that has helped us focus our efforts and track our progress. energy efficiency. cSr is now an integral part of all aspects of our business around our commitment to cSr has been recognized with several awards the globe, and this report now includes comprehensive and honours. For example, Canadian Business Magazine and the information from Mexico, peru, chile and costa rica, as well as reputation institute named Scotiabank among the country’s most canada. together, these countries account for about 80 per cent reputable companies and canada’s most reputable bank, and we of our global operations. also received prestigious cSr awards in Mexico and Jamaica. early in 2011, we took a major step forward by uniting all of our cSr is more important than ever to Scotiabank – and to our charitable, social and community efforts and employee volunteer employees, our customers, our shareholders and the communities activities under one banner. the Scotiabank bright Future program we serve. We remain committed to helping build bright futures enables the bank and our 70,000 employees worldwide to build worldwide through ethical banking practices, environmental upon our long-standing tradition of supporting the communities awareness and a commitment to supporting our communities where we live and work. through corporate donations and employee volunteer activities. We’re very proud that Scotiabank signed the Un global compact please visit our website, www.scotiabank.com/csr, to learn more in 2010 – a commitment to uphold and protect human rights, about our cSr efforts and let us know what you think. We value labour, environment and anti-corruption standards through its your interest and support, and look forward to sharing future reports business practices. Upon signing, Scotiabank became the first with you as we continue expanding our commitment to cSr. canadian bank to adopt these Un principles in its day-to-day operations and organizational culture. We’re also excited about our new ecoliving program, launched in response to canadians’ growing interest in reducing their environmental impact. our ecoliving website, www.ecoliving.scotiabank.com Scotiabank cSr report 2010 1 coMMitted to Making a diFFerence csr advisory committee socially responsible indices scotiabank is included in a number of indices, based on our performance on environmental, social and corporate governance criteria. 4 5 1 2 3 6 CSR 1. Kaz Flinn vice-preSident, cSr, 4. laurel pollard vice-preSident, Strategy ManageMent pUblic, corporate & governMent aFFairS and execUtive proJectS scotiabank is 2. rania llewellyn 5. ron King a member of: Senior vice-preSident and Head oF cHieF anti-Money laUndering oFFicer, canadian operationS, roynat capital Scotiabank groUp coMpliance 3. ahmad dajani 6. cynthia stark vice-preSident, MUlticUltUral banking vice-preSident, brand and advertiSing, international banking in 2010, Scotiabank’s cSr advisory committee worked on the development of a new corporate social responsibility statement. it had been five years since we had launched our original cSr definition, and it was time for a new statement to reflect our current goals. We wanted a new statement to concisely describe the objective of cSr at Scotiabank, both internally and externally. We wanted it to be clear, relevant, current, inspiring, unique and enduring – a tall order. We wanted our statement to engage employees and to underline that we take cSr seriously: it is part of our every working day. We also wanted to capture the excitement we feel about our work in cSr, and what it means to us as an organization. the committee spent time developing key words and ideas that depict our unique perspective on cSr. the conversation highlighted the different perspectives on cSr across the bank, as well as significant common values. the cSr team then developed dozens of options. the result was a shorter, clearer statement about cSr and our values (below). scotiabank helps to build bright futures worldwide through ethical banking practices, environmental awareness and a commitment to communities. 2 2010 Scotiabank cSr report How we do business every day. 9 10 11 7 16 8 12 13 14 15 7. cory Garlough 11. Jp savage 14. david morley vice-preSident, Senior vice-preSident, enterpriSe vice-preSident, real eState global eMployMent StrategieS tecHnology ManageMent oFFice 15. marian lawson 8. randy lyons 12. Kim brand Managing director and Head oF vice-preSident, director, environMental aFFairS, cSr, global capital MarketS, banking organizational alignMent pUblic, corporate & governMent aFFairS 16. Jeremy pallant 9. bradley tate 13. diane Giard vice-preSident, eMerging retail, legal coUnSel, legal departMent Senior vice-preSident, QUebec/eaStern Micro Finance and SMall bUSineSS, ontario region international banking 10. Jacqueline bukaluk vice-preSident, execUtive oFFiceS aUdit the Scotiabank advisory committee members represent key areas of scotiabanK’s corporate social responsibility (csr) report the bank, such as compliance, international banking, legal, information this report covers our economic, social technology & Solutions, real estate and Multicultural banking. and environmental impacts and performance in 2010. it is published in other issues the cSr committee worked on included integration of the Un global compact accordance with section 3 of public into our business operations. they provided input into our cSr metrics, and helped to accountability Statements (banks, champion some of our key cSr initiatives across the bank. insurance companies, trust and loan companies) regulations in canada, and this is the 10th annual corporate Social responsibility report. (See the 10 covers on the front includes more global data to reflect the cover of this report.) our very first report focused almost entirely on our canadian operations. increasingly international scope of our it was almost 40 pages long – yet only one page was devoted to environmental activities. operations. For more information on Since then, we’ve significantly shortened our printed report and put the majority of our cSr the scope of this report, visit the information online. We also now report on more than 80% of our global operations, and our appendix on page 21. environmental activities are now a significant component of cSr across the global bank. committee members missing from photos: additional information on Scotiabank’s cSr progress is phil griffiths, vice-president, Strategic Support, Shared 8 available on our website at www.scotiabank.com/csr Services; lance Hill, vice-president, operations Support Services, international banking Shared Services; karen Jodoin, director, it & S Human resources; Janet Slasor, director, donations, Sponsorships & executive projects; rick White, vice-president, brand and Marketing programs Scotiabank cSr report 2010 3 CSR coMMitted to Making a diFFerence principle 10 openneSS and accoUntability our corporate Governance the bank’s corporate governance policies are designed to ensure the independence of the board of directors and its ability to effectively supervise management’s operation of the bank. the board of directors is committed to adopting best practices for the bank’s corporate governance. in 2010 how we govern • the board welcomed a new director: david dodge, senior corporate governance is the way in which a company is governed – adviser at bennett Jones llp and former governor of the bank its processes, policies and how it deals with the various interests of of canada. its many stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees and the broader community. as a multinational financial institution • Scotiabank became the first canadian bank to adopt the Un with operations in some 50 countries, Scotiabank works to ensure global compact, a commitment to uphold and protect human that its practices and policies meet or exceed local, canadian and rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption standards international standards and requirements, and that the interests of through business practices. the bank’s diverse stakeholders around the world are represented in • Scotiabank was the highest-ranked canadian financial a balanced way. institution on The Globe and Mail’s 2010 ranking of corporate Scotiabank’s corporate practices do not differ significantly from governance, board games. Scotiabank led in critical areas such the corporate governance standards of the new york Stock exchange as disclosure issues and shareholder rights. (nySe) for listed companies. they are designed to maintain the independence of the board of directors and its ability to governance facts effectively supervise the management of the bank’s business and • 13 of the board’s current 14 directors are independent. affairs, as well as to maintain its strength and integrity. • the board conducts an annual review of its performance Scotiabank continually looks for ways to strengthen its corporate and that of its committees. governance practices and policies at all levels, and the board of • all directors, officers and employees of Scotiabank must directors works toward the adoption of best practices as they review and sign the Scotiabank guidelines for business evolve. Specific responsibility for corporate governance rests with conduct annually. the corporate governance and pension committee of the board, which is composed entirely of independent directors. the committee reviews the bank’s corporate governance policies at least once a year, and any changes it recommends are reviewed and approved by the full board. 4 2010 Scotiabank cSr report “at the heart of our long and excellent record of success lies a strong foundation of corporate governance – a well-developed culture of accountability, openness and integrity.” – John t. mayberry, chairman of the board From left to right: n. ashleigh everett – chair, corporate Governance and pension committee; John c. Kerr – chairman, Human resources committee; michael J.l. John t. mayberry, Kirby – chairman, audit and conduct review committee; allan c. shaw – chairman, chairman of the board executive and risk committee. accountability for the bank’s actions and results is shared by all employees, and ultimately rests with the board of directors. because of its commitment to openness and accountability throughout the global organization, Scotiabank joined the Un global compact in 2010. the global compact is a 8 available online Un policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, • For more information on Scotiabank’s environment and anti-corruption. corporate governance practices and policies, visit www.scotiabank.com/ csr/governance. board oF directors reportinG structure • to find out more about the appoint Un global compact, visit exeCUtive & ShaReholdeRS ShaReholdeRS’ RiSk Committee aUditoRS http://www.unglobalcompact.org. eleCt RepoRt CoRpoRate goveRnanCe & penSion Committee hUman appoint boaRd of appoint aUdit & CondUCt ReSoURCeS diReCtoRS RevieW Committee Committee RepoRt appoint independent appoint gRoUp inteRnal adviSoR management ComplianCe aUdit Scotiabank cSr report 2010 5 CSR coMMitted to Making a diFFerence principle 1 our customers Scotiabank’s goal is to help customers become financially better off. this means delivering outstanding service, as well as carefully measuring our ability to meet our customers’ needs, and providing relevant products and financial advice. it also means meeting customers’ expectations, such as ensuring personal privacy and earning trust. it is what we work towards every day, with more than 18.6 million customers in more than 50 countries. microfinance multicultural banking “by providing access to credit, our programs help households and “We embrace and reach out to people in multicultural micro-businesses to achieve economic independence and to drive communities across canada by offering them services that economic development. Micro-businesses are not just great for recognize their unique needs, in many cases in their language of people who launch them, they are great for communities,” says choice. For example, our Startright program for newcomers Jeremy pallant, vice-president, emerging retail, Microfinance and continues to be a huge success, with customized solutions and Small business. resources designed especially for permanent residents, Scotiabank is involved in innovative microfinance initiatives that international students and foreign workers,” says ahmad dajani, help to create opportunities for entrepreneurs and under-served vice-president, Multicultural banking. communities, especially owner-operators of micro-businesses. as canada’s most international bank, Scotiabank has a unique Scotiabank defines microfinance clients as self-employed or perspective on the varying needs of newcomers arriving in micro-business owners with annual gross revenues below canada. our employees reflects the diversity of the communities cdn$100,000. the individuals need funding to invest in the where we operate, and we continue to actively recruit and development and growth of their business. We have microfinance welcome employees from multicultural communities across operations in five countries (see the appendix on page 23), and canada, who understand and embrace the cultural nuances of we have plans to expand to other countries during 2011. our customers and can speak their language of choice. depending on the location, we lend funds for working capital, our StartRight program offers newcomers easier access to business premises acquisition, expansion and equipment credit, free day-to-day banking for one year, and a variety of purchases, as well as credit cards, personal loans, mortgage other investment and borrowing products and services that have and educational loans. been customized to meet their unique needs. our Startright Many dependents benefit from these businesses, and the children website is available in eight languages. of loan beneficiaries are more likely to complete primary and Some newcomers have found that their lack of credit history in secondary school. canada has been a barrier to obtaining vehicle financing. in in 2010, we increased our total microfinance loans by close 2010, Scotiabank introduced the Startright auto loan program, to 13%. our goal is to add nine additional microfinance locations the first of its kind in canada from an automotive financing by the end of 2011. provider. Under this new program, newcomers can get the financing they need to purchase a car. 6 2010 Scotiabank cSr report “across canada in 2010, we saw encouraging signs of renewed opportunity for many of our small business customers. While regional stories vary and we see some industries facing ongoing challenges, our relatively strong economy is restoring cautious optimism on many fronts.” – islay Mcglynn, Managing director and Head of Small business, Scotiabank commitment to customers Fast facts • Services at our automated banking machines (abMs) are available in english, French, Spanish, and traditional and simplified chinese. • our customer contact centres serve customers in punjabi, Spanish, Mandarin, cantonese, French and english. • in canada, Scotia online has more than 4.5 million registered users. * For a detailed overview of the access to financial services we provide by segment, see the appendix on page 24. photo: clorinda canorio tinoco of peru (right) began her bakery in 1992. With a small initial loan, this renowned bakery has grown to achieve revenues of over $1 million. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 7 scotiabank retail customer Security loyalty (canada) – top box “providing exceptional service also means protecting customers’ privacy, and addressing 53% 53% 53% financial crimes such as money laundering. We adhere to a number of voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments designed to protect consumer interests on issues ranging from credit and debit card fraud to relations with small-and medium-sized businesses. We also have other policies designed to address financial crimes such as money laundering,” says louise cannon, Senior vice-president, group programs & canadian banking compliance. 2008 2009 2010 Scotiabank has a number of programs and policies that help to protect customers, including: Top Box refers to the proportion of • in 2010, 99% of our retail credit cards and 98% of our active debit cards were converted to customers who provided the highest chip technology. chip cards offer enhanced security against lost, stolen or counterfeit card rating based on a five-point rating scale. fraud. all Scotiabank branch abMs have also been converted to chip technology. Scotiabank Mexico has converted all credit cards, and debit card conversion will continue through 2011. in peru, Scotiabank will start issuing premium credit cards that have chips in 2011. small business customer • in 2010, we updated the Scotiabank group privacy agreement, which explains to loyalty (canada) – top box customers how we collect, use, safeguard and disclose their personal information. • in response to the increasing complexities of an online world, the bank recently launched 55% 53% a comprehensive privacy and information Security course for all canadian employees. this 51% e-learning course addresses all aspects of safely handling customers’ personal and other confidential information, whether in hard copy or electronic format. We plan to roll out the training internationally in 2011. 2008 2009 2010 addressing customer complaints Scotiabank’s small business customer loyalty customers who may have concerns or complaints can communicate with Scotiabank by index is based on results from an internal survey, and is a key indicator of our customers’ following three-step process: loyalty to Scotiabank. 1. contacting their local branch or contact centre, Top Box refers to the proportion of customers who provided the highest rating based on a 2. approaching the Scotiabank office of the president, or five-point rating scale. 3. contacting the Scotiabank ombudsman. if a customer still feels his or her concern has not been satisfactorily addressed, he or she may contact the ombudsman for banking Services and investments, an independent scotiabank retail customer organization that investigates customer complaints about financial services providers. loyalty (international banking) through your customers’ eyes, internationally, Scotiabank locations follow similar complaint management processes, which international banking (tyce ib ) vary according to local needs or regulatory requirements. 47% See the appendix on page 23 for further details. 42% 42% 40% 8 available online • For further information on our privacy protection, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/privacy. 2008 2009 2010 2010* • For more information on Multicultural banking, visit www.scotiabank.com/customers/mcb. *Customer Loyalty Index (CLI) is a composite • For more information on microfinance, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/customers/microfinance. score, which is the average of the proportion of Top Box responses (highest ranking on a five• We operate a network of 23 aboriginal banking centres, including four on-reserve branches. point scale) across four loyalty questions. In 2010, CLI was introduced to replace TYCE and, to find out more, visit www.scotiabank.com/aboriginalbanking. beginning in 2011, CLI will be the only score • to learn more about low-cost banking, banking for seniors and physical accessibility in we will be reporting on. branches, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/customers/accessibility. • Scotiabank has 1,678 small business advisors to help small business customers in canada. to find out more, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/customers/smallbusiness. 8 2010 Scotiabank cSr report caSe StUdy: Water and sanitation proGram photos: participants in local programs operated by agualimpia, a peruvian nongovernmental organization that promotes in 2010, Scotiabank peru launched a unique product in collaboration with the and helps to secure sustainable portable World bank and care (an aid organization dedicated to fighting poverty), for their water and sanitation. Water and Sanitation program. its goal was to provide small loans to very lowincome families to help them improve basic sanitation conditions. the product offering included financing and education that was delivered by the bank’s partners. Scotiabank has been part of this program since its inception in 2008. the product was targeted to clients in rural and urban peru with monthly incomes of under $200 per family. Many of these clients had little access to basic sanitation facilities, let alone banking services. this financial service allows families to improve water and sanitation conditions, as well as their knowledge of the links between hygiene, health and nutrition. While the key social benefit of the program is helping communities obtain a better quality of life through access to credit for sanitation purposes, there are environmental benefits, such as reduced contamination in public latrines, rivers and streams. the Water and Sanitation program was shortlisted for the 2010 Financial times Sustainable banking awards in the achievement in basic needs Financing category. the Financial times awards highlight international banks that demonstrate leadership and innovation in corporate social responsibility. the achievement in basic needs Financing category was new for the awards in 2010, and recognizes a form of microfinance that focuses on providing financing for essential needs such as energy, food and water. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 9 CSR coMMitted to Making a diFFerence principles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10 our employees Scotiabank is a leader in many areas, including in employee engagement. at the heart of employee engagement is the connection our employees has with their organization. More than 70,000 employees are part of the Scotiabank team. advancement of Women to find out more about our employee population, statistics at Scotiabank, the advancement of Women (aoW) initiative is a about compensation and employee turnover rate, see the key strategy to remaining competitive in attracting talent. aoW appendix on the inside back cover. creates a culture that attracts a broad talent pool, so that diversity everyone can contribute to their fullest potential. as canada’s most international bank, Scotiabank knows that it also supports our commitment to being a global employer of embracing diversity will generate more innovative thinking, choice, and continues to assist us in making positive strides in the better decision-making and stronger business results. representation of women at all levels of our organization. “at Scotiabank, diversity has long been a part of who we in 2010, catalyst canada recognized Sylvia chrominska, group are,” says Sabi Marwah, Scotiabank’s vice-chairman and chief Head of global Human resources & communications, for her operating officer. “to us, diversity is not a project but a value contribution in advancing women within and beyond the workplace. that is built into the fabric of how we work.” With women comprising 70% of Scotiabank’s total canadian improving the diversity of our workforce continues to be a key workforce, and over 30% of its senior management staff, our objective for Scotiabank. one of the ways we improve is by goal is to be a leading employer for women in the financial encouraging an inclusive and accessible workplace culture that services industry. welcomes and encourages diversity. in 2010, barb Mason, executive vicein 2010, Scotiabank was named among canada’s best diversity president, Wealth Management, employers, as part of the canada’s top 100 employers project. canada, and Wendy Hannam, executive vice-president, Sales & Service, products also this past year, some of Scotiabank’s international & Marketing, international banking, locations recognized aboriginal cultures as part of workplace were inducted into canada’s Most diversity programs. Scotiabank offices in Mexico, costa rica powerful Women Hall of Fame. and el Salvador held awareness events to mark the United nations’ international day of the World’s indigenous people, including exhibitions of crafts and culture. photo: in celebration of international Women’s day, employees in toronto collected toiletries to donate to interval House, a women’s shelter. enough toiletries were collected to last the organization two years. 10 2010 Scotiabank cSr report “We believe that harnessing the unique skills and contributions of all employees generates innovative thinking and stronger business results.” – Sylvia chrominska, group Head, global Human resources and communications commitment to employees Scotiabank is one of canada’s top 50 employers, and we continue to strive to make Scotiabank a great place to work. • almost 55% of our employee base is outside of canada. • Scotiabank is consistently recognized by international and canadian-based institutions as an employer of choice for its achievements across business lines and in areas related to innovation, customer satisfaction and employee engagement. • in 2010, more than 57,000 employees responded to our internal employee survey – a high response rate of 85%, and well above the benchmark of 78% among similar global organizations. See results on page 12. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 11 employee engagement index (%)* human Rights in the Workplace 2009 2010 Scotiabank is committed to the spirit and principles embodied in the canadian Human Scotiabank 2010 84% 85% rights act (cHra), and extends that commitment to our operations outside of norm among global canada. these principles reflect international standards in human rights practices with financial services organizations 81% 82% respect to both employees and customers, including the Universal declaration of overall, Scotiabank employees are highly engaged. Human rights, and the declaration on the Fundamental principles and rights at Work. results show that Scotiabank continues to be any new policies or policy changes are subject to a rigorous review by stakeholders at the forefront of employee engagement from a global benchmark perspective. at 85% and experts in human rights. engagement, we are in the top 10% of benchmarked financial services organizations human Rights Complaints: employees are encouraged to address concerns relating globally and considered a leader in the field of employee engagement. to human rights issues through a process that is implemented in all bank workplaces. *this index measures the passion and commitment in 2010, we received 14 informal complaints through internal channels, and four employees have for their job, coworkers and organization, that influences them to go the through the canadian Human rights commission (cHrc) complaints. the bank takes “extra mile.” discrimination concerns very seriously, and has developed a pro-active working relationship with the canadian Human rights commission, aimed at resolving Geographic breakdown by region concerns early. 45.9%: canada guidelines for business Conduct: these guidelines describe the standards of 17.6%: caribbean/ behaviour required of all employees regarding the equitable treatment of all members central america of our workforce. 32.4%: latin america 1.1%: asia/pacific leadership 3%: other Having the right leaders in place, now and in the future, is critical to Scotiabank’s continued success. our international platform uniquely positions us to find talent from around the world, and it also provides global opportunities for employees interested in leadership development. talent identification: Scotiabank broadens and deepens its talent pool through the early identification of talent. one of the tools we use to do this is the Scotiabank talent profile, similar to an online resume, which helps employees develop a blend of experiences that improve their adaptability and flexibility. leadership development: Scotiabank provides workshops that focus on coaching, latin america strategic influencing and collaboration. the workshops also focus on networking 5.4%: chile across divisions to facilitate teamwork and collaboration throughout the organization. 13.9%: Mexico employees can also be appointed to other divisions to help broaden their experience. 13%: peru 0.1%: other in 2010, Scotiabank received the Most valued internship experience award 2009-10 from career bridge, an internship program for internationally qualified professionals. the award recognized our leadership in providing a supportive environment, personal and professional growth, and opportunities for interns to contribute to the organization. 8 available online • For further information on the bank’s diversity objectives and achievements, visit www.scotiabank.com/diversityandinclusion. • For information on employee compensation, including employee benefits, pension plans and share ownership, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/employees/compensation. • For further information on our employee health and safety programs, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/employees/health-safety. • For further information our guidelines for business conduct and employee engagement, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/employees/engagement. 12 2010 Scotiabank cSr report caSe StUdy: Her success, Her Way in 2010, Scotiabank launched “Her Success, Her Way” – a year-long celebration of the accomplishments of women at the bank around the world, leading up to the 100th anniversary of international Women’s day in 2011. each month, two women – one from canada and one from our bank’s international locations – were recognized and given $1,000 to donate to their favourite charity. those who nominated them also received $1,000 to donate. almost 200 women were nominated, and winners were selected by a panel. recognizing that success can take a variety of forms and goes beyond job title and level, the Her Success, Her Way campaign was designed to celebrate Scotiabank women and their personal definitions of success. two of the 1 women honoured this year were young kyu rim, the first woman to be named head of a bank in korea, and paula Shortall, branch Manager, in St. John’s, newfoundland. young kyu rim started her career as a credit analyst. during the 1990s, her career developed to include corporate marketing and managing relationships with prime korean corporate sector companies. She was very successful in a male-dominated field and proved her capacity for bigger roles. this led to the position of head of marketing at Seoul branch, and to her appointment as country Head in 2006. the bank has offered young various opportunities and support during her career, including a four-month, on-the-job training opportunity in Hong kong. “the finance industry is one of the most conservative industries,” says young. “the on-the-job training provided me with the skills and experience i needed to get to where i am today.” in 2004, paula Shortall became the first female manager at the commercial banking centre & Main branch in St. John’s, newfoundland. paula has held various positions in the bank, including being the first female manager in the newfoundland vice-president’s office in the 1990s. While managing a branch 2 of more than 30 staff members, paula also dedicates her time to a number of causes in the community, including the rotary club, big brothers/Sisters, rick Hansen Wheels in Motion, the local cancer Society and World vision. Most 1. young kyu rim, country Head, South korea recently, she has been the chair of the agnes pratt Home Foundation, 2. paula Shortall, branch Manager, St. John’s commercial a seniors’ long-term care facility. banking centre, newfoundland & labrador, canada “throughout my career, i’ve been blessed with great mentors and coaches. in the beginning, most mentors were men. today, there are so many fabulous women who are thrilled to take on these roles. the bank has been exceptional in fostering a coaching environment that’s now embedded into our culture.” – enid picó, Senior vice-president, international operations and Shared Services Scotiabank cSr report 2010 13 CSR coMMitted to Making a diFFerence principles 7, 8, 9 our environment Scotiabank has an environmental policy to help us address our environmental impacts by providing a foundation for the work we do and the way we report on our progress. We achieved many environmental milestones for Scotiabank in Reducing our impact 2010, which include: all across the bank and throughout our global operations, we work • We launched ecoliving, our canadian flagship environmental to reduce our environmental footprint, focusing primarily on reducing awareness program; our paper and energy consumption and making environmentally • Scotiabank peru began the process to become carbon neutral conscious real estate decisions. the bank has a global environmental by purchasing carbon credits and investing in environmental policy to help guide our work and measure our progress. projects that offset their greenhouse gas emissions; • Scotiabank became the canadian chair of the north in 2010: american task Force of the United nations environment • We exceeded our 5% bond copy paper reduction target; in programme Finance initiative (Unep Fi); fact, since 2008, we have reduced our canadian bond copy • Since 2009, Scotiabank has introduced two insurance incentives paper consumption by 24%. for policyholders that make environmentally friendly decisions. • We have added bond copy paper consumption data for chile For homes that are leed (leadership in energy and environmental and costa rica in addition to our data from Mexico and peru. design) certified, policyholders are eligible for a discount on together with our canadian data, we now report on over their Scotia Home insurance premiums. as well, to encourage 80% of our global operations. consumers to purchase vehicles with lower carbon dioxide • We added energy consumption data for Mexico and costa emissions, Scotia Home & auto insurance offers policyholders rica to our reporting, which already included peru and chile. a discount on all hybrid cars; and together with our canadian data (which we have reported on • Scotiabank Mexico was a sponsor of the World climate since 2007), we now report on 80% of our global operations. change Summit 2010, the premier business, finance and • Scotiabank now has 20 “green” branches, most of which government conference dedicated to accelerating solutions have been certified under the boMa beSt (building environmental Standards) program, an internationally to climate change, in cancun Mexico. recognized environmental program. • We completed 10 full energy studies and 100 site visits to canadian branches to identify ways to reduce energy scotiabank is a member of: consumption. We also continue to take into account the environmental impact and ethical business practices of our suppliers. Scotiabank’s standard requests for proposals ask all applicants to describe their cSr and environmental policies and practices, recycling and disposal methods, and look to ensure that their employment practices support diversity and human rights. For our 2010 paper and energy consumption numbers, see the appendix on the back inside cover. 14 2010 Scotiabank cSr report “From solar power to energy-saving home renovations, thousands of Canadians are already using and benefiting from green power. With Scotiabank’s support, we are telling these stories and helping more Canadians get involved. it’s innovative partnerships like this that are needed to tackle global warming.” – Rick Smith, Director, environmental Defence 8 AvAilAble Online • For more in-depth information on our environmental practices, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/ environment. • To discover more about our EcoLiving program, visit www.ecoliving.scotiabank.com. • For a full description on how the Bank is reducing its impact on the environment, visit www.scotiabank.com/CSR/ environment/reducing-impact. • For further information on our environmental lending and investing, visit www.scotiabank.com/csr/ lending-investing. • For more information on Scotiabank’s response to the Carbon Disclosure Project, visit: www.cdproject.net. Photo: Nightfall at Kruger Energy’s Chatham Wind Farm, Ontario, Canada – a client of Scotia Capital. Scotiabank CSR Report 2010 15 environmental Risk environmental markets Scotiabank has a board-approved environmental policy that guides in 2010, Scotia capital’s global energy Solutions group formed day-to-day operations, lending practices, supplier agreements, the an environmental Markets group. this group’s carbon origination, management of real estate holdings and external reporting. it helps structuring and trading capabilities will help meet the needs of an mitigate environmental risk across the bank. increasing number of clients looking for ways to manage their carbon footprints and liabilities. We adhere to environmental risk management policies in all of our lending activities. project financing • environmental risks that could be associated with the business We incorporate global environmental and social standards in operations of each borrower and any real property offered as international project financing, through our adoption of the security are considered in our credit evaluation procedures. equator principles. • Since 2006, we have incorporated global environmental and social standards in international project financing, through these principles apply to project financing where total capital our adoption of the equator principles. costs exceed US$10 million. in 2010, Scotiabank financed 16 • Scotiabank is a signatory, participant and sponsor of the projects that meet the equator principles requirements. carbon disclosure project, which provides corporate disclosure to the investment community on greenhouse gas 2010 equator principles assessments emissions and climate change management. • in 2010, Scotiabank developed a new set of due diligence 6% canada procedures to help evaluate risks associated with aboriginal United States issues that may come up in lending practices. 19% latin america australia Scotia global Climate Change fund the Scotia global climate change Fund, one of the first of its 69% 6% kind in canada, provides canadians with the opportunity to invest in environmentally responsible companies adapting to, or project number of mitigating the risks of climate change without compromising category assessments solid returns. the fund focuses on companies that adopt a 1 technological and environmental practices that address the b 7 implications of climate change. it is diversified across nine c 8 climate-related areas, including clean fuels, water and total 16 environmental finance. category a: projects likely to have significant adverse social in 2010, we’ve been tracking global environmental policy or environmental impacts that are diverse, irreversible or developments, including the commitments individual nations unprecedented. examples of these types of impacts include: loss of a major natural habitat, impacts on vulnerable groups are making to address climate change. or ethnic minorities, involuntary displacement or resettlement, or impacts on significant cultural heritage sites. Renewable energies category b: projects with potential adverse social or environmental impacts on human populations or Scotia capital is helping to promote the renewable energy sector environmentally important areas which are less adverse and attract investor interest by offering extensive expertise to than those of category a projects. these impacts tend to clients, including investment opportunities, industry trends, public be site-specific; few if any of them are irreversible; and in most cases mitigation measures can be designed more policy and economic analysis of the sector. in 2010, Scotia capital readily than for category a projects. had approximately cdn$1.1 billion in authorized credits to the category c: projects with minimal or no adverse social or renewable energy sector in canada. environmental impacts. beyond screening, no further Sea action is required. 16 2010 Scotiabank cSr report “Finding ways to reduce our environmental impact is top of mind for canadians and for scotiabank. there are hundreds of rebates and environmentally friendly ways to renovate the home, and scotiabank’s ecoliving program simplifies this process by providing information and resources to get people on their way,” – kaz Flinn, vice-president, corporate Social responsibility caSe StUdy: ecolivinG proGram in 2010, Scotiabank launched the ecoliving program, the bank’s canadian flagship environmental program. the objective of ecoliving is to enrich the lives of our customers and employees by creating opportunities to save money, reduce energy usage and contribute to a healthier home and planet. We know that customers are taking notice of the environmental actions of their financial institutions, and that employees want to work for companies that are environmentally conscientious. We partnered with green living (experts in the environmental consulting field) to launch the program, which includes a new website, a magazine, an awards program and a partnership with environmental defence, an environmental nongovernmental organization. the ecoliving website (www.ecoliving.scotiabank.com) is the centrepiece of the program, providing access to articles on various green-home topics and potential green renovation ideas, as well as a rebate database that brings together available government rebates to help our customers and employees save money 1 and reduce energy usage. the ecoliving magazine, a bi-annual publication, features seasonally specific articles on green power options, home decor, renovation inspiration and ecofriendly consumer goods. We’ve rolled out the green carpet for canada’s leaders in home energy efficiency with the launch of the Scotiabank ecoliving awards. through the Scotiabank ecoliving awards, we’re recognizing canadian businesses, innovators and students dedicated to improving energy efficiency in the home. With approximately 60 submissions across the three categories, the awards gala will 2 recognize three leaders at an event in June 2011 at the art gallery of ontario. as part of the ecoliving relationship with environmental defence, Scotiabank sponsors their I am Green Power campaign, which focuses on empowering canadians to find local solutions to climate change and features stories from canadians on how they are making an environmental difference as part of their every day lives. one of the campaign’s public service announcements, Power, showcases the recent solar panel installation completed on a Mississauga Scotiabank branch. 3 1. ecoliving Magazine, a bi-annual publication available at Scotiabank branches. 2. ecoliving Website – www.ecoliving.scotiabank.com. 3. recent solar panel installation completed on a Scotiabank branch in Mississauga, ontario, canada. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 17 CSR coMMitted to Making a diFFerence principle 1 our communities Scotiabank contributes to communities and causes across the globe. donating our time and support is an important aspect of who we are and what we do. our goal is to have an impact. in 2010, Scotiabank contributed in 2010, chilean Scotiabanker yessica cerna volunteered about cdn$50 million in donations, sponsorships and other forms about 200 hours at Hogar pukuñil, a community organization of assistance, mostly to support organizations and projects that in the city of chillon, chile. the organization provides food, make a direct, immediate difference in the communities where we shelter and education, as well as psychological and social live and work around the world. throughout this section, we support for at-risk children. yessica uses her skills and provide examples of our corporate support in 2010. For more expertise to support the educational activities and help information and details, visit www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com. coordinate work at the shelter. With the help of the Sevp funds, Hogar pukuñil was able to purchase three computers, as of January 2011, Scotiabank’s global bright Future program as well as desks and chairs for the children. now encompasses all of our community giving initiatives around the world under one banner. to read more about Scotiabank disaster Relief bright Future, see page 20. Scotiabank responds to urgent calls for aid during crises and employee engagement natural disasters around the world and at home. in 2010, Scotiabank employees dedicated 324,000 hours of in 2010, the bank helped with disaster relief in Haiti, peru, their time to important causes in their communities. chile, Jamaica, pakistan, newfoundland and labrador, and new brunswick. employees are at the heart and soul of Scotiabank’s • in July 2010, the government of peru declared a state of community involvement. they support relevant causes in their emergency across more than half the country, due to communities, focusing on areas such as health, education and extreme cold weather that resulted in hundreds of deaths – social services, and respond to urgent calls for aid during crises including children – in some of the country’s poorest or natural disasters. regions. Scotiabank peru organized a fundraising campaign through the team Scotia community program (tScp), Scotiabank to help those most affected by these extreme weather matches funds raised by employees for local causes, up to a conditions. thanks to this campaign, Scotiabank peru was maximum of cdn$5,000 raised by teams of five or more employees able to raise more than cdn$95,000 from Scotiabank or cdn$15,000 raised by teams of 30 or more employees. employees both in peru and canada, and the peruvian in 2010, Scotiabankers in St. laurent, Quebec, chopped their public. the funds were used to provide residents with solar locks for the Quebec breast cancer Foundation’s “Shave to heaters, more efficient stoves, animal shelters, crop Save” event to raise funds for breast cancer research, replacement, and health and nutrition lessons. education and awareness, and support for people affected by • on Jan. 12, 2010, Haiti was devastated by a powerful breast cancer. With Scotiabank employees costa Stavriadis and earthquake. Scotiabank donated cdn$250,000 to the Harout terzian volunteering to shave their heads for the canadian red cross, and opened a special account where second year in a row, the branch helped raise cdn$6,400 for Scotiabankers worldwide could donate. We matched the the organization. funds raised through this account up to cdn$250,000. the fund has been used to assist the 85 Scotiabank Under the Scotia employee volunteer program (Sevp), the employees working at four branches in Haiti, their families bank donates up to cdn$1,000 per year to charitable and communities. organizations in which our employees and pensioners are active volunteers. 18 2010 Scotiabank cSr report commitment to communities corporate donations in 2010 14% 34% 8% Health Social services 15% education arts & culture other 29% canadian exaMpleS in 2010* Health Scotiabank was proud to contribute cdn$250,000 towards the Montreal children’s Hospital Foundation’s best care for children cdn$100 million campaign to build a new facility and build upon the hospital’s expertise in cardiology, neurosciences, trauma care and injury prevention. social services in 2010, Scotiabank became the title sponsor of the calgary Marathon, making it the latest addition to the Scotiabank group charity challenge, which invites local charities to use the race as a fundraising opportunity. the marathon attracted a record 8,600 participants and raised more than cdn$250,000 for 19 registered charities. education Scotiabank has pledged cdn$500,000 to the University of alberta (U of a) to establish the Scotiabank Mexico corporate Social responsibility Fund, which will provide awards to support the learning and research experience of undergraduate and graduate students from and going to Mexico. the focus will be on formal international study between Mexico and the U of a Faculty of agricultural, life and environmental Sciences. arts and culture Scotiabank supports the national ballet of canada’s dance about program, geared toward students in grades 4 through 6 in their own schools. While on trips to the centre, students explore the daily life of a professional dancer, from ballet classes to onstage “scotiabank Girls HockeyFest gives girls a real taste of possibility. it shows with discussions about exercise, mime, costumes them what they are capable of with the right training and encouragement. and makeup, followed by a live performance. i wish there had been a program like this when i was starting out.” * For international examples, visit – tessa bonhomme, 2010 winter olympic gold medalist and scotiabank Hockey ambassador www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 19 “my most sincere thank you, on behalf of the orangeville community band, for the very generous support under the scotiabank employee volunteer program. When i presented the cheque to the band, there was thunderous applause as well as a drum roll, cymbal crash, in appreciation. i was extremely proud to be a scotiabanker that evening, which i have been for nearly 25 years.” – erin Jenkins, Support analyst, Hr information Services 2 1. Students from St. vincent de paul catholic School in Markham, ontario, attended the launch of the bright Future program. 2. Scotiabank bright Future Magazine, 1 an annual publication available at www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com. caSe StUdy: briGHt Future For its entire history, Scotiabank has been providing corporate same: social services, education, health, arts and culture, and the charitable donations to communities in need. We have a long environment. in the caribbean and latin america, the focus of history of sponsoring valuable programs across the countries our efforts continues to be the well being of children, particularly where we do business. Scotiabank employees have also been in the areas of education, health, wellness and the environment. consistent and committed volunteers in their communities. later in 2011, we plan to launch a Scotialive bright Future as a bank, we have always organized these two streams of employee portal, an online community with news, stories, photos giving separately. and ideas about philanthropic initiatives and achievements. it will be available to most international employees. the Scotialive in January 2011, we introduced the Scotiabank bright Future bright Future portal is yet another step in deepening the bank’s program that brings together all of the bank’s charitable, social global philanthropic culture. and community efforts and employee volunteer activities under one banner. it unites employees and charitable efforts throughout scotiabank is a member of: the entire organization, from victoria to St.John’s, from antigua to thailand. this year, the program introduced the Scotiabank bright Future community leadership awards. in addition to a number of current employee award programs, every year, the bank will recognize two employees and two teams of employees (one from canada and one from an international location) for their outstanding commitment to their community and their demonstrated leadership to helping those in need. Scotiabank will donate cdn$2,500 (or USd equivalent) 8 available online to the registered charity of the individual, or cdn$5,000 (or USd • For more information on Scotiabank’s bright equivalent) to the winning teams’ registered charities. Future program and about how Scotiabank and Scotiabank employees have made a “Scotiabank employees are passionate and compassionate, and difference in communities around the world, their extraordinary efforts to make a difference in their local visit www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com. communities should be acknowledged,” says rick Waugh, • For canadian centre for philanthropy, visit president and chief executive officer. www.imaginecanada.ca. the focus of Scotiabank’s charitable efforts globally remains the 20 2010 Scotiabank cSr report appendix Scope of reporting this annual report includes information from november 1, 2009, to october 31, 2010, for the following affiliates of the bank in canada: Scotia capital inc., the Mortgage insurance company of canada, national trust company, Scotia Mortgage corporation, Scotia general insurance company, Maple trust company, dundee bank of canada, Montreal trust company of canada, Scotia life insurance company, the bank of nova Scotia trust company, roynat inc., roynat capital inc., and Scotia Merchant capital corporation. key economic, social and environmental performance indicators1 number of employees in Canada* performance full-time part-time total economic indicators 2008 2009 2010 alberta 2,544 1,252 3,796 Salaries & employee benefits (global) $4.0 billion $4.3 billion $4.6 billion british columbia 2,279 1,199 3,478 debt financing to business (canada) over $99 billion over $86 billion over $83 billion taxes (global) $1.5 billion $1.9 billion $2.5 billion Manitoba 513 234 747 amount spent on goods & services from suppliers (global) $2.8 billion $3.1 billion $3.0 billion new brunswick 563 325 888 return on equity 16.7% 16.7% 18.3% newfoundland & labrador 529 273 802 nova Scotia 1,363 592 1,955 Social indicators total donations & sponsorships (global) $43 million $39 million $50 million northwest territories 11 3 14 number of global employee volunteer hours ontario 19,943 5,047 24,990 through formal community involvement programs 240,000 hours 299,000 hours 340,000 hours prince edward island 120 58 178 investment in employee training (global) $84 million $56 million $74 million Quebec 1,784 488 2,272 employee satisfaction (global) 86% 86% 85%1 Saskatchewan 456 329 785 Women in senior management (global) 22% 22.1% 22.6% yukon territories 14 10 24 Women in senior management (canada) 31.5% 32% 33.1% total 30,119 9,810 39,929 visible minorities in senior management (canada) 11.9% 11.6% 12% aboriginal employees (canada) 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% total full-time equivalent 32,805 employees with disabilities (canada) 4.0% 4.2% 4.0% *as at october 31, 2010, there were 1,078 contract employees, locations serving aboriginal customers (canada) 26 26 27 representing 2.7% of the total canadian Workforce, and 3,193 casual employees, representing 8.0% of the total canadian workforce. environmental indicators energy consumption 1,012,680 gJs 953,292 gJs 1,019,330 gJs2 greenhouse gas emissions 63,331 tonnes 59,617 tonnes 54,362 tonnes business travel (air/rail) 65,352,253 km 32,746,696 km3 50,078,224 km paper consumption 5,090 tonnes 4,760 tonnes 4,319 tonnes paper shredding/recycling (canada) 5,099.97 tonnes4 5,056.19 tonnes 5,050 tonnes environmental disposal of computer equipment 24,808 items 18,769 items 4,748 items (1) the 2010 data represents a new index – employee engagement – which measures the passion and commitment employees have for their job, coworkers and organization, that influences them to go the “extra mile.” (2) While our gHg emissions decreased by 9%, our consumption in gJ increased due to additional locations. (3) estimated based on calendar year totals. Scotiabank changed providers in Q4 of fiscal 2009; therefore, a total for the fiscal year was not available. (4) 2008 restated to reflect revised numbers supplied by vendor. 2010 taxes Scotiabank incurs a number of taxes, including direct taxes on income by canadian federal and provincial governments and the governments of foreign jurisdictions in which the bank operates, as well as several indirect taxes. in 2010, this totaled $2.5 billion (taxable equivalent basis), representing 40 per cent of the bank’s pre-tax income for the year. total expenses (recoveries) to all levels of government in canada are shown in the chart. For additional information on the bank’s tax expenses in 2010, please refer to table 53 in Scotiabank’s 2010 annual report, available online at www.scotiabank.com. taxes in Canada taxes in foreign regions (as at october 31, 2010) income capital other (as at october 31, 2010) income ($ thousands) taxes taxes taxes(1) ($ thousands) taxes Federal 431,127 0 150,128 asia pacific 85,742 provincial caribbean & latin america 447,204 newfoundland 4,725 4,447 3,529 europe & Middle east 155,724 prince edward island 1,207 633 113 United States 315,354 nova Scotia 12,045 4,621 5,337 total 1,004,024 new brunswick 4,289 1,742 2,066 Quebec 18,600 2,683 14,546 ontario 219,343 21,459 106,258 Manitoba 4,966 3,879 1,787 Saskatchewan 4,025 4,079 663 alberta 20,651 0 5,069 british columbia 19,574 2,775 7,390 territories 434 0 21 total provinces 309,859 46,318 146,779 total 740,986 46,318 296,907 (1) includes payroll taxes, gSt, HSt, municipal taxes and deposit insurance premiums. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 21 branches/offices/abms Scotiabank’s strong customer focus and commitment to improving sales and service includes maintaining a strong branch network as part of its overall delivery strategy. the bank currently has 1,019 branches and 2,998 abMs in canada. in 2010, as part of our expansion plans, we opened nine new branches. all branches closed or consolidated this year were relocated within the community. in these situations, we work closely with our customers and the community to ensure a smooth transition and to continue to find ways to meet their needs. the important thing is to balance solutions that are right for the individual community and our customers. Scotiabank branches opened abm installations and de-installations* alberta 904 91st St. SW., edmonton abms installed 5000 356 cranston rd. Se., calgary Quebec alberta 16620 50th St nW., edmonton 720 boul. le corbusier, laval 23263 Wye rd., Sherwood park 3730 Mayor Magrath dr. S., lethbridge 5800 boul. cavendish, cote-St-luc 4312 1st & 43rd ave., claresholm 372 aspen glen landing SW., calgary 310 ridge rd., Strathmore 5188 Windermere blvd. nW., edmonton saskatchewan 61 riverside dr., okotoks 1101 broadway ave. and 8th St., Saskatoon british columbia 15290 56th ave., Surrey 9420 Macleod tr. and 94th ave. S., calgary Manning dr and 142nd ave., edmonton ontario 10631 chinguacousy dr., brampton abms de-installed 5000-356 cranston rd. Se., calgary 1260 castlemore ave., Unit 1, Markham 16620-50 St. nW., edmonton alberta 115 king St. S., Unit 90, Waterloo** 3730 Mayor Magrath dr. S., lethbridge 5000, 873-85th St. SW., calgary 6019 Steeles ave. e., toronto** 372 aspen glen landing SW., calgary 343 glendale ave., St. catharines* british columbia 904-91 St. SW., edmonton 10850 yonge St., Unit 1, richmond Hill* 1081 burrard St., vancouver 4825 Mount royal gate SW., calgary 544 bayfield St., barrie* 3800 Finnerty rd., victoria 55 Mckenzie towne blvd. Se., calgary Quebec 5800 boul. cavendish, cote-Saint-luc** 5188 Windermere blvd. nW., edmonton 812 Wharf St., victoria 720 boul. le corbusier, laval* british columbia manitoba * new branch as a result of consolidation. 11020 8 St., dawson creek 2450 Saskatchewan ave. W., portage la prairie ** new branch as a result of relocation. 13598 88th ave., Surrey 1400 regent ave. W., Winnipeg 3949 Shelbourne St., victoria new brunswick 4799 Joyce ave., powell river 129 brunswick St., St. george Scotiabank branches Closed, Relocated or Consolidated 6911 no. 3 rd., richmond bldg F, 15290 56th ave., Surrey nova scotia ontario 75 king St. S., Waterloo** bloomfield centre, antigonish 3585 Mcnicoll ave., Scarborough** ontario 4559 Hurontario St., Mississauga 632 plains rd. e., burlington ontario 211 glendale ave., Unit 62, St. catharines* 915 Westney rd. S., ajax 10909 yonge St., richmond Hill 319 Merritt St., St. catharines* 780 South Sheridan Way, Mississauga 166 davis dr., newmarket 10355 yonge St., richmond Hill* 1120 Finch ave., Suite 202, toronto 565 algonquin blvd. e., timmins 10909 yonge St., richmond Hill* 10631 chinguacousy dr., brampton 366 victoria St., kitchener 580 bayfield St., barrie* 1 yorkdale rd. (Hwy. 401 & dufferin), 955 oliver rd., thunder bay 320 bayfield St., barrie* toronto 203 Front St., Sturgeon Falls 343 glendale ave., St. catharines 140 150 University ave. W., Waterloo Quebec 5800 boul. cavendish, cote-St-luc ** 319 Merritt St., St. catharines 1600 boul. le corbusier, laval* 221 glendale ave., St. catharines 3400 boul. du Souvenir, laval* 40 king St. W., toronto Québec 10850 yonge St., Unit 1, richmond Hill 1333 boul. Jacques cartier est., longueuil note: none of the branch relocations or consolidations that took 20 richmond St. e., 5th Floor, toronto place in 2010 constitute market abandonment. 3400 boul. du Souvenir, laval 44 king St. W., 10th Floor, toronto * closure as a result of consolidation. 75 king St. S., Waterloo ** closure as a result of relocation. 1260 castlemore ave., Unit 1, Markham 544 bayfield St., barrie * the list includes a number of locations where 3000 thomas St., Mississauga abMs were installed, de-installed or consolidated. voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments* Scotiabank is committed to a number of voluntary codes of conduct and public commitments designed to protect consumer interests. these include: • canadian code of practice for consumer debit card Services • code of conduct for the credit and debit car industry in canada • guidelines for transfers of registered plans • cba code of conduct for authorized insurance activities • principles of consumer protection for electronic commerce: a canadian Framework • Model code of conduct for bank relations with Small and Medium-sized businesses • plain language Mortgage documents – cba commitment • Undertaking on Unsolicited Services • low-Fee retail deposit account, Memorandum of Understanding • viSa zero liability policy and viSa e-promise • Undertaking: principal protected notes regulations • online payments • reduced cheque hold periods * For a copy of the full text of the codes and commitments, refer to www.scotiabank.com, customer care page. visit the websites of the Financial consumer agency of canada (www.fcac-acfc.gc.ca) and the canadian bankers association (www.cba.ca) for more detailed information on consumer protection. 22 2010 Scotiabank cSr report debt financing Scotiabank is committed to meeting the needs of canadian businesses, including small and medium enterprises. the following charts indicate – by province and for canada as a whole – the amount of business credit authorized and outstanding, as of oct. 31, 2010, and the number of customers to whom it was authorized. authorization $0 $24,999 $25,000 $99,999 $100,000 $249,999 $250,000 $499,999 levels of: authorized outstanding authorized outstanding authorized outstanding authorized outstanding $ thousands $ thousands customers $ thousands $ thousands customers $ thousands $ thousands customers $ thousands $ thousands customers british columbia 97,244 53,563 15,149 269,728 139,073 5,900 290,634 172,530 1,944 272,274 179,713 814 and yukon* alberta & nWt** 95,670 46,343 14,797 282,337 156,349 6,186 322,536 194,711 2,128 338,735 213,963 1,009 Saskatchewan 29,488 16,372 3,551 122,150 69,627 2,591 120,373 75,505 803 90,295 65,003 268 Manitoba 103,064 28,357 10,905 781,352 226,609 15,146 704,898 327,234 5,525 189,561 111,196 571 ontario 301,575 128,083 50,452 946,739 475,610 20,236 1,159,872 695,138 7,673 1,107,572 732,679 3,319 Quebec 75,605 56,552 10,217 198,971 127,415 4,409 218,696 146,307 1,418 179,901 121,941 539 new brunswick 19,364 7,835 2,763 70,898 36,795 1,467 72,505 44,629 476 36,182 24,933 112 nova Scotia 31,197 12,691 4,492 115,762 65,887 2,391 149,749 94,002 984 165,864 109,239 486 p.e.i. 4,733 2,090 610 23,449 12,561 469 24,468 15,662 162 13,232 9,209 40 newfoundland 20,345 7,981 2,933 82,753 41,286 1,779 64,948 37,797 435 37,169 26,159 117 Canada 778,285 359,867 115,869 2,894,139 1,351,212 60,574 3,128,679 1,803,515 21,548 2,430,785 1,594,035 7,275 authorization $500,000 $999,999 $1,000,000 $4,999,999 authorization over $5,000,000 levels of: authorized outstanding authorized outstanding levels of: authorized outstanding $ thousands $ thousands customers $ thousands $ thousands customers $ thousands $ thousands customers british columbia 277,433 188,638 421 662,220 424,913 317 british columbia 2,482,767 1,214,567 114 and yukon* and yukon* alberta, 293,696 170,809 459 845,717 477,685 386 alberta, 12,135,866 4,879,171 269 Saskatchewan Saskatchewan and nWt*** and nWt*** Manitoba 140,863 64,687 230 202,115 114,892 107 Manitoba 564,762 235,888 26 ontario 981,388 693,887 1,463 3,795,556 2,737,688 1,764 ontario 43,511,028 18,967,329 1,123 Quebec 207,664 143,542 309 791,336 496,625 350 Quebec 4,375,233 2,625,851 172 new brunswick, 236,840 146,572 343 761,369 488,132 368 new brunswick, 2,235,915 1,360,556 123 nova Scotia, nova Scotia, p.e.i. and p.e.i. and newfoundland**** newfoundland**** Canada 2,137,884 1,408,135 3,225 7,058,313 4,739,935 3,292 Canada 65,305,571 29,283,362 1,827 note: for reasons of client confidentiality, we have combined the following: * yukon with british columbia. ** northwest territories with alberta. *** northwest territories, Saskatchewan and alberta. **** new brunswick, prince edward island, newfoundland and nova Scotia. oUR CUStomeRS Customer complaint resolution a clear and effective complaint resolution process is essential to our financial success and to being a responsible organization. our statistical data and complaint resolution process are outlined below. internationally, Scotiabank follows a similar process, which may vary according to country regulatory requirements or local needs. 2008 2009 2010 complaint resolution process number of customer complaints received by office of the president 7,692 10,470 10,123* percentage of customers surveyed who were fully satisfied with the handling of their complaint 88% 89% 88%** *Represents total number of Office of the President complaints out of more than 18.6 million customers. Complaints are categorized by service, credit, policy, pricing, compliance, documentation and other in order to review for trends and recommend changes. **Based on surveys of 1,024 customers. overview of Scotiabank’s microfinance services total loans (cdn) average loan size (cdn) # of customers chile (banco del desarrollo) $139 million $3,400 40,111 dominican republic $28 million $2,602 10,685 guatemala $25 million $2,300 11,000 Jamaica $0.6 million $400 1,500 peru $299 million $2,900 103,000 total $491 million 166,296 * We define microfinance clients as self-employed or micro-business owners with annual revenues below US$100,000. Scotiabank cSr report 2010 23 oUR CUStomeRS access to financial services Financial institutions play a critical role in creating access to financial services, especially for groups with special needs, including youth, seniors, the economically disadvantaged and new canadians. Scotiabank has developed customized products, services and financial education programs in a number of markets to help improve access to these services. CUStomeR Segment: all CUStomeR Segment: aboRiginalS basic banking: Scotiabank basic banking account (canada). basic banking: ● We operate a network of 23 aboriginal banking centres, including four Savings, investment & credit: on-reserve branches. ● bank the rest Savings program (canada) helps customers improve their savings habits while making everyday debit purchases. Savings, investment & credit: ● Scotia power Savings account provides an online, high-interest savings option. ● Special gic offer and no-fee for one-year chequing account for recipients of ● the Scotia global climate change Fund allows customers to invest in companies residential school settlement program (canada). that will help mitigate the impact of climate change. ● Some Scotiabank branches in canada have special secured-lending programs with individual aboriginal communities. We also offer investment management and financial literacy: trustee services to First nation trusts across canada. ● Financial education seminars by Scotiabankers are offered in many locations, including communities in canada, el Salvador, guyana, bahamas, and St. kitts and nevis. financial literacy: ● Financial education tools on www.scotiabank.com (e.g., banking lingo 101, ● Scotiabank and the national aboriginal achievement Foundation (naaF) Understanding credit). launched the Scotiabank business and commerce bursary award, providing aboriginal business and commerce students with bursary funding. the fund, CUStomeR Segment: yoUth which continues through 2013, will provide $20,000 to help aboriginal business and commerce students pay their educational costs. basic banking: ● With the paul Martin initiative, in 2010, Scotiabank launched a new two-year, ● the Student banking advantage™ plan (canada) provides discounted banking cdn$280,000 sponsorship for an on-reserve youth entrepreneurship program. fees for full-time university or college students. ● getting there Savings program for youth (canada) is a no-fee plan with up to CUStomeR Segment: Small bUSineSS 20 free debit transactions a month. basic banking: Savings, investment & credit: ● branch-based small business advisors deliver practical tools and resources that ● l’earn visa card for students provides benefits including no annual fee, support small business success. accelerated Moneyback rewards program and up to a 21-day interest-free ● Scotia running Start for business program has supported more than 30,000 grace period on purchases. customers with their start-up businesses since program inception. ● Scotiabank educational Savings plan (17 caribbean and central american countries). ● Scotiabank be Money (trinidad and tobago) offers a high-interest Savings, investment & credit: savings account with no banking fees for full-time students. ● Scotiabank authorized more than $9.2 billion in debt financing to canadian small and medium sized businesses. financial literacy: ● Scotia Flex and Scotia one account plan (canada) for agricultural clients. ● Scotiabank sponsored a college/university student financial literacy program ● Scotiabank provides unique financial solutions to meet the savings and borrowing in ontario, canada, which included a 15 campus speaking tour attended by needs of international small business customers 6,000 students. as well, 6,000 companion books were provided and a website was developed. financial literacy: ● get growing to a Million (canada) campaign to provide expert advice, CUStomeR Segment: SenioRS resources and an online community. basic banking: CUStomeR Segment: miCRo bUSineSS ● in canada, customers aged 59 or over can request enrollment into the Scotia Plus program for Seniors’, a no-fee banking plan with unlimited debit Microfinance operations in chile, peru, Jamaica, dominican republic and transactions plus other free or discounted services on eligible accounts. guatemala operate microfinance subsidiaries with outstanding credit balances of more than cdn$491 million, and financial literacy and business planning resources Savings, investment & credit: in select countries. ● Helpful online rriF/liF/lriF illustrator tool, literature and advice available for seniors. financial literacy: ● We provide an in-depth tax Free Savings account information centre in canada, with tailored content for retirees, at www.scotiabank.com. CUStomeR Segment: neW CanadianS Scotiabank’s StartRight program offers newcomers easier access to credit, free day-to-day banking for one year and a variety of other products and services that have been customized to meet their unique needs. in addition, newcomers benefit from a dedicated website, available in eight languages, with helpful resources about life and banking in canada. basic banking: ● customers can send Western Union money transfers from Scotiabank branches, our contact centres or Scotia online banking to 334,000 agent locations worldwide. Savings, investment & credit: ● Multilingual teleScotia and ScotiaMcleod telephone services. financial literacy: ● We provide customized multilingual customer materials in many communities. 24 2010 Scotiabank cSr report oUR employeeS diversity highlights at Scotiabank Scotiabank’s global salaries and benefits Scotiabank has been tracking female representation at the vp+ level globally since 2007, and is currently 2010 ($millions) exploring tracking other diversity groups from a global perspective. Salaries $2,751 Government 2008 2009 2010 benchmark** performance-based compensation $1,088 visible minorities (canada) 21.8% 22.0% 23.8% 20.4% Stock-based compensation $205 pensions and other employee benefits $603 visible minorities in senior total $4,647 management (canada) 11.9% 11.6% 12.0% 8.7% Women (canada) 70.8% 70.1% 69.4% 62.2% total voluntary turnover of high-performing Women in senior management (canada)* 31.5% 32.0% 33.1% 24.2% employees2 (Canada) Women in vp+ positions (global) 22.0% 22.1% 22.6% na 2008 2009 2010 persons with disabilities (canada) 4.0% 4.2% 4.0% 4.2% 4.0% 2.6% 3.3% aboriginals (canada) 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.7% (1) voluntary means those who have left due to resignation, *2010 data exclude provincially regulated ScotiaMcleod and roynat capital employees. voluntary settlement or contract expiration. ** this is a tailored availability rate derived from the 2006 census that is customized to the banking environment (2) High-performing are those who have received performance and is calculated by looking at specific occupations where Scotiabank has employees. ratings of either “exceptional” or “superior” – the highest rating categories. oUR enviRonment Scotiabank Canadian paper consumption (tonnes) Scotiabank bond copy paper consumption paper % change 2009/10 classification 2008 2009 2010 (decrease) Fsc** in international locations in 2010 business forms* 2,799 2,824 2,610 (7.6) 2/5 of highest 2010 volume items Mexico 566.58 business cards 8 7 7 0 100% peru 200 letterhead 20 10 12 20 100% chile 194 bond copy paper 1,904 1,651 1,450 (12.2) 100% costa rica 24.68 annual reports 83 85 75 (11.8) 100% total weight (tonnes) 985.26 Marketing direct mail 276 183 165 (9.8) 100% total weight (tonnes) 5,090 4,760 4,319 (9.9) consumption per employee 0.16 0.15 0.13 (0.02) * Scotiabank uses more than 4,500 different kinds of forms, but the majority fall into five categories: regular format, high speed printer/abM rolls, snap sets (carbonless), envelopes and companion booklets. currently, two of these categories – envelopes and account companion booklets – use FSc paper. ** Forest Stewardship council (FSc) certified paper, a stringent system for guiding responsible forest management, guarantees that paper is produced in a way that conserves biological diversity and fragile ecosystems, ensures social responsibility and respects the rights of First nations peoples and local communities. Scotiabank maintains an ongoing commitment to operating in an energy-efficient manner to minimize our carbon footprint. measuring energy consumption (Canada) 2010 greenhouse gas emissions 2010 energy consumption source co2 emissions* (metric tonnes) type of consumption total consumption branches /owned indirect co2 produced from energy unit consumption per sq. metre office buildings electricity and steam purchases 34,231 electricity Megawatt hours 185,860 0.26 916 / 21 direct co2 emissions produced Steam pounds (1000s) 17,583 0.44 0/1 from combustion of fuels 17,521 natural gas cubic metres 8,553,219 16.12 640 / 18 indirect co2 emissions produced from employee air travel 2,609** Fuel oil/propane litres 300,984 15.59 37 / 0 total Co2 footprint 54,362 measuring energy consumption (mexico, peru, Chile and Costa Rica) 2010 greenhouse gas emissions 2010 energy consumption source co2 emissions* (metric tonnes) type of consumption total consumption branches /owned energy unit consumption per sq. metre office buildings indirect co2 produced from electricity purchases 34,571 electricity Megawatt hours 81,196 0.16 919 / 59 direct co2 emissions produced natural gas cubic metres 18,587 14.08 2/0 from combustion of fuels 39 Fuel oil/propane litres 1,000 2.24 1/0 indirect co2 emissions produced from employee air travel 3,075** notes: 1. the above information was collected from the best available data and methodologies, which includes information captured total Co2 footprint 37,686 from invoices processed for payment from various utility vendors. given the scope of the system implementation undertaken, we expect to continue refining systems and processes going forward. * calculated in accordance with the greenhouse gas 2. our canadian report is based on 916 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the bank in 21 owned protocol of the World resources institute and the World office buildings across canada, representing approximately 700,000 square metres. this area varies depending on utility type. business council for Sustainable development (www.ghgprotocol.org), including emission factors for 3. our Mexico, peru, chile and costa rica report is based on 919 owned and leased retail locations and the space occupied by the electricity purchases, natural gas and fuel (canada, bank in 59 owned office buildings representing approximately 507,000 square metres. this area varies depending on utility type. Mexico, peru, chile, and costa rica). ** this is an estimate based on our employee population. oUR pRioRitieS the following goals were set out in our 2009 corporate social responsibility report. Here’s how we did in 2010: oUR CUStomeRS: oUR employeeS: oUR enviRonment: oUR CommUnitieS: Customer Satisfaction: increase levels leadership: continue to make energy/ghg measurement: Continue to support key areas of of customer satisfaction and loyalty, leadership a competitive advantage. implement a five-year plan to need in the communities where we live and continue to set goals for the Results: through the guidance of incorporate more international and work, such as health, education, percentage of customers who are our Human investment committee countries into our total energy and social services, and arts and culture. satisfied with the handling of their and Senior vice-president of talent gHg measurements. Results: Scotiabank continued to complaints. Management, 2010 leadership Results: in 2010, we introduced support key areas of need in the Results: Maintained our canadian opportunities were used to develop, energy/gHg data from Mexico and community. our contributions in 2010 customer loyalty number stable at broaden and deepen our global talent costa rica to our data from canada, were directed as follows: 34% for 53%. international banking has pool. rigorous 2010 leadership resource chile and peru. together, these Health, 15% for education, 29% for introduced a new metric to measure planning executive roundtables also countries represent over 80% of Social Services, and 8% for arts and customer loyalty. maintained identification and our global operations. culture. development of key people as a top Canadian Small business banking: priority at Scotiabank. paper reduction: build on the 2009 Continue to encourage and support Scotiabank Small business advisors are paper reduction campaign to further volunteering, fundraising and active focused on identifying business owners Workforce capability: continue reduce paper consumption by community involvement among our growth plans and supporting them to enhance workforce talent and another 5%. multinational workforce. with practical advice, information and capabilities and upgrade the technical Results: We exceeded our paper Results: employees spent more than banking services. platform of the bank’s learning reduction target by 19%, for a total 324,000 hours volunteering and Results: Scotiabank’s Small business Management System to improve reduction of 24% since 2008. fundraising in 3,000 activities through customer loyalty index increased to employees’ experience with learning our formal community programs. 53% in 2010. and development. expand outreach: look to extend Results: We successfully completed the our environmental outreach by Continue to reinforce the Scotiabank multicultural banking: continue to upgrade to and implementation of the identifying key partnership opportunities bright Future program and support develop products and services designed bank’s learning Management System. with environmental organizations. child-centered charities and initiatives to support newcomers to canada, Results: Sponsored environmental internationally. through the Scotiabank Startright global employer of Choice: continue defence’s I am Green Power campaign, Results: Scotiabank released the program, with an increased focus on to implement global human resource focused on empowering canadians to fourth annual bright Future Magazine, expanding our offerings across all principles and shared standards in order find solutions to climate change and highlighting the community initiatives customer distribution channels. to create a consistent employment highlight how they are making an we support in the caribbean and latin Results: expanded our offering with experience. We want to continue environmental difference as part of america. this year, canada was also customized solutions for foreign workers being an employer of choice. their daily lives. represented in this publication. and international students, in addition Results: developed and implemented to new immigrants. introduced the global principles for pre-employment environmental strategy program: Startright auto loan program, the verification. global diversity and develop and launch a canadian banking first of its kind in canada from an inclusion Strategy approved by Human green incentive strategy with customer, automotive financing provider. investment committee. all executive operational and employee components. committee members and more than Results: launched the ecoliving half of their direct reports have received program, the bank’s canadian flagship a substantive briefing on diversity environmental program, with the and inclusion as a key to business objective to help customers and sustainability. employees save money, reduce energy usage and contribute to a healthier advancement of Women (aoW): home and planet. visit www.ecoliving. continue to expand the bank’s scotiabank.com. advancement of Women framework globally. Results: a global, management level, career development survey was launched in november 2009 to both men and women with the aim of better understanding career advancement issues. additionally, a new governance structure was established to bring a gender-balanced perspective to the advancement of Women initiative. corporate HeadQuarters Scotiabank, Scotia Plaza, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario Canada M5H 1H1 Tel: (416) 866-6161, Fax: (416) 866-3750 E-mail: email@scotiabank.com For further information contact: Public, Corporate and Government Affairs, Scotiabank, 44 King St. W., Toronto, Ontario Canada M5H 1H1 Tel: (416) 866-3925; Fax: (416) 866-4988; E-mail: corpaff@scotiabank.com. Cert no. XXX-XXX-000 Where we are. n areas in red indicate a full range of corporate, commercial, trade ﬁnance or retail services. l areas with a red dot indicate global corporate and investment banking, or capital market businesses, Scotiabank representative ofﬁces or retail operations with less than 10 branches. Scotiabank has long been recognized as canada’s most international bank, with a rich heritage that goes back more than 120 years in the caribbean, and decades in asia and latin america. our global presence this global reach, and the bank’s strong business lines, mean that Scotiabank is well diversified from both an earnings and risk perspective. locationS aroUnd tHe World nortH america: canada, Mexico, europe & middle east: United States dubai, egypt, ireland, russia, turkey, United kingdom central & soutH america: belize, brazil, chile, colombia, costa rica, asia/paciFic: australia; china; Hong kong el Salvador, guatemala, guyana, nicaragua, Sar, people’s republic of china; india; panama, peru, venezuela Japan; korea (republic of); Malaysia; Singapore; taiwan; thailand; vietnam caribbean: anguilla, antigua and barbuda, aruba, bahamas, barbados, bonaire, british virgin islands, cayman islands, curacao, dominica, dominican republic, grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, puerto rico, St. kitts and nevis, St. lucia, St. Maarten, St. vincent and the grenadines, trinidad and tobago, turks and caicos, U.S. virgin islands scotiabank helps to build bright futures worldwide through ethical banking practices, environmental awareness and a commitment to communities. the Scotiabank bright Future program is our international philanthropic program, which unites the bank’s charitable, social and community efforts and employee volunteer activities under one new banner. www.scotiabankbrightfuture.com www.scotiabank.com/csr ® registered trademark of the bank of nova Scotia. 9464212
