WE SUPPORT THE GLOBAL COMPACT Annual progress report ‘‘Our strategic plan hinges on five priorities and two basic rules: respect for our socially-aware business model and sustainable development’’ On behalf of the 277,000 postal workers, I would like to renew La Poste Group’s commitment to the 10 Global Compact principles, which we have supported since 2003. The sustainable development policy continues to take shape within the Group’s various entities. La Poste has therefore opted for a business strategy plan hinging on five priorities: Ambition 2015. The priorities are as follows: Complete fulfilment of La Poste’s four public service missions (universal postal service, press transportation and delivery, banking accessibility and local and regional development), which are all deeply rooted in the day-to-day life of French people. The French Act dated 9 February 2010 reasserted the specifications of each of these missions. The Group’s sustainable and responsible performance in all sectors, through increasing consolidated revenue, controlling costs, improving operational profitability, developing partnerships and improving customer satisfaction. Service quality, in all aspects of La Poste, especially customer relations. This has already been put into practice through its commitments to customers (improving complaint and information processing, reducing post office waiting times, etc.), through extending its novel post office concept, the quality of advice given by La Banque Postale, and through its postal workers’ daily commitment to a serviceoriented attitude. Innovation, with the development of new services (Digiposte, hybrid letters, a new ColiPoste service, mobile telephony products and services, the development of La Banque Postale’s multi-channel, online services, etc.) Development of new business areas in the Business Sectors’ value chain and search for new European markets. This priority is reflected in acquisition objectives, in particular. To ensure that its five priorities are fulfilled, La Poste has set itself two rules to bring about changes. Against the backdrop of fierce competition in all of its markets and a rapidly developing Mail Sector, La Poste’s strategic plan will reflect its socially-aware business model, based on the absence of a set redundancy scheme, taking on people as part of sandwich course programmes and fostering equal opportunities, developing skills, an ongoing effort to improve the quality of life in the workplace, improving the safety and security of postal workers and sharing the fruits of success. 3 Second rule set by La Poste: sustainable development. While sustainable development plays a central role in all of La Poste’s major projects in terms of electric vehicles, transportation of goods, energy efficiency in buildings and so on, it is also very much part of a broader perspective in terms of eco-driving, responsible paper use and responsible purchasing. The Group strives to factor environmental and social concerns into decisions and operational and managerial practices, while working closely with and listening carefully to stakeholders. First and foremost, these basic rules really set us apart from our competitors. They are our driving force for innovation, they provide social cohesion, they actively involve postal workers and they are the cornerstones of our economic success. La Poste Group is also committed to: Mitigating transport-related CO2 emissions, Mitigating building-related CO2 emissions, Using paper in a responsible way, Improving waste sorting and recycling, Developing the environmental, social and societal added value of products and services, Increasing the percentage of responsible purchasing, Improving customer satisfaction, Becoming a proactive regional partner in terms of sustainable development, Incorporating sustainable development into the Group management strategy, Endorsing a discrimination-free policy, developing equal opportunities and promoting the sociallyaware business model, Promoting ethical conduct, Taking stock of our results with Group stakeholders. Furthermore, incorporating corporate social and environmental responsibility objectives into managers’ roadmaps and the sustainable development and diversity training which they receive are becoming an integral part of La Poste, as it strives to encourage managers to adopt a responsible approach to these issues. These new objectives will therefore underpin the rolling out of the «Ambition 2015» plan. My teams are on hand to answer any questions you may have. With my full support, Jean-Paul Bailly, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4 Contents Profile and description of operations ................. p 7 Progress report ....................... .................... p 8 Human rights ............................................ p 11 à 13 Labour ..................................................... p 15 à 19 Environnement .......................................... p 21 à 25 Anti-corruption ......................................... p 27 à 29 5 6 PROFILE Contact person Patrick WIDLOECHER Advisor to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Position Responsible Development Ethics + 33 1 55 44 01 99 Contact details patrick.widloecher@laposte.fr LA POSTE HEAD OFFICE 44 Boulevard de Vaugirard CP V 507 Address 75757 Paris Cedex France Participant since Février 2003 Sector Transport, banque, services PROFILE AND DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS Revenue €20,939 millions Number of employees 276 555 employees Organisation type Corporate: Support divisions 4 business sector : Mail (52% of revenue) Parcels (Coliposte/Geopost) (23%) The Retail Brand (network of post offices) (0,2%) La Banque Postale (24,8 %) Local coverage In France, La Poste is the leading local network with 17,079 retail outlets including 10,213 post offices and 6,866 retail outlets managed as part of partnerships. At international level, 250 subsidiaries in 40 countries on 4 continents ensure La Poste’s coverage. The Group on the market 15% of its revenue comes from international operations. 100% of its operations take place in competitive markets. 7 Progress report Incorporating a way of thinking hinged on responsible development within the Group La Poste Group has integrated a sustainable performance objective into its «Ambition 2015» business strategy by following two basic rules: sustainable development and respect for the socially-aware model. The socially-aware model is based on the respect and consideration for people. La Poste Group is therefore committed to responsible development. Actions taken by the company to implement responsible development: A specialised commission of the Board of Directors directs and assesses the Group’s results relating to its responsible development commitments. All Business Units have committed to meeting responsible development objectives. Responsible development was outlined in a management model called the managerial identity. Group managers must ensure they are: • Efficient: focused on a result-oriented way of thinking and responsible while taking into account the human and environmental impacts, • Innovative: ready to think and do things differently while upholding our Group’s values and identity, • Cooperative: harnessing the power of a group while being attentive to the singularity of everyone, • Bold: committed and ready to make decisions when necessary while respecting women and men alike. To introduce this new managerial way of thinking a management plan for 400 Top Group Managers was set up. It is based on two annual conventions and a managerial skills’ development programme (training and feedback sessions). All strategic executives and managers receive responsible development training when taking up a position. This training is set to be updated during the summer of 2011. Every year, 200 strategic executives receive responsible development training. The Responsible Development Conferences held in 2011 and 2012 will be centred on the topic of «Responsible Managers». They will be devoted to thinking about the reconciliation of economic, social and environmental sectors, as well as on the decision-making process and the concept of responsibility, including an afternoon dedicated to discussing best practices. Top manager appraisals incorporate the social and environmental responsibility objectives. They are also gradually incorporating their employees’ appraisals. Since 2009, all Group employees receive a profit-sharing bonus. In addition to results, the criteria for allocating this profit-sharing scheme incorporate social responsibility aspects. Professional marketing, communication and purchasing channels have been provided with frameworks for incorporating responsible development criteria into their operations. In the Mail sector, 90% of products and services in terms of revenue were closely examined in relation to the framework in late 2010 and areas for improvement were identified. La Banque Postale validates the level of responsibility of its products and services, from design to distribution. In 2010 and 2011, La Poste employees were made aware of nondiscrimination and respecting the environment in as regards their operations. The business strategy and Finance Division is gradually incorporating responsible development requirements into investment appraisals. In 2011, the chairman’s monthly management chart included responsible development results. 8 9 10 Human rights 11 Human rights Principles Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1 human rights; and 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our commitments, our policy The Group is committed to respecting human rights, both at parent company level and at subsidiary level. The socially-aware model is based on job quality (time chosen, openended contracts, health and safety, and working conditions), skills development and equal opportunities. As a French public operator, La Poste joins forces with the French State and local authorities for awareness-raising initiatives, with a particular focus on nondiscrimination and equal opportunities. La Poste is committed to ensuring that its suppliers and sub-contractors respect human rights through its responsible purchasing policy. Action taken in 2009 and 2010 or planned for 2011 Health and safety In 2010, La Poste parent company launched a new health and safety in the workplace plan with a view to preventing significant risks such as psychosocial risks, road risks, risks related to slips and trips risks and Repetitive Strain Injury. Mail sector: 14 Forums for an introduction to using the right resources properly. The Palmes de la Prévention Santé, Sécurité au Travail (Health, Safety and Prevention in the Workplace Medals), make it possible to structure managers’ actions and organise the active participation of staff. The Retail Brand: Training courses for managing rudeness based on the scenarios organised in 450 priority post offices. In all Business Sectors, health and safety prevention is covered by a joint initiative led by field managers and experts with thorough action plans related to workplace behaviour, equipment and organisation. Training There were several initiatives for furthering skills development, including the «customer satisfaction», “Service Gagnant” (Winning Service) training course for managers and counter clerks. In the Mail sector, three training courses devoted to managers were set up at the École des Managers (Management School): courses leading to a degree, courses leading to a qualification and vocational courses. In 2011, more training courses focusing on new managerial practices will be added to the range of training courses devoted to managers in support and operational divisions. A new school, the École des Ventes (Sales School), will see the light of day, offering salespeople a comprehensive course in integration and development Mediapost is continuing its accreditation of prior and experiential learning scheme with its employees. At the Retail Brand, managers learn about customer satisfaction in real time and counter clerks learn about service-oriented attitudes, banking advice and multi-channel uses. In the Mail sector, managers enrol on training courses at the École des Managers which 12 lead to either a degree or a qualification. They had to meet specifications based on 5 basic areas. Professional development The principles defined in the Mobility Charter (Charte de la mobilité) were put into practice, giving everyone new possibilities for career growth. Transparent job offers are provided by the Mobility portal. The Mobility portal, which is devoted to postal workers, can be accessed regularly by either intranet or internet to apply online and/or find out more about transitions to public service positions and the system to help start up a company. The new (Mobilité Fonction Publique Transition to Public Service) hotline supports and offers all interested postal workers a means of getting information quickly and easily. Responsible purchasing La Poste a souhaité choisir des fournisseurs et sous traitants engagés dans le respect des La Poste ensures that its suppliers and sub-contractors are committed to respecting human rights. This is reflected in La Poste’s responsible purchasing policy defined jointly by the Group’s Purchasing Department and Sustainable Development Department. It develops the tools for its implementation within the various entities (risk mapping, guides, training, etc.) as well as a 23-question reference assessment which includes items on decision-makers’ needs, supplier commitments, and products’ CSR performance (through labels and certification). La Poste and its French subsidiaries foster job opportunities for vulnerable people (the disabled, the long-term unemployed) by developing purchasing within sectors that work with the disabled and promote integration. To go even further with this work, La Poste helped found the Pas@Pas organisation and worked on building a shared Internet platform which puts member companies in contact with companies that work with the disabled and promote integration. The Pas@Pas online platform provides access to 7,500 companies that work with the disabled and promote integration. Measurable results Health In 2010, 755 Bronze Medals, 41 Silver Medals and 12 Gold Medals were awarded. 6,300 employees underwent preventing and managing rudeness training, with an exceptional satisfaction rating. Training At the Retail Brand, 2,300 managers are learning about customer satisfaction in real time, and 9,000 counter clerks are enrolled in (“Service gagnant” “Winning Service”) training to learn about service-oriented attitudes, banking advice and multi-channel uses. At La Banque Postale, 18,000 people received consumer credit training. In the Mail sector, 1,813 Mail-sector managers followed one of three courses provided by the École des Managers. Success rate: 84% for the course leading to a degree 93% for the course leading to a qualification 90% for the vocational course In 2009, all Mediapost platform managers taking part in the accreditation of prior and experiential learning scheme qualified successfully. Professional development 4,000 postal workers log on to the online Job Centre each day and 7,000 jobs were published in 2010, an 80% increase in comparison to 2009. The company supported 508 postal workers who wanted to move to public service status and 202 start-up entrepreneurs. Responsible purchasing By the end of 2010, 7,632 suppliers had signed the Group’s responsible Purchasing Charter (Charte d’achats responsables) since it was set up in 2008. In 2010, 73% of Group buyers had taken part in the two-day responsible purchasing training session. The percentage of purchases from these sectors increased, to more than 1% of total purchases for the parent company. 13 14 Labour 15 16 Labour Principes Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 3 of the right to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our commitments, policy Freedom of association and collective bargaining La Poste and its French subsidiaries comply with the French law relating to freedom of association and collective bargaining. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and the effective abolition of child labour La Poste Group respects its employees’ life and career decisions. It respects the minimum age for employment and only offers internships to students enrolled on an educational programme. Internernships lasting over one month are remunerated. Eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation La Poste is deeply committed to ensuring equal opportunities. This work involves adapting to disabilities, overcoming hurdles and finding ways to ensure that clients, postal workers and suppliers alike are treated fairly. As a signatory of the Diversity Charter (Charte de la diversité) Diversity, La Poste is committed to ensuring its employees at all levels reflect the social, cultural and ethnic diversity of the French population. Desciption of processes and plans already in place Social agreements provide a framework for trade unions to defend postal workers’ interests. Furthermore, the most vulnerable postal workers’ opinions are voiced by postal worker associations such as the Association for Disabled Postal Workers (Association des postiers handicapés ATHA) and the Association for the Long-term Sick (Association des postiers malades de longue durée APCLD). As part of the social action within a partner organisation these associations are allocated a budget to facilitate their work. La Poste does not employ self-employed workers for administrative and logistical functions and it regulates the employment and remuneration of interns. The recruitment processes have been reviewed to eliminate the risk of discrimination. A Job Centre devoted to staff already working for La Poste is provided to encourage internal mobility. These topics often involve collective bargaining. 17 Labour Principles Action taken in 2009 and 2010 or planned for 2011 La Poste and its French subsidiaries have signed agreements or, in the absence of an agreement, have set up diversity action plans (disabilities, gender equality and age management). La Poste has set itself the objective of ensuring that all Business sectors have at least 40% of women and men. Various management procedures have been reviewed and a recruitment guide and monitoring tools have been published. A specific body for reviewing and providing information on discrimination was set up with a view to dealing with questions or requests relating to equal opportunities, disabilities, incapacities or discrimination. Since 2009, La Poste has published a diversity report which is subject to round table discussions with trade unions. With a view to ensuring the integration of people excluded from the employment market, La Poste is taking action by diversifying recruitment channels, creating numerous partnerships and taking part in recruitment events. The 14th National Disabled Workers Week once again highlighted the action taken by La Poste for the disabled, with over 60 initiatives involving all Group departments, Business Sectors and subsidiaries. Initiatives varied from employment forums to workshop taster sessions in the dark, a personal wheelchair experience and an introduction to sign language. La Poste is firmly committed to the integration of young people in disadvantaged areas, severely affected by unemployment and social exclusion. La Poste therefore backed the Job and Equal Opportunity Action Plan (Train pour l’emploi et l’égalité des chances) for the second year running with a view to reaching out to these people. In 2010, La Banque Postale and its trade unions all signed an agreement providing for more resources to integrate and train people with disabilities. The new Handifférences award, launched by the Group in November 2010, aims to compile, harness and share best practices. Measurable results La Poste has been awarded the Diversity label and Equality label by AFNOR Certification. Several social agreements are negotiated every year. Since 2009, five major agreements have been signed between La Poste and trade unions: 1 Profit-sharing Agreement (June 2009) 2 Amendments to the Contingency and Health and Safety Agreement (November 2009 and April 2010) 2 Salary Agreements (December 2009 and 2010) 1 Housing Agreement (mars 2011) 1 Professional Equality Agreement (April 2011) The diversity report shows that the breakdown of postal workers reflects the French working population in terms of gender equality, age distribution and people living in disadvantaged areas and immigrant populations. 18 Labour Principes The initiatives led by La Poste to encourage the employment and integration of people with disabilities have helped to regularly increase the company’s job obligation beneficiary rate, which reached 5.48% in 2010. In 2010, La Poste also undertook the challenge to develop recruitment in disadvantaged areas. 17.51% have been recruited on open-ended contracts. 19 20 Environment 21 Environment Principles 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitments, our policy Contributing to the Climate Programme by mitigating our transport and building-related CO2 emissions. Taking action to encourage responsible consumption with a specific focus on cutting waste production and safeguarding biodiversity. Description of processes and plans already in place La Poste closely monitors its CO2 emissions and has set itself the objective of cutting emissions by 15% by 2015 (compared to 2008). La Poste has also set itself the objective of using responsible paper exclusively by 2012. Deals have been made to ensure that quality paper is supplied. At the Retail Brand, and with the Poste Immo competition, a renovation programme will be rolled out from 2011 onwards in property post offices. The Poste Immo subsidiary, which implements La Poste Group’s real estate policy, has the task of scaling property to best meet the Business Sectors’ needs, thereby reducing energy consumption. Action taken in 2009 and 2010 or planned for 2011 ColiPoste is also rolling out an environmental management system and a number of its platforms have been awarded ISO 14001 certification. Mitigating our transport-related CO2 emissions La Poste Group is taking a number of actions to mitigate its CO2 emissions: Restructuring vehicle fleets with the introduction of electric vehicles Introducing hybrid vehicles Eliminating air linehauls Using double-decker lorries Developing rail linehauls Using public transport ColiPoste is also rolling out an environmental management system and a number of its platforms have been awarded ISO 14001 certification. 22 Environment Principles Mitigating our transport-related CO2 emissions La Poste Group is taking a number of actions to mitigate its CO2 emissions: Reconsidering vehicle fleets with the introduction of electric vehicles Introducing hybrid vehicles Eliminating air linehauls Using double-decker lorries Developing rail linehauls Using public transport La Poste has taken action regarding its employees’ journeys by signing urban travel plans. A car-pooling scheme currently under development. La Poste has developed an eco-driving training course which is available to all its employees. It has also added an «Eco-driving» label to its vehicle fleet alongside the environmental label featuring the WWF logo. Trained postal workers where a special eco-driving badge. Chronopost has purchased zero-emissions vehicles for the Paris-Concorde urban delivery area. In Madrid, Seur, a GeoPost subsidiary, is adjusting its business to traffic and parking restrictions to satisfy its customers. Small parcels are delivered on foot using the Seur City electric trolley. Bulky parcels are delivered on appointment to cut parking time. Key accounts can opt for a night-time delivery service, available after 11 p.m. The transfer of La Poste’s know-how advances sustainable mobility. One year after it was set up, Mobigreen, the subsidiary specialised in eco-driving training, has trained over 1,500 participants from local authorities and major companies. The «Baily» initiative The “Bailly” initiative, led by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of La Poste Group, aims to pool companies and local and regional authorities’ needs in terms of electric vehicles in order to reach a critical number of vehicles and lead to the emergence of a competitive and viable sector in France. After agreeing on the technical specifications, the 20 players from the public and private sectors taking part in this initiative are trying to compile the first pooled order consisting of at least 50,000 electric vehicles from the end of 2011 onwards. Upon the French State’s request, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of La Poste Group heads the intercompany order group. The French State appointed UGAP (Union des Groupements d’Achats Publics the pooled public procurement union) as coordinator. It is in charge of organising all operations. As the central purchasing authority and in its quality as the authority awarding the contract (see Article 8 of the French code des marchés publics for government tendering regulations), UGAP is well-placed to undertake this mission. (1) Group members include: ADP, Air France, Areva, Bouygues, EDF, ERDF, Eiffage, France Télécom Orange, GDFSuez, GRT Gaz, GrDF, La Poste, RATP, SAUR, SNCF, SPIE, Suez Environnement, UGAP, Vinci and Véolia. (2) The authorities currently include Rouen, Bordeaux, Aix-en-Provence, Rennes, Grenoble and Strasbourg, but this number could grow. 23 Environment Principles Mitigating our building-related CO2 emissions All new buildings aim for “Low Consumption Building” (Bâtiment Basse Consommation – BBC) status, which is given to construction with 50% savings compared with traditional buildings, and HEQ (High Environmental Quality) certification. A “green” lease is offered to the Group’s business sectors to guarantee environmental performance within the building. The results of energy audits conducted on 132 strategic buildings (1 million m²) made it possible to gauge benchmark consumption («point zero») and draw up 10-year renovation plans (insulation, facades, heating equipment, etc.). Business Sectors are taking action by introducing programmable timers for heating, renovating heating systems, installing motion sensors and relamping. La Poste Group has suggested that the UPU’s Sustainable Development working group carry out a study on carbon offsets. The project would allow volunteer postal services to offset all or part of their carbon emissions by financing projects that benefit the postal sector, based on existing systems (MDP, OMC, etc.). Taking action to cut the consumption of natural resources and the production of waste, to improve the amount of waste recycled and to help safeguard biodiversity. All entities are taking action to encourage the use of responsible paper (recycled paper, eco-certified paper or paper from sustainably-managed forests). For three years now, purchasing teams have been working to increase the range of responsible paper for printed material in post offices and in internal purchasing catalogues for office supplies. All paper determined to be “non responsible” was gradually removed from the in-house purchasing catalogues and replaced by an extended range of paper from sustainablymanaged forests, eco-labelled paper and recycled paper. La Poste is taking action with its stakeholders to promote responsible paper use. Spurred on by La Poste Group, operators from the paper sector founded the Culture Papier (Paper Culture) organisation to improve the sector’s environmental expertise and raise awareness of the economic, social and cultural role paper plays. A partnership signed with the French federation of regional parks will help these areas develop economically while safeguarding their diverse culture and biodiversity. La Poste is also a partner of Planète Urgence and volunteer postal workers help safeguard biodiversity in various countries across the world. Measurable results 15 ColiPoste hubs received ISO 14001 certification for their environmental management system, making it possible improve waste management, cut energy and water consumption and prevent pollution risks. With the acquisition of an additional 4,700 electric bikes, 140 electric cars and 100 electric quads in 2010, the electric vehicle fleet totals 8,310 vehicles. This is set to grow to 10,530 in by the end of 2011. The Mail sector has also acquired 14 double-decker lorries, which will reduce CO2 emissions from related deliveries by approximately 35%. 30 double-decker lorries will be introduced by 2012. 24 In 2010, La Poste started transporting admail by freight trains. This will enable 2 million envelopes a year to be transported by rail, namely 50% of admail. In 2010, 60,021 employees received eco-driving training. In addition to this, 80 eco-driving training leaders and 400 mail carriers were trained per week, making it possible to cut fuel consumption by 6%. For its part Médiapost, the Mail subsidiary, trained its 630 employees with company vehicles. In 2010, responsible paper accounted for 79% of the paper used by La Poste: eco-certified paper (25%) paper from sustainably-managed forests (45%) recycled paper (9%) 25 26 Anti-corruption 27 Anti-corruption Principles Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and 10 bribery. Our commitments, our policy Given La Banque Postale’s business sectors, the group is vulnerable to money laundering and terrorist financing. La Banque Postale is subject to the French Monetary and Financial Code (code monétaire et financier Article L561-1 and s.). This code requires people who, during the course of their professional activities, carry out, check or advise operations involving the movement of capital, to inform the public prosecutor of any operations which they believe to be fraudulent. In order to meet the requirements provided for by the law, it has selected effective tools and has introduced a bold training policy with a view to involving people on the ground and ensuring its commitments are reflected in the practices of La Banque Postale employees and people working for La Banque Postale. Description of processes and plans already in place La Banque Postale and the Retail Brand (network of post offices) are already reaping the rewards of the work and expertise of two ethics officers. A «Group» ethics officer was appointed in 2008 and has drafted the Group’s professional code of ethics. It will be implemented during 2011, until the first quarter of 2012. With a view to working against money laundering and terrorist financing, La Banque Postale has selected effective tools in order for the commitments to be translated effectively on the ground. Furthermore, La Banque Postale continues to support its employees. As part of the change of customs procedures, La Poste now clears its own objects through customs, in other words it calculates and collects the duties and taxes owed o the French state the customer. Action taken in 2009 and 2010 or planned for 2011 From 2008 to 2010, a training programme for «working against money laundering and terrorist financing» was followed by 80,000 La Banque Postale employees and people working for La Banque Postale. The training was developed by La Banque Postale with a view to: describing the risks of money laundering and corruption in the banking sector, presenting the tools and levers for managing the risks. 28 Anti-corruption Principles Action taken in 2009 and 2010 or planned for 2011 E-learning was adopted for its speed and efficiently, and for its automated monitoring. A self-assessment at the end of the online training course enables employees to pinpoint their own areas of development and vigilance. Training courses are updated every three years to ensure that teams are up to speed with the latest developments. In 2011, staff will be able to undertake updated courses. At the Retail Brand, several ethical guides per position were updated in 2010 to provide teams on the ground with information on the main actions. With a view to monitoring the payment of duties and taxes owed by the customer to the French state correctly and avoiding any interpretations or temptations of corruption (directly underpaying a carrier) when delivering to customers, La Poste decided to computerised the entire delivery chain (almost 17,000 retail outlets) and trained almost 100,000 mail carriers to collect the money owed to them correctly and responsibly. Measurable results 80,000 people trained in three years, accounting for 94% of employees. 29 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ETHICS 44 BD DE VAUGIRARD 75757 PARIS CEDEX 15 Tél. : +33 (0)1 55 44 00 00 www.laposte.fr La Poste Société Anonyme (limited company) with a capital of €3,400,000,000 euros 356 000 000 RCS PARIS Head office : 44 BOULEVARD DE VAUGIRARD 75757 PARIS CEDEX 15
