I(RISHCO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP Participants Name Mis Krishak Bharati Cooperative ltd. Country INDIA Sector Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period 2010 2011 (Financial Year Aprilcovered March) Contact Person Sh. Amar Prasad, ED (HR) Contact E-mail amarprasad@kribhco.net Date b.2--09 .2--0\1 Other Relevant Links www.kribhco.net 1 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMITMENT STATEMENT Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our Society. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorse the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. (AMAR PRASAD) Executive Director (HR) #(RIBHCO The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles, as per the suggested pro-forma, are as under :1.HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTION & OUTCOME ~ To build productive relationship and enhance customer satisfaction, we organized visits at our Plant at Surat (Gujarat) of co-operative delegates, farmers, students, etc. from all the regions of India. During this year, we organized 13 such visits in which a total of 700 cooperative delegates, farmers, students etc. visited our Plant at Surat (Gujarat). ~ On continuous basis, KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for the development of employees through various HRD activities such as In-house / External Training Programmes, Lectures / Presentations etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental & functional training needs of employees. ~ During the year under report, 29 In-house Training Programmes were organized benefiting 703 employees. 156 employees were sponsored for 77 External Training Programmes. Three Training Programmes were also organized which benefited 189 dependents of employees. The beneficiaries of these programs included students and house wives with focus on enhancement of quality of life besides providing an ideal platform for change as in life style for better, happier and healthier family and social life. This is keeping in mind the management philosophy that a satisfied employee at home will contribute more in the work place. Apprenticeship training was imparted to 32 persons and a large number of persons given vocational training. 2 I(RIBHCO ~ As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), KRIBHCO has been carrying out Rural Development Activities like construction of school bulldtnqs, providing benches, distribution of uniforms and text books to school children, plantation of different trees, construction of roads, check dams, health checkups and eye camps for villagers with special attention to the weaker sections like Adivasis, for which an expenditure of Rs. 25,00,000/has been incurred. For its adopted villages Kavas and Ichhapore-near the Plant site, Surat, drinking water, roads and electricity etc. are provided free of cost. ~ For first aid facilities, the Society has a First Aid Centre working round the clock in the Plant at Surat (Gujarat) with all the required facilities including Ambulances. KRIBHCO runs a well equipped Hospital in its Township (situated near the Plant-Surat) for providing health facilities to the employees and their dependent family members, completely free of cost. For specialized treatments, it has got arrangements with Hospitals in Surat city (Gujarat) where the patients are referred to and the cost thereof is paid by the Society. ~ For creating awareness on health in the employees and their dependent family members, lectures, slide shows, Camps were organized on Life Style Modification, Arthritis, Early Detection of Coronary Disease, Bone Mineral Density (BMD) and Blood Donation Camps were also organized during the year. A Lecture-cum-Slide Show on Bio-medical Waste Management was organized for Hospital Staff. ~ First Aid Training was imparted to the Trainees. Hygiene tips of epidemics are also regularly given through CCTV for Township residents. Round the clock Emergency treatment for accidents in Hazira Plant, Surat (Gujarat) industrial area is provided by the Hospital irrespective of residence of the patients. 3 I(RIBHCD ~ KRIBHCO believes that a contended employee is an asset to the organization and that its most valuable assets are its employees. Therefore, everything possible is done to take care of the welfare of its employees and their families. KRIBHCO is having more than 1201 housing units to accommodate its employees with all the required facilities like Schools, Clubs, Auditorium, Cooperative Society, Playgrounds etc. All its employees are provided House Building Loans at concessional rates of interest. ~ The Society provides safe working environment to its employees. The safety set up of KRIBHCO Hazira Plant at Surat (Gujarat) has been established with a vision to achieve its objective SAFETY FIRST; PRODUCTION MUST. ~ Safety objectives of the Hazira Plant at Surat (Gujarat) have been derived from following VALUES of KRIBHCO: .:. Creation of safe, efficient and pleasant working environment in the Plant. •:. Continual Enrichment of Safety culture . •:. High level of emergency preparedness at all the time . •:. Extending support to the neighbouring villages, industries and government agencies for any emergency mitigation beyond Plant boundaries. ~ To achieve the above, state of the art safety systems and infrastructure have been set up. These are well maintained and continually improved upon by a team of highly motivated Fire & Safety personnel. In addition, these systems and infrastructures are got audited by internal safety committees as well as by external experts. We have set up a Central Safety Committee at Plant (Surat-Gujarat) level with representation of employees working in various areas like Production, Maintenance and Commercial. 4 I(RIBHCD ~ In addition to above, safety training and awareness in KRIBHCO takes top priority. On joining initially, all employees are given induction training on safety. No worker or labour is permitted to work in the Plant (Surat-Gujarat) without the induction safety training. Refresher safety training is imparted from time to time. Training sessions on First-Aid are conducted by internal and external doctors. At shop-floor level also, safety related lectures and fire fighting practices are conducted regularly. The safety training includes safe behaviour and conduct, general safety rules, hazards, use of personal protective equipment, basic fire fighting, response to various emergency conditions etc. Practical fire fighting training is also imparted to various categories of employees at the KRIBHCO Fire and Rescue training ground. During the year 2010-11, more than 5000 persons were imparted safety training. ~ During the year 2010-11, not a single dangerous occurrence took place. In addition, KRIBHCO received around 20 requests from government agencies for rendering emergency services to neighbouring areas which were promptly honoured and the Society has earned good name for the same. On 15 th March 2011, an Off-site Emergency Drill was conducted in our Plant-Surat (Gujarat) which was jointly organized by the District Administration, Surat and KRIBHCO to test the emergency preparedness of various Govt. and neighbouring industries. The exercise was highly successful for the purpose it was conducted and appreciated by all concerned. ~ Full protection is given to all female employees from any type of harassment. Provision has been made in the Service Rules of employees regarding the same. 5 I(RIBHCD ~ We strive for the prosperity and growth of farmers, we emphasize on educating them about balanced and integrated use of fertilizers. For this purpose soil testing facility is available free of cost at Kribhco Krishi Paramarsh Kendra at Noida office for farmers & cooperatives. Based on the test reports, farmers are advised about the correct dosage of fertilizers and crops suitable for the type of soil. ~ We organize Farmers Meeting, Crop Seminars, Field Demonstration, Trainings to educate farmers and cooperative societies to enhance crop productivity through balanced use of nutrients, in various states of the Country. ~ We adopt Cooperative societies with an objective of bringing about over all economic development and improvement in living standards of rural community through integrated rural development with particular emphasis on agricultural development. ~ Sustainable rural development through effective farm services has been a focus area for the Society. ~ Our Society, having a dedicated team of agricultural professional, continued its efforts towards transfer of latest farm technology to the farming community and has undertaken rural welfare schemes for improving farmers livelihood. ~ We conducted 2669 field programs such as Farmers Meetings, Crop seminar/ Kisan Melas, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussion etc. benefiting 9.97 lakh farmers and cooperative officials across the nation. ~ The Society also made available 05.64 lakh technical folders on various crops to farmers and cooperatives as back-up knowledge. 6 I(RIBHCO ~ The Paramarsh Kendra as well as KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline continued to provide latest information on weather to farmers enabling them to plan farm operations and mid-term corrections in case of crop failures. ~ The Society operates its 63 outlets Krishak Bharati Sewa Kendras (KBSKs) in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to provide agri inputs and technical know how under Single Window Concept. ~ Society adopted 107 cooperative societies, trained 24940 cooperative managers in 208 cooperative conferences and conducted study/educational visits for inclusive development of farmers cooperatives. ~ Society is dedicated and concerned for the good of the Society and improving the quality of life of the farmers we serve. The Society has been taking concrete action by focusing primarily on the up-liftment of communities in health, family, welfare, education, environment protection, institution bulldlnq etc. As part of its health protection programme the Society has initiated a pilot project on Micro Health Insurance through Gramin Vikas Trust to cover the rural masses for health protection. ~ Organized 50 health campaigns for livestock and humans. ~ Organized sports for integrated rural development in rural area. ~ Analyzed 7167 soil samples for micro-macro nutrients. 7 I(RIBHCO ~ KRIBHCO HAS BEEN AWARDED :• The First Prize from FAI for bringing out an educational film on Soil Health Improvement and Farmers' Prosperity highlighting fertilizer use efficiency and soil health. • The First Prize from FAI for its efforts in Bio fertilizer Production, Promotion and Marketing . • The Gold Trophy in the National Essay Competition 2010 conducted by Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering (IIIE) on Energy, Economy and Environment . 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 I<RIBHCD ACTION & OUTCOME ~ We fully recognize the employees' right to form associations. In accordance with that, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. All important decisions affecting the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Society about three decades ago and not even a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial strife during this period. ~ KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground only of gender, place of birth, caste or community. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ACTION & OUTCOME ~ KRIBHCO is fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care for environment has always been of paramount importance to KRIBHCO. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best 9 I<RIBHCO available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive Environmental Protection Plan based on the principle of Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources. ~ Various mechanisms installed since commissioning of the Plant at Surat (Gujarat), has resulted in reduction of water consumption by approximately 40%, and we have achieved zero effluent discharge from final outlet for the last seven years. Efforts are being made to further reduce water consumption. Tertiary treated sewage water is being used as cooling water make up. Deep hydrolyser is installed in the Urea Plant to reuse the effluent as boiler feed water after treatment. ~ Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks, Pril Tower, Ammonia in air is far below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. An Automatic Ambient Air Quality Station has been installed to continuously monitor the effects of emission. Six Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations have been set up within a radius of 10 kms for periodic monitoring of air quality in surrounding areas. ~ To ensure clean and green environment, Society has created a Green Belt by planting more than 1.0 lakh trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index thereby helping to improve the ambient air quality within the complex. Lush green lawns are also developed in an area of 100 acres. ~ To create awareness among contract workers, an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the Plant premises. 10 I(RIBHCO ~ To enrich Marine and Coastal eco-system, society has signed a MOU on 30 th June 2010 with Gujarat Ecology Commission, Gandhinagar for the plantation of Mangroves on an area of 100 hectares at village Kantiyajal, District Bharuch, Gujarat. Mangrove is a highly valuable plant species and forms one of the most important eco-systems of coastal and marine area. ~ Environmental Management System (EMS) of the Society has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system. ~ To promote awareness of Environment Protection among Township residents and schoo: children, every year Environment Day is celebrated on 5 th June. ~ Society has adopted rain water harvesting for conservation of water at its Corporate Office and residential house complex located at NOIDA. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ACTION & OUTCOME ~ Vigilance is an integral part of the management and it provides important instruments for improving performance of an organization. Vigilance is essential for discipline and growth of the organization and every manager needs to perform the role of vigilance officer as well. 11 I(RIBHCO There is a separate Vigilance Department in our company. Keeping in view the importance of preventive vigilance in checking corruption, periodical inspections of sensitive areas are carried out and other procedures are monitored. During 25 th October to 1 st November 2010 Vigilance Awareness Week was observed. The programmes started by taking oath to maintain transparency and integrity in all areas of public dealings. Other awareness generating activities were taken up, like slogans, pamphlets etc. During the week, a Farmers' Meeting was held in Nadiad District, Crop Seminar in Rajkot District, Dealers' Conference in Navsari District and two Field Days in Junaghad and Amreli Districts were organized. These programmes were attended by senior Government officials, co-operators, senior officials of KRIBHCO and other stake holders. ~ Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision-making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (open-ness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned) competition in the interest of the organization and Accountability. 12 I(RIBHCO ~ It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organizational Citizenship among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. ~ For the irregularities detected, punitive vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the Society and we adopt 'zero tolerance' for corruption irrespective of the position held. ********** 13
