FY2010 Sustainability Report Humanity and the Future About Report Overview This is the ﬁrst Sustainability Report published by Kyobo Life Insurance. Kyobo Life pursues a mission This Report of helping all people effectively prepare for any hardships they may encounter in their lives, with a vision of growing into a corporation respected and cherished by all stakeholders. The aim of this Report is to present these efforts and their results to the stakeholders through a ﬁve-part description of the Company’s sustainability management and its four pledges, one to each group of stakeholders, and its ten procedural principles. Composition Financial Planners Government & Stakeholders Customers Investors & Employees Community Kyobo Life will Kyobo Life Kyobo Life will Kyobo Life will grow continue to be will progress always give utmost together with its Pledges an attractive together with the priority to customer ﬁnancial planners investment to government and service. and employees investors the community 6. We will continue to generate additional proﬁts through sustainable growth. Economy 7. We will increase our corporate value 1. We will always with preemptive listen to our risk management customers and skills. manage the company through 3. We will maintain their eyes. our corporate culture based on Procedural 2. We will continue joy, conﬁdence and 8. We will be Principles to improve the trust. proactive in leading quality of our and participating in service from 4. We will provide community service underwriting to all employees with projects. Society payment. equal opportunities and reward them 10. We will grow based on fair with our peers evaluations. through fair competition. 5. We will enhance the expertise of our ﬁnancial planners and employees. Environment 9. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reﬂective of our business. Report Standards This report complies with the G3 Guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), and is based on the 10 principles of UNGC (UN Global Compact), the contents of ISO 26000, and opinions gathered from a broad range of stakeholders. Report Boundary and Period The boundary of this Reports includes the business activities of Kyobo Life Insurance Company’s main ofﬁce, domestic branches, and Kyobo Life Plazas, and not those of the Company’s overseas branches. This Report contains some of the economical, social, and environmental achievements the Company made during the ﬁscal year 2010 ending March 2011, including quantitative data going back to the three prior ﬁscal years, if deemed necessary, to help readers compare performance across the years. Going forward, the Company will continue to report its sustainability management activities and results to stakeholders, while gradually expanding its sustainability management efforts as well as the boundary and level of its report. Accreditation This Report has been veriﬁed in terms of contents and data by the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies of Korea which performed the three-principle veriﬁcation of AA1000AS, and received GRI Application Level Check and Statement from the GRI. (p66) Inquiries This Report is available in English and Korean. More detail information regarding the contents of this Report is available at the IR section of the Company’s website (www.kyobo.com) and, for further inquiries, please contact: Sustainability Management Support Team, Kyobo Life Insurance 1, Jongno-1Ga, Jongno-Gu, Seoul 110-714 Korea Tel: 82-2-721-2530~2 Fax: 82-2-721-3170 e-mail: CSR@kyobo.com Contents 02 CEO Message 04 Corporate Introduction 06 Major Products 07 Corporate History 08 Corporate Governance Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management 12 The type of sustainability management that Kyobo Life peruses 16 Communication with stakeholders Customers and the Future 23 We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. 26 We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Financial Planners & Employees and the Future 31 We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. FY2010 Sustainability Report 34 We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. 36 We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Humanity and Investors and the Future the Future 41 We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. 44 We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Government & Community and the Future 49 We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. 54 We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. 58 We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Appendix 62 Glossary Humanity and the Future Kyobo Life Insurance’s sustainability management philoso64 Third Party’s Assurance Report phy aims to bring a better future to all stakeholders including customers, financial planners, employees, investors, peer 66 GRI Application Level Check Statement companies, regulatory agencies and the surrounding communities. The human being is the most important element 67 UN Global Compact in the world and companies continue to exist to enrich the lives of human beings, making it only reasonable that compa68 Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) nies’ management philosophy should also lie in the value of the human being. Therefore, Kyobo Life named this Report, 72 Awards Related to Sustainability Management “Humanity, and the Future,” to emphasize the importance of human beings, who create the paths to the future and benefit 72 Association Memberships for Sustainability Management from it. “Humanity, and the Future” is based on the respect for all human beings. CEO Message “Kyobo Life Insurance will cultivate a brighter future together with all stakeholders.” Dear Kyobo Life’s valuable stakeholders, The year 2010 marked an important milestone in Kyobo Life Insurance’s continued efforts to cultivate a brighter future with all stakeholders. In the year 2010, Kyobo Life experienced various meaningful events. In recognition of its leadership in the financial industry, for example, Kyobo was nominated by Fortune Korea as one of Korea’s 50 most admired companies and took the privilege of representing Korean financial industry at the G20 global business summit in Seoul. Furthermore, Kyobo’s insurance business continued to grow despite the global financial crisis. Kyobo could achieve solid growth because of its employees’ efforts to carry out the true value of life insurance for customers while staying commited to the mission of helping all people become better prepared for any hardships in their lives. In 2010, in attempts to hold up its end of corporate social responsibilities, Kyobo created Sustainability Management Support Team, whose main role is to listen to and gather opinions of all of the stakeholders and reflect those opinions in the business and its management. In October, as the first insurance company in Korea, Kyobo joined the UN Global Compact, a global initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies and report on their implementation, building a solid framework for Kyobo’s own sustainability management. All of these actions confirmed Kyobo’s commitment in adopting sustainable and socially responsible business practices. During the Asian financial crisis back in 1997, Kyobo Life Insurance sought to boost the morale of the nation and its people with the message on its famous billboard in the heart of Seoul that read: Together we become a forest. / Without a tree sacrificed, / A forest we become / We march towards the days of the forest. As the message implies, Kyobo Life has always pursued happiness for all people by bringing in a better future for all stakeholders regardless of the situation. Based on this principle, we declare the following pledges to our stakeholders: 2 FY2010 Sustainability Report First, Kyobo Life will always give utmost priority to customer service. Kyobo Life has a mission to become customers’ most preferred insurance company in Korea within the nest ten years. To this end, Kyobo Life covers from traditional products that insure customers against physical harm or unexpected financial difficulties to various socially conscious products such as insurance for charity or disability. Its extensive product line-up is a reflection of its founding philosophy; since establishment, the Company sought to encourage youths to stay on the path of education and, to that end, introduced the first education insurance product after the war torn the country apart with aims to contribute to building Korea as a self-sufficient country. In terms of service quality, the Company has been endeavoring to earn customer trust by offering the types of products that meet customers’ authentic needs. In particular, to give them more than what they expect from Kyobo Life, the Company hase and will continue to maintain the high quality of our customer service, which applies throughout the process, from underwriting to the last insurance payment. Second, Kyobo Life will grow together with its financial planners and employees. Kyobo Life has been working together with its financial planners and employees towards a common goal of building the most preferred workplace. In order to achieve this goal, Kyobo has attracted and retained the first-rate talent and fostered a dynamic corporate culture that rewards outstanding performance and encourages self-improvement. Specifically, the Company strives to enrich the lives of its financial planners and employees by running a variety of family-oriented programs and campaigns that reflect the key value of the life insurance business. In recognition of its leadership in the family-oriented management, the Company has become the first in Korea to secure the “S” grade, the highest possible rating given to family-oriented companies. Encouraged by this honor, the Company plans to double its efforts to support the financial planners and employees in their pursuit of personal goals and self-improvement. Third, Kyobo Life will continue to be an attractive investment to investors. Kyobo Life is Korea’s only insurance company with a credit rating of A2 from Moody’s, an international ratings agency, and AAA from a domestic ratings agency. Although not the largest in size, Kyobo continues to generate superior net income compared to its peers. In terms of return on equity (ROE), the most frequently-used performance indicator, Kyobo has maintained No. 1 position for the past five years in Korea’s life insurance industry, posting 638.9 billion won in net income for the fiscal year 2010. To meet the expectation of a variety of investors, Kyobo will continue to strengthen its financial capability. Fourth, Kyobo Life will progress together with government and community. Kyobo Life firmly believes that the lives of all people are equally important and that it has the responsibility of supporting them in pursuit of personal values. For this reason, with the start of “Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Group” in December 2002, Kyobo has been carrying out numerous activities to help people in difficult situations. Among others, the “Care Service Group for the Sick” alleviates the burden of medical expenses of the low income families and has so far contributed to the society with the value equivalent to 25.8 billion Korean won. Also included in its community service activities is the creation of three non-profit foundations in support of the socially marginalized. In addition, the Company continued its green management efforts by minimizing the environmental impact of its business operations, increasing investment in eco-friendly SOC projects, and remodeling the headquarter building in a more energy efficient way. As a result, Kyobo’s headquarter building received the Platinum grade, the highest grade to eco-friendly buildings, for the first time in Korea. Furthermore, the Company contributed to environmental conservation by hosting various social events and contests, including “Kyobo Life Insurance Environment Awards,” initially launched in 1997, to shed light on and celebrate people, who have devoted their lives to preserving the environment. The human being is the most important element in the world and companies continue to exist for the purpose of enriching the lives of human beings. However, Kyobo Life still has a long way to go before it attains its vision and, particularly, its efforts to alleviate the problem of global warming or climate change has further to improve from now. Kyobo has taken a small yet meaningful step towards promoting sustainability management, and will continue to move forward while carefully listening to the voice of every stakeholder. To this end, our management, including myself, will be the first to carry out appropriate actions at all times. By instituting a sustainability management that best suits the insurance business, we will endeavor not only to become the most respected company with a hundred-year history, but also to make our neighbors and society more “sustainable” going forward. I sincerely extend my heart-felt gratitude to all stakeholders, including our financial planners and employees, for their ceaseless efforts to keep their customers and communities well cared for. Thank you. Chairman & CEO Kyobo Life Insurance 3 Company The mission of Kyobo Life Insurance is to help all people prepare for any and all hardships in their lives. Since its founding in 1958 the Company has been building customer trust on the basis of its three core values—attention Introduction to customers, honesty and diligence, and challenge and creativity—and bringing life insurance closer to the mainstream of society through constant change and innovation. Now, based on its strong stakeholder trust, the Company is poised to take a giant step towards a brighter future. While getting there, the Company will continue to do its best to create a better future for all its stakeholders. A Brief Corporate name Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. Date founded August 7th, 1958 Outline of CEO Chang-jae Shin Location of HQs No. 1 Jong-no 1-ga, Jong-no-gu, Seoul (110-714) Kyobo Life No. of FPs 17,396 No. of employees 4,377 Shareholders’ equity 4.6 trillion won Total assets 57.9 trillion won Main Tel 82-2-721-2121 Website www.kyobo.co.kr Organization Kyobo Life has three regions, four divisions, four departments, 45 teams, and one center in its HQ office, (as of 2011.4.1) and 14 divisions and five business departments in the field office. The Company also has 661 branch offices and 65 Customer Plazas throughout Korea. ● Organization Chart Chairman & CEO Chief Distribution Officer Chief Marketing Officer Chief Investment Officer Retirement Pension Product Development Customer Service Investment Management Credit & Loan Corporate Finance Financial Management HR, Info & Biz Innovation Gangbuk FP Center Gangnam FP Center Gyungin FP Center Busan FP Center Jungbu FP Center Daegu FP Center Honam FP Center AM Bancassurance GFP Institutional Sales 1 Institutional Sales 2 Institutional Sales 3 Institutional Sales 4 Institutional Sales 5 International Corporate FMG FA Direct Marketing ● Business Network Kyobo Life Beijing Representative Office Kyobo Life New York Kyobo Life Tokyo Representative Office Representative Office Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd (America) Gangwon-do( Gangwon-do(18/2) Seoul (204/15) / ) Gyeonggi-do (113/12) Incheon (34/4)) Chungcheongbuk Chungcheongnam-do ((19/2) do (15/1) Gyeongsangbuk -do (37/4) Daejeon (18/2)) Daegu (30/3) Jeollabuk-do (28/3) Ulsan (14/2) Gyeongsangnam Gwangju (19/2)) -do (35/4) Busan (48/5) Jeollanam-do (22/3) 3) Branch Representative Office Customer Asset Management Jeju ((7/1) PLAZA Local Subsidiary 4 FY2010 Sustainability Report Major The largest shareholder of Kyobo Life is CEO & Chairman Shin Chang-Jae with 33.62%, followed by Shareholders Daewoo International (24.00%) and KAMCO (9.93%). ● Shareholder Composition KEXIM 5.85% KAMCO 9.93% Triumph II 1.07% Others 0.48% Daewoo International 24.00% ESOP 1.03% Finventures KBL 5.33% AXA 2.24% Corsair Korea Investors 9.79% In-Jae Shin and two others 6.65% Chang-Jae Shin 33.62% Affiliates Kyobo Life has an affiliate ownership that is based on life insurance, and together with its affiliates, pursues synergy effects that help heighten its brand and corporate values. ● Affiliate Ownership A&D Credit Kyobo Information Securities 19.50% 51.63% Kyobo AXA Saengbo Real Investment Estate Trust Managers 50.00% 50.00% KCA Claim Kyobo Book Adjustment Center 100.00% 85.00% Kyobo Kyobo Information & Realco Communication 100.00% 89.83% ● Affiliates Name Major Businesses Date Founded Kyobo Securities Securities brokerage 1949.11.22 Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Asset management 1988.07.07 Kyobo Book Center Book and periodical retail 1980.12.24 Kyobo Realco Management of commercial real estate 1979.11.15 Kyobo Information & Communication Computer system integration & advisory 1971.07.24 KCA Claim Adjustment Insuranceand pension-related service 2002.07.05 Saengbo Real Estate Trust Real estate trust and related service 1998.12.08 A&D Credit Information Credit investigation & debt collection 2002.02.28 5 Major Kyobo Life offers a wide range of life insurance solutions to help its customers prepare for various calamities, comfort their families and loved ones in the event of financial or medical mishaps, and be ensured of a Products comfortable retirement for themselves and those under their care. Combination life insurance Whole/term life insurance CI (Critical Illness) insurance Combination life insurance covers not only Whole and term life insurance provides Critical Illness insurance is a product the policyholder but his/her family as well. benefits to beneficiaries upon the death where the policyholder receives part of Because this product can cover over 30 of the policyholder. The Company offers the insurance payment if he/she is diagtypes of illnesses and accidents, customvarious types of whole and term life innosed with one of the critical illnesses ers can tailor the coverage to their individual surance, including universal whole life listed in the insurance policy, and his/ needs. Kyobo Life's combination life insurinsurance that allows adjustments and her beneficiaries are paid the remaining ance also offers a health care service that is withdrawals of premiums, variable unisum upon his/her death. The product is unique in the industry. versal whole life insurance where the a combination of health insurance and insurance payment is linked to returns whole life insurance. Unlike most CI inon investments, and term life insurance surance products, Kyobo Life’s CI insurthat provides coverage at a fixed rate of ance covers a second illness, thereby payments for a limited period of time. alleviating the policyholder’s emotional concerns and financial burden. Annuity insurance Education insurance Child insurance Annuity insurance is used mainly for Education insurance not only helps parChild insurance can be purchased at the accumulating cash or for planning a fients prepare for their children's educamoment of pregnancy confirmation and nancially stable retirement. Insurance tional expenses but also gives them comes with various options to cover all premium can be paid at a regular interpeace of mind by guaranteeing extra unpredictable accidents and illnesses to val or in a lump sum. Policyholders have benefits in the event of their death or of which young children are susceptible. the option to be paid monthly payments a mishap or illness involving any of their either during a stated period or until children. their death. Savings-type insurance Pension insurance Other guarantee-type insurance Savings-type insurance is similar to bank Following the passage of the law legKyobo Life's other guarantee-type insursavings accounts in that it is used mainly islating pension systems for workers, ance includes a health insurance that for accumulating capital, but differs in that the Company started providing domesmakes payments when policyholders it offers various options for the customers tic corporations and public institutions get diagnosed with one of the listed illto select according to their needs. with various retirement pension plans nesses or undergo a medical operation, a and services, including management of long-term convalescence insurance that pension funds and assets. covers any accidentor dementia-related inactivity, a casualty insurance for accidents, and a medication insurance that pays for drugs and medicine proscribed by doctors. 6 FY2010 Sustainability Report Corporate History Kyobo’s Half Century with Stakeholders Since its founding, Kyobo Life has been lauded with adjectives such as “best,” “first,” and others similar in connotation. “The world’s first education insurance,” “a winner of the industry’s most prestigious award,” and “the industry’s first adopter of an instant securities insurance issuance system” are some of the phrases frequently used to describe the Company’s 50 years of history, marked with its unbroken efforts to accommodate market changes and stakeholder demands. Most significant of all, the Company was honored as Asia’s “Life Insurance Company of the Year” at the 2009 World Re-insurance Conference. In spite of these honors, the Company continues to push on with its quest for excellence. To grow into a “centennial corporation of respect,” the Company will persist in its pursuit of change and reform, and based on its founding philosophies of advancing national education and establishing an indigenous fund, it will follow its “Kyobo way” with an honest and diligent mindset and the spirit of challenge and creativity. The Founding New Start as Kyobo Life 1958 Daehan Education Insurance founded 1991 Establishes Daesan Farm Cultural 1958 The world’s first education insurance introduced Foundation, Daesan Cultural Foundation 1964 Receives the Presidential Citation of the Best Savings Institution 1993 Launches “10 Million Book-reading Population” campaign 1967 Reached an industry top in sales in nine years of foundation 1994 Introduces on-site insurance securities issuance system, an industry-first 1995 Changes name to Kyobo Life Insurance The Second Foundation—Growth 1996 Secures ISO9001, a financial industry-first 1996 Garners Olive Branch Award at the World Insurance Forum 1997 Launches Voice of Consumer system 1998 Establishes Kyob Life Education Cultural Foundation 1998 Opens Kyobo Call Center 1968 Adopts Insurance Man’s Code of Ethics 1999 Insurance contracts reach 100 trillion won 1973 The second foundation campaign launched 1975 Adopts a computerized business system, an industry-first 1976 Founder Mr. Shin receives the “Crown” award at the Change and Reform World College Presidents Conference 1978 Insurance contracts reach 1 trillion won “New Management” Industry Leading 2000 Proclaims resolution of change and reform 2000 Proclaims “Kyobo People’s Code of Ethics” 2000 Launches CS Reform Committee 2001 Announces Vision of the Kyobo People and a new CI 1980 Introduces cancer insurance, an industry-first 2002 Launches the K-BASIC program 1980 Establishes Kyobo Book as part of its founding philosophy 2002 Creates Kyobo Dasomi community service group 1983 Founder Shin receives World Insurance Grand Award 2003 Completes the Koybo Tower 1983 Begins legal reserve life insurance, an industry-first 2006 Defines the “Kyobo Way” 1984 Begins policy holder dividend, an industry-first 2009 Named as Asia’s best life insurance company 1987 Opens “Gaesungwon”, a human resources development center 2010 Selected by Fortune Korea as “Korea’s 1987 Announces onsite know-how “New Management” Respected Corporation” 7 Corporate Kyobo Life pursues transparency in its corporate governance to heighten its corporate value. The Board of Directors (BOD) is the key decision-making body of Kyobo Life. Outside directors monitor the company's Governance management through actively participating in the BoD activities. ● Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Risk Outside Director Management Compensation Audit Committee Management Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board of The Board of Directors deliberates on and resolves issues covered in the articles of incorporation, deligated Directors by the General Meeting of Shareholders, or related to the Company’s basic policy or business operations, thereby contributing to the enhancement of corporate value. BoD Composition and Present Status Koybo Life’s Board of Directors is composed of eight members, three inside directors and five outside directors, to better reflect shareholder interest in the BoD’s decision-making process and to make decisions in an efficient manner. The three inside directors are the CEO, the Auditor, and Chief Investment Officer. The five outside directors ensure the transparency of management and play the role of checks and balance. Outside directors are nominated by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee. To maintain the expertise of outside directors at a high level and to ensure the transparency of the nomination process, the committee first reviews candidates’ qualifications based on relevant industry regulations and their interests with respect to those of the Company. In particular, the committee pays close attention to candidates’ relationships to the management and to major shareholders to preempt any possibilities of irregularities on the part of outside directors by taking advantage of their exposure to inside information. Once such a thorough vetting process is completed, the nominees are confirmed at the general shareholders’ meeting. ● BoD Composition (as of June 10, 2011) Classification Name Position Chang-Jae Shin CEO and Chairman Inside directors Soon Han Lee Executive Auditing Director (3) Seokki Lee Chief Asset Management Officer Byung Ho Gong Head of Gong Byong Ho Management Research Center Nicholas B. Paumgarten Chairman of Corsair Capital Outside directors Tae Koo Lee Lecturer of Economics, Kyongwon Uni. (former CEO of POSCO Construction) (5) Jangwoo Lee Professor, School of Business Management, Kyongbuk Uni. Hyong Chul Kim Former CEO of Hanwha General Insurance Operation of the BoD As the foremost decision-making body, the BoD held board meetings 26 times in the fiscal year 2008~2010 to discuss major management issues. The regular board meeting is held once a month (three times a quarter), while an interim board meeting can be convened at the request of the Chairman of the board or of the board itself. The Company posts on its website its outside directors’ activities (such as their committee participation, proposals, and voting results) every month. The BoD regularly handles sustainability management-related issues and strives to make decisions that reflect stakeholder interests in a balanced manner. 8 FY2010 Sustainability Report ● BoD Agenda Related to Sustainability Management Classfication Date Items 3rd 2008. 05. 20 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2007 4th 2008. 06. 04 Results of operation evaluation of FY2007 internal accounting controls 8th 2008. 10. 21 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the first half of 2008 FY2008 On the execution of financial crisis countermeasures 10th 2008. 12. 16 Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY2008 1st half On progress on the implementation of the fair trade compliance program 12th 2009. 03. 24 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2008 2nd 2009. 05. 19 Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY2008 5th 2009. 10. 27 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the first half of 2009 FY2009 On progress on the implementation of anti-money laundering measures On progress on the adoption of measures against conflict of interests 7th 2010. 03. 29 On progress on the implementation of the fair trade compliance program On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2009 2nd 2010. 05. 19 Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY2009 5th 2010. 10. 19 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the first half of 2010 FY2010 6th 2011. 01. 18 Completion report on HQ building remodeling project On progress on the implementation of anti-money laundering measures 7th 2011. 03. 29 On progress on the implementation of the fair trade compliance program On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2010 Board In order to enhance the efficiency of the decision-making process at Kyobo Life, the BoD delegates to Committees other committees all business-related functions except for those of itself. All committees have outside directors on board to maximize the efficiency and quality of their decision-making process. As an independent body consisting of two outside director and one inside director, the Audit Committee evaluates the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Company’s business activities and internal conAudit Committee trol systems. It plans, conducts, and evaluates the results of financial, compliance, operation, management, and IT audits as well as makes recommendations on ways to correct discrepancies, if any. Risk Management The Risk Management Committee sets up basic guidelines and major policies concerning risk management, confirms the Company’s business strategies based on the risk management policy, and reports to Committee the BoD risk analysis and monitoring results. The Management Committee establishes the Company’s midto long-term business strategies and Management plans, makes decisions on new business initiatives and on major asset liquidation or transfer matters, Committee evaluates the performance of directors and executive officers, and reports to the BoD the results of the actions it took in performing its duties. The Compensation Committee, with its outside directors outnumbering its executive directors, manages compensation and reward programs for executives independent of the management. The Committee Compensation also oversees the programs in link with the risks to which the Company is exposed, as it has Risk ManCommittee agement Committee officers on board. Meanwhile, the programs do not affect the financial integrity of the Company as they are established in accordance with the international guidelines set by the Financial Stability Board and the International Association of Insurance Supervisors. Outside Directors The Outside Directors Recommendation Committee searches for, evaluates, and nominates candidates for outside directors. To maintain a high degree of management transparency, the Committee makes Recommendation sure its nominees have no conflict of interest with the Company through a thorough investigation into Committee their professional and personal relations. Performance The Company’s top management and executive directors are entitled to compensation based on the Evaluation and evaluation results of their job performance. The ceilings on executive directors’ pay are set at the general Compensation shareholders’ meeting, and an additional performance-based pay is also made, subject to performance. Executive directors’ pays are published at the Company’s website. In the case of outside directors, an evaluation system is employed to maintain a high-quality management monitoring on the part of the directors. Compensation for the top management is calculated based on each unit’s year-end business performance against the annual goal set a year earlier. 9 10 FY2010 Sustainability Report Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is an action on its pledge to grow together with its stakeholders. 11 The Type of Sustainability Management That Kyobo Life Peruses Seeking Kyobo Life endeavors to become a “respected corporation” trusted and loved by all stakeholders, because Prosperity it believes that the pursuit of prosperity for all stakeholders is fundamental to its sustainable growth and Together development. This belief is synonymous with the sayings, “to help others is to help yourself,” and “do unto with All others as you would have them do unto you.” Kyobo Life endeavors to set examples through fair competition and, together with its stakeholders, Stakeholders pursues “win-win growth,” meaning stability-based growth and the creation of new markets by exceeding customer expectations with new products and services. This “win-win growth” will be the driving force that enables all stakeholders to sustainably prosper in unison. Vision Framework ● Core Purpose: Our mission is to help people not to despair with hardships in their lives ● Core Values Customer Centricity Customer Centricity We give the top priority to our customers. Honesty and Sincerity We are fully accountable and always endeavor to serve our customers in an honest and sincere manner. Challenge and Creativity Honesty and Challenge and We strive to accomplish challenging goals with a sense of Sincerity Creativity creativity to develop both the company and ourselves. ● Vision 2015: The company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services [No.1 Insurance Service Provider] Kyobo Life’s Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is an action on its pledge to grow together with all stakeholders. Sustainability Kyobo Life seeks to grow into a well-respected centennial corporation that enjoys win-win growth with its Management stakeholders by doing its best not only in financial performances but also in corporate citizenry. Sustainability Management Framework Based on its sustainability management philosophy that it should pursue prosperity together with all stakeholders, Kyobo Life has defined 10 procedural principles for fulfilling its pledges, and adopted 12 key performance indicators and 23 core tasks. ● Sustainability Management Framework Sustainability Management Philosophy To pursue prosperity together with all stakeholders Vision 2015 The company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services [No.1 Insurance Service Provider] Always give utmost Grow together with Continue to be an Progress together Serving priority to customer its financial planners attractive investment with the government service and employees to investors and the community Four pledges to Principles 10 procedural principles stakeholders KPI 12 KPIs Tasks 23 tasks 12 FY2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Roadmap Kyobo Life plans to continue strengthening its stakeholder-centered sustainability management measures. By practicing its sustainability management philosophy of pursuing prosperity together with all stakeholders, the Company will attain its vision of becoming a centennial corporation that is respected by all stakeholders. ● Sustainability Management Roadmap FY2010 ~FY2013 ~FY2015 Introduction Vitalization Stabilization • Introduce a sustainability • Launch sustainability management • Consolidate with the management management concept tasks by the unit system • The top management declares • Set up a comprehensive • Maximize business values through its will performance management system sustainability management • Form a sustainability management • Set up a contingency plan on main organization issues • Set up a sustainability • Strengthen inner or outer networks management framework • Set up “Best Practices” by the • Start action company-wide activity • Manage performance by the stakeholder Establishing a Sustainability Management Framework Kyobo Life has established a sustainability management framework with participation from various internal and external stakeholders. In order to establish this framework, the Company first studied stakeholder demands. Through this analysis, the Company was able to identify its strengths, weaknesses, risks, and opportunities. Through surveys, interviews, and other means of communication, the Company listened to what stakeholders wanted from Kyobo Life, and by making comparisons with global players and evaluations of GRI, ISO26000, DJSI and other global standards, the Company was able figure out its relative and absolute standings. Based on results from these analysis and evaluations, the Company has identified 320 economical, social, environmental, and sustainability management issues (see Page 19) and whittled the number down to 25 core issues by weighing the importance of these issues (see Page 19). The Company also formed pledges to be made to each of the four stakeholder groups, and defined ten procedural principles and 23 core tasks for fulfilling these pledges (see Page 15). ● The Process of Establishing a Sustainability Management Framework A top-down approach reflecting Analyze market requirements stakeholder opinions Such as macro environment, industry Stakeholders Form a sustainability Corporations of advanced nations management framework Define Global standards (GRI, DJSI, etc.) sustainability Define Define Make management sustainability pledges to tasks for management stakeholders implementing core issues the pledges A bottom-up approach based on Analyze resource capability the company-wide participation of staff and employees 13 Sustainability Management Organization In April 2010, Kyobo Life created, for the first time in Korea’s insurance industry, a sustainability management committee, a sustainability management support team, and a sustainability management working committee. The Sustainability Management Committee, comprising top executive officers, is the top decision-making body overseeing the sustainability management project, while the Sustainability Management Working Committee, made up of department heads, is the preliminary discussion body supporting the Sustainability Management Committee. The Sustainability Management Supporting Team executes decisions made by top management. ● Functions of Sustainability Management Bodies Performing body Functions Main Activities • Forms key policies on sustainability management planning and other related issues Expedites sustainability managementSustainability • Defines key initiatives related to sustainability management related decisions by deliberating on major Management Committee issues and setting forth clear opinions • Publishes sustainability management reports • Defines Kyobo People Code of Ethics and action guidelines • Prepares items for deliberation by the Sustainability Supports sustainability management Management Committee Sustainability decisions by following up on the Management Working opinions of the Sustainability • Handles sustainability management reactions from within Committee Management Committee and discussing and without other related issues • Promotes sustainability management • Supports the sustainability management control tower Sets up and executes sustainability • Promotes sustainability management awareness among staff Sustainability management framework and and employees Management Support process and publishes sustainability Team • Manages stakeholders’ engagement management reports • Sets up and promote an environmental system ● Performances of the Sustainability Management Committee in FY2010 Order Date Agenda 1st 2010.10.04 Reviewed third-party proposals on publication of a sustainability management report 2nd 2010.12.17 Reviewed an analysis of issues on sustainability management direction and task selection 3rd 2011.01.26 Reviewed sustainability management pursuit framework and report publication directions 4th 2011.03.08 Reviewed an interim report on sustainability management pursuit strategy project 5th 2011.03.16 Selected a cover title and contents for the sustainability management report 14 FY2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Performance Indicators Pledges Procedural Principles KPI FY2010 Results FutureTasks 1. We will always listen to our Kyobo Life will customers and manage the ·· Persistency rate ·· 81.3% company through their eyes. ·· Service innovation projects to retain policy always give (13th month) holders utmost priority ·· Customer ·· 74.3 points ·· Strengthen the management of customer to customer 2. We will continue to improve satisfaction index information security service. the quality of our service from ·· Customers retained ·· 4.4 million underwriting to payment. 3. We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence ·· Company and employees share a vision and and trust. grow together ·· Employee training ·· 109 hours ·· Set up ways to enhance financial planner Kyobo Life hour per head 4. We will provide all employees loyalty will grow ·· Financial planner ·· 74.9 points/with equal opportunities and ·· Share and maintain corporate culture together with & employee reward them based on fair ·· Create a pleasant workplace (health, safety, its Financial satisfaction index evaluations. sanitation, job atmosphere) Planners and ·· Financial planner ·· 41.1% ·· Improve fair performance evaluation employees. retention rate ·· Expand a job-based personnel system 5. We will enhance the expertise (13th month) ·· Organize a human rights system of our financial planners and ·· Strengthen retirement support programs employees. 6. We will continue to generate additional profits through ·· Manage performance by the stakeholder Kyobo Life will sustainable growth. ·· Return on equity ·· 15.1% ·· Set up HR risk management system (hiring, continue to be ·· Market share ·· 13.0% training, transfer, change of job) an attractive (Premium income) ·· Develop new growth power investment to 7. We will increase our corporate ·· RBC ratio ·· 222.6% ·· Strengthen work-based risk management investors. value with preemptive risk ·· Improve the brand value management skills. 8. We will be proactive in leading ·· Expand specialized community activities and participating in community ·· Revise the homepage from a stakeholder view service projects. ·· Carry out activity to expand sustainability Kyobo Life management awareness ·· Community support ·· 2.0% will progress 9. We will carry out conservation ·· Organize stakeholder engagement process rate(spending) (W12.7 bil.) together with activities in a manner that is ·· Establish environment management system ·· Socially responsible ·· 6.7% the government reflective of our business. ·· Set up and implement a med& long-term investment portion and the SRI plan ·· Energy usage ·· 19,333 TOE community. ·· Keep track of environmental data (CO2, 10. We will grow with our peers energy, etc.) through fair competition. ·· Establish sustainability management supply network (purchase, procurement, etc.) * Market share (Premium income) as of Feb. 2011 Sustainability Management Efforts Praised: “Korea’s Admired Corporation,” No. 1 in Insurance Business Kyobo Life was ranked No.1 by Fortune Korea in the insurance category in the journal’s “Korea’s 50 Respected Corporations” list. This reflects the high regard its stakeholders have for the Company’s continued efforts to achieve sustainability management and deliver the core values of life insurance to its customers. The Company’s industry leadership in sustainability management was further confirmed in November 2010 when it was selected as the best life insurance company at the prestigious 2010 Korea Sustainability Competition. 15 CommuniKyobo Life views constant communication with its stakeholders as vital to the practice of its sustainability management philosophy of growing together with stakeholders. As such, the Company makes efforts to hear cation with stakeholder opinions first hand and reflects them in its management. The Company took various steps to Stakeholders solicit stakeholders' opinions in the hopes of identifying major issues it should consider when setting up a sustainability management framework, and publishes a sustainability management report. Definition of Stakeholders are individuals or groups who influence or get influenced by the business activities of Stakeholders Kyobo Life. The Company has defined four major groups of stakeholders based on the influenceability, replaceability, and periodicity of groups. ● Definition of Stakeholders Financial Customers Planners & Employees Individuals or groups Groups of people who work who buy or may buy for or provide services on Kyobo Life products behalf of Kyobo Life in return for financial remuneration Investors Government & Community Individuals or groups who Entities that directly or indirectly invest capital in Kyobo Life affect Kyobo Life’s business activities, in pursuit of capital gain including regulatory bodies, competing companies, supporting companies, NGOs, the media, and related institutions. Stakeholder Kyobo Life contacted some 2,000 stakeholders through surveys, interviews, and group discussions, and Engagement analyzed media reports in order to set a direction for its stakeholders-based sustainability management plan. From such findings, the Company was able to measure the gap between the latest expectations of the stakeholders and what the Company had thought would be. ● How Stakeholders Are Engaged Stakeholders Who How many How Customers Policyholders 240 Financial planners 530 Surveys Financial Planners & Employees 1,089 Employees Executives (including CEO) 15 Interviews 60 Surveys Investors, related institutions, Investors, Government & NGOs 4 Group discussions Community Potential stakeholders α Media research 16 FY2010 Sustainability Report ● Stakeholder Survey To gauge stakeholders’ degree of understanding of the Company’s sustainability Aim management and to identify major related issues and future directions Period 2010. 11. 5 ~ 11. 19 No. of people surveyed 1,919 internal and external stakeholders Methods Email, mail and other means most suitable to stakeholders Category Purposes To gauge stakeholders' The will of top management understanding of the top management’s will To gauge the understanding The overall understanding of the growth of Kyobo’s of where sustainability sustainability management management is from economical, social, environmental points of view The level of Kyobo Life’s Current status, strengths, sustainability management shortcomings from an Survey economical point of view contents Current status, strengths, To collect data for setting up shortcomings from an social sustainability management point of view tasks Current status, strengths, shortcomings from an environment point of view To use at the time of setting Major issues related to Evaluation of importance sustainability management sustainability management directions To collect ideas on how to Sustainability management Ideas on sustainable growth implement sustainability directions management ● Group Discussion Aim To supplement the survey with more direct, in-depth opinions of stakeholders Date November 24, 2010 Place The Main Conference Hall at Kyobo Life’s Main Office Organizer The Sustainability Management Center of Korea Productivity Center Government, local community stakeholders – (Government) Kim Sang-yeon, Office of Planning & Coordination, Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission of Korea Participants – (Relevant Institution) Park Bae-Chul, General Planning, Korea Life Insurance Association – (Supporting business) Lee Gi-ho, Sungjun Advertising – (NGO) Lee Joon-suk, Korea Chapter of UN Global Compact Kyobo Life’s social responsibilities, risks to consider, community service activities that reflect Main topics the characteristics of insurance, customer satisfaction effort, conservation activity suitable for Kyobo Life 17 ● Interview with Executive Members Aim To build consensus among top executives on sustainability management pursuit Period 2010. 11. 4 ~ 12. 2 Interviewees 15, including the CEO Means One-to-one interview Sustainability management concept, defining stakeholders, governance and risk management, Main topics social contribution direction, compliance, labor relations, eco-friendly management activity ● Voices of Major Stakeholders (Summarized) Stakeholders Economical Social Environmental point of view point of view point of view · Keep service consistent · Carry out social service · Be more active in for the life of the policy. activities that include conservation even a wider range of though insurance · Address customer community members. does not affect the issues with a customerenvironment. first attitude. · Conduct more social activities in socially · Explore paper-saving Customers · Make systems marginalized areas. ways to do business customer-friendly. · Return more profits to · Create a unit that is the community. exclusively devoted to conservation. · Make more efforts · Create more growth · Kyobo Life as a whole to help FPs become opportunities and lacks in environmental professionals. fair evaluation & awareness. compensation systems. · Everyone at Kybo Life · Kyobo employees should be equal before · Expect more from should carry out FPs and customers, who come employees by helping conservation activities employees first—always. them improve small in concept. themselves. · Become an industry · Use eco-friendly PR role model by · Help community materials. highlighting Kyobo Life’s members improve uniqueness. themselves. · Maintain a transparent · Conduct community · Make more management and stable activities systematically. efforts to become profit performance that environmentally befit Kyobo’s reputation. · Reflect stakeholder responsible in link with voices in business it core business. Investors, · Develop products that management. government, are in sync with social · Seek synergy effects and environmental · Conduct social community by cooperating with trends. programs designed members model companies in to help needy people conservation. · Stay focused on become more keeping promises with economically secure. · Make more efforts customers. to use eco-friendly materials. 18 FY2010 Sustainability Report Importance The Company derived a total of 320 sub-issues through an analysis of stakeholders’ demands and gleaned Evaluation 25 core issues by sorting them out in terms of importance with regards to its sustainability management project. Kyobo Life’s pledges to the four stakeholder groups and 10 principles are based on the core issues. ● Process of Indentifying Core Issues Analyze Current Consolidate Issues Materiality Test Indentify Core issues Situation ·· Analyze the situation ·· Evaluate levels by issue ·· Gage the distribution of ·· Collect the opinions of stakeholders relevant departments. ·· Involve stakeholders ·· Combine overlapping or similar issues ·· Gage business ·· Benchmark advanced importance corporations ·· Gage exposure ·· Analyze global frequency standards 320 issues 134 issues 50 issues 25 issues ● Core Issues of Sustainability Management Improve it aggressively Strengthen it Keep it steady ·· Definition and awareness of stakeholders ·· Establishing a stakeholder communication system Sustainability management in general ·· Setting up a road map for sustainability management ·· Organizing sustainability management organization system ·· Proactive releasing of performance information ·· Continually creating economic values through management reform ·· Fair sharing of created values ·· Continuation of preemptive risk management Economic view ·· Decision making based on financial and non-financial points of view ·· Improvement of the brand value ·· Turning socially responsible investment into a legitimate business ·· Proactive response towards social issues ·· Proactive contribution to community development ·· Availability of opportunities for employees’ growth ·· Fair performance evaluation and compensation Societal view ·· Redefining the pride of financial planners ·· Performing as an equal society role model ·· Enhancing the customer satisfaction level ·· Establishing a system of direct communication with customers ·· Environmental initiatives ·· Establishing an environmental database ·· Exploring opportunities to create eco-friendly values Environmental view ·· Preparing for environmental regulations ·· Changing the awareness about environmental responsibility ·· Continue Green Investment 19 20 FY2010 Sustainability Report Customers and the Future Customers and the Future Kyobo Life will always give utmost priority to customer service. We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. 21 Kyobo Life will always give utmost priority to customer service. We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Three-year progress on the pledge Retention ratio* (13th month) Customer satisfaction index Customers retained 4,536 4,439 4,422 82.9 79.8 81.3 74.9 76.6 74.3 (Unit : %) (Unit : Point) (Unit : 1000) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Persistency ratio = (retention / new insurance premiums) × 100 Kyobo Life’s action plan for keeping the pledge A Issues facing stakeholders’ Kyobo Life’s Remedial steps efforts so far Kyobo Life to be taken voice “In the beginning, the · Practiced a comprehensive Some areas where · Develop service financial planner visited membership process Kyobo can continue to innovation projects to me very often. But once · Promoted needs-based improve include providing retain policyholders I took up an insurance multichannel strategies exceptional service that · Strengthen the policy, I didn’t hear exceeds the customers’ management of · Operated a “DA-Win much from him. I tended Service” program that expectations and improving customer information to forget the details of accumulates customer customer retention through security the insurance plan as service know-how better customer service and time passed by and I management. · Heightened customer wonder if I can receive satisfaction insurance later when I need it.” 22 FY2010 Sustainability Report We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. Kyobo Life Insurance considers customers as life-long partners, and conducts business from the customers’ perspective. Kyobo Life communicates with its customers, thoroughly protects the customers’ rights, and supports the customers’ success – all from the viewpoint of the customer. Protection of Customer Rights CCMS Kyobo Life operates a CCMS (Consumer Complaints ManMission & Task agement System) to deal with customer complaints, process damMission Task age compensation, and set clear guidelines for its employees. The CCMS reduces costs and enhances customer satisfaction by “Provide quick and · Manage and improve the CCMS accurate service · Establish measures to provide service recovery to preventing customer damage in advance and offering immediate dissatisfied customers and increase customer loyalty recovery to prevent redress once such harm occurs. As a result of these efforts, the policy terminations by · Establish a criteria and an internal process to handle customer complaints Company has been able to score high in a Financial Supervisory disgruntled customers and strengthen · Manage customer dissatisfaction related to insurance Service report that classifies financial companies in five categories and provide customer consultation prevention activities to by sector in terms of the number of customer complaints regisreduce reputation risk.” · Conduct monitoring of inter-department cooperation in the handling of customer dissatisfaction tered with the Service. · Recruit and educate customer service specialists CCMS Framework Consumer Corporation Security of Customer Information Protecting customer information is Perfect insurance policy the most basic responsibility of a financial institution. Kyobo Life has dev Produ g a specialized department for securing customer information. We have itin Consumer elo ct wr put our utmost efforts into securing customer information by applying der pm problem arises ent Consumer Un Consumer DRM and real-time e-mail firewall system. complaint Complaints & damage Management In 2010, we established the “Greenzone” system that completely e System Self-managed vic Ret blocks the external access of customers’ personal information. In adSer overy e ser ntion Rec vice dition, we are managing our customers’ assets and information more Insurance safely by establishing a “Kyobo Data Center” in Songdo, Incheon that claims boasts a world-class IT infrastructure. Beginning in 2011, a customer The Financial Supervisory Service’s gradings based on customer complaints information self-evaluation system will be adopted by each organiza2008 2009 2010 tional unit across the Company. Managers and Information Protection specialists in each team will be evaluated every quarter to ensure their Second Grade Second Grade Third Grade Grading compliance to laws and standards regarding customer information. (Satisfactory) (Satisfactory) (Average) * Third Grade in 2010 due to special circumstances including the discontinued use of credit card Feedback will be provided to address risk factors in advance. for paying insurance premium (no life insurers with First Grade) Regular education sessions on the protection of customer information will be provided at least twice a year to all financial planners and An Exclusive Organization for Customer Protection An exclusive oremployees who frequently access customer information. As a result ganization for customer protection called “Service Recovery Centof these efforts, there were no cases of customer dissatisfaction reer” exists within the Customer Service Support Team. Forty-two lated to violations in the protection of customer information or loss of “Service Recovery Specialists,” working in 7 regions in Korea, recustomer data during the past 3 years. spond to customers seeking help for their problems. With customEducation on customer information security er service experts offering quick solutions as well as consolation Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 to those who may feel helpless because their rights were violated, the Company is able toconvey to the customers that Kyobo Life is Ave. education hour per head hours 4 4 4 an exception rather than the norm when it comes to corporations Completion rate % 100 100 100 standing by their promise of customer care. ※ An additional 13 hours of online education conducted in FY2009 23 1 Kyobo Data Center (Songdo, Incheon) 2 Product development meeting 1 2 Product management process Product Development Management Strengthen customer information security in dealing Release of a new product Council (Review profit-loss analysis after product release) with business partners Trend analysis of new policyholders Marketing Council (Product modification/Sales suspension) Kyobo Life’s information security principle is based on its belief that “100 minus 1 does not equal 99 but rather 0.” Monitoring after the new Feedback We consider all the circumstances in providing complete product release information security. As a life insurance company, we send various announcements to our customers through our subRepricing (Profit-loss analysis) contractors, and there is a risk of customer information disclosure in the process. In order to prevent any information Providing Insurance Products That Create True Social Value Kyobo Life leakage, we have strengthened the protection of customer developed education insurance and acquired the ISO certification, information provided to these subcontractors. both a first in Korea, obtained the greatest number of exclusive Customer information is never provided to external parproduct licenses, and received various awards from the Financial ties without the customers’ consent. In the case where Supervisory Service and other major media organizations. These information disclosure is necessary, we only do so after achievements demonstrate Kyobo’s exceptional product developobtaining consent from the customers. Kyobo thoroughly ment ability. In addition, we strive to remain faithful to the basics of manages the protection of customer information by signing insurance and provide satisfactory products to our customers. This agreements and providing quarterly education sessions to is because customer satisfaction is directly related to increases in the relevant departments and subcontractors. In addition, to sales and profits, which in turn results in a perpetual circle – the prevent the possibility of information leakage in the process sustainable development of all stakeholders including customers, of providing customer information to supporting companies, financial planners, employees, and investors. Based on this princithe Company adopted a system in 2009 that automatically ple, Kyobo Life Insurance will continue to provide insurance proddeletes customer information after a certain period. ucts that create true social values. Product Development Donation insurance—the most beautiful insurance Developing Products that Customers Need In order to develop, sell, in the world and release products that are necessary from the customers’ perspective, Kyobo Life Insurance has established a product development procedure that fully reflects customer needs. In the whole process, from product development to management, the Company adheres to the Global Best Practice, thus helping its customers pursue a better tomorrow. Product development process Establish product development plan Risk Management Council (Modify provisions/Manage insurance risk, etc.) Research customer Marketing Council (Review needs & collect ideas of product contents) Customer value proposition Approval of product development Donation insurance is a product that entrusts the rights of Product design Product Development insurance contracts to civic groups, schools, or religious Management Council groups by designating the organization as the policyholder Pricing (Calculate the economic value of the product) and the beneficiary. Through this product, Kyobo promotes Product release the culture of giving and helps civic groups, schools, and Product Development Management Council (Review the validity of the religious groups expand their funding bases. product development) 24 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Customer contact with the top management 2 Customer panel discussion 1 2 Communication Diversifying Channels to Meet Customer Needs Kyobo Life is pursuCustomer Service Action Guidelines ing a customer needs-based multi-channel strategy to meet various customer needs. The Company’s channels include Financial Plan1 We will listen to customer opinions to the end. (No interrupners for regular customers, Financial Advisers for customers who tions with objections) need professional financial planning, Group Financial Planners for corporate clients, Agency Marketing for insurance agencies, and Bancassurance Advisers who provide consultation on pensions and 2 We will try to learn from our customers. (We will not attempt to lecture them.) bancassurance. In addition to these face-to-face channels, Kyobo utilizes the Internet and the phone as more convenient and direct channels. For its VIP customers, the Company has adopted a wealth manager system that offers a life-time asset management service. 3 We will always greet our customers with kindness and courtesy. (We will not raise our voices.) “Rapport” Program, Linking the Management with Customers The “Rapport (to establish familiar relationships based on mutual trust)” 4 We will verify information before informing customers. (We program provides management with an opportunity to meet cuswill not provide speculations or inaccurate information.) tomers and understand their demands and support on-site customer service activities. The purpose of this program is to build a coexistent relationship via continuous communication with cus5 We will use words that are easily understandable. (We will not tomers throughout their lives. In FY2010 20 customers met with use difﬁcult, technical terms.) top management. Customer Voice Collection System “The voice of Customer System” 6 We will put the solving of customer complaints before other duties. (We will not avoid dealing with customer complaints manages the entire process of receiving customer complaints or nor delay the dealing of such complaints.) requests, processing them and giving feedbacks. As soon as a customer complaint is received via any channel at Kyobo Life, it All customer complaints will be ﬁled through the customer is directed to this system and then the result of troubleshooting 7 voice collection system. (We will ﬁle all customer complaints (diagnosis and solutions) is quickly fed back to the relevant custominternally.) er. The system is designed to resolve all complaints and requests within a maximum of three days of receipt. The data obtained from Customer Panel System Kyobo Life operates a customer panel sys“the voice of customer system” is regularly provided to managetem online and offline to enhance the efficiency of its customerment so as to further improve customer satisfaction. In 2007, this related policies and systems and to find new marketing opportunisystem received the “Korea e-finance Award” for its excellence in ties. The system constantly receives opinions from 400 customers improving customer satisfaction. via e-mail and keeps abreast of what customers view as problems Flow chart of the Customer Voice Collection system and their suggested remedies by holding 20-customer panels on various subjects. Collect customer voices through various channels _ Consolidate internal channels FY2010 Customer Panel System operation Date held Agenda 2010. 07 Explored needs for financial apps based on smart-phones Process and analyze customer complains 2010. 08 Evaluated the feasibility of new types of child insurance 2010. 11 Surveyed customer opinions on Kyobo Life’s vision Share and make a management asset out of VOC _ Address the sources of customer complains Surveyed experiences of and reactions to the use of 2010. 12 smart-phone apps. 25 We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. For Kyobo Life Insurance, customer service is not limited to insurance sales. We believe that customer service entails taking actions that exceed customers’ expectations. By planning insurance schemes from the customers’ perspective, we will help the customers purchase appropriate products, stay in contact with customers to ensure customer protection, and provide a prompt payment upon the submission of a claim. Kyobo Life Insurance will continue to make every effort to fully incorporate these actions into its practices. Family Love Project The “Family Love Project” is a marketing strategy focusing on the Comprehensive sales of investment products When selling variable essence of life insurance, and it aims to help customers love and insurance or financial investment products, Kyobo Life takes into support their families more wisely. With a sense of duty, all of our consideration the customer’s age, financial condition, investment employees, including the financial planners, strive to fully underexperience, investment objectives, and other necessary informastand and sympathize with the true meaning of family love in order tion. The Company then recommends the product best suited to to achieve this goal. For instance, the deathbed experience allowed each customer. The Company also makes sure that its FPs follow the employees and financial planners to gain a firsthand experience rules and regulations protecting investors. in practicing family love, which is the core of what we offer to our customers. With these efforts, we strengthened our capabilities by moving away from the product-centered approach to a more familyoriented approach, thereby providing insurance schemes based on Marketing Communication for Customers securing the family life. 'Forever Customer Love' Campaign The “Forever Customer Love Campaign” that beProgress of portfolios to support retirement life and family life gan in 2010 aims to solidify relationships with existing policyholders and provides 78.1 78.8 them with a more systemic life-planning 75.6 service. The campaign focuses on estab46.0 45.6 53.5 lishing four major activities of the financial planners as their routine work, including informing customers of their insurance coverage, providing information about unclaimed payments, cleansing customer information, and analyzing the (Unit : %) protections and informing customers about various products and Retirement-oriented policies 29.6 32.5 25.3 services. By continuously carrying out this campaign, we plan to family life-oriented policies strengthen our customer retention rates. 2008 2009 2010 Providing Accurate Information on Insurance Products Kyobo Life abides by the following laws and regulations when advertise or promote our products: 「Insurance Business Act」 Article 95 (Regarding prodAbiding by the Comprehensive Subscription Process uct information and obligation to provide explanation), Article 95, The Comprehensive Subscription Process refers to the customer Provision 4 (Regarding product advertisements), 「Insurance Busiassistance mechanism that helps customers correctly perceive ness Act Enforcement Ordinance」 Article 42 (Requirements for inthe value of life insurance and buy products that meet their needs. formation materials and product explanation), Article 42, Provision Kyobo Life keeps its FPs fully knowledgeable about the process 4 (Regarding product advertisements), and 「Insurance Business so that they can recommend the right policy from the customers’ Supervision Code」 Chapters 4 and 5. By following the relevant laws point of view and be completely committed to customer interests and regulations, we protect the rights of financial institutions and throughout the policy life. customers and prevent unfair business practices such as unfairly attracting the competitor’s customers. 26 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Dasomi Friend 2 Mobile Service 1 2 Customer Support during a National DisasterKyobo Life manages a disaster-support system to enhance customer satisfaction by proAd Review System—Keeping information materials viding prompt support to internal and external customers in the accurate and easy to understand event of a national disaster. The determination of a national disaster is decided by the Emergency Measure Committee upon a request Kyobo Life Insurance focuses on promoting the concept of from the head of the committee. We have a quick and consistent “Insurance means family love” and the essential value of life program in place to assist the policyholders, loan borrowers, finaninsurance. In all the materials used to inform the customers cial planners, employees, and the devastated region according to including advertisements and letters of invitation, we take the level of the disaster. into account the customers’ perspectives. We highlight Support system in case of a national emergency and explain the areas that require special attention such as Internal clients External clients items excluded from the coverage or the detailed terms of coverage in order to prevent the customers from incurring · Disburse compensation · Suspend premium/interfunds for the death of est payment, loss in the future due to some misunderstanding. We also family member(s), · Extend due date of debt explain the complicated insurance or medical terminologies · Disburse compensaredemption, tion funds for physical Quickly implement a · Streamline payment in simpler terms to help customers understand them better. damages, disaster restoration procedure, system To keep all information materials accurate and easy to un· Disburse incentives to · Support communities support organizations derstand, the Company operates a system through which (HQ), – Provide medical products/necessities, Product Development, Product Support, PR, Legal Support, · Allow special leaves, – Operate restoration · Restore damaged teams, and other relevant departments review all customer-targetfacilities – Collect disaster relief ed marketing materials prior to their production. funds Ad Review Process Use product ads Dasomi Friends ‘Dasomi Friends’ is an external-use magazine pubReﬂect reviews lished by Kyobo Life, and the accumulated number of copies has Business departments Make checklist exceeded 50 million in 2010. First published in January 2001, Dasomake ads of ad review mi Friend entails the meaning of “A friend for those who share love” and has been provided to our customers for free for the last ten Ad review system Report review years. In addition to sections dedicated to customer participation, results Review by the responsible department Dasomi Friend contains various informative contents such as contributions from master artists, investment know-how, and health and Committee review items travel information Ad review board reviews Pre-authorization by the compliance ofﬁcer Compliance officer checks review application Other items for review Use product ads Various Distribution Means Kyobo Life offers diverse means of insurance payment to accommodate all customer circumstances. Advanced IT System to Increase Customer Convenience Kyobo Life Overseas Remittance has introduced an advanced IT system to provide efficient insurCyber Teller System Service through Visit Service ance consulting, planning, and regular insurance services tailored to customer needs through various channels including the ComARS Service Automatic Remittance Proxy Insurance Claim Service Service pany’s web site, call centers, bancassurance and direct contact. We employ IAA (Insurance Application Architecture), a specialized gloRemittance Reservation bal IT model for insurance companies, thus enhancing our producATM Service Client Consultant System Service tivity and competitiveness. Furthermore, through FP.com, a CRM system, financial planners provide customers with various and exMobile Service Catch Call Service Reservation Service to Receive Benefit act online product information and services. 27 28 FY2010 Sustainability Report Financial Planners & Financial planners & employees and the future Employees and the Future Kyobo Life will grow together with its financial planners and employees We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. 29 Kyobo Life will grow together with its financial planners and employees We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Three-year progress on the pledge Employee training Financial planner & Financial planner retention hour per head employee satisfaction index rate (13th month) 125 77.4 78.0 70.3 74.9 55.0 109 69.5 49.2 FP 41.1 98 Employee (Unit : hour) (Unit : Point) (Unit : %) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Employee satisfaction survey was not conducted in FY2010 due to internal circumstance. ** Financial planner retention rate = (Existing FPs / appointed FPs) × 100 Kyobo Life’s action plan for keeping the pledge A stakeholders’ Kyobo Life’s Issues facing Remedial steps voice efforts so far Kyobo Life to be taken “A corporate culture that · Provided fair · Sustainable growth · Company and employees appreciates financial opportunities requires highly competent share a vision and grow planners who are working · Nurtured female FPs and human resources. together the field is important. professionals · an rrganization culture · Set up ways to increase Constant effort and open to free discussions, financial planner loyalty · Improved on the meritsupport are needed to based system and the sharing innovative · Share and maintain a train beginners into ideas is essential. corporate culture experts.” –A financial · Operated a compliment planner corner · Create a pleasant workplace (health, safety, sanitation, job atmosphere) “Various opportunities for development and fair · Improve on the evaluation & reward are performance evaluation important elements for a · Expand a job-based motivating workplace.” – personnel system Executives & staffs · Organize a human rights system · Strengthen retirement support programs 30 FY2010 Sustainability Report We will maintain our corporate culture based on joy, confidence and trust. Through various communication channels, Kyobo Life builds trust with its financial planners and employees, and inspire them to be proud of being ‘Kyobo People’. In a pleasant corporate culture, employees recognize and implement their performance goals on their own. In addition, free communication builds a trusting relationship between the company and employees, which contributes to the establishment of a high-performance culture. Communication for Pride, Trust, and Excitement Building a Pleasant Work Environment In-house communication campaign Kyobo Job satisfaction Kyobo conducts an ESI (Employee Satisfaction Index) Life launched in 2010 an in-house commusurvey to gauge employees’ morale and, through a systematic reform nication campaign to build a closely-knitted across the board, seeks ways to better satisfy “inside customers”. teamwork among financial planners and Employee satisfaction level employees, with an eye towards improving employee performance. The motto of this campaign is ‘communicate, Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 excel, and succeed’, urging all Kyobo people succeed in their endeavors Overall satisfaction 69.5 70.3 through a dynamic teamwork based on communication and competenSatisfaction % cies. This campaign was launched off-line and online at the same time so Teal leader 74.1 76.1 that more people can participate in it. Major programs of the campaign * The survey was not carried out in FY2010 due to internal circumstances. include ‘Kyobo Sponge’, a company-wide on-line reply drive; ‘Happy communication’, delivering video messages; ‘Bibimbop Day’, a surprise field visit by executives; ‘Photo Exhibition’ celebrating 10th anniversary of vision declaration; and a charity concert. Benefits With various support measures in the areas of housing, leisure, family health, and stable livelihood, the Company strives Operating results to help employees perform their job duties to their best abilities. ·· A program of executive members visiting field employees In particular, a modern cafeteria, which is normally viewed in Korea to help them better understand company policies. ·· Four FP divisions in and around the Seoul area during July as an amenity of the advanced nations, has been built in the HQ Bibimbap Day and November building, thus allowing its employees and financial planners to enjoy ·· The visits are covered by in-house broadcast and newsletters. their time-offs to their individual desire. ·· A campaign to encourage employees to submit ideas on Benefit system how to promote teamwork and in-house communication Kyobo Sponge ·· Six times from August and November Housing support Living support Health, cultural support ·· Total No. of ideas submitted: 2,120 (353 in average per campaign) ·· Mortgage loan ·· National pension ·· Company retreats ·· A monthly video campaign to promote teamwork, Happy communication among employees and executive members, Communication ·· House leasing ·· Employment ·· Company sports meets ·· From July to December, six times a year insurance ·· Company housing ·· Life insurance coverage ·· Disability insurance for all employees Operating a “Compliment Corner” Kyobo Life operates a “Compliment ·· Rents Corner” where employees can give compliment points (flowers) ·· Health ·· Individual pension through the company intranet to those who deserve. Each quarter, ·· Scholarship management support employees with high points are invited to a ‘complimentary luncheon’ ·· National health ·· Family event support with the CEO. The number of employees invited to the luncheon since insurance 1999 reached 700 (as of March, 2011, including overlaps). The Company also promote the joy of sharing through donating compliment points accumulated during the year to social welfare organization at the end of every year. Operating the compliment corner boosts employees’ morale and induces participation and cooperation among business units, thereby spreading a sound and positive corporate culture. 31 1 Children’s Economics Camp 2 Club activities 1 2 Support for Financial Planners Kyobo Life operates a generous FP supClub Activities To promote friendships among employees and to port system, including various benefit and children education programs. foster a pleasant corporate culture, Kyobo supports various in-house club activities. In particular, the Company encourages its executives Benefit programs and team leaders to join at least one club, and promotes exchanges Rewards for among clubs by supporting the holdings of combined events of the long-serving Gifts in the equivalent of W200,000 to W500,000 to financial well-performing FPs with over five years at the job. clubs by region. At present, 30 clubs are active nationwide, and planners the Company supports with various fees involved in club activities. Liability · W100 million to 120 million for a work-related death insurance · W10 million to W100 million for a work-related injury support · Up to W10 million in medical expense Cash gifts for W100,000 to W200,000 for wedding involving planners family events or their children and on death of parents aged 70 and up. Certified as “Excellent Family-oriented Company” Funeral Funeral item support for the death of planners or their support family members As a way to actualize ‘the spirit and value of life insurance’, Kyobo Life has been promoting family-based projects since 2007, spreadChildren education support programs ing family feelings in the insurance industry. Child care W100,000 per month for one child of a planner on In recognition of these projects, the Company support commission with over 1 year in employment received a “Presidential Award for Excellent Family-oriented Company” in 2009 from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, Overseas and obtained the highest rating given to businesses active language Overseas language training for select children of training outstanding planners in the promotion of family values. The award and the rating attest to our leadership in the promotion of a family-friendly Children’s corporate culture. As Kyobo Life is a company whose job 3-day course on economics at the Company’s training Economics center for grade-school children of planners is to insure life, our family-oriented culture encourages our Camp employees to love their family and neighbors first. Our CEO’s business philosophy is to satisfy “outside customers” by satisfying “inside customers” first by fostering a Safe Workplace Kyobo Life provides health and medical supports to pleasant workplace. Kyobo Life will continue its proactive its employees and tries to make a pleasant workplace through joint efforts to spread family feelings. labor-management conferences and collective agreements. In adFamily-friendly recognitions dition, all employees take annual medical checkups and safety and 2008. 05. 19 2009. 11. 17 health courses on a regular basis, as well as enjoy health consult– Received a Presidential Award – Received an S rating, the ing services on the company Intranet. Furthermore, the Company for Excellent Family-oriented highest rating given to familyCompany friendly companies, from the strives to improve the medical and physical health of its employees Ministry of Health and Welfare and to strike a balance between work and life by continuously improving the working environment and upgrading in-house education programs. As a result, Kyobo Life has had no industrial accidents for the last 3 years. Support for Stable Retirement The Company pays 50% of national pension premiums and a portion of individual pension premiums for its employees to enjoy their stable retirement. In addition, in accordance with the pension laws, the Company puts aside a sum worth a one-month of employee salary every year with a third-party financial institution and provides the accumulated sum either in a lump sum or in a monthly annuity upon employees’ retirement. The pension system consists of defined benefit (DB) and defined contribution (DC). 32 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Experiencing of Overseas Advanced Cultures 2 Joining of UN Global Compact 1 2 Labor-Management Relations for Coexistence program with the labor union to seek cooperation between the two To achieve its business goals, the Company expands communicasides and help employees develop a global mindset. tion between labor and the management based on the fact that No. of employees participated in overseas cultural experience programs labor and management relations thrive on coexistence and coopClassification Unit 2008 2009 2010 eration and that they contribute to sustainable development, as well as employment stability and happiness. Also, the two parties Participants Person 567 610 build confidence as a business partner with respect and informa* 1,390 employees and their family participated in the programs during FY2010. tion exchange on major business issues. The Company established an employee stock ownership association in 2007. Channels for Open Discussion between Labor and Management Kyobo Life views labor unions as business partners and accordingly purEfforts for Human Rights sues labor relations that are mutually beneficial. The Kyobo Life laKybo Life explores various ways to help employees maintain dignity bor union consists of 3,021 employees, or 74.2% of the workforce. at their jobs and to guarantee their labor rights. Also, the Company The labor-management conference holds meetings and discustakes the lead in developing a pleasant working environment and sions every quarter to actively solve major issues like employment, in protecting human rights by educating them on human rights and safety and salaries, as well as annual wage bargaining and colleccreating a grievance redressal system. tive bargaining every two years. The management cooperates with the labor union and collects opinions when the Company introducHuman Rights Policy Kyobo Life supports the protection of internaes or changes systems related to working environment and reflects tionally human rights for workers as a member of the UN Global them in business operations. In addition, the Company cooperates Compact, which it joined in September, 2010. The Company is doing with the union by collecting opinions on major issues and inviting its best to maintain its respect for human dignity. The Company is union leaders to meetings. planning to reinforce its policy gradually so that human rights are also considered in future selection/administration of investment agreeAgreements and matters for labor-management conference in FY2010 ments or suppliers. · Improving productivity and distributing profits · Employing, dispatching and training employees Operation of an Employee Grievance Office The Company runs a cyber · Grievance addressing process grievance office on the company intranet. This system is available · Improving safety, health and other working environments to employees who developed grievances while at work and difficulAgreements for the employees ties owing to personal issues. The result is reported within 10 days · Improving HR and labor management after the requisition. The Company operates the system effectively · Improving wage payment, system and procedure by strictly ensuring confidentiality and impartiality in the personnel · Improving employee welfare affairs of the requester. · Other issues on labor-management Prevention of Sexual Harassment in the Office The Company operates · Establishing training and development plans for employees a counseling channel through the company intranet, which is used Matters · Establishing and managing welfare facilities for reporting office sexual harassment, in order to foster a pleasant deliberated · Implementing company welfare fund work environment through mutual trust. Moreover, a sexual harass· Items not resolved by the grievance committee ment prevention education is implemented at least once a year for · Establishing other labor-management committees all executives and staff members. As a result, no case has occurred for the last three years such as discrimination in the office or human Labor-management Cultural Activities and Overseas Training Programs rights violation. The company recognizes the labor union as a partner for sustainable development and takes efforts to build cooperative relations for Ban on Forced Labor or Child Labor Kyobo Life prohibits labor emcoexistence. It organizes and supports visits to model businesses ployment of youths aged 15 and below and enforces limitations on overseas and labor-management workshops every year, and this the employment of teenagers aged 18 and under. The Company also paves the road to improving pride and confidence among the embans the improper restriction of physical freedom and forced labor ployees. In addition, the Company runs an overseas cultural tour against the worker’s will. Intermediary exploitation is also opposed. 33 We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. Kyobo Life provides equal opportunities to all executives and employees and thoroughly bans discrimination of any forms or shapes in the office. All executives and employees get fair rewards on the basis of their performance, which leads to an environment in which financial planners and employee devote themselves to their jobs. Respect for the Diversity of Executives and Employees competencies. Posting jobs within the office also secures fairness Kyobo Life pays close attention to the diverse needs of all execuand transparency in the personnel process, increases efficiencies tives and employees by respecting their diversity and managing the in the allocation of human resources, and motivates employees to personnel system in a fair manner. strive for their dream jobs. Current state of in-house job posting Current Executives & Employees Status As of the end of FY2010, Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 the number of employees is 4,377, comprised of 2,504 males and Cases Times 18 27 21 1,873 females. The average employment length of a full-time emNo. of jobs Person 52 79 80 ployee is 12 years and six months (14 years and 4 months for males and 9 years and three months for females), and the retirement rate is 3.5%. There is no gender difference in the basic pay, and, the Employing the Physically Challenged To help all human beings prepare average salary of new employees with college degree as of 2009 is for hardships they might face in the future, which is its mission, Ky330% of the minimum salary enforced by the law. obo Life has been proactively hiring the physically handicapped. To Employee status help sustain their dreams and courage, the Company provides jobs to anyone, regardless of the degree of disability, who has a desire Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 to work and an ability to perform the required task. Total employees Person 4,245 4,309 4,377 FY2010 Handicapped employment Staff members (manager & up) Person 1,353 1,433 1,535 52 Call-center consultants 21 Rank and file Person 3,892 2,876 2,842 Health therapists 5 Female employees Person 1,684 1,799 1,873 IT 3 % of female staff members % 5.0 5.0 5.6 Clerks 23 Retirement rate % 4.0 3.7 3.5 Employees hired Person 336 248 325 Recruiting from Local Community Kyobo Life seeks to develop together with its local community, and is trying to perform its social Fair Job Opportunities and Discrimination Ban In recruitment, the role and responsibilities as a leading insurance company that conCompany provides job opportunities regardless of gender, age, tributes to the local community. The Company actively seeks to seacademic backgrounds, or the place of birth. In accordance with cure future growth engines and contribute to the government’s job the ILO’s Convention Concerning Discrimination in Respect to Emcreation policy, by hiring new recruits including clerks every year. In ployment and Occupation, the Company respects the personality particular, the Company was given a high mark for its recruitment of every executive or staff member, and bans discrimination. All of Daegu Call Center operators, which created jobs to female workexecutives and employees are not discriminated based on their ers in the Daegu area. These newly-created jobs have fueled the gender, religion, race, age, etc, in the process of their employment, growth of the local economy as well as instilled a strong sense of promotion, reward, education, and retirement. Every employee social and economical participation among the hired. fully enjoys fair opportunities based on his/her own capability. Recruiting from local community Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Total In-house Job Posting Kyobo Life practices an in-house job posting Regular 162 31 102 295 system to provide its employees opportunities to pursue the jobs of Clerical Person 11 1 61 73 their choice. Its personnel system is based on merit and ability, and Total 173 32 163 368 provides its employees with incentives to develop their careers and 34 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Children of outstanding financial planners to study languages abroad 2 Customer Satisfaction Hall of Fame 1 2 Support for Outstanding Financial Planners Fair Performance Evaluation and Rewards Kyobo Life builds a high-performance culture by rewarding excellent Kyobo Life has established a field-oriented culture of ‘HPWS’ (High financial planners in various ways. Performance Work System), which provides employees with a clear Support for outstanding financial planners view of their vision, performance responsibilities, and performance goal. ‘HPWS’ can create performance and can also maintain high Opportunities for children of A program for children of outstanding FPs to study satisfaction among employees since fair performance evaluation and outstanding financial English in Canada or New Zealand for three weeks rewards motivate employees to dedicate themselves to their jobs. planners to study during the summer vacation. languages abroad Competency Performance Evaluation System Kyobo Life practices An annual Award ceremony is held for financial planpersonnel management based on a system that evaluates employCustomer ners who delivered outstanding customer satisfacSatisfaction Award ees’ competency performance. The competency performance of tion. Award winners are given travel expenses to atfinancial planners tend the Million Dollar Round Table overseas. executives and employees are managed systematically so that executives & staffs are motivated to develop their competencies and As a recipient of the grand prize for customer satisto accomplish their goals. Moreover, transparent and fair evaluafaction management 5 year in a row, and an inductee of Korea's CS management hall of fame (November, tion of competency performance are utilized in reward distribution, 2004), the Company established a symbolic space in Customer promotion, and training. In addition, as it is difficult to evaluate the the first floor of the HQ building in August 2005, as Satisfaction Hall of a way to thank its financial planners and executives performance of clerical workers due to their nature of work, the Fame & staffs who endeavored to make it possible. Finangrading and rate distribution of the evaluation are adjusted to make cial planners who delivered customer satisfaction the most are selected according to strict standards and the evaluation results more fair and objective for clerical workers are honored in this space. to accept. A club for exemplary financial planners of Kyobo Life Evaluation System The reward system for executives & staffs is dipracticing the FP-ship. This club contributes to building a sound culture of high class behavior as leaders. vided into groups of office staffs, technical staffs and general staffs. Leaders Prime Club for financial planners All financial planners who contribute greatly to the Reward on general staffs is separately managed per individual acCompany are treated with the highest level of courtesy, which boosts their loyalty to the Company as cording to evaluation of competency performance, which motivates they feel well appreciated. the employees to develop their competencies and to create performance all by themselves. The system works as follows: There is a standard amount based on individual’s competency, but the amount of payment is different according to the level of performance evaluation. In addition, there is an extra pay for sundry allowance, lunch, overtime work, extended hours, night duty, holiday work, etc. Honorary executive system for outstanding FPs Performance evaluation review process Kyobo Life runs an honorary executive system for outstande-Mail to Reviewed by Review File objections Personnel Personnel results ing FPs to help boost their job morale. By assigning the “FP Affairs Affairs returned Honorary Executive Member” to FPs who complement the core purpose and value and contribute to the vision of Kyobo Life, the Company seeks to create the ideal image of Compensation System Kyobo Life uses different criteria in compenoutstanding FPs and institute a culture of high performance. sating its regular, clerical, technical employees. Regular employees Candidates for FP Honorary Members are rigorously vetted are compensated based on their competency performance evaluain terms of performance and efficiency, job history, and job tion results as a way to motivate them to perform better. Bonus is aptitude. Once selected, FP Honorary Members are given paid based on performance evaluation results and within individual official plaques, name plates, business cards, business limits: there are five pay levels for regular employees and three levexpense accounts, self-development programs, and invitaels for clerks and technicians in consideration of their work nature. tions to major company events as VIPs. As of 2011, there Besides bonus, meal allowances, over-time and extra hour work are five FPs with the FP Honorary Member title. pays, and other special allowances are paid. 35 We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Kyobo Life operates various competency development systems so that its financial planners and executives & staffs become experts at their jobs. The Company will continue its utmost efforts to produce best experts possessing professionalism and ethics who are recognized by customers and markets. Development Systems for Financial Planners Basic direction of competency development Kyobo Life supports the development of its financial planners through Strong organization competency for operating various competency development systems, which create Goal implementing management policies an workplace where financial planners want to work the most. The Company helps its financial planners turn into experienced experts Basic job Management/ Main job Direction leadership & through a direct nurture system. ITs sales supporting system can be competency fellowship competency utilized everywhere conveniently and it provides an optimal service geared to customers. Its nurture system for financial planners and Foster Foster Foster support for education help its financial planners learn from the basics What Train by special core global class talent talent talent to professional courses, so that they turn into experts in finance. Educational Programs for FPs It is very important for new FPs to have a systematic and well-balanced education program in order to become successful FPs. As such, Kybo Life runs an systematic OnAction Offlearning, Knowledge SelfHow the-job the-job education system that offers new employees different programs training Community management development training of practice according to their employment duration. In addition, the Company offers tax account and other related courses designed to help new employees become financial specialists, including FPs, AFPKs (Associate Financial Planner Korea), fund investment consultants, and Competency Development Methods Based on the principle of selfvariable insurance planners. development, learning while working and working while learning, Courses for new FPs the Company support the performance creation of the organization 1st month 2nd month 3rd month through various competency development methods including action FP basis course FP basic course Mobile lifetime learning, team learning, self-development, and off-the-job training, as (theory) (practice) coverage analysis well as through a close connection with knowledge management. 4th month 6th month 8th month Competency development methods Skill-up course Kyobo-People course Retirement planning Action learning, course On-the-job training Community of practice 11th month 13th month Training via unit work on the everyday job A study method to solve issues or study Financial planning Challenger Leader · Coaching & feedback common interest through group study course Course · Book-reading discussion by unit among team members · On-boarding program · Action learning · Mentoring · Community of practice · Socio-drama/book-reading leader CoP Knowledge-based Management Helping Executives & Employees Develop Stronger Self-development Off-the-job training Competencies With the aim of reinforcing the organization competency as a way A study method for team members to A method of studying to gain common develop competencies to improve their knowledge and skills for job performance to achieve its business policies, the basic direction for competency performance at places other than the workplace development consists of three ways: Reinforcement of basic job · Mobile learning · In-house training · Job-related qualification acquisition · Third-party training competency, reinforcement of management/leadership competen· Online education cy & fellowship, and reinforcement of main job competency. · Reading-based learning 36 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Study Groups 2 Gaesungwon (Training Institute) 1 2 Support System for Self-Paced Competency Development Kyobo Life avails various means for executives and employees to develop their competencies on their own in a systemic manner. Every business Fun learning, Socio-drama year, all the members of its organizations plan for their individual learning schedule under the supervision of the chief of each organizaSocio-drama is a role tion. The system proceeds in the manner of feedback which the chief play to explore inner provides on the result of the implementation of the above-mentioned feelings on social islearning schedule. sues occurring withStudy programs to help develop employee competencies in a group. Kyobo's Establish a study plan Training Training feedback Using annual study group on Socio[Plan] [Do] [See] training progress · Establish a career · Take training · Coaching/ · Annual feedback drama re-enacts culdevelopment plan · Establish a study courses in accordance with counseling with leaders from team leaders · Reflect study tural conflicts and corplan the company · Study feedback performance education · Member feedback evaluation results responding solutions · Do self-paced study within the office via role plays, of which purpose is to induce be· Apply the results havioral changes through learning from indirect experiences. Human resources development support As of 2010, 12 study clubs participated in socio-drama Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 and the top three study clubs made their final presentations All 125 98 109 from which the best study club was selected. The winner Executives 44 92 45 team won an award and one million won of cash. Managers 91 111 74 Rank & file Hour 129 99 125 Female 119 124 85 The disabled 85 120 64 Knowledge Exchange Kyobo Life operates a knowledge exchange on its Non-regular 130 85 62 intranet as a way to encourage the sharing of work-based knowledge among employees and promote the practice of knowledge-based Study Groups—Study Together to Grow Together Kyobo Life estabmanagement. To spur knowledge exchange, the Company has a team lishes a team learning culture by vitalizing ‘study club’ activities of area experts to evaluate submitted information in terms of usability in order to enhance performance at every organizational unit. The and creativity and awards the contributors with cash rewards. study group, promoted since 2010, satisfies the needs of executives & staffs on competency development by studying and sharing Gaesungwon—the Cradle of HR Development The name of Gaesungknowledge involving enhancement or creation of performance in won, the training institute of Kyobo Life, literally means obtaining the business field. Study groups are divided into three types: probwide perspectives by oneself and having a fresh mind from the lem solving, research/capacity building, and socio-drama. deep down, and this is a proper name for the cradle of new talents Study group types who are the foundation of our business. The five rules of this instiResearch/Capacitytution are ‘eat well, rest well, sleep well, play well and understand Classification Problem-solving CoP Socio-drama building CoP well’, which are ordinary but unique, and the aim of those rules is · Maximizing problem· Improving working · Improving solving capacities efficiency by sharing communication to minimize the inconvenience of the trainees but to maximize the for organizations know-how and through mutual (members) expertise understanding education results. Goal among organizational · Increasing working concentration · Upgrading capacities related to works tiers Respect for human dignity, the foundation of the business phithrough active participation in the and vertical and horizontal · Nurturing active environment and losophy of Kyobo Life, is shown everywhere in Gaesungwon. For organization communication organizations example, the tableware for trainee is high quality brass tableware Composition Teams with 4 to 8 members 1 team by department made by Lee Bong Joo, a master who is recognized as human cul· Common interests tural asset of Korea. Another example is the bedding for trainee that Urgent tasks for related to work · Subjects for active is made of non-chemical materials only. Selecting organizations with high · Subjects related to organizations subject performances building capacities (Bottom Up) Moreover, the Company has high-level educational program S/W (Top Down) including certification (Bottom Up) that reinforces professional competencies, including problem-solv· Exchanging expertise Various activities for Making and applying and research playing dramas ing education and leadership training, and this program enabled us various solutions activities (Selecting themes, Performance through ideas and · Sharing materials brainstorming for to win ‘Korea HRD (human resource development) award’ on Febbenchmarking for among members and ideas, writing scripts, feedback learning activities practice, etc) ruary 2009, organized by the Korea HRD association. 37 38 FY2010 Sustainability Report Investors and the Future Kyobo Life will continue to Investors and the future be an attractive investment to investors. We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. 39 Kyobo Life will continue to be an attractive investment to investors. We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Three-year progress on the pledge Return on equity Market share (insurance sales) RBC ratio 15.6 222.6 11.0 15.1 13.4 13.0 13.0 215.4 (Unit : %) (Unit : %) (Unit : %) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Return on equity(ROE) = Net profit / {(net worth at outset of year+ net worth at year-end)/2} × 100 ** Market share (premium income) for 2010 is as of the end of February, 2011 *** Risk Based Capital(RBC) ratio = Solvency Margin / RBC Total Risk × 100 Kyobo Life’s action plan for keeping the pledge A Kyobo Life’s Issues facing Remedial steps stakeholders’ efforts so far Kyobo Life to be taken voice “We want Kyobo Life · FY2010 total ROA: In addition to steady gains · Manage performance by to be as transparent in 1.14%, through thorough risk the stakeholder its management as its · ROE:15.1%, a premanagement, preparation · Set up HR risk reputation as industry financial crisis level is required for possible management system leader and to continue changes in the structure · An A2 rating from · Develop new growth its steady growth” Moody’s in the last of the insurance industry engine three years so that Kyobo Life can continue to dominate the · Strengthen work-based industry in the future risk management · Improve the brand value 40 FY2010 Sustainability Report We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. In FY2008, when business environment deteriorated rapidly owing to the global financial crisis, Kyobo Life achieved the highest profit in the industry by responding to exterior changes properly. In the following FY2009, the Company earned the highest profit in its history, and in FY2010, the net profit reached KRW638.9 billion, exceeding the performance of the year before. Kyobo Life will continue its outstanding profitability by focusing on clients and profits, as well as systematic risk management. Growth Potential In FY2010, Kyobo Life recorded KRW58 trillion in total assets, Profitability indicators KRW4.6 trillion in total shareholders' equity, KRW10.8 trillion in ROA ROE premium income, and KRW638.9 billion in net income. The Com1.14 15.6 15.1 1.01 11.0 pany maintains the industry's leading position in terms of size and 0.61 (unit : %) (unit : %) shows steady growth. In FY2010, total assets and shareholders' equity grew 6.9% and 19.0%, respectively, while premium income and net income rose 7.7% and 21.7%, respectively. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Growth indicators * ROA = Net income/{(Beginning assets+ Ending assets)/2} × 100 Total assets 2008 50.0 2009 54.1 2010 57.9 Stability (unit : trillion) Through thorough risk management and stable investment activiTotal shareholders' equity ties, Kyobo Life has been enhancing its asset quality and capital 2008 2.9 adequacy. 2009 3.9 Non-performing assets ratio, a measure of asset quality, is 0.15% 2010 4.6 as of FY2010, which is the lowest in the industry. (unit : trillion) SMR (Solvency Margin Ratio), a capital adequacy standard, is Total premium income 224.7% as of FY2010, which is far above the regulatory minimum 2008 9.9 of 100%. It means that the Company has sufficient buffer to absorb 2009 10.0 any possible losses and has secured stability in its management. Thanks to a rise in retained earnings followed by continuous profit 2010 10.8 (unit : trillion) and an increase of estimated profit owing to the stabilization of the financial market in FY2009, SMR was up by almost 48.6%p over Net income the previous year. In FY2010, due to a full redemption of subordi2008 291.6 nated bonds issued by the Company and the effect of a shrinking 2009 525.2 re-insurance, SMR was down by 37.0%p over the past year. 2010 638.9 Meanwhile, RBC(Risk Based Capital) ratio, which replaces SMR (unit : billion) completely from FY2011, is 222.6%, up by 7.2%p from FY2009. Capital adequacy indicators Non-performing Solvency margin ratio RBC ratio assets ratio 222.6 Profitability 261.7 224.7 215.4 0.19 0.15 Affected by a financial crisis-trigerred global downturn, the over0.13 213.1 all profitability of financial business slowed down recently. Even in (unit : %) (unit : %) (unit : %) this market condition, Kyobo Life recovered its financial strength to its pre-crisis level, recording ROA of 1.14% and ROE of 15.1% in FY2010. 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 41 1 Invitation-only Asset Management Seminar for VIP Customers 2 Retirement Pension Briefing 1 2 Credit ratings Even facing difficult market circumstances, Kyobo Life obtained a high credit rating from Korean and global credit-rating agencies on the basis of its stabilized financial structure and sales 2009 Asia’s Life Insurance Company of base. The Company is the first and only Korean life insurance comthe Year pany to earn an A2 from Moody’s for the three years in a row. In addition, the Company enjoys a AAA, the highest rating, from NICE Kyobo Life won the “2009 Life InsurInvestors Service. ance Company of the Year” award at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards, a first Credit ratings for a Korean insurance company to do so. This award is given by a panel of 24 2008 2009 2010 global insurance and management experts to a life insurance company with excellent track records in financial health, risk Moody’s A2 A2 A2 management, and customer satisfaction. With this prestigious award the Company has joined the rank of such premier insurNICE Investors Service AAA AAA AAA ance institutions as Prudential (2000) and ING (2003). The award was in recognition of the Company's industry-best net profit performance, rock-solid solvency margin ratio, and outstanding customer service. In particular, the Company's continued focus on customer-oriented quality growth and successful response Marketing Results to the global financial crisis were highly rated by the panel. Strengthening the Marketing Strategy Targeting Prime Customers Targeting best customers means providing values to customers more than they expect throughout the course of subscription, maintenance, and payment, which can result in a stronger customer loyalty. As an action plan, Kyobo Life strengthened marketing activities, focusing on metropolitan areas and major cities where the uppermiddle class (best customers) and high net-worth customers are concentrated as well as on offices and organizations where corporate bodies joined in retirement pension. In addition, the Company improved the working process of MOT(moment of truth marketing) to be client-oriented, and transformed the staffs in sales and service into multi-taskers. Reinforcing the Pension Marketing Strategy Kyobo Life provides products and services fit for customers’ needs so that they prepare happy and affluent lives in their old age. In order to operate customers’ valuable asset reasonably, the Company uses a pool of 133 prodManagement Innovations to Create Sustainable Ecoucts for customers to select the best product; the pool includes the nomic Values products from other financial organizations as well as those from SSP for a High-Performance Culture SSP is a change-managing proKyobo Life. Moreover, throughout the policy life, the Company program designed to help sales performance managers and financial vide various services such as planning for the old age, life planning, planners to succeed at their jobs by standardizing various outstandmanaging assets or pensions, and checking the current status of ing cases of branch management so that field offices can study and pensions, through channels of customer choice. learn from the cases. The SSP(Sales Stimulation Program) was imAs a result of the strengthening of marketing activities on replemented to establish a culture of high performance, where sales tirement pensions, the Company leads DC (Defined Contribution) performance managers and financial planners know their tasks (viretirement pension business among 55 companies including major sion, strategy, responsibility for the performance, performance goal, Korean companies and global companies. Kyobo Life will continue etc). With the SSP implemented, a new corporate culture has been to provide high quality service to enhance customers’ satisfaction established for high performance; for example, financial planners folwhich leads to a win-win situation for all. low the activity process and enhance their competencies for customer service. 42 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 SSP Orientation 2 6Sigma Excellence 1 2 SSP aim and strategy Sharing Economic Values with Stakeholders Kyobo Life grows with its partners by distributing its insurance preTo foster a high-performance culture Aim mium and investment returns to its customers, financial planner & It allows individual employee to be aware of what they each have to do and to indulge in them employees, investors, and the government and community. In FY2010, the Company recorded total revenues of KRW14.3 trillion, and of the total, distributed KRW11.8 trillion in insurance payment, Set up branch action system KRW595.2 billion in FP commission and training expense, KRW378.3 · Goal management system billion in wage and benefit, KRW61.5 billion in dividend, and KRW560 · Morning education management system billion in central and local government tax and donations. (sales meeting) Distributing economic values by stakeholder (unit : billion won) · Weekly action system · Study group management system Strengthen competencies to promote each process Strategy · Lifetime planning process (3 core themes) · Recruiting process Total revenue · Customer retention service KRW14.3 trillion Promote an interdependent win-win culture · Foster a pro-FP culture · Promote debating · Rational leadership · Coaching culture Customers Financial planners Employees 11,812.0 595.2 378.3 6Sigma Activities Kyobo Life has been promoting the six sigma project since 2005. Six Sigma is a program which raises productivity by innovating the ways of working and by fostering talented people, and it also enhances the corporate culture. Insurance benefits Commissions and Wages and As of 2010 the Company has carried out a total 230 projects in 13 payment, reserve training expenses, etc benefits, etc provision, etc waves, cut KRW12.1 billion in expenses, and saved around W91.6 billion in opportunity cost. In fostering talented people, the Company have fostered total 151 talents, including15 Green Belt certiInvestors Government & Other expenses fied CEO and executives, 14 Master Black Belt, 50 Black Belt, and community 72 Black Belt candidates. In August 2009, the Company presented its exemplary case at the ‘2009 Asian 6Sigma Summit’ in Singapore. Its excellence was 61.5 560.0 935.0 recognized in ‘6Sigma Excellence Awards’ and the Company ranked No.2 overall in the innovation sector. Some 40 domestic companies have been Kyobo Life to benchmark. With Wave 14 started in December 2010, the Company is extendDividends Tax, donations, etc Profit and other expenses ing out Sigma activities from the HQ to the sales field, optimizing the marketing process of MOT, and fostering problem-solving experts. From now on, the Company will promote Six Sigma based on TRIZ (theory of inventive problem solving) and plan to foster more than 150 additional Belt-certified people by 2013. 43 We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Kyobo Life practices preemptive risk management to minimize losses caused by sudden developments in the financial market, such as global financial crisis. Pursuing sustainable growth in the future, the Company will step forward from the previous risk management system to an inclusive risk management to cover personnel and work-based risks. Risk Management Goals Risk Management Committee It is comprised of one executive director Maximizing the corporate value The Company implements an ALM and two outside directors, authorized by the Board of Directors. Imporpolicy to maximize the corporate value in the long run by building tant issues are deliberated, such as risk management policies in accord an optimized financial structure. The Company continues to build with business strategies, major business strategy based on risks, risk corresponding system and infrastructure so that risk management limit, etc. can operate smoothly company-wide. For example, the Company includes non-financial risks company-wide, such as risks from stratRisk Management Council The Council is designed to discuss prior to the egy, reputation, and operation, into subjects of the management voting issues of Risk Management Committee and subjects concernand practice self-diagnosis on risks regularly per business sectors ing risk management. It discusses actions concerning the issues of risk management committee in detail, risk tolerence, as well as reasons & Management Stability In order to safeguard financial fundamentals countermeasures of the (expected) excess of that limit. such as a risk-weighted capital ratio even if its business risks become reality, the Company sets limits on the risks the Company Working-level Risk Management Units Risk management working-level can face and make sure that the risks are within the limits through units supports the Risk Management Committee and Risk Manageconstant risk monitoring. ment Council, and depending on the role, the units are divided into company-wide risk management and individual risk management. The Risk Management Team implements the “Plan-see” function independently from sales department (including nonfinancial risk Risk management organization (as of April 1, 2011) management) on company-wide risk management policy & planning, corresponding regulation & detailed rules, and risk limit plan. The Individual Risk Management Team performs the ‘Do’ function BOD on risk management. Risk management decision-making & ultimate responsibility Risk Mgt. Committee Risk Mgt. Council Management Council Risk Management Policy and Process Risk Recognition Kyobo Life views as important risks market, credit, interest rate, insurance, liquidity, guaranteed minimum in variable Risk Mgt. Team insurance, strategy, reputation, as well as operational risks, and Treasury Risk & ALM comprehensive Team they are grouped as financial risks and non-financial risks (strategy, management reputation, and operational risks). Risk Measurement and Assessment Kyobo Life employs the VaR (ValMinimum ue at risk) method to measure market, credit, interest rate, and opOperation Types of risk Market risk Credit risk Interest rate/ liquidity risk Insurance risk guarantee risk of variable risk ALM eration risk, and the CTE (Conditional Tail Expectation) methodology products to asses variable insurance guaranteed minimum risks. Asset Insurance Guarantee Risk Controls Appropriate level of risk limit is set for evading, acceptPreliminary Investment Portfolio Treasury Risk risk Individual risk management Management Analysis Team Team Management managedepartment ing, shifting, and alleviating risks. The Company constantly moniTeam Team ment TF tors the risks to which it is exposed so that they stay within the set limit. When it is necessary, the Company adjusts the risk limit or establish a contingency plan. 44 FY2010 Sustainability Report Risk Monitoring and Reporting Kyobo Life monitors its risks regularly Insurance Fraud Prevention Undue payouts of insurance money due using a check list filled with various supervisory standards such as to insurance frauds causes financial damages to insurance comparelated factors, amount of risks per risk, and relevant monitoring innies as well as to customers in general through premium increases. dicators. When signs of trouble are found, they are reported to the In addition, such payouts harm society in general. To prevent such risk management team and suitable measures are implemented. insurance frauds, Kyobo Life has developed an array of systematical insurance fraud prevention measures, SIU (Special InvestigaRisk management process tion Unit), a department exclusively responsible for insurance fraud prevention and exposure. Through these efforts, Kyobo Life has exposed insurance fraud over KRW10 billion annually. Risk Insurance frauds prevented and exposed Risk Monitoring Recognition and Reporting Unit 2008 2009 2010 Prevented 6,394 6,878 5,433 Million Exposed 5,150 6,039 5,649 won Risk Measurement Total 11,544 12,917 11,082 and Assessment Risk Controls Strengthening Anti-money Laundering Measures The Company effectively carry out anti-money laundering work under its own antimoney laundering regulations. The Company conducts anti-money laundering activities including ‘obligation to identify customers’ to identify the identities of customers who deal with and provide the services of Kyobo Life, ‘suspected transaction reporting’ to report any transactions suspected of as money laundering to Korea FinanStrengthening Risk Management cial Intelligence Unit and ‘large cash transaction reporting’ to report Internal Controls In order to observe laws and regulations, manage cash transactions over KRW20 million/case to Korea Financial Intelassets soundly and protect policyholders, the Company has establigence Unit collectively etc. lished internal controls guidelines which its employees follows in the course of their job performance. Addressing Longevity Risk As the possibility to pay pensions in numFurthermore, in order to enhance the level of its internal controls, bers of times larger than that expected when relevant contracts are the Company carries out an internal controls outcome evaluation made due to an increase in the average life expectancy of pension biannually to evaluate its internal controls on 8 evaluation sections, customers, the Company carries out appropriate product portfolio 40 evaluation items, 141 check items and 474 checking details and maintenance strategies under which the risk increases in such anto complement and improve problems found during the evaluation. nuity insurance and the risk decreases in family life coverage insurance can be naturally offset. Internal Audit System the Company regularly auditis, checks, and evaluates its general management activities, and forms reasonable Strengthening Risk Management through Risk Preview Kyobo Life alternatives in order to minimize the managerial risk and contribute has set up ‘risk preview operation standards’ to make sure that to sound managerial results. The audit activities of Kyobo Life are all investment contracts involving risks are previewed by relevant carried out methodically and periodically under annual audit plan departments and established preview processes for risk-related with the approval of the Audit Committee. The Company improves important matters. the efficiency of audit by selecting the priority audit items with grasping the weak sector including managerial risk of the audited department and the problematic sector etc. in advance. 45 46 FY2010 Sustainability Report Government & Community and the Future Kyobo Life will progress together with the government and the community We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Government & community and the Future 47 Kyobo Life will progress together with the government and the community We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Three-year progress on the pledge Community support rate (amount) Socially responsible investment portion Energy usage 5.0 (14.7) 6.7 20,592 20,221 19,333 (Unit : % (billion won)) (12.7) 5.3 2.2 2.0 4.2 (11.8) (Unit : %) (Unit : TOE) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Community support rate : financial support on community service/net profit (decreased due to an increase of net profit) ** Socially responsible investment portion : (SRI investments / general account assets) × 100 *** TOE(Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Energy unit; the amount of energy generated when one ton of oil is burned) Kyobo Life’s action plan for keeping the pledge A Kyobo Life’s Issues facing Remedial steps stakeholders’ efforts so far Kyobo Life to be taken voice “Strategic social · Continuously expanding · Kyobo Life needs to earn · Expand specialized contributions needed” contribution activities more trust and respect community activities social organizations · Stronger family support from communities, · Revise the homepage from “Environmentally programs the country, and other a stakeholder perspective responsible stakeholders management needed” · Voluntary ethics · Carry out activities to compliance checking · A growing responsibility expand sustainability employees for financial companies · Bigger investments in ecomanagement awareness “Though insurance has to actively take part in the no direct impact on the friendly SOC projects environment in general · Organize stakeholder environment, it needs · Eco-friendly remodeling of and climate change in engagement process to see its connection to the HQ building particular · Establish environment the environment and · A sustainability management system survival” management distribution relevant organizations · Set up and implement a network needs to be med& long-term SRI plan established. · Keep track of environmental data (CO2, energy, etc.) · Establish sustainability management supply network (purchase, procurement, etc.) 48 FY2010 Sustainability Report We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. Kyobo Life's philosophy of valuing human lives is the basis of its social contribution activities. With 'Kyobo Dasomi' established in December 2002, the company has been contributing to society and focusing on helping neighbors deprived of health, money and knowledge, overcome hurdles in their lives. Contribution System The Company directly engages in social issues closely related to Social contribution performance the insurance industry (health, lives of the aged, education welfare, Leading non-profit Social contribution Non-profit business etc). The contribution is not limited to simple supports. Rather, it business website member recognition performance evaluation by financial planners partner group satisfaction helps beneficiaries build their capacities through various programs 44.3 & employees and gives jobs to establish the foundation for them to overcome 4.2 30.1 4.11 4.1 4.1 (unit : point, out of best 5) (unit : point, out of best 5) 29.4 4.08 roadblocks. The activities for the society are measured as a model 4.05 which finds out solutions to social issues and roles for a company to establish social safety nets. (unit : %) Social contribution framework 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Kyobo Life Activities by Kyobo Dasomi Volunteers Many FP and employees of Kyobo Life volunteer in various commuNon-proﬁt Kyobo nity service activities believing that they are carrying out core objecfoundation Dasomi tives. Although the number of volunteer activities fluctuates each year as volunteering is based on individual decisions, the sincerity of volunteers and the gratitude of those who received the service have been steadily increasing in intensity. Daesan Farm Daesan Kyobo Life Kyobo Dasomi Kyobo Dasomi performance in volunteering Cultural Cultural Education Cultural Social Service Foundation Foundation Foundation Corps Unit 2008 2009 2010 No. of registered team 201 217 251 'Kyobo Dasomi' is an abbreviation in Korean of Kyobo people teams practicing their love for humanity so that all people can overcome Volunteers person 15,824 13,902 11,787 difﬁculties and lead happy lives. The word 'Dasom' means love in the traditional Korean language. Annual activities hour 78,296 65,627 54,958 Participation rate % 48.2 52.6 48.0 (employees) Volunteer service support system • Employee volunteering during work hour is encouraged (up to 16 hours) • Service program expenses supported Social Contribution Achievements • Outstanding service teams supported; five teams chosen per quarter; dream Kyobo Life conducts both financial and non-financial community program supported service activities in accordance to a social contribution scheme that • Dasomi mileage usage supported, individual volunteer activity hours is based on core objectives. Such activities have been found to have accumulated heightened stakeholders' preference for Kyobo Life and the loyalty • Service-related information and education supported: volunteer service leader of FP and employees participating in the social service activities. workshop, handbooks, manuals supplied. 49 1 Dasomi Family Love Camp 2 Dasomi Support for Premature Babies 1 2 Healthy Family Full-time Social Contribution Activities through The Company operates various family support programs for all the Foundations people to have healthy and happy lives and share love with their family members. The company expands specific and efficient public projects Family Support Program The family support programs consist of the with its three foundations, includng the Daesan Foundation Dasomi Family Camp, the Family Experiences in Rural Villages and for Rural Culture and Society, the Daesan Foundation and the Dasomi Family Volunteer Activities. the Kyobo Foundation for Education and Culture. The camp is a program that gives chances for families to think more about relations with couples or their children, as well as feel Daesan Foundation for Rural Culture and Society more love for 1 night and 2 days. The experience program makes It is the first public foundation for rural villages and agriculparticipants united and acknowledge the values of the agriculture, ture support established by Kyobo Life in 1991. The founrural villages and local agricultural products through various handsdation implements various public projects including the on activities. In particular, the program helps generate income Daesan Rural Culture Award, research projects, rural trainsources for participating rural villages. The volunteer program proing to foreign countries, scholarship, culture and education vides help to neighbors and communities with the method of family projects to upgrade the agriculture and rural villages in Kocontribution as a member of the society. rea and make cities and villages happy. Family Love' Farm-stay Program * Main activities: scholarship support for college students 2008 2009 2010 of agriculture and on-site training of farmers, sponsoring of Families participated 442 640 711 agricultural thesis contests, hosting of the Daesan AgriculNumber of people tural Awards Contest. 1,698 2,529 2,796 participated Number of people Daesan Foundation participated 7 12 11 It was established in 1992 by Kyobo Life to expand Korean Number of participation 48 68 73 literature to the world arena. It supports Korean literature * The participating villages as a whole earned 437 million won in admission fee, and buoyed translations, overseas researches in the Korean literature by the success of the program, the villages each launched a farm-stay of its own, thus raising an additional income. and international exchanges and hosts the Daesan Literature Award and the Daesan Adolescent Literature Award, the most prestigious award in Korea. * Main activities: hosting of the Daesan Literature Awards Dasomi Support for Premature Babies This program supports premaContest, the Daesan Youth Literature Awards Contest, and ture babies to recover and stay alive and helps the families to jump a youth theater festival, support for Korean literature translaover birth-related hardships. The support program is funded by regtion and publication. ular donations from Kyobo financial planners, covers costs including medical expenses right after birth and rehabilitation expenses for Kyobo Foundation for Education and Culture healthy growth. Also, it is the program in the private sector which It was established in 1997 to promote respect for lives, holds events to give economic and emotional supports with events equal opportunity for learning and hope with others. The and programs. As of February, 2011, which marked its seventh year, foundation makes its efforts to create sound and abundant the program has supported 1,000 premature babies. To systematiculture, as well as restore deteriorated ethics under the cally campaign for children's rights, Kyobo Life pursues closer coopname of developing contemporary industrial society. eration with children foundations and other relevant NGOs. Premature baby supporting project * Main activities: hosting of the Kyobo Life Environment People participated Babies supported Awards Contest, support for environment education, youth 2008 5,713 2008 239 community service activities, magnet schools. 2009 5,891 2009 286 2010 5,947 2010 345 (unit : person) (unit : person) 50 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Kyobo Dasomi Nursing Volunteers 2 Kyobo Life Scholarship of Hope 1 2 Support for Job Creation The Company supports various job creation projects for its neighActivities at a glance bors to overcome economic difficulties and enjoy warm and affluNo. of people ent lives and plan their futures. 2008 1,834 2009 1,860 Kyobo Dasomi Voluntary Nursing Activities Dasomi Foundation The foundation is a social company for social purposes including 2010 1,833 (unit : person) providing social services or jobs to the weak to upgrade the qualify of lives for local citizens. It runs vocational schools for low-income female householders who want to have nursing jobs and provides free nursing services to low-income families or elderly people paid Kyobo Life Hope Scholarship The program provides tuition support to by the Company. There were 248 attendants in 2010 and they covstudents of orphanages who enter college in pursuit of higher eduered 93,027 patients on an annual basis. The foundation was descation. In addition to scholarship, Kyobo Life supports the organignated as the first social company in 2007 and awarded by the izing of local meetings of scholarship students, job special lectures, President of Korea in 2008 for nurturing social companies with its and other diverse programs. contribution to the society and job creation. Kyobo Life Hope Scholoarship Activities by the year 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Newly awarded students 20 22 24 Nursing volunteers 254 248 248 * The program started in 2003 and supported 93 students in 2010. No. of people helped 8,321 7,520 8,829 Youth Volunteer Camp It is a program for youth and the handicapped to stay 2 nights and 3 days during the summer vacation to raise community spirits and pave the road for communication between Kyobo Dasomi Forest Guide The program is for the elderly aged 55 the two. and up to enjoy a happy life by getting paid after taking theoretical and on-site training on forest ecology and then guiding children to Northeast Asia Excursion for University Students Kyobo Life has supthe forests. ported the excursion program for university students to make their visions as a future driving force by visiting Northeast Asian counOrchestra of the Blind Hanbit Performing Arts Company Kyobo Life tries as historic and economic partners and competitors since 2002. supports the arts company to give jobs and independent lives with No. of students participated music to the blind by discovering musical talents, providing systematic music education and performances to its members. Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Participants person 100 100 80 Dreams for a Better Future Kyobo supports adolescents to become more productive in the future. Connect-Chains-of-Love This program help children in the socially marginalized class, including children with no or single parent, to overcome their difficulties and have healthy growth and education environment. Company managers and employees donate a portion of their salaries and the company matches the same amount of the money to establish and operate the fund. 51 1 Kyobo Life Cup Sports Competition 2 Chain of Love for Single Elderly 1 2 Community Welfare Program The program seeks a balanced developEconomic Education Service ment in local cultures by supporting about 50 local events to succeed to traditional cultures and develop unique local cultures and social welfare. Activities 2008 2009 2010 Support events 51 39 45 * Major sponsorship programs : Kang-Lueng Dan-O Festival, Non-San Strawberry Festival, Daegu Oriental Medicine Festival, Busan International short Film Festival, Wando Jang-BoGo Festival, Seoul International Woman’s Film Festival. Sports Competition for Children The company has hold 'Kyobo Sports Kyobo Life runs an economic education program for chilCompetition for Children' since 1985 to quickly discover and nurture dren and youths of farm villages to help them better unyoung talents in unpopular sports (athletes, swimming, etc) and derstand the market economy . In addition to teaching the played a stepping stone for the young athletes to become worldABCs of the economy and finance, volunteer FP and emclass players. The program holds 7 to 10 national competitions and ployees of the Company build up the emotional bond with supports scholarships to excellent athletes and organization. It has local schools and create a positive image of the Company to contributed W6.5 billion for the past 26 years. Many famous figures the students and teachers. like Yuna Kim, Taehwan Park, Minho Choi, Gichun Wang, Seunghoon Lee, Hoseok Lee and Eunbyul Lee are from the competition Activities and the program contributes to growing the local economy by gath2008 2009 2010 ering 5,000 athletes, coaches and parents. Volunteers 32 108 207 Schools participated 4 14 7 No. of classrooms Comforing the Elderly with a Phone Call Kyobo Life signed an agree50 121 123 participated ment for 'Tying the Elderly with Love' with the Ministry of Health No. of students 1,750 4,235 4,500 and Welfare in December, 2010. This program is to prevent emoparticipated tional isolation and solitary deaths among the rapidly-increasing lonely elderly with its 350 consultants in the company call center and provides 2 calls a week on a 1-to-1 basis. Donation of IT Goods to the Community Kyobo Life regularly donates computers, monitors, and other office equipment, after a thorough data security check to the socially marginalized, helping the needy A World United in Love to better their lives and protecting the environment. Kyobo Life supports various social, cultural, sports and arts programs Office equipment donated (unit: piece) as a way to celebrate the diversity and importance of human values. Beneficiary Details Year institutions 'Short Trip, Long Breath' Kyobo Life sponsors an overseas tour proDesktop PCs(3,197), CRT monitors(4,156), laptops(17), printers(117), scanners(7), wireless 2008 gram, dubbed 'Short Trip, Long Breath', for woman social volunKorea Handirouters(459) teers to help them connect with fellow visionaries and recharge capped IT Association Desktop PCs(502), LCD monitors(1,184), their passion for progressive social changes. laptops(44), color printers(1,725), B/W printers(2,351), scanners(179) 2009 Program status Korea Disabled Desktop PCs(502), LCD monitors(1,183), 2008 2009 2010 Association laptops(44) Research team 17 18 20 Healthcare Symposium The Company holds its healthcare sympoGroup 83 78 90 sium every year to upgrade healthcare and welfare services to cope No. of people 176 185 222 with the aged society and enjoy affluent lives by understanding nursery service systems for the aged in developed countries. 52 FY2010 Sustainability Report 'Gwanghwamun Board' Making the World Bright * The 'Gwanghwamun Board' introduced as a cultural icon representing Seoul in the quarterly journal 'Koreana,' which is published in eight different languages and distributed to 160 some countries in the world. The 'Gwanghwamun Board', hung on the outer wall of the Kyobo Life HQ, began in 1991 with a suggestion by Shin Yongho, the late founder of the company. The purpose of the board was redefined during the 1997 Asian financial crisis, to give comfort and hope to the Koreans going through financial and emotional hardships. Since then, the board has contained uplifting phrases of poems and become familiar to the people with messages of challenge, courage, comfort, hope and humility. As of the winter of 2010, a total of 64 passages have been featured on the board, which have been published in an anniversary collection. All proceeds from book sales have been used for helping the needy. Passages for the board are selected by a panel of literary experts, and those thus selected are featured on the seven Kyobo Life company buildings in six major cities in Korea. 53 We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. The Company fully recognizes that the environment is an important issue affecting the life insurance directly and indirectly. It is because the environment largely impacts the health and lives of people. In this trend, the Company exerts itself to make a green world with its unique environment management including eco-friendly business and the socially responsible investment (SRI). Eco-friendly Finance Eco-friendly activities Expanding Socially Responsible Investments Kyobo Life has been agEnergy Conservation Activities The company has conducted three gressively practicing socially responsible investment (SRI). It is becampaigns on its own to save more energy and materials, as well cause SRI is not only suitable for insurance companies operating as to reduce business costs. The campaigns include turning off unlong-term assets, but also a method to realize social responsibility needed lights and computers, and recycling office supplies;and for companies. The Company has performed SRI in SOC projects inevery employee is required to check with daily checklist and share cluding roads and ports and expanded to eco-friendly SOC projects the results for each department with related parties. including waste-water treatment facilities, waste incineration faVoluntary energy & resources conservation checklist cilities and renew and recycled energy development. The Company Voluntary energy & resources conservation lists has increased eco-friendly SOC investments under the principle of ·· Did you turn off lights during lunch hours? (conference ‘creating long-term and stable profits’, improved safety and profitrooms, class rooms, etc. ability of customer assets and directly and indirectly contributed to Turn off lights ·· Did you selectively use lights during night or weekend green and eco-friendly industries. The Company's SRI in proportion work? to its total assets in FY2010 was 6.7% and it will establish and ex·· Did you turn office machines off after work? (PCs, monitors, printers, etc) pand midand long-term SRI goals to 6.94% by FY2012. Turn off computers ·· Did you turn off office machines not used while at work? FY2010 SRI results ·· Did you turn off the monitor when away from work? Investment rate (%) Classification ·· Do you conserve copy papers? Rate of investment Rate of investment contracted remaining ·· Did you try to recycle papers? Conserve office SOC (roads, ports, etc) 4.1 3.1 supplies ·· Did you try to select the appropriate use for your papers? Education, culture, ·· Did you try to reduce the use of paper cups and other defense 4.2 2.4 disposable goods? Groundwater, resources facilities 2.3 0.7 Energy conservation achievements Other 0.9 0.5 Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Total 11.5 6.7 Energy-saving TOE 532 472 3,361 * Percentages of general account assets * Energy saved through normal conservation efforts such as uses of energy light bulbs, turning-off of lights during lunch. ** FY2010 use of energy declined yoy due to the remodeling of the company HQ. Developing Eco-friendly Products The life insurance business is a financial service sector which provides risk solutions with the collatPromoting a Conservation Mindset As part of its 2010 company-wide eral of life and health risks and the range of products is limited comcampaign, the Company operates an eco-friendly program called pared to that of non-life insurance. However, the Company plans ‘The Environment and Tong, Tong, Tong’. About 300 executives and to gradually expand its SRI as an eco-friendly company (forming employees declared that they had eco-friendly activities in their lives variable funds, expanding loans, etc) in managing its assets. and took part in programs for environment protection. Kyobo Life will continuously operate company communication programs to promote a eco-friendly mindset among its executives and employees. 54 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Environment Action Pledge 2 Kyobo Environmental Awards 1 2 Eco-friendly Electronic Subscription System It requires lots of paper in Kyobo Dasomi Forest Guide Volunteers It is a program that provides the business of insurance policy writing. The Company has reduced chances to experience the importance of nature, the environment, carbon emission, as well as operation costs by cutting down paper and life to children and adolescents. Furthermore, the program uses in the policy writing process with an electronic system. Also, seeks to enforce the environment education through capacity buildit improves its business efficiencies and customer convenience ing among guides and cooperation with external organizations. by delivering related documents to customers through e-mail and No. of people participated in the forest program providing seamless service from consulting to policy writing. The Company introduced the system for the first time in Korea in the Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 insurance industry and the system has proven to be excellent with Participants the grand award in ‘the 9th Korea Electronic Finance Awards’ held person 822,068 1,063,859 1,007,064 (Accumulated) by the Korea Economic Daily. Recycling the Gwanghwamun Board The cloths used for the GwangEco-friendly Volunteers Kyobo Life has performed various volunteer hwamun Board are donated to Echo Party Mearry operated by the activities to protect the environment. The program includes the Beautiful Foundation and they are recycled into eco-products inDasomi family volunteer activities, volunteer activities by execucluding handbags and pen cases ,and sales proceeds are donated tives and employees, feeding migrant birds at adolescent volunteer to the poor. These activities are considered as leading environment camps, cleaning mud flats, making birds’ nests, planting trees, tagprotection and donation and received positive reactions from the ging tree with names and blocking shortcuts in national parks. executives and employees of the company and from citizens. Eco-friendly volunteer activities Eco-friendly Purchasing Energy-efficient IT Products The company purchases elecvolunteer Purpose Program tronic products like computers, monitors and LCDs with high enactivities ergy efficiency and participates in environment protection activities through energy conservation. ·· Birds, fly (making and experiencing forests) ·· Mud! Spoonbills Creating chances to feel the (Understanding mudflats Dasomi importance of the environment and monitoring sea wastes Family and share the environment Eco-friendly Social Contribution Activities Volunteer Activities through pleasure volunteer activities on family basis and ·· Protect red-cranes! Kyobo Environmental Awards Contest It is the event that selects and understanding the ecosystem (Volunteer activities in wildlife protection centers) awards those who have largely promoted environmental aware·· Feeding migrant birds ness and contributed to making an eco-friendly society. Award (understanding and feeding) candidates of individuals or groups are reviewed based on their sustainability, social meaning, visibility, and specific performance in the four fields of environment education, environment movement, ·· Planting trees for 'forests Eco-friendly and the Earth' environment arts and environment media. Through the awards confamily volunteers Forming sound family culture test, the Company contributes to the expansion of environmental ·· Giving names to trees in of the and creating eco-friendly Cheonggye Mountain awareness and to the building of an eco-friendly society. managers values based on the nature and the Environmental activities of 2010 Award recipients employees ·· Cleaning program in the Bukhansan National Park Recipients Activities Armed with a systemic and professional eco-education system, Environment People for the group is a forerunner in developing environment educational education Preservation materials and program through the continued monitoring of ·· Forests with sounds, flavors various ecological sites. and colors With the formation of a Nakdong River Watch Group in 1973, Kim has contributed 35 years of his life to the preservation of ·· Community volunteer Environment Sang-hwa Korea's longest river. By organizing fact-finding trips, which has Eco-friendly Changes for adolescents activities movement Kim numbered over 1,370 as of the latest, Kim has helped local volunteer to feel the importance and people and communities better understand the environment activities for happiness from forests with issues facing the river. ·· Eco-resources investigation adolescents physically-challenged people As one of the best architecture of traditional Korean wooden Environment Nam-ho Cho structures, Mr. Cho has been studying and promoting wooden ·· Eco-therapy arts structures suitable to Korean environment. Environment ·· Signboard against road kills No recipients media 55 Managing Environment Data The Company performs its business activities to continuously reEco-friendly Remodeling of HQ duce resources and energy uses, as well as negative impact on the environment. Also, it is expected to effectively cope with industrial The company HQ built in 1980 was remodeled recently. Ecoregulations in the future and cut costs through energy-saving effriendly and cutting-edge technologies were introduced includforts to fight climate change. The Company is building an environing changing concrete walls to glasses, air-conditioning system ment support system to improve achievements in the environment for ventilation in every floor and heat insulation walls inside the and will actively communicate with stakeholders on these matters. building. The use of double-pane windows has brought about Environment Data an energy saving effect of KRW600 million per year as well as a substantial increase in the value of the building. In addition, Index Unit 2008 2009 2010 the CO2 concentration sharply reduced by a 1/5 to a half. This Gas 2,303 2,440 2,406 created a fresh environment with less concentration than that Direct of the standard and is expected to save electric costs to 500 energy Liquid 789 889 887 million KRW a year. use TOE Local Saving energy has been emerged as a competitive edge in 36 41 42 heating modern construction, and the Ministry of Land, TransportaEnergy & Sub 3,128 3,370 3,335 tion, and Maritime Affairs awarded the building in December greenhouse total gas 2010 the highest grade for eco-friendly buildings (Article 8.1 of Sub total TOE 17,464 16,850 15,998 the Rule on Certifying Eco-friendly Building and the Artciel 65 of the Construction Act) and the Seoul City government desigindirect 114,994 110,951 105,341 CO2 nated the building as a platinum grade. TCO2e emitted direct 7,940 8,569 8,483 Eco-friendly building grades Points scored Total use 667,302 571,623 544,399 Building Environment Address Note names grade TON Environment energy Recycled 20,654 22,747 18,117 Highest By gov. Water Kyobo Jongno-gu 93.62 81.4 Life HQ Jongno 1 I (Platinum) By Seoul Rate recycled % 3.1 4.0 3.3 Discharged 1,799 1,596 523 Air quality improvement CO2 intensity Recycled TON 359 346 253 Classification Unit Before remodeling After remodeling Waste Burned 1,440 1,250 270 2nd basement 2,330 800 1st basemenet 3,530 790 Rate recycled % 20 22 48 Ground floor ppm 1,860 860 * Of the 66 buildings owned by Kyobo Life, 53 were included in the study, and the data were provided by Kyobo Realco, which manages the buildings in the study. Standard level 1,900 640~800 * Oil: High heptane oil (#1 fuel) used Standard amount 1,000 and less * Water: local tap water used * TOE : ton of energy Comparison of electricity uses * TCO2e: CO2 emitted from indirect energy use ClassifiBefore remodeling After remodeling Unit Savings * TCO2: CO2 emitted from direct energy use cation (as of Nov. 2007) (as of Nov. 2010) KWH 1,535,742 1,096,968 438,774 Use TOE 330 236 94 TCO2 683 488 195 Bills won 138,120,555 107,298,040 30,822,515 56 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Remodeling of HQ : Green House 2 Remodeling of HQ : Kyobo Convention Hall 1 2 The Kyobo Life HQ's eco-friendly features Energy management Air pollution · Natural energy management conservation efforts · The emission of CO2 is strengthened minimized when oil or · Eco-projects managed gas is used as fuel. Eco-friendly Indoor smoking landscaping banned · The building · Designated smoking ambiance is areas; smoke-free optimized through building campaign indoor and outdoor · Sources of unpleasant landscaping. atmosphere minimized or eliminated Waste management · Natural resource conservation, waste separation, recycling. 57 We will grow with our peers through fair competition. The fair and transparent culture is at the center of the Company, as its philosophy, ‘There is no free ride nor secret in the world' speaks. Kyobo Life takes its best efforts to enjoy growth with its partners through following business ethics for its executives and employees to perform to their best abiities, as well as follow the basic rules. Fair Trade Fair trade compliance programs Kyobo Life runs its compliance proClean Contract System Kyobo Life practices a clean contract system gram to implement a fair and transparent competitive culture by that establishes transparent agreements by not requiring or receivdesignating managers in charge of following fair trade. Also, it pubing bribes between company members and contractors during conlishes a ‘Fair Trade Manual’ to educate its executives and employtract phases including purchasing, servicing and construction. The ees and establishes ‘Protection Guidelines against Improper Joint clause is reflected in the company standard contract to improve the Action’ and ‘Protection Guidelines for Financial Planners in Transimplementation. actions’, as well as monitoring regulation violations. In particular, Operation process CEO messages, which continues to treat fair trade compliance as a global standard and emphasize the observation of fair trade regulations, contribute a great deal to expanding the employee awareCompliance officer ness of fair trade compliance. ·· Fair-trade violations reported ·· Fair-trade violations reported ·· Rebate demand reported ·· Rebate demand reported Major contents ·· Violation investigated ·· Clean contract informed ·· Establishing self-obedience for fair trade ·· Bidding rights restricted ·· Reporting obligations informed ·· Declaring self-obedience for fair trade ·· Reflecting penalties for violating the regulations on the company rules Improving systems and ·· Treating major items on fair trade in the compliance department Employees Suppliers processes ·· Establishing whistle-blowing system against collusion and unfair trade Clean contract informed ·· Improving decision-making processes (controlled by relevant departments like compliance and legal support on internal trading among affiliated companies) ·· Publishing, disseminating and training fair trade manuals ·· Consistent training for executives (twice a year), team leaders Cyber Procurement System The Company establishes its cyber purTraining (quarterly), hands-on (quarterly), employees (yearly) chase system which treats transactions between its purchase de·· Sharing knowledge of fair trade through the Intranet (helpers for fair trades) partment and its partners to save period and costs, as well as im·· Posting fair trade compliance on the company website prove transparency in purchases through regular system evaluation management. ·· Continuous monitoring of major departments (products, underwriting, Monitoring actuaries, corporation business) based on a monthly monitoring plan Online procurement system process Purchasing unit Auditing Team Protection ·· Participation from businesses and process establishment against ·· Establishing prevention guidelines against unfair activities collusion and unfair trading ·· Establishing preventive guidelines for financial planners Digital catalog Review request Purchasing order Review Settle bill Select items of Make estimates, Create request Actions taken against fair-trade violations choice online and processing form take bids, sign Review Send web request for contracts, and payment and identify nonelectronically Classification Date Fines & remedial actions Description payment create bill statement purchasable items by division electronically Collusion involving Collusion 2008.10.30 W6,464 million in fine group insurance Financial planner’s Fair-trade failure to transfer the 2010. 2.25 Warning Request for supplies violations business code after job by employees Supply partners Accounting team reassignment * The collusion in the table occurred prior to the September 2006 proclamation of fair trade compliance, and a fair trade compliance program has since been in place to prevent similar occurrences. Supply/Install 58 FY2010 Sustainability Report 1 Gift Return Center 2 Ethical Code of Conduct 1 2 Gift-Return Center Kyobo Life operates a gift-return center to notify Business Ethics Programs for Employees All executives and employgifts from external stakeholders and return the gifts to them. The ees take part in signing ‘Declaration on Following Work Ethics for notified items include money, vouchers, commodities, invitations the Company’ as a way to cultivate a strong sense of work ethics and tickets and the center returns the gifts with polite mentions in in their respective fields. Also, they use ‘Checklist of Yes! Obedicase that someone takes the present but hard to return. The gifts ence OK! Ethics’, a tool to support ethical decision-making to check are donated to social organizations when the provider refuses to activities. The Clean Contract System which reflected transparency return or it is hard to take the present back. in designating executives in April, 2006 motivates them to enforce their work ethics. Yes! Compliance OK! Ethics Checklist Business Ethics Implementation System Would I think what I am doing is still correct later ? Business Ethics Training The Company operates various work ethics programs to enhance employee performance. It encourages its Would I feel alright even when my action is known to my customers, co-workers, and family? executives and employees to follow work ethics in their fields by performing regular training for managers, as well as holding business communication and workshops. 「Yes! Obedience OK! Ethics」 Will there be anybody who would be negatively affected by my action? is the subject of weekly cartoons and animations and aired through the Intranet and satellite broadcasting company-wide every MonFines and disciplinary actions in regard to law and regulation violations day. Also, the Company enforces obedience and ethics to all units by designating ‘The Day of Training Obedience and Ethics’ once a 2008 2009 2010 month. This systematic and effective training program was selected as an excellent case of ‘the Best Case of Ethical Management’ in Disciplinary 4 persons action 2 persons (including 4 retired 2009 by the Federation of Korean Industries. (Individual) employees) Ethical education Fines 1 case,W22.0 million 1 case,W2.5 million (Institutional) Classification Unit 2008 2009 2010 Managers & 13.5 13.5 13.5 Reporting Core Values Violations The whistle-blowing system, ‘RePer capita above education Hours porting core value violations,' notifies illegal or unjust behaviors to hour Rank & the CEO or an independent compliance officer. Through this sys15 15 15 file tem does the Company preempt irregularities and accidents and * Monthly compliance education: 1 hr. resolve the grievances of field employees. * Communication education by the division office in the event of issue occurrence * Fair-trade compliance education: 1 hr. yearly * Anti-laundering education: 1 hr. yearly * New employee education: 1 hr. * Team leader education: once a year, 1.5 hours * Compliance officer education: twice a year, 3 hours Service education for guards Unit 2008 2009 2010 Guards Person 239 242 242 Education % 100 100 100 received * Third-party employees included ** Respect for human rights and other protocol matters included when dealing with visitors 59 1 DA-Win Service Education for the National Policy Agency 2 Workshops with Partners 1 2 Joint Development Program for Partners “DA-Win Service” Program “DA-Win Service” is a program that proWorkshops with Partners Kyobo Life holds workshops for excellent vides free CS consulting and education service to public agencies, companies selected by biannual evaluations. This intends to propublic and private corporations, hospitals, and other institutions mote fair and transparent purchase process and willingness for that pursues customer satisfaction. Based on the concept that one joint growth with its partners. can help oneself by helping others, this program reflects Kyobo The evaluation is done for those who registered in the system 6 Life's CS management philosophy. The program was launched in months ago and whose average revenue is over W1 million a month June, 2005, when the Company was awarded a KMAC award, for (85 companies) and applies benchmarks for every field. a 5th year in a row, a first in the financial industry, and ushered into the insurance hall of fame. as of March, 2011, the program Kyobo Cyber Mall Kyobo Life opens ‘Kybo Cyber Mall’, an online has shared Kyobo Life's CS know-how with 7,742 institutions and shopping mall that supplies quality supplies to its financial planners, 501,626 employees in 9,176 occasions. Particularly, the Company executives, and employees. This system provides goods including maximizes the effect of the program by signing business contracts brochures with a 30 to 70% discount to the parties, and its partners with service providers and organizations to provide a tailor-made CS upgrade their competitiveness by directly trading qualified goods consulting service. with users. CS consulting program Local Community Purchase The Company expands goods and servClassification 2008 2009 2010 ice purchases while expanding various social contribution activities. Experiencing rural activities is a leading model which has creates No. of program clients 17 17 11 profits about W437 million and proposed new profit models to the No. of education communities. Also, the Company implements community-based 1,935 2,082 1,323 business sites purchases with its 661 branches and 65 Customer Plazas in Korea. No. of education support 2,144 2,471 1,646 Payments to Partners Kyobo Life helps smooth financial flows for its partners by remitting payments based on ‘the Standard for ExecutMajor clients ing Expenses and payment’, rather than promissory notes as payPolice HQ, IRS, Jongno, Kangbuk, Seocho Ward Offices, ments including purchases, service and construction. Public office Uijongbu, Koyang Cities, Kyongbuk, Kyongnam Provincial Gov’t, National Fire Prevention, Local Military Manpower Offices. Public Korea Electrics, National Pension, Traffic Safety, Energy Management, Seoul Metro, Korea Rails, National Health institutions Insurance, Korea Electric Safety, Korea Gas Safety, Civil Pension Seoul U. Dental, Ulgi, Seoul Asan, Kangnam Severance, Hospitals Kyonghee, Korea Cancer, Joongang U. Seoul Red Cross, Kungook U. Sunchun U. Veteran Hospital Chosun Daily, Lotte Tour, Korea Steel, U-bang land, Pacific Corporations Cosmetics, LG Bio-tech, Hyundai Medicine, Samyang Foods, Honda Korea, Costco Korea, Lotte Department Store Education Kyonggi Province Education Office, Seoul Dongbu/Joongbu Education Office, Segang U. Sukmyeong U. Kangwon U. institutions Baehwa U. Gwachun Foreign Language High School Imperial Palace Hotel, Ambassador Hotel., Grand Hotel, Seoul City Medical Doctors Association, Korea Medical Doctors Others Association, Hall of Arts, Far East Broadcasting, Hyundai Woosung Resort, Chungsong Prison 60 FY2010 Sustainability Report Appendix 61 Glossary A strategy for managing a company’s interactions with customers, clients and sales prospects by Customer Relationship Management analyzing customer information to identify customer needs and satisfying them A blue-chip stock index jointly created by Dow Jones and SAM in 1999 that identifies sound Dow Jones Sustainability Index companies by evaluating their business sustainability as well as balance sheet A technology that supports contents from production to distribution and management, generally Digital Rights Management used to safeguard the distribution of digital contents on the Internet. It is also used as an document encrypting technology in the corporate environment. As a type of patent on financial products, the right allows certain companies to market the Exclusive Right of Use product at issue, while other companies are prevented from doing so over a certain period. A club of successful insurance salespeople and financiers. MDRT requires its members to Million Dollar Round Table practice high-standard business ethics, including putting customer interest before anything else. An action-based learning method that studies about problem solving through trials and error on Action Learning the team level A program designed to improve job competency by offering employees opportunities to adopt On-boarding Program themselves to the organization and prepare for the new tasks that come with promotion. Universal Insurance A type of insurance that allows the owners to vary the amount and timing of premium payments The practice of managing risks that arise due to mismatches between the assets and liabilities Asset Liability Management (debts and assets) and to interest changes in the assets of financial institutions Solvency Ratio An indicator of insurance companies to ability to pay benefits; defined by insurance authorities Liabilities an insurance company is legally required to maintain on its balance sheet with respect Policy Reserves to the unmatured obligations (i.e., expected future claims) of the company Value at Risk A widely used risk measure of the risk of loss on a specific portfolio of financial assets. 62 FY2010 Sustainability Report A risk that may arise when an insurance company faces an additional burden due to its inability to Minimum Guarantee Risk pay minimum guaranteed benefits on variable insurance A basic activity process that helps organization members develop a desirable attitude needed in Fellowship acquiring competencies for achieving group goals and in fulfilling the tasks and responsibilities defined in the organization's norms. A major type of pension plan in which an employer promises a specified monthly benefit on Defined Benefit Retirement Pension retirement that is predetermined by a formula based on the employee's earnings history, tenure of service and age, rather than depending on investment returns. A type of retirement plan in which the amount of the employer's annual contribution is specified. Individual accounts are set up for participants and benefits are based on the amounts credited to Defined Contribution Retirement Pension these accounts (through employer contributions and, if applicable, employee contributions) plus any investment earnings on the money in the account. A standard for assessing and strengthening the credibility and quality of an organization’s social, AA1000AS economic and environmental reporting. A license to provide a professional financial planning service in Korea. One of the professional Associated Financial Planner Korea qualifications for total financial planning business for individuals An international license to provide a comprehensive asset management service. To receive Certified Financial Planner authorization to use the designation, the candidate must meet education, examination, experience and ethics requirements, and pay an ongoing certification fee. A mission for insurance salespeople that they should help all people prepare themselves for all FP-Ship hardships they expect to face in their lives. A non-profit organization that promotes the world's most-widely used sustainability reporting Global Reporting Initiative framework guideline, which comprises three categories: economic, environmental, and social. A social responsibility guideline for corporations, consisting of seven categories: governance, ISO26000 human rights, labor, the environment, fair business practices, consumer issues, local community involvement. An United Nations initiative to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially UN Global Compact responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. A business management strategy that seeks to improve the quality of process outputs by 6Sigma identifying and removing the causes of defects (errors) and minimizing variability in manufacturing and business processes. 63 Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Management of the 2010 Kyobo Life Sustainability Report Scope and Methodology The Assurance Provider carried out the following Upon request of Kyobo Life Insurance Inc., the Institute for Industrial activities in order to (1) review the extent to which The Report applies the princiPolicy Studies as a “third party assurance provider” (hereinafter referred ples of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and (2) assess the Report’s to as the “Assurance Provider”) presents the following third party’s asapplication level of the GRI/BEST Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. surance report on the “2010 Kyobo Life Insurance Sustainability Report • Evaluating the sources of publicly disclosed information and internal parties (hereinafter referred to as the “Report”)” involved • Verifying the performance data collection systems and processes Accountability and Objective Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. is held account• Conducting interviews with managers and staffs responsible for dimensionable for all information and claims contained in the Report including specific performance sustainability management goal setting, performance management, • Completing on-site review focusing on the head office from May 02, 2011 data collection and report preparation. The objective of this assurance to May 03, 2011 report is to check whether the Report is free of material misstatement • Evaluating the Report for the extent of adherence to the GRI/BEST Guidelines or bias and whether the data collection systems used are robust, and to offer advice on improving the quality of the Report through identifying Limitations sustainable management issues and reviewing its reporting process. • A review of the accuracy and reliability of data and interviews with persons in charge of data collection and performance-related information at manageIndependence The Assurance Provider has no relations with Kyobo Life ment levels Insurance Inc. regarding any of its for-profit operations and activities. In ad• Verifying the data and inquiries into each functional manager and information dition, the Assurance Provider has carried out its assurance process with collection manager independence and autonomy as it was not involved in the preparation of • On-site validation focused on the head office the Report except for offering comments in the process. • Assurance engagement based on data and publicly available information only during the current reporting period Criteria for Assurance The Assurance Provider assessed the Report • Evaluation of the reliability of the performance data being excluded against the following guidelines: 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) 1 Conclusions The Assurance Provider did not find the Report to contain any 2) BEST Guideline 2 material misstatements or bias on the basis of the scope, methodology and 3) Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3 criteria described above. All material findings of the Assurance Provider are provided herein, and detailed findings and follow-up recommendations have been Type and Level of Assurance The Assurance Provider conducted assursubmitted to the management of Kyobo Life Insurance Inc.. ance process for the Report in accordance with Type 1 and Moderate Level of AA1000AS (2008). [Inclusivity] Does Kyobo Life Insurance have adequate strategies and • The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled in the engagement processes in place for stakeholder participation? Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed information, reThe Assurance Provider confirmed that Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. has develporting system and performance management process based on the three oped and implemented a stakeholder engagement process with regards to its core principles of AA1000AS (2008), namely Inclusivity, Materiality and Resustainability management practices. It has multiple stakeholder-specific chansponsiveness. However, this assurance engagement does not provide the nels in place to identify priority issues that are essential in achieving sustainevaluation of the credibility of the offered data. ability management, while working to ensure that the engagement findings • The Assurance Provider evaluated the reliability of the data compiled are reflected in its management activities. The following points were found to in the Report for Type 1 assurance, and assessed publicly disclosed be particularly commendable. information, reporting system and performance management proc• Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. has established a communication channel that proess based on the three core principles of AA1000AS (2008), namely vides in-depth insight into stakeholder views via surveys of management and Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. staff, FPs, and customers; interviews with NGOs and investors; and expert (1) AA1000 AS(Assurance Standard) is a sustainability reporting standard developed by Accountability in its pursuit to promote group discussions. overall organizational performance and accountability by improving the quality of social and ethical accounting. As a U. K. • The company has worked to incorporate stakeholder views into its managebased not-for-profit organization focusing on corporate social responsibility and business ethics, Accountability first developed AA1000AS in 1999 and amended the standards in 2008 for application in 2010. ment activities such as product launch and sales – shaping new ideas by iden(2) BEST Guideline or BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline is a guideline for the preparation and assurance of sustainability reporting and offers five levels of reporting quality assessment. It was jointly developed by the Ministry of Knowledge tifying customer needs with regard to product planning and development. Economy (MKE), the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), and the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) in Going forward, the Assurance Provider suggests providing a fuller account of the Business Ethics Sustainability Management for Top Performers (BEST) forum in their endeavor to promote sustainability reporting among local companies. the various programs and case studies that show how findings from the Com(3) GRI G3 Guidelines: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and the UNEP in 1997, first released its G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in October pany’s regular stakeholder engagement channels and processes have been 2006. The G3.1 Guidelines, which is an update and completion of the G3, was published in March 2011, featuring broader guidance on how to report on human rights, gender, and local community issues. G4, the fourth generation of Guidelines, is incorporated into Kyobo Life’s business management. due to be launched in 2013. 64 FY2010 Sustainability Report [Materiality] Does the Report contain information that is of the utmost [BEST Fulfillment Levels] material importance to Kyobo Life Insurance inc. stakeholders across the The Assurance Provider found the Report to fulfill 91.3% of the reporting reeconomic, social, and environmental dimensions? quirements necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report (from among Level 1 ~ 5). It is the Assurance Provider’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude Kyobo Life Insurance Sustainability Management Report Fulfillment any information of material importance to the stakeholders of Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. We verified efforts by the company to identify and report on material Reporting Year 2011 Level Level 4 issues through an analysis of various sustainability management initiatives and Publications 1st Fulfillment 91.3% standards in and outside of Korea, relevant systems and regulations, stake* Assurance findings were converted uniformly into fulfillment ratios as measured against Level 1 through 5 holder surveys, expert interviews and discussions, peer benchmarking, media requirements. research etc. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. • The Report outlines issues of the highest material importance to the sustainRecommendations ability management of Kyobo Life Insurance, by using a diverse set of assessThe Assurance Provider Assurance Provider found the “2010 Kyobo Life Insurment criteria to establish materiality. ance Sustainability Management Report”, the first such Report by the Com• The Report distinguishes all identified issues by category – economic, social, pany, commendable on the following counts. The Report 1) provides a concrete and environmental – and provides a graphical representation of each issue’s explanation on the Company’s understanding of the concept of sustainability rate of improvement or reinforcement. management; 2) presents quantitative performance indicators to support the Going forward, however, the Company is advised to sort all identified issues implementation of its 10 principles based on a framework of sustainability by stakeholder to indicate what the respective requirements of the various management; and 3) clearly outlines the future direction and objectives behind stakeholders were. Also, continuous management and disclosure of issues is Kyobo Life’s systematic pursuit of sustainability management by presenting the recommended through time-series change analysis. Company’s sustainability management roadmap. For future reports, the Assurance Provider suggests the following considerations. [Responsiveness] Does the Report respond adequately to stakeholder • Establish a framework and system for the balanced execution and managerequirements and interests? ment of economic, social, and environmental performance. The Assurance Provider noted various stakeholder channels put in place by • Establish a system for the company-wide management of sustainability Kyobo Life Insurance Inc. to better respond to stakeholder demands and inmanagement performance indicators. terests, as well as efforts to reflect those findings in its Report. The following • Based on priority reporting on issues of material stakeholder interest, estabpoints were found to be particularly. lish stronger connections between the reported content and material issues. • The Report’s DMA section presents the views of its stakeholders (voice) and • Build an in-depth stakeholder panel to identify new issues relevant to Kyobo Life. explains Kyobo Life’s achievements, confronting issues, and response plans. • Provide more reporting on quantitative data, source of data, and calculation meth• The Report outlines the Company’s position, response, and future plans reods for greater accuracy and reliability of reported performance outcomes. garding any negative outcomes reflecting its efforts to maintain a balanced point of view. Eligibility of IPS as an Assurance Provider Going forward, the Company is advised to provide a fuller account of actual Established in 1993, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) has accustakeholder communication outcomes as well as details on its handling and mulated broad expertise in the areas of ethics management, corporate social response to the various issues as well as stakeholder satisfaction. responsibility and sustainable management since 2002, and serves as a third party assurance provider for the sustainability reports published by local com[GRI Application Levels] panies. IPS has conducted the assurance engagement upon request of Kyobo The Assurance Provider found the Report to apply to GRI G3 Reporting FrameLife Insurance Inc, and assembled a team of five assurance providers who are work at the level of A+. professors at Korea’s top universities or professionals with accreditation and extensive experience in sustainability management after majoring in business C C+ B B+ A A+ management, accounting or environmental science. Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B Output June 17, 2011 G3 Profile Disclosures 2.1 – 2.10 1.2 3.1 – 3.8, 3.10 – 3.12 3.9 – 3.13, Standard Disclosure Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 4.1 – 4.4, 4.14 – 4.15 4.5 – 4.13, 4.16 – 4.17 Not Required Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Output Indicator Category Indicator Category Approach Disclosures Jae-eun Kim Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 and G3 Performance Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Indicators & at least one from each of with due regard to the Materiality Output Sector Supplement including at least one from Performance each of: Economic, Social Economic, Environmental, Principle by either: a) reporting on Indicators and Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Sociathe Indicator or b) explaining the ety, Product Responsibility. reason for its omission. * Sector supplement in final version 65 GRI Application Level Check Statement 66 FY2010 Sustainability Report UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2010, thereby make public its will to abide by the 10 principles of the UNGC. This sustainability management report breaks the compliance of the principles into system performance index and tasks as below. Category Principles System Activities Future Tasks Page 1. All internationally ··International human rights proclaimed human rights ··Human rights policy support confirmed with UNGC 33 shall be supported and membership respected. ··Reform human ··Human rights protection rights-related ··Customer information through strengthening of systems Human 23 rights security standards customer data security ··Strengthen 2. Businesses shall customer 33 make efforts to not ··Reward&punishment rules ··Human rights violation & sexual harassment prevention data security 45 be complicit in human ··In-house audit system management rights abuses education 59 ··Kyobo Code of Ethical Conduct ··In-house control activities ··Ethics education 3. The freedom of ··Active labor union activities, association and ··Labor/management labor-management cultural 33 collective bargaining committee activities rights shall be upheld; ··Foster good work 4. All forms of forced and environment compulsory labour shall ··Company employment ··Prohibit forced labor (health, safety, 33 be prohibited; regulation hygiene, work) Labor ··Expand fair 5. Child labour shall be ··Prohibit hiring of minors performance prohibited; ··Labor standard law 33 ··Limit hiring of 18 and under evaluation ··Employee complaint ··Set up a grievance consulting ··Reinforce a work6. Employment redress system office based personnel 33 and occupation system discrimination shall be ··Human rights policy ··Provide fair opportunities, 34 eliminated. ··Kyobo Code of Ethical prohibit discrimination 59 Conduct ··Ethics education ··Eco community service ··Environment support projects through non-profit through Kybo Life Education 7. Preventive approach to foundation Cultural Foundation 50 environmental problems ··Socially responsible ··Expand eco-friendly SOC 54 shall be supported. investing investment 55 ··Set up environment ··Environment awareness ··Kyobo Environment Awards management promotion program Contest system ··Energy & resources ··Energy conservation campaign ··Sustainability conservation campaigns ··Environment protection pledge, management ··Eco awareness promotion energy-efficient IT product system ) 54 Environment 8. Initiatives to promote campaign procurement ··Environment Data greater environmental 55 responsibility shall be ··Eco volunteer service ··Forest Tour Volunteer group, management (carbon energy) 56~57 encouraged. ··Eco-friendly remodeling eco volunteer group ··Long-term SRI 59 ··Kyobo Code of Ethical ··HQ eco-friendly remodeling Conduct ··Ethics education ··Set up long-term SRI planning 9. The development and diffusion of ··Paper conservation through the environmentally friendly ··Electronic bidding system adoption of electronic policy 55 technologies shall be writing system encouraged. ··Vision system ··Core values (honesty & diligence) ··'Clean Contract system', ··Launch SM Online procurement ··Reflect 'Clean Contract' terms awareness 10. All forms of corruption system in standard contracts promotion activities 13 Corruption in business, including · ·Gift Return Center ··Gift Return Center ··Set up SM supply 58 extortion and bribery network (purchase, shall be opposed. ··Kyobo Code of Ethical ··Ethics education 59 Conduct supply) ··Core value violation reporting ··In-house violation reporting system system 67 Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) Fully Not Not Applicable Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 2,3 A_1 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 12 A_2 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 4 A_3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 6 A_4 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint 2.3 ventures. 4,5 6.2 A_5 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 4 A_7 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or 2.5 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 4 A_7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5 A_8 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 4,6 A_9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 4,34,43 A_10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. B_8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 72 CO8 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Cover B_3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). B_8 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Cover B_6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Cover B_9 3.5 Process for defining report content. 19 B_4 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See 3.6 GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Cover B-1 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for 3.7 explanation of scope). Cover B-2 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities 3.8 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. A_6 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying 3.9 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any 22,30,40,48,56 decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for 3.10 such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied 3.11 in the report. B_5 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 68-71 B_10 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 64,65 7.5.3 B_7 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 8 GR1 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 8 GR1 GR3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance 4.3 body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 8 GR2 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 governance body. 33 GR12 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and 9 GR7 environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 8 GR13 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 6.2 4.7 guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 8 GR4 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 73 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or 9 GR5 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to 4.10 economic, environmental, and social performance. 9 GR6 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 44,45 GR11 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. 67,68-71 GR10 68 FY2010 Sustainability Report Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) Fully Not Not Applicable Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or 4.13 committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as 72 A_11 strategic. C_1 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16 C_2 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 16 6.2 C_1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 16,17 C_2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 18,19,22,30,40,48 C_3 Economic Performance (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,40 EC_DMA Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee 6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7 EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital 43 EC1 providers and governments. /6.8.9 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change. 56 6.5.5 EC2 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 32 6.4.4/6.8 EC3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 operation. 34 6.4.4/6.8 EM4 6.6.6/6.8 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 60 EC4 /6.8.5/6.8.7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant EC7 locations of operation. 34 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 EC4 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit EC8 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 54 /6.8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6 EC6 /6.8.7/6.8.9 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 60 /6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5 EC7 /6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Environmental Performance (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,48,56 EV_DMA EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 56 6.5/6.5.4 EV10 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 52,56 EV11 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 56 EV7 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 56 EV8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 54,56 EV5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EV5 EV5 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 55 EV25 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 56 EV9 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EV20 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 56 EV18 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 6.5/6.5.6 EV22 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and EV22 EN12 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EV26 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. EV27 EV6 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. EV26 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EN15 operations, by level of extinction risk. EV28 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 56 6.5/6.5.5 EV12 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. EV13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 55 EV4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EV14 6.5/6.5.3 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EV15 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 6.5/6.5.3 EV17 69 Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) Fully Not Not Applicable Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EV16 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 6.5/6.5.3 EV21 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EV29 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected EN25 by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 EV19 6.5/6.5.4 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 54 EV23 /6.6.6/6.7.5 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 EV24 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations. No occurrence 6.5 EV31 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 EV30 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 EV1 Labor Practices and Decent Work (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,30 EM_DMA2 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 34 6.4/6.4.3 EM1 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 34 EM5 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major LA3 operations. 31,32,35 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 EM20 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 33 EM12 /6.4.5/6.3.10 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in 6.4/6.4.3 LA5 33 EM13 collective agreements. /6.4.4/6.4.5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees LA6 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 33 6.4/6.4.6 EM14 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by LA7 region. EM19 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.4/6.4.6/6.8 LA8 their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 32 EM18 /6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 33 6.4/6.4.6 EM15 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 30,37 6.4/6.4.7 EM27 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA11 and assist them in managing career endings. 36,37 6.4/6.4.7/6.8. EM28 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 6.4/6.4.7 EM29 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, 6.3.7/6.3.10 LA13 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 8,34 EM2 /6.4/6.4.3 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 34 EM17 /6.4.3/6.4.4 Human Rights (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,30 EM_DMA1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that 6.3/6.3.3 HR1 PN2 have undergone human rights screening. /6.3.5/6.6.6 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5 HR2 taken. PN3 /6.4.3/6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR3 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 59 6.3/6.3.5 EM30 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 34 EM7 /6.3.10/6.4.3 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at HR5 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. No occurrence /6.3.5/6.3.8 EM8 /6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4 HR6 33 EM9 the elimination of child labor. /6.3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to HR7 contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. 33 EM10 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of 6.3/6.3.5 HR8 human rights that are relevant to operations. 59 EM31 /6.4.3/6.6.6 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. CO2 /6.3.8/6.6.7 Society (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,48 CO_DMA Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5 SO1 49,50 CO1 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. /6.8.7/6.6.7 70 FY2010 Sustainability Report Index (GRI, ISO26000, BEST) Fully Not Not Applicable Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page ISO 26000 BEST SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 45 6.6/6.6.3 CO5 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 59 CO5 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 59 CO5 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 72 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 CO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by SO6 country. CO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their SO7 outcomes. 58 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 CS3 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws SO8 and regulations. 58 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 CO9 Product Responsibility (Disclosure on Management Approach) 13,22 CS_DMA Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 PR1 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 23 CS4 /6.7.4/6.7.5 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. CS11 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4 PR3 services subject to such information requirements. 26 CS5 /6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and PR4 service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 23,26 CS12 6.7/6.7.4 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 22 /6.7.5/6.7.6 CS9 /6.7.8/6.7.9 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, 6.7/6.7.3 PR6 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 27 CS13 /6.7.6/6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 26 CS14 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 23 6.7/6.7.7 CS15 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and PR9 26 6.7/6.7.6 CS15 use of products and services. Financial Service Sector Supplement Fully Not Not Applicable Paritially GRI Index Description Reported Page FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. 24,54 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. 44,45 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements FS3 or transactions. 24,25 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business FS4 lines. 36,37 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. 25,60 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. Annual Report FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. 6,24 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by FS8 purpose. 6,54 FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures. 45 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organization has FS10 interacted on environmental or social issues. ○ FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. 54 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or FS12 advises on voting. ○ FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. ○ FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. 27 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. 24,26,27 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. 52 71 Awards Related to Sustainability Management 2011. 02 A Ministry of Health & Welfare Award in recognition of promoting welfare for the handicapped 2010. 11 Ranked 1st in “Korean Sustainability Index” among life insurers, Korea National Standards Institute 2010. 09 Grand Award in the financial and service innovation category 2010. 05 “Korea CEO Award” for Chairman Shin Chang-Jae 2010. 05 “Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award, Chairman Shin Chang-Jae 2010. 03 “50 Respected Korean Corporations”, Fortune Korea, No. 1 in the insurance industry Awarded the ‘2009 Life Insurance Company of the Year’ at the 10th Singapore International 2009. 11 Reinsurance Conference 2009. 11 Acquired the S grade of ‘Family-Friendly Management’ by the Ministry of Social Welfare 2008. 05 Presidential Commendation for the “Best Family Friendly Company” 2008. 01 CEO Shin received IMI Management Grand Award 2008. 01 Outstanding Award at the 4th Transparent Management Awards Association Memberships for Sustainability Management Life Insurance Association Promotes a healthy insurance culture, supports rational insurance policy formation Korea Accounting Standards Promotes unity and objectivity in corporate financial reporting and independent auditors LOMA Publishes reliable insurance industry data for public sharing UN Global Compact Korea Chapter Promote the exchange of information about corporate social responsibility Fosters healthy investment culture, keeps order in market trade, promote ties for financial Finance Investment Association talent training KMAC Offers information on ways to innovate corporations and strengthen competitiveness Offers information and support education on researching of industrial standardization and Korea National Standards quality management and on production Korea Fair Competition Federation Promotes the understanding and practices of fair trade Ethical Management SM Forum Promotes ethical management and researches on sustainability management Korea Risk Management Offers information on risk recognition, researching of risk-related losses, and business ties Federation of Korean Industries Promotes information exchanges among industries and sets up networks Insurance Development Inst. Offers information on fair and rational insurance and other related issues Korea Insurance Society Researches insurance-related theories, laws and practices Promotes the exchange of financial safety information and discussion of safety techniques and Financial Safety Forum policy directions Financial Safety Agency Conducts various activities aimed at preventing and countering hacking Financial Information Protection Helps develop financial information safety-related policies and standards Conference 72 FY2010 Sustainability Report Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics The mission of Kyobo Life is to help all people prepare for any hardship they might encounter in their lives. Since Kyobo Life's foundation in 1958, this mission has been steadfastly pursued; we have been earning customer trust; and this is our priceless and irreplaceable asset. Our vision is to inherit such a tradition, to put first the interest and benefit of honorable customers, to ceaselessly pursue audacious goals for the development of the Company and ourselves in a creative spirit, and to become a company with the highest retention rate in the Korean life insurance industry. To fully achieve this vision in a manner reflective of high ethical awareness and conduct is no doubt the most for all stakeholders, including customers, financial planners, employees, investors, and the government and community, to prosper together and for the Company to progress perpetually. We, employees at Kyobo Life, solemnly pledge that, even if the vision should seem daunting at times, or an opportunity to make an inappropriate profit should arise, we will always abide by social regulations, practice Kyobo Life's core objectives and values, and create a win-win situation for all stakeholders by achieving the vision. 1, Jongno-1Ga, Jongno-Gu, Seoul 110-714 Korea Tel : 82-1588-1001 www.kyobo.co.kr
