2010 Sustainability Report 2 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report This report was printed with soy-based ink. Objective For quantitative measures of performance, the This is the fifth issue of the KT Sustainability report includes data for the three years from 2007 Report, which is intended to provide all to 2009, to help readers identify rising or declining stakeholders with information regarding KT's trends. Qualitative measures of performance are sustainability performance. We have published centered on the reporting period, but introducthe Report since 2006 and will continue to do so tions and historical data are included to provide a annually. sense of continuity. The reporting scope extends mainly to the Reporting Guidelines and Assurance sustainability performance of the KT's Head Office The KT 2010 Sustainability Report was compiled and its business sites in Korea subsequent to the in accordance with the GRI G3 guidelines. An merger with KTF, a wireless service subsidiary, on internal review was conducted to ensure the June 1, 2009. Every effort is being made to objectivity and reliability of the Report's contents. generate maximum synergy from this merger. KT plans to expand the scope of reporting to cover its Reporting Scope and Period affiliates and overseas business sites. The currency This Report covers the period from January 1 to unit used in this report is the Korean won. The units December 31, 2009. It also contains information of measurement used for data include tons, ㎏, ㎡, beyond the mentioned period when deemed and kWh. Other units used in the report are noted relevant. along with the corresponding figures. Dream Story 02 Dream with Customers Dream with Employees Message from the Customer Relations 27 Organizational Culture 51 Chairman of the Board 04 Customer Protection 30 Labor Relations 53 Message from the CEO 06 Youth Protection 33 HR Development 54 Corporate Overview 08 Employee Evaluation, Vision & Dream with Suppliers Compensation & Management Strategy 10 Partnering for Growth 35 Fringe Benefits 58 Sustainability management 12 Support for Partner Firms Occupational Safety & Health 59 Corporate Governance 13 in a Win-Win Relationship 38 Risk Management 14 Dream with Society Ethical Management 16 Dream with Environment Social Contribution 61 Stakeholder Participation 17 Environmental Management 41 IT Sharing 62 Green IT 42 Love Sharing 64 Dream with Shareholders Green IT Activities 44 Culture Sharing 66 Self-declaration of the GRI G3 Application Level Growth & Innovation 19 Reduced Resource Use Green Sharing 67 The KT 2010 Sustainability Report has been compiled according to Mid-/Long-term Growth and Recycling 48 the GRI G3 guidelines. This Report satisfies all of the qualitative and Strategy 22 Appendix quantitative requirements of level “A,” the highest among the three Global Businesses 24 Financial Performance (A, B, or C) permissible levels of reporting provided on the table of Brand Management 25 in 2009 68 GRI application level criteria. As such, we declare, without external Third-Party Review Statement 69 assurance, that the KT 2010 Sustainability Report complies with GRI G3 Index 70 GRI G3 application level “A.” DREAM CREATOR, KT Dream Story 02 2010 Sustainability Report 03 KT inspires young people, realizes employees' aspirations, creates new visions, and shares in diverse dreams. KT is in step with each of its stakeholders, emerging as KT the “Dream Creator”. KT's goal is to realize a new world, built with the participation of all of its stakeholders. As Korea's leading IT services provider, we are growing together with small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), while inspiring hope for the future of all Koreans. We develop IT-related convergence technology that can compete effectively on the world stage, and provide “green” information services that help to preserve nature. Our community service programs are building a more caring society, and we help our employees hone their skills as professionals who perform at a global standard. Today, as the “Dream Creator,” KT is committed to helping shape a world that can accommodate the diverse and precious goals of all of its stakeholders. DREAM CREATOR, KT MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 04 2010 Sustainability Report 05 KT was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (World) in September 2010, along with such major players as Telefónica in Spain, BT in England and Telecom Italia. As the chair of the Board of Directors, I am very proud of this achievement, and I would like to thank all of We are pursuing a balanced approach to economic the KT employees, including CEO Suk-Chae Lee, for all of their efforts to date. In the DJSI performance, social listing evaluation, KT received high marks in all assessment categories, including economic, responsibility and social and environmental performance. Thus our commitment to sustainability environmental soundness management has received global recognition. This listing will help us to work more closely the three requirements for with companies in the US and Europe, expand overseas, and attract long-term investment operational sustainability, from global financial institutions. or the “triple-bottom line.” “Sustainability management,” a topic of intense discussion for the past decade, is no longer an option but an essential factor for corporate survival. When growing crops, excessive use of chemical fertilizers can increase the yield for a short time, but the soil will soon steadily lose its vitality. Likewise, in corporate management, seeking only immediate economic gain could compromise one's chances for long-term survival. Thus, KT is pursuing a balanced approach toward sustainability, focusing on the “triple bottom line” of economic performance, social responsibility and environmental soundness. This will allow KT to achieve going concern. KT runs IT Supporters, which shares the benefits of information technology with marginalized people to narrow the “digital gap.” We are fulfilling our social obligations while promoting growth through partnership by adopting a “Three don’t policy with SME suppliers: Don’t waste SME's resources, Don’t misappropriate SME's ideas of technology development, and Don’t create an environment of competing with SMEs. In addition, we have launched various programs to protect the environment. For example, we have established a videoconference system in order to reduce the environmental impact of business travel, are working on smart grid technology, and adopted a “smart working” system (using information and communication technologies to transcend temporal and spatial barriers in the conduct of business). In the future, we will continue to reflect the voices of various stakeholders in our pursuit of sustainable operations. In the process, KT will be able to grow as a highly respected and trusted company. BOD members, including myself, will spare no effort in ensuring that KT continues to progress on the basis of sustainable growth. Chairman of the Board Eung-Han Kim DREAM CREATOR, KT MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 06 2010 Sustainability Report 07 Throughout history people have dreamed of the ability to interact successfully with others who are far away; this desire has driven the telecommunication industry from the beginning. KT has always been a part of this voyage, dedicated to realizing the dream of perfect human interaction from the conventional voice telephone of yesterday to the video phone of today. We opened the way to the smart phone and mobile internet, allowing voice, text and video KT is spearheading the approach of convergence, data to be seamlessly transmitted over wired and wireless networks to serve users anytime going beyond conventional and anyplace. We KT have been a leader in raising industrial productivity and creating a communication to a new era “smarter” society. and a new way of life. Today KT is spearheading the approach of convergence, going beyond conventional communication to a new era and a new way of life. Moreover, we are fulfilling our role as the “Dream Creator” by welcoming change and taking on new challenges. In the process, new jobs and challenging new opportunities are provided for the nation's youth, inspiring their hopes and dreams and turning those dreams into reality. We have built the foundation of a corporate culture in which we can stand shoulder to shoulder with the world's very best, through continuous innovation, bolstering ethical management, revolutionizing work methods, enhancing labor management relations, and upgrading the personnel system. In addition, our “olleh management” drive is aimed at making KT an “open enterprise;” that is, we strive to grow along with shareholders, customers, employees, small & medium-sized enterprises and other such stakeholders with a “win-win” spirit. In the future we will happily continue our innovation efforts, which are helping to make the world more convenient and more fun. Moreover, we are dedicated to being an ethically sound enterprise that practices the philosophy of sharing with others. In this way we will be able to advance even further worldwide and to pursue our dream of evolving from Korea's leading IT company to a global ICT convergence leader. KT is an enterprise that consistently changes the world and makes it a more enjoyable place. Going forward, we will continue to work hard so that we grow and improve along with all stakeholders. Chairman and CEO Suk-Chae Lee DREAM CREATOR, KT CORPORATE OVERVIEW 08 2010 Sustainability Report 09 Market Shares of Major Services Introduction Corporate Overview as of Dec. 2009 Standing at the forefront of the digital era, KT has been spearheading advances in information Company name: KT (Source: Korea Communications Commission) technology in Korea since its inception in 1981. We are moving toward the vision of becoming a CEO: Suk-Chae Lee 89.9% Global ICT* leader with our wired/wireless convergence technology achieved after the merger Date of establishment: December 10, 1981 with KTF. Based on our digital communication devices connected at anywhere and anytime, Location of head office: 206 Jeongja-dong, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-city, Gyeonggi-do 42.5% we provide advanced wired/wireless services to customers and promote our corporate No. of employees: 30,800 persons (as of the end of March 2010) 31.3% philosophy of “Partnership for Growth” by pursuing green growth and contributing to job Operating revenue: KRW 15.9 trillion Total assets: KRW 24.3 trillion / Total liabilities: KRW 13.9 trillion creation. KT will continue to provide families, individuals and companies with advanced IT Stock listing: Korean, New York and London stock exchanges Fixed-line Mobile Broadband services, including voice & text data, wired & wireless networks, and broadcasting & Credit rating: Moody's “A3” (May 22, 2009) telephone phone internet telecommunications services, in order to grow as a sustainable enterprise that fulfills S&P “A+” (Jun. 30, 2008) environmental, social and economic responsibilities. (* ICT : Information, Communication, Transaction) Fitch Ratings A” (Nov. 26, 2006) 2009 Sustainability Management Performance Indicators Affiliates 2007 2008 2009 Company Book Value Main field(s) of business Ownership (%) Customer satisfaction (point) 66.20 72.00 74.50 name (KRW in million) Employee satisfaction (point) 77.10 78.40 79.00 KTH Internet/contents business 65.90% 120,078 No. of employees (person) 37,379 35,526 31,405 KTP Trunked Radio Service (TRS) 44.90% 37,419 No. of female employees (person) 5,683 5,281 4,603 KTN Special category telecommunications/ NI business 100 57,200 GHG emissions (ton of CO2) 844,045 848,879 806,057 KTSM Construction and maintenance of submarine cable 36.9 20,700 Electricity consumption (GWh) 1,768 1,829 1,736 KTT Security services (security systems, facilities, etc.) 88.8 23,600 Water consumption (1,000 ton) 2,756 2,722 2,776 KTM&S Sales of terminals 100 54,900 Injury rate 0.16 0.16 0.19 KT Capital Lease/installment financing, investment banking 100 103,100 Social Contribution Expenses (KRW in billion) 35.1 34.8 35.2 KTR IT solution rental (equipment/ auto lease, etc.) 100 54,700 KTDS SM/ SI 100 10,000 *Former KTF's data coverage on GHG emissions and electricity consumption before and after the merger is not included above. KT Music Sound source distribution 48.7 16,500 Nasmedia Display advertisement 50 24,900 KT Listed on DJSI World KT was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index *Includes only affiliates with book value of at least KRW 10 billion (DJSI) in September 2010. The DJSI was established by Dow Jones, the world's largest financial information provider, and SAM, a Swiss-based agency for evaluating corporate Global Network sustainability. The DJSI assesses more than 2,500 companies on their levels of Overseas Subsidiary sustainability management, with the top 10 percent selected to be listed on the DJSI : KT has share ownership World. DJSI World members are recommended as preferred investment targets for Overseas Office socially responsible investment funds, allowing the companies to secure long-term : Established to develop business, investors. KT will continue to step up sustainability management efforts to fulfill its conduct business and research as Overseas subsidiaries Overseas offices responsibilities in its role as a DJSI-listed enterprise. KT's representative office China KT China Corp Russia (Moscow Office) Japan KT Japan Co. Ltd Vietnam (Hanoi Office) Key Services and Brands Russia New Telephone Company Columbia (Bogota Office) Mongolia Mongolian Telecom China (Hong Kong Office) Uzbekistan East Telecom, Super-iMax Bangladesh (Dacca Office) The fixed-mobile convergence brand The fixed-line brand The wireless brand USA KT America Inc.(LA Office) Rwanda (Kigali Office) : The brand representing the : The brand providing IT : The No. 1 brand in WCDMA Algeria (Algiers Office) convergence of fixed-line and convergence solutions mobile services, leading the Indonesia (Jakarta Office) mobile networks, bringing homefor home applications network convergence trend Uzbekistan (Tashkent Office) based services together with for home application services for individual customers. DREAM CREATOR, KT VISION & MANAGEMENT STRATEGY 10 2010 Sustainability Report 11 KT has launched the olleh management concept, reflecting our commitment to thinking Vision Statement Corporate Vision outside the box and drawing on the synergy produced by the merger with KTF. This is the Our corporate vision is to become a “global ICT convergence leader.” To this end, we have Convergence-based operational direction for KT to transform into a global ICT convergence leader. The established the ambitious 3.3.7 Plan, which calls for an increase of KRW 3 trillion in KT Group ·Lead the IP-based convergence market program requires the company to grow through mutual benefit to customers and all other ·Provide differentiated customer value sales (to KRW 27 trillion), an improvement of 3 percentage points in KT Group's gross margin stakeholders through future-oriented, innovative thinking. By thinking innovatively, we (to 11.4%), and 7-fold growth in subscribers to fixed mobile convergence (FMC) services (2.1 intend to provide future-oriented services that are welcomed by shareholders, employees, Innovation million more persons) by 2012. KT is responsible for spearheading the growth of the Group the nation, society and other stakeholders. ·Fundamentally improve the operational and is expanding the convergence business with the aim of earning KRW 2.6 trillion in infrastructure that supports growth operating profit on KRW 22 trillion in total sales by 2012. KT Value Pyramid *”Always Connected”: Updated interpretation For emerging as a Global leader Global ICT Convergence Leader of our former management philosophy of The Aim of Management of reverse ideas ·Take the domestic success story global Vision Become a Global IT Leader through Convergence-Based Innovation the “convergence of information, “olleh” KT is a company that reverses customer's ideas and expand Management ·Bolster the model for advancing globally telecommunications and people” Future management Home Customers Individual Customer * ACTION: All for Customer, Collaboration, on the basis of partnerships Business KT is a company that realizes customers' dreams Asset-Based Based Business Based Business Global Business Trust, Innovation, Ownership, Now Portfolio Reorganization Diversification Corporate Customer Convergence Expansion communication management Based Business Business IT Leader KT is a company that reads the heart of customers ·Be a company on the IT frontier Business ·Contribute to IT industry advancement Infrastructure NEW KT WAY = ACTION Customer satisfaction management and economic growth Innovation Corporate Purpose KT is a company welcomed by customers ·Be a respected “people's company” “olleh” Shareholders Core Values: ACTION management Outstanding Performance Management Principle and Strategy : Maximum Corporate Value We recognize the importance of transforming KT into an enterprise that is action-oriented. The underlying principle for all business activities is known as the “New KT Way,” which Country involves six principles: All for the customer, Collaboration, Trust, Innovation, Ownership, and Leading IT Business Objective :Lead the IT Industry Now. This spells ACTION. Employees Liberal Culture New KT Way = ACTION, a transformation to action orientation Guideline for Employee : Free Communication Culture Attitude and Conduct Society Esteemed Company : A company Respected by the Society All for Customer Collaboration Trust Innovation Ownership Now Customers Happy Customers New KT Way: Action : A company that Makes Customers Happy Process Organizational system Support Speedy and action-oriented Goal-oriented and Professionalism and changes responsibility management productivity DREAM CREATOR, KT SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 12 2010 Sustainability Report 13 *The corporate governance charter is available on the KT homepage (http://www.kt.com; Corporate Social Responsibility > Corporate Governance). KT has built an organizational structure that allows it to implement its sustainability management BOD Activities Since its privatization in 2002, KT has been committed to ensuring corporate transparency, KT demonstrated its commitment to CSR to the international goals more systematically and effectively, while it continues to seek ways to ensure that it grows Category 2007 2008 2009 adopting almost all of the recommended global standards for corporate governance. We have community in May 2008 by along with its various stakeholders. We have set ethical management, customer management, No. of professional managers, an independent Board of Directors, and the roles of the CEO and the joining the UN Global Compact. BOD 12 17 14 environmental management, win-win management and social contributions as our top five priorities BOD chair are clearly separate. We have also adopted the KT Corporate Governance Charter meetings to ensure that major issues facing the company are reflected in our daily operations. At the same Participation and established the Corporate Governance Committee in order to improve our corporate time our advanced IT-related services are aimed at raising customer value. 92% 96% 93% rate structure. These efforts were externally recognized by our receiving the “Grand Prize” at the Structure of CSR Committee Evaluation 2010 Corporate Governance Awards by the Corporate Governance Service of Korea. We have Implementation Structure results 4.56 4.61 4.41 CEO (scale of five) also been listed in the CGS Hall of Fame (2007 and 2008). Report Feedback The goal of KT's drive for sustainability management is to continue to advance as a major world player. To this end, we maintain effective communication with customers and stakeholders. The *In 2009, the BOD deliberated on and approved 46 BOD Composition and Operation CSR Committee agenda items, including the plans for CSR Committee, which is chaired by a vice president and consists of all concerned executives, is consolidation with KT Freetel and for the The KT Board of Directors is comprised of 11 members (three executive directors and eight run to ensure that KT's five sustainability priorities are most effectively met. establishment and operation of the Corporate CSR Working Committee Governance Improve-ment Committee independent directors, as of March 2010). The independent directors, who are professionals with A key policy direction for 2010 is to lay the groundwork for sustainability management corporate leadership experience, are appointed by the Independent Director Recommendation Public activities. Our working-level CSR managers have been organized as a “virtual task force” to Relations Dept. Compensation for directors (including Committee, which is composed of all of the independent directors and one executive director. The spread sustainability management across the company. At the same time, we will earn the independent directors) as of the end of BOD chair serves a one-year term and is chosen from among the independent directors. Ethical Management trust of all of our stakeholders by fulfilling our social obligations. Dec. 2009 (Unit: KRW 100 million) Ethical Management Office Executive Independent Category Committees under the BOD Committees under the BOD (as of March 12, 2010) Direction of Sustainability management directors(3) directors(7) Customer Management Committee Composition Roles and responsibilities Division Initiative Organization Roles and Responsibilities Overall Personal Customer 36.5 4.3 4 independent Ethical Gain recognition as a Ethical Corporate governance, risk management, compensation Corporate Home Customer Division directors, Management clean organization Management Office business ethics campaigns Amount Approved Governance Deals with issues relating to corporate governance 1 executive Value Management Office Value Management Office Service development, Innovation Management at the General Committee Respect customer value, Individual Customer Customer management, director Synergy Management Office Shareholders 45 45 promote customer Division, Home Innovation Management 4 independent IT Strategy Office Meeting Audit Committee Performs audits on accounting and company operations Customer satisfaction, increase customer Customer Division (services and social innovation) directors Technology Institute Individual Management benefits and provide KT Technology Center Innovation management, overseeing R&D activities 12.2 0.6 Evaluation & average 4 independent distinctive services IT Strategy Office Information security Compensation Oversees matters related to the CEO's contract and evaluation Environmental Management directors Synergy Customer relations management, *The overall compensation category includes Committee IT Strategy Office Management Office brand management retirement allowances paid in 2009 Management 3 executive Deliberates on general management issues Network Division Environmental policy, environment **Detailed information on the BOD is available on Committee directors mandated by the BOD management system, climate change the KT homepage (www.kt.com; IR > BOD) Related Deliberates on major internal transactions and transactions Asset Management Office IT Strategy Office 4 independent Environmental Realize response strategy , Innovation Transactions with related parties, which are prescribed in the Monopoly Management Green KT, Green Korea Management (environment) directors Win-win Management Committee Regulation and Fair Trade Act and the Commercial Act Network Division, Asset All independent HR Management Office Environmental efficiency CEO Management Office directors, Nominates CEO candidates, deliberates on and Business Support Office HR Management Labor practices indicators, Recommendation 1executive approves necessary matters Purchasing Strategy Office Office, Business HR management, recruitment & Committee director Institute for Economic & Support Office retention, occupational health & safety The corporate governance charter is available All independent Management Research Foster a productive Purchasing Strategy Office Supplier standards on the KT homepage (http://www.kt.com; Independent Director Win-Win directors, Nominates independent director candidates, corporate ecosystem to create Institute for Economic Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Recommendation Management Positive effect of telecom services, 1executive deliberates on and approves necessary matters value with our partners and Management Committee Social Contribution Research stakeholder participation Governance). director Public Relations Office Public Relations Corporate social activities, tackling Office “digital divide,” stakeholder participation Responsibility Management by professionals and compensation system The CEO signs a management contract with the BOD to ensure responsibility. The CEO's Structure of the CSR Committee performance bonus is linked to KT's overall performance, which is assessed by the The Group's CSR Committee, composed of the heads of all departments, oversees sustainability management activities company-wide and, through the olleh initiative, supports Evaluation & Compensation Committee's quantitative and qualitative analysis of various the operation of relevant divisions and offices as well as the CSR Working Committees. The indicators, including non-financial performance. Equally, the performance bonus for CSR committee discusses annual plans for sustainability management and evaluates results. executive directors is based on the same corporate performance evaluation and the The CSR Committee members manage and supervise the activities of each division, and respective business units. ensure compliance to internal and global standards with regard to sustainability management. DREAM CREATOR, KT RISK MANAGEMENT 14 2010 Sustainability Report 15 Market saturation, fierce competition and growing uncertainties in the market have Focused Management on Key Risks heightened the risks of doing business. KT has set up a company-wide risk management We have reinforced our preventive activities by identifying key risk factors related to our system that allows it to respond to financial, strategic, operational, and compliance risks. operations and then establishing strategies for managing risks. Operational and strategic These efforts will help us prevent risks from becoming problems, maintain close ties with risks are pooled and evaluated to identify the greatest threats. The casual relations of these stakeholders, and pave the way toward sustainable growth in an uncertain environment. risks are analyzed to come up with a set of “key risk indicators,” which are used in monitoring our risks and improving weak points, thereby minimizing the chance of problems Risk Management Scope occurring. Compliance Risk Crisis Response R apid & Resolute -Employ rapid and resolute A company-wide crisis response system is in place, allowing the Risk Management Center follow-up measures to initiate appropriate action should any risk become an actual problem. In such cases, the Strategic Respond to and Event Risk minimize Risk I Integrity & Initiative -Disclose transparently Center induces swift action to prevent escalation and minimize the actual damage. and respond proactively uncertainties that negatively affect S Specific & Supportive -Set clear directions Risk Management Process 1. Preventive management process of core risks corporate value and support Assess Establish risk Analyze the Decide response K Knowledge accumulation -Build risk managecurrent situation management indicators development of risk strategy Operational Financial ment know-how to Risk Risk reduce risks Pool risks Prioritize value worth Examine causal Form dedicated Evaluate key risk protecting relationships based response team Company-wide ERM System candidates Set key risk indicators on KRI Conduct improvement KT integrated division-based risk management activities into the company-wide Enterprise (KRI) Identify key causes of risk measures Risk Management system in 2004. In 2010, we established the Risk Management Center under 2. Risk response process the Ethical Management Office as an organization dealing exclusively with ERM. The Center Recognize problem Evaluate problem Respond to problem Feedback supervises all activities relating to risk management, sets risk management plans, identifies and manages key risks, and runs the Risk Management Committee. All organizations in the company are now using the “Enterprise Risk Response Handbook” to respond to actual problems strategically and practically as well as to conduct risk-prevention activities. Receive internal or Determine whether it Determine response Report response results external reports of affects whole company, direction Analyze the case to the problem and designate lead Determine role & prevent recurrence and Risk Management Have RMC identify responder (based on responsibility of relevant feedback Organization Chart Responsibility for Corporate Risk Management the problem potential effect & units Chief Risk Officer (Head of the Ethical Management Office) possibility of spread) Ethical Management Dept. #1 (Risk Management Center) Raising Risk Awareness Successful risk management requires a scientific, efficient risk management system. In addition, Responsibility for Business Risk Management the company must raise awareness of risks and instill a proactive mindset concerning risk Risk Supervision Division management. We have adopted an in-house risk evaluation framework to assess risk factors and “risk owners” and categorize risks according to potential impact and possibility of occurrence. In the process, we have improved our capability to respond to crises and prevent risks from turning Risk Owner Risk Owner Risk Owner Risk Owner into real problems. Our employees are more aware of the need to consider risk factors when Relevant Unit Chief Relevant Unit Chief Relevant Unit Chief Relevant Unit Chief carrying out their assigned duties. Our risk evaluation in 2010 identified a total of 227 risk factors. They have been prioritized, response strategies have been formulated, and risk prevention measures are now being implemented. DREAM CREATOR, KT ETHICAL MANAGEMENT 16 2010 Sustainability Report 17 *The Code of Conduct and its Implementation Guidelines are available on the KT homepage (http://www.kt.com, About KT > Ethical Management) Results of Follow-up Measures to Ensuring ethical business practices is a top priority at KT. The “Clean KT” campaign KT runs the CSR Committee, consisting of related executive directors, to maintain effective Non-compliances in 2009 involves various programs to ensure corporate transparency. Ethical management communication with stakeholders and to reflect their major concerns in actual operations. 148 programs help employees to carry out their missions, while training sessions and informal The Committee supports the activities of deparments and divisions under its supervision, talks with management help to instill the need for ethical compliance throughout company which are tasked with performing sustainability management activities. and the Group. In May 2010, we added provisions regarding environmental protection and the OHS of employee and stakeholders to our Code of Conduct, and our affiliates are now Framework for Stakeholder Communication subject to this Code. Our major stakeholders include customers and investors, which have an economic 16 relationship with the company; employees and business partners, who are invaluable for Programs under the “Clean KT” Campaign driving innovation and growth; and local communities where we operate. We pursue diverse Dismissed Disciplined forms of communication with them by identifying a representative of each group. Dialogue may take place through a regular consultation body or through surveys when needed. Reporting Channels Clean 365 Ethics Training Center by Unit Chiefs Stakeholder Communication Channels Cyber Reporting Center Hotline to Audit “Clean KT” Campaign (Executives) (www.kt.com; About KT > Ethical Stakeholder Group Communication Channel Committee Chair for Holidays Management > Cyber Reporting Center) General shareholders' meeting (annual), CEO conference (annual), earnings conference Shareholders (quarterly, disclosures, conference calls), IR news (1-2 times a month), E-mail: ethics@kt.com Self-assessment Reinforced Communication Ethics Monitoring Review on Ethics domestic/overseas IR events (year-round), IR homepage and Ethics Pledge Channels (Cyber Reporting Customer pools (200 persons, and 3 regular surveys and 4-5 special surveys a year), Help Center (080-713-6262) Progress Center) Customers regular online surveys (approx 20,000 respondents, twice a year), college student product review (60 persons, 6 months), household panel (3rd panel in operation in 2009) Joint Labour-Management conference, Labour-Mangement conference at regional level, Labour-Management conference at group level labor-management dialogue (annual), Employees management conferences (quarterly), grievance resolution system (online), newsletter/internal news/intranet debate forum Hotline to Audit Committee Chair KT opened a hotline to the Audit Committee Chair, who is Partner firm CEO meeting (annual), partner firm satisfaction survey (annual), regular conference (semi-annual), technology exchange forum (monthly), online win-win an independent director, on April 13, 2010. Employees now can use e-mail or voice-mail to Business cooperation center (year-round), website for receiving partner firm suggestions report irregularities by executives with the rank of managing director or above to the Committee Partners (year-round), communities in various fields (under preparation), forums for IT company Chair without having to go through the in-house Ethical Management Office. The hotline joins the CEOs (bi-monthly) Meetings with local communities, KT Volunteers (approx. 40,000 participants per year), Cyber Reporting Center as a direct communication channel to the Audit Committee. Local Communities IT Supporters (39 regions, approx. 70,000 activities per year) CSR Report (published annually since 2006), corporate homepage (www.kt.com), and All Stakeholders 'DigiEco,' the homepage of the KT Research Institute of Economics and Management Expansion of the Ethics Program KT expanded the scope of the Code of Conduct and its Implementation Guidelines to overseas subsidiaries (including joint ventures), and devised sustainability management guidelines for those subsidiaries. These rules cover ethical conduct, Materiality Test social contributions, personal information protection, and compliance to international labor While preparing the 2010 Social Responsibility Report, we carried out a materiality test that standards. They serve as the basis for making decisions that conform to international standards. Materiality Test for comprehensively measured the relevance of sustainable development and the public's corporate sustainability perception of the company. We sought to ascertain the areas of concern by outside Ethics Training by Unit Chiefs (including Executives) Since April 2010, unit chiefs, including stakeholders and the expectations that society has for us. Therefore, we analyzed all executives, have held monthly training sessions to raise employee awareness of ethical issues domestic media reports on the company during 2009 as well as our own activities as and promote their ethical conduct. The unit chiefs (over 500 in total) at the KT Head Office and perceived by the stakeholders. The results were used to extrapolate the key issues that are worksites are familiarized in advance with the training materials, prepared by the Ethical not only concerns shared by stakeholders but which also affect our chances for sustainable Management Office, and then give lectures to their subordinates. In this way, the unit chiefs serve development. The issues we identified are related to customer satisfaction, green growth, as a model and help to instill an ethical mindset in their people. The materials contain various brand recognition, Sustainability Management Strategy, risk management, and local case studies that make the training content more realistic, encouraging greater participation by communities. Besides reporting on these issues, we intend to reflect these test findings in all employees and maximizing the training effectiveness. our overall management activities and to encourage greater stakeholder participation. 2010 Sustainability Report 19 Driving Powerful Growth with New Value. Unrealized dreams are the drivers of progress. Aspiring to be the Global Sales and Profit ICT Convergence Leader, KT creates new opportunities and generates new value Consolidation with KTF boosted operating revenue to KRW 15.9 trillion in 2009, up 35 so that greater economic results are shared. We continue to develop a percent from the previous year. The merger greatly improved product sales revenue, “blue ocean” to drive new growth. Our primary focus in this respect is on the which includes mobile services as well as handsets. Revenues from services delivered via wireless data market, which is growing rapidly, and IPTV, with its endless possibilities. the Internet also grew steadily, as shown by the fact that IPTV subscribers surpassed the In the process our performance results will keep improving and our value will one million mark. On the other hand, discounts for long-term subscribers and combined become ever more surprising. service users led to a slight reduction in Internet access revenue year on year. In addition, fixed-line revenue (telephone and LM services) dropped as mobile and Internet phones continue to replace conventional telephones. Operating Revenue KRW 100 million Operating Revenue Breakdown Unit: KRW 100 million 2008 2009 Change Revenue As % of total Revenue As % of total YoY 159,062 Internet access 20,591 17.5% 19,546 12.3% -5.1% 117,848 Internet-applied 3,595 3.1% 4,319 2.7% 20.2% Data 16,501 14.0% 14,502 9.1% -12.1% Telephone 39,387 33.4% 36,032 22.7% -8.5% LM 13,936 11.8% 11,541 7.3% -17.2% Wireless 10,066 8.5% 42,664 26.8% 323.8% 2008 2009 Product sales 8,551 7.3% 24,988 15.7% 192.2% Others 5,221 4.4% 5,469 3.4% 4.8% Total 117,848 100% 159,062 100% 35.0% Net Income KRW 100 million Operating expenses also rose significantly from the previous year. Non-recurring 5,165 expenses increased sharply (KRW 876.4 billion) compared with a year ago due to early 4,498 voluntary retirement of over 6,000 employees in December 2009, which required massive reserves for the retirement allowance. Despite the drop in operating income due to the increased retirement expenses, however, net income recorded a 14.8 percent growth YoY because the appreciated Korean won reduced losses on foreign exchange translation. 2008 2009 Income Statement Unit: KRW 100 million Change YoY 2008 2009 Amount Change (%) Operating revenue 117,848 159,062 41,213 35.0% Operating income 11,134 6,116 -5,018 -45.1% Non-operating income 8,553 8,843 291 3.4% Non-operating expenses 14,086 9,397 -4,689 -33.3% Income tax expense 1,102 396 -706 -64.0% Net income 4,498 5,165 667 14.8% DREAM WITH SHAREHOLDERS GROWTH & INNOVATION 20 2010 Sustainability Report 21 Investment in Facilities and Future Plan Unit: KRW 100 million Shareholder Return Change YoY KT has adopted the cumulative voting and written ballot systems to protect the rights of 2008 2009 Amount Change (%) minority shareholders. Moreover, in principle, a return of at least 50 percent of the Internet 6,033 8,224 2,191 36.3% previous year's net profit is provided to shareholders. At the March 2010 General Fixed phone 1,427 2,619 1,192 83.5% Shareholders' Meeting, a resolution was passed to distribute KRW 486.4 billion in Mobile phone 7,295 7,411 116 1.6% Data 4,185 2,852 -1,333 -31.9% dividends for the FY 2009. Telecommunication 6,752 7,204 452 6.7% infrastructure Innovation Management Support facilities 3,895 3,690 -205 -5.3% In 2009, we addressed risk factors such as fiercer competition among affiliates and the Total 29,587 32,000 2,413 8.2% expansion of LVNP (SMS VoIP Number Portability). We also laid the groundwork for our transition to “olleh KT” through aggressive marketing for IPTV Live (IPTV that supports Wages and Employment Benefits terrestrial broadcasts) and SoIP (service over Internet protocol). We will continue to pursue In 2009, labor expenses totaled KRW 3.45 trillion, including a non-recurring expense of change and innovation to realize our vision for sustainability. KRW 876.4 billion due to the early voluntary retirement. Continuation of Customer-oriented Business Processes Labor Expenses Unit: KRW 100 million Previously, KT's processes were based on work functions, organizational units and Change YoY products. Now, however, we are revamping our processes from an end-to-end customer 2008 2009 Amount Change (%) perspective with the aim of turning KT into a comprehensive media service & product Wages 18,362 18,678 315 1.7% provider. Going beyond simple process upgrades, we are transforming the enterprise by Reserves for 3,222 10,717 7,495 232.6% innovating products, channels, service strategies, processes, and infrastructure. retirement allowances Expenses on employment We are granting ownership for all company-wide processes and recognizing them as 4,887 5,149 262 5.4% benefits assets to increase responsiveness to changes in the business environment. We also carry Total 26,471 34,544 8,073 30.5% out performance monitoring and have established a process governance framework. Share Ownership Greater Efficiency and Innovation to Boost Profits 46.23% Each organizational unit has drawn up voluntary operational innovation measures in line As of the end of 2009 2.91% (120,699,753) (No. of outstanding shares) (7,605,163) with management's emphasis on Corporate Responsibility and the company-in-company Foreign Domestic (CIC) framework. The Service Enterprise Engineering (SEE) program was also launched to ESOP investors investors 35.54% promote operational efficiency and innovation, which will help us to deliver excellent (92,807,232) services and increase profitability at the same time. 8.46% 6.86% (22,084,320) (17,915,340) National Treasury Pension shares Service DREAM WITH SHAREHOLDERS MID-/LONG-TERM GROWTH STRATEGY 22 2010 Sustainability Report 23 The Key Growing Businesses Our WiBro Investment Company (WIC) plans to build a Korea-wide WiBro network. We aim to We have implemented various mid-/long-term business strategies to realize our vision of expand into overseas markets and have already signed an MOU with Intel for incorporating growing into a global ICT convergence leader. These strategies are leveraging our WiBro communication functions into Intel chipsets. outstanding network and integrated fixed-mobile services, as well as our experience in opening up new possibilities for convergence by introducing popular smart phones in 2009. IPTV In November 2008, KT became the first company in Korea to commercialize realtime IPTV, which integrates telecommunications and broadcasting. We have steadily invested “Open Eco” System We are building the “Open Eco” system, which targets new media in IT infrastructure such as a media center, transmission equipment and a backbone IMO Control Room markets such as IPTV as well as the rising market for open mobile platforms in step with the network. Additionally, we are pursuing win-win partnerships with SMEs that supply spread of smart phones. Our new system allows software developers, SMEs and venture equipment, solutions and content. companies to grow together. We conducted in-depth interviews with venture companies and SMEs before designing the system. Our goal has been to expand opportunities to discover New Businesses newly growing businesses together by providing them with practical support and by New Media Advertisement KT is developing an integrated advertisement platform for promoting effective communications amongst all players. cross-media ads (connecting ads on different media vehicles) and new media ads such as For example, KT is providing the development environment (namely the necessary space and those for IPTV, Internet, mobile and SoIP. Furthermore, we are developing intelligent toolkits), important statistical data, indirect investment through funds, and cloud computing advertising technology by analyzing user patterns and various data to provide customized ad services. Cloud computing is a service that allows customers to borrow resources such as services that deliver maximum impact. large data centers, network infrastructure, software and service platforms. As such this service is now attracting attention as a new growth business that leverages KT's strengths in Green IT & Cloud In line with the Korean government's green growth policy, KT is supporting venture companies and SMEs. Now KT is building the Econovation Center to considering the adoption of initiatives related to green telecommuting and smart grid that provide mobile application developers with online technical support, and developers with test links IT with electric power. Meanwhile we are developing virtualization technology for cloud environments and a place to assemble. The center will also serve as a venue for developer computing and cloud PC*s. competition events. ·IPTV e-learning (* Cloud PC : This is a computing model in which users store their PC environment, applications and personal data in a ·In-house cloud storage (Ucloud Pro) centralized data center and use them anywhere via the Internet.) ·GOOK hub Open Eco System : Open platform-based collaboration Creating a “positive sum” together with SMEs Book Café We launched “QOOK Book Café,” a distribution channel that combines that expands business chances for conventional publication contents and IT technology. The site is an open market for books, and the competitiveness of SMEs comic books, magazines and other kinds of e-book contents that are available via PCs, SMEs SMEs SMEs SMEs Promoting Facilitating Strengthening Expanding e-book readers and smart phones. Individuals as well as publishers can post and sell their collaboration startups viability sales channels e-book contents on this site. This market provides more than 100,000 books, including bestsellers. QOOK Book Café will be a new business platform for KT, helping the Korean publication market to grow further. (More information about QOOK Book Café is available at Open Eco System (a “win-win” structure) www.bookcafe.qook.co.kr.) WiBro WiBro (Wireless Broadband) is a wireless broadband Internet technology jointly developed by KT and other South Korean IT companies. This protocol is an international standard for IEEE 802.16e (mobile WiMAX). Since 2007, we have been engaged in various efforts to expand service areas with the goal of promoting the WiBro service as our future growth engine. In addition to the basic function of accessing the Internet, KT plans to create new mobile lifestyles by introducing SHOW WiBro via personalized services such as webmail, full-duplex video communication, PC control for the home, customized information service Wi-Fi in the subway that is connected to a real-time search function, and mobile UCC. DREAM WITH SHAREHOLDERS GLOBAL BUSINESSES 24 2010 Sustainability Report 25 Global Businesses Customers buy brands instead of products and they experience companies through KT is a comprehensive telecom service provider with extensive expertise in building and company's brands. Brands are now valued as intangible assets that create corporate Group Brand operating various kinds of ICT infrastructure, including PSTN*, broadband Internet values. According to surveys on the brand value of major global players, the brand value of Management Committee network, WiBro network, BCN**, IPTV, CDMA and WCDMA. We are expanding our KT has steadily increased since 2005, and surged especially in 2009 when the fixed and business overseas by targeting governments and telecom operators in underdeveloped mobile businesses were integrated. We are engaged in efficient brand management countries which need to improve their ICT infrastructure. Additionally, we are aggressively Individual activities by increasing brand value while reducing the ratio of marketing costs to sales. Division venturing into overseas markets by providing customers with world-class solution IMC We also pursue a brand management strategy at the Group level to bolster our brand platforms and consulting services. We leverage our global network that connects major management system as well as to ensure all related activities are aligned systematically. Home Division Super-iMAX EVO service in Uzbekistan countries around the world to provide end-to-end data lines and IP services as well as CIC Brand IMC fixed and mobile satellite telecommunication solutions globally. Working Group Brand Management System Committee Corporate We run the Group Brand Management Committee, CIC Brand Working Committee and (*PSTN : Public Switch Telephone Network **BCN : Broadband Convergence Network) Division IMC Affiliate Brand Working Committee to determine strategies for brand policy & design and Sustainability Management Overseas CW Head Office advertising. The Group Brand Management Committee, which is chaired by the CEO and To extend sustainability management into our operations abroad, KT established and Convergence attended by CIC executives and affiliate CEOs, sets the overall direction of the KT Group Planning provided Code of Conduct and Global Sustainability Management Guidelines to our brand. Details on brand management are discussed at the CIC Brand Working Committee overseas joint-ventures in their local languages. The Global Sustainability Management Affiliate Brand and Working Committee. Guidelines provide guidance on ethical management, social contribution, personal The Synergy Management Office (formerly the Brand Strategy Office), which directly information protection, and compliance with International Lobour Standard. We are KT reports to the CEO, oversees Working Committees and manages the brands of the Group Investing brand and individual affiliates comprehensively. The office deals with changes of Group strengthening sustainability management globally by monitoring and providing education Affiliate Brand Management to our overseas joint-ventures. Working brand policy, deliberates on Group brand violence cases, and provides guidelines for Group Committee KT Subsidiaries Marketing brand design and affiliated brand advertising. Department Global Connection between Sustainability Management and Brand Investment KT continues its endeavors to establish constructive corporate image as a “reliable, (M&A, Joint Venture) responsible and green growth-oriented” company. As a part of these efforts to improve our All New KT tries leap beyond the corporate image, we have assessed the images of olleh KT (Group brand), QOOK, SHOW Global boundary of local business. and 'olleh' (Product brands) , covering a range of assessment indicators such as fair price IT Business (IT Solution, We will leverage our world-class service know-how policy, misleading advertisement prevention, environmental preservation, social Network Building) and broadband network building technology to carry responsibility activities, etc. The assessment results are reported to the integrated out global investment, IT, service businesses. marketing communication offices of individual business divisions to help them to determine the 4 P's of marketing strategy (product, price, promotion and place). The Brand Strategy Global Service (Traffic Wholesale, Office attends quarterly meetings of the CSR Committee to connect sustainability Global Data) operations and brand. Brand Efficiency Assessment We have strengthened relationships with international organizations and global enterprises. Brand recognition and value assessments are conducted biannually (in June and December) For example, we recently carried out a project to expand a basic telecommunications network by using the Brand Performance Index (BPI). The BPI is designed for providing a basic in Vietnam, and we have acquired stakes in NTC of Russia, MT of Mongolia, and East Telecom framework to brand management, consisting of brand awareness, brand attitude and Super iMAX of Uzbekistan. Such successful experience with overseas investment will help (favor/familiarity) and brand behavior (usable/recommendable). We also use Advertising us to enter into other countries which have great growth potential in Internet-related fields. We Performance Index (API) to analyze the effectiveness of our ads. The BPI and API which also export our world-class solution platforms, which meet global standards, while building reflect various customer opinions successfully provide us a wide range of useful information networks and providing consulting services for governments and enterprises on a global scale. in establishing brand and advertizing strategies. 2010 Sustainability Report 27 Let customers' dreams unfold with leading-edge services. We pursue customer value-oriented management by re-aligning our vision, principles and What starts as a dream will eventually come true. People who have always core values to meet the needs of our customers, and by further distancing ourselves from wished to have a hand-held computer can now enjoy the services they want through our competitors. All of our corporate activities and procedures are to be carried out in a their smart phone. At KT, we don't just respond to customer demand. single framework for increasing customer value in accordance with our new corporate Rather we launch new services that are a step ahead of what customers are seeking. vision. To enhance customer value more concretely and systematically, we established Our customer value management program aims to not just impress customers three strategic objectives: increase customer satisfaction; promote user convenience; but to instill pride in our brand. In developing new services, we always strive to and differentiate services. understand the customers' desire down to even minor dissatisfactions. Three Major Action Strategies Goal Customer value-oriented management Strategic goal Increase customer Promote user Differentiate services satisfaction convenience Reduce user complaints Fixed-mobile integrated services Quality assurance system Key action plans Reinforce one-stop treatment One-billing Expand “before service” (B/S) of customer claims Increase customer benefits Differentiate services through Increase contact channels through integration activities that cater to and diversify their functions Establish corporate culture customers' emotional needs Improve customer satisfaction emphasizing protection of of fixed and mobile users customer information Customer-oriented Management Activities Increasing Customer Satisfaction We listen to what customers say and reflect those opinions in our management processes. Customer opinions are collected through our call center, homepage, sales offices, and various external channels (customer advocacy groups) because the “voice of the customer” (VOC) is a valued asset to us. Once gathered, customer feedback is integrated and analyzed under our VOC Management System on a real-time basis. We are not just responding to customer complaints but are reflecting them in all business processes, from product planning to sales. Reduction in Customer Claims The Consumer Complaints Management System (CCMS) introduced in May 2007 is a key tool to realize customer value innovation (CVI). The CCMS is designed to prevent customer complaints and dissatisfaction from happening and to provide real-time solutions. Key executives responsible for customer service manage the operation, maintenance, promotion and improvement of the CCMS. Customer opinions from various channels are collected, classified and calculated by the CRM system. Customer requests and complaints are arranged and reported to the top management once every two weeks, and are reflected in the development of new services and products. A dedicated secretariat is running the CCMS. DREAM WITH CUSTOMERS 고객관계 28 2010 Sustainability Report 29 Processes for Handling Boosting Customer Convenience & Benefit User Complaints User contain point User consultation User Integrated Fixed-mobile Services and Integrated Online Channel We unified our home channel contact point area management Customer Satisfaction Results service brands under the “QOOK” name to mark our new beginning as an integrated fixedAgency, KT Customer service Visit Comprehensive 74.5 mobile services provider in 2009. Accordingly, previously separate fixed and mobile customer Plaza After-service VOC 72 Filing Quality management call centers were integrated into the full-service, one-stop “100 Call Center.” The ”QOOK” Telephone Customer User system site (www.qook.co.kr), a comprehensive corporate portal that covers products and services Center Privacy 66.2 Handset DB Statistics for the home, also offers information on service charges and user terms. Users can visit this Internet Cyber handling Fee site to apply for or cancel subscriptions, check bills, change service plans and handle other VOC handling request matters. These features are similar to those offered by the “100 Call Center.” ProceOne-stop handling Customer service By regional BU 2007 2008 2009 ssing (greater authority for contact point employee) Customer facility By category Integration of Customer Information Telecommunication services are changing rapidly VOC management Feedback on Sales support Representative VOC result (handle within 9 hrs) with the ongoing evolution of related technology. As a result, systems for managing Internal control results analysis, Details of index feedback customers, international phone calls, roaming services, service plan consultation, and sales Feede-Billing Services thousand persons back Head office/Business unit data have also become complex, making it increasingly difficult to respond rapidly to User survey /Customer satisfaction study (management index, internal control index) customer needs. KT has tackled this problem by launching the “N-STEP” project, which 39,102 integrates all customer-related data. N-STEP allows us to provide customers with a points 35,711 29,972 accumulation program that covers various services, offer diverse plans for combined Running the VOC System KT operates a “voice-of-the-customer” (VOC) system not just to services, and respond quickly to customer inquiries. reduce the number of customer complaints but also to ascertain customers' needs, explain their needs company-wide, and solve the problem as soon as possible. To this end, we: (1) Expansion of “One Billing” and “e-Billing” KT is expanding the number of e-billing offer a complete service package that includes “pre-inspections;” (2) settle complaints at 2007 2008 2009 subscribers, who receive their bills by mobile phone or email, in order to reduce costs and customer contact points through the VOC system; (3) reduce customer complaints by resource usage from sending bills in the mail. The number of e-billing subscribers is improving business processes; and (4) boost customer loyalty by heeding the advice of key growing, and we plan to accelerate this trend by making more functions available through ecustomers. The VOC system empowers employees at the point of contact with customers to billing. We also plan to provide an integrated billing (“One Billing”) service to customers who address the problem immediately. When this is not possible, however, the customer request use multiple KT services. This will allow them to more easily track household telecom is sent to the person in charge and the complaint is resolved within nine hours from the time expenditures. Moreover, customers who apply for the service will be able to receive one-stop it was received. consultations for greater convenience. CVA Scores Differentiated Services We operate a quality warranty system, which assesses customer satisfaction from the time of telecom service initiation as well their response to after-sales 1.09 *CVA = KT's score / No. 1 competitor's score in services. Customer requests collected in the field also help us to improve our services. Our customer satisfaction 1.06 IT engineers (service representatives) issue a QOOK service quality warranty for customers, 1.05 * Classification according to the CVA score range: Top-level competitiveness (1.1 or more), thereby elevating customer confidence in KT services. We aim to provide uninterrupted Outstanding competitiveness (1.03 or more and services by adding a “before-sales” program to the after-sales service suite. This program less than 1.1) exemplifies our commitment to excellence, even behind the scenes. It offers preventive Average-level competitiveness (0.97 or more and less than 1.03) inspections of facilities with a high probability of malfunctioning, in order to minimize 2007 2008 2009 Low-level competitiveness (lower than 0.97) inconveniences and raise the level of value that customers perceive they are getting. Now the “before-sales” service program is being expanded from the fixed line, broadband Internet, VoIP and IPTV services to include mobile phone shadow areas. This will help us to provide customers with services that are even more reliable. DREAM WITH CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER PROTECTION 30 2010 Sustainability Report 31 We have built a state-of-the-art system for protecting personal information, by expanding the Raising Employee Awareness Trainers from KT Headquarters visit branches and partner relevant infrastructure, adopting a certification system to ensure data privacy, and companies to conduct sessions that instill greater employee awareness on the importance of conducting regular security checks. In this process, our customers' valued online protecting customer information. This on-site training was attended by 94.9 percent of all KT information is safe from being accessed and traded illegally. employees in 2009. We have also installed an e-learning system to conduct an annual program for all employees. Customer Information Protection Reinforced Ability to Execute Customer Information Protection Measures KT's Information Safety Inspection Every year, KT conducts the information protection safety QOOK Internet personal care personal information protection policy is in compliance with Korea's Act on Promotion of Network testing at QOOK & SHOW Zone inspection in accordance with the law and obtains external safety certification on services Information and Communications Network Utilization and Information Protection, etc., the and key ICT facilities. The inspection, first carried out in 2009, is designed to identify government directive on the protection of personal information, and other related vulnerable spots and potential problems in advance to improve preventive measures. regulations. We run a dedicated webpage (http://privacy.kt.com) to respond to customer's External agencies have issued certifications for our clustered information and inquiries. Beyond implementing the basic policy, we continue to expand our data security communications facilities as well as our facilities for providing information and infrastructure and raise employee awareness given that most information leaks result from communications services. hacking and careless data management. All employees are now required to sign an annual pledge to protect customer information. In addition, we routinely check the personal Complying with Government EMR Standards Mobile phones and other mobile information protection activities of our sales agents and partner firms to ensure compliance. telecommunication devices are subject to ongoing debate over the possible harmful effects of their electromagnetic radiation (EMR). We conduct tests on all handsets to measure their Expansion of Customer Information Protection Infrastructure We consider the specific absorption rate (SAR). All devices are registered and sold only after they meet the unauthorized disclosure and leakage of customers' personal information as a key risk factor, government's SAR limit of 1.6 W/kg. In addition, we continue to install new base stations and have established various measures and systems for managing this risk. For example, each year to support our expanding WiBro services. This has heightened safety concerns by our branches, Call Center, partner firms, and webpage are subject to our customer residents who live near these sites. Every year, KT selects a base station with the highest information security certification, and we require our subsidiaries to adhere to a protection signal strengths and commissions an external agency to evaluate the electromagnetic policy as strict as that practiced by KT. The customer information security certification aims environment, in order to monitor and manage EMR quantitatively. to ensure that privacy protection measures are fully implemented by awarding outstanding business units, while intensively monitoring units which have not been certified and providing Prevention of Service Disruptions The prevention of service interruptions is critical, as them with training. enjoying stable telecom services is an important customer right. Problems in KT has adopted technical and managerial measures, including an encryption system, to telecommunication can cause major economic losses as well as public dissatisfaction. As prevent hackers' unauthorized and illegal use of customers' national ID numbers, financial Korea's largest IT network operator, KT bears a great responsibility and employs various data, or other personal information. In 2007, we introduced the Digital Right Management measures to prevent disruptions and ensure stable and reliable telecom services at all solution to block leaks from our employees and partner firms. DRM encrypts all data created times. on PCs and watermarks printed materials. We routinely check for potential weak spots in all of our systems, including personal data storage. Simulated training sessions are conducted in cooperation with other public sector organizations to help prevent data-related crimes and enhance our capabilities to respond to online attacks and data leaks. DREAM WITH CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER PROTECTION 32 2010 Sustainability Report 33 Dual Network Monitoring System We currently operate network control centers in Seoul, We are helping to create a clean Internet environment, where children of all ages are Busan and eight other regions to monitor local service quality, while a nationwide network protected from game addiction and harmful influences such as gambling, pornography and center in Gwacheon (south of Seoul) features a real-time monitoring function, completing a violent material. dual network monitoring system. We carry out year-round preventive measures for all facilities that could spark service disruptions, including switchboards, transmission lines, e-Clean Activities Internet infrastructure, and power supplies. We developed the Clean-i, TimeCodi, and “iAlimi” services for our QOOK Internet service users. The Clean-i application blocks pornographic materials distributed through P2P programs and Earthquake-resistant Solutions In order to secure business continuity and make Free PC security software various harmful websites, while the TimeCodi application prevents Internet addiction by cutting immediate and adequate responses in times of earthquake outbreak, we have completed a off access after a preset usage time is over. These two services have been in place since 2002, and test for earthquake-resistance on all our telecommunication facilities, first started with our they are now used by more than 500,000 customers. In March 2009, we introduced an application Telecom Center in 2001. We are introducing a solution for the facilities requiring additional called iAllimi, which allows parents to easily understand the level of harmfulness of the internet reinforcement. We conducted a shake table test in May 2009 and developed raised access environment which their children are exposed to. This program is available free of charge to all floor frames, equipment racks and battery frames with proven resilience against quakes in users, including non-KT customers. In addition, we are partnered with the Korea Internet Safety accordance with the Technical Standards on the Safety and Reliability of Electrical Telecom Commission (KISCOM) to prevent access to over 1,100 harmful overseas sites, and we developed a ·Installing WDM equipment in truck lines Facilities, which was revised by the government on October 16, 2008. Plans also call for system to prevent indirect access to these sites. We continue to monitor various websites, giving and correcting a system failure reflecting these quake-resistance solutions in the equipment purchasing process for on-site the content grades and requiring the pages to check for user ages. ·Emergency recovery of optical cables application, and improving network reliability through continuous upgrades. e-Clean Services Status Emergency Recovery Drill KT engages in the annual emergency training drill in Item Details QOOK Internet Clean-i Blocks access to harmful websites, such as those that provide lewd or violent material cooperation with other telecom operators under the direction of MKE (Ministry of Knowledge Qook Internet TimeCodi Arranges and manages Internet usage by time period and day Economy), in order to secure readiness to respond quickly to service disruptions caused by Qook Internet Doctor Blocks and cures viruses and malicious code attacks natural disasters or accidents. We are also equipped with 320 types of emergency recovery Encryption of information Ensures protection from cracking by encrypting entered through the keyboard information entered through the keyboard equipment and we regularly perform emergency recovery drills. Additionally, the fourth day iAllimi Internet clean index reporting service (records of visits to harmful sites, etc) of every month is designated as “safety day.” On this day, each business site undertakes safety training and checks of key facilities in order to ensure the capability to respond to The Cleaning of Our Portal Site natural disasters or accidents quickly and effectively. Paran.com, which is run by KT subsidiary KTH, regularly monitors content on its chat rooms, blogs and internet communities. Users are required to verify their ages through personal ID numbers in order to obtain access to any web page of Paran.com that contains adult content. The portal site employs an AI technology-applied screening program to monitor user-created content (UCC) and other interactive services. If they are found to violate the rules of the site, Paran.com blocks the services. In addition, KT runs a reporting center and hotline for stamping out online pornography and illegally distributed content. To facilitate these activities, we share relevant information with numerous external agencies. Prevention of Internet Security Threats “QOOK Internet Doctor” was launched in August 2007 in order to protect customers from the increasing number of cyber threats such as cracking, spam emails and phishing. This free-of-charge application features a personal firewall, automatic PC diagnosis, application fix management, overall system optimization, and anti-virus function. An anti-phishing feature was recently added to prevent damage from e-mail fraud, a growing problem. 2010 Sustainability Report 35 Growing Together with Openness and Trust. Mutual trust brings greater growth for all. KT maintains horizontal rather than vertical relationships with suppliers, offering a “partnership for growth” model. Our status as a true partner with SMEs is shining through. We are applying our We revised our procurement program by implementing measures to prevent the abuse of IT expertise to build a mobile eco-system, are running programs for forecasting the lowest bidding scheme, strengthening the basis for SME self-sufficiency, paying in demand and sharing results, and are expanding our open platform. cash, and expanding financial support for the SMEs. In addition, we have supported Going forward, these partner relationships will be maintained and developed software application and content developers through the “Open-Eco” policy, further so that suppliers grow with us. strengthening our win-win ties. Not complacent in these achievements, we will further our policy of mutually-beneficial relations with suppliers, building a new business paradigm of “Partnership for Growth” We declared the “Three Don’t Policy” to alleviate Ceremony to announce “win-win” cooperation SMEs' concerns when they cooperate with big companies. These refer to our not wasting and a fair transaction agreement SMEs' resources, not appropriating SMEs' ideas for technology development, and not competing directly with SMEs. Goals and Directions of The Declaration of Three Don't Policy to Promote Partnership for Growth “Partnership for Growth” olleh KT's Declaration of Three Don’t Policy We will not waste SME's resources We will not misappropriate SME's ideas of technology development We will not create an environment of competing with SMEs Demand Forecast Our SME vendors previously had trouble managing their production and inventories because they were unable to accurately predict KT's future demand. Additional resources may be wasted when KT does not commercialize newly developed products. However, our new demand forecast program helps to conserve the resources of our partner firms, and we now improving our joint development scheme to provide our partner vendors with greater opportunities. Our new program calls for us to announce, at the beginning of each year, our projected annual procurement requirement based on current market and technology trends, as well as our short-/mid-term business forecasts. We began the program by disclosing our first round of demand forecasts in July 2010, followed by periodic updates as the business situation changed. Non-disclosure Agreement “We shall not misappropriate SMEs' technology development ideas” means that we assure our SME vendors that they need not worry about losing intellectual property when, for example, their proposals are not adopted by KT for various reasons or when the proposal review process is protracted. To this end, we will conclude non-disclosure agreements (NDAs) with our partner firms, thereby improving the transparency of our cooperative arrangements with suppliers. The NDA helps prevent sensitive information from being leaked to third parties and promises to severely punish employees who violate the agreement. DREAM WITH SUPPLIERS PARTNERING FOR GROWTH 36 2010 Sustainability Report 37 Moreover, we will notify our suppliers of our development plans in advance as part of our Expanded Open Platform efforts to improve the joint development scheme. Joint development projects, once underway, By publicly committing not to compete directly with SMEs, we aim to defer SME concerns will be managed closely, and if commercialization does not result, the partner firm will be that KT might advance into both ends of their value chain and overtake their markets. We appropriately compensated for their resource outlays. This will help to reduce uncertainties will pursue a positive-sum game on the basis of an “Open Eco” system by creating new on the part of our suppliers and they can control their production and inventories more business areas shared with our SMEs, rather than playing the old zero-sum battle where flexibly, easing the problem of resource waste during the development stage. big companies and SMEs fight over limited resources. We are offering our SME vendors some of our assets and expanding open platform-based Partnership for Growth * NDA(Non-Disclosure Agreement) cooperation in order to preserve their original business realms, while giving them new : Improved Processes to Prevent Business development Opening ceremony for KT Econovation Center market opportunities. This allows them to maintain stable sales channels, while Suppliers' Ideas from Being Lost Online strengthening their competitiveness in their areas of specialization. NDA* Research & Follow-up Online development processes Partnership for Growth customized for : Compensate SMEs for their Ideas Suggestion Quick review by Detailed review Improve joint from SMEs KTIdea by a third party Equipment each project Institutionalize registration/ Compensate when project procurement development Disclose development management of joint development does not go forward Unified channel scheme plan in advance projects Run a fund to support technology Grant opportunities to application Compulsory preConclusion of NDA Objective, transparent Shortest possible Support development providers with only ideas and registration with suppliers review review to prevent commercialization For key IT solutions: KRW 55 billion technologies opportunity losses of potential ideas Compulsory registration To protect ideas of suppliers Review Board, run by a and technologies For mobile apps/contents: KRW 45 billion Support development costs in advance of suppliers' proposals Punish employees who third party Limit review process to * already in operation Share profits and development leak to competitors Prevent undue influence two months cooperation with partner relevant information of by established interests Implement customized Ideas that need further Create idea Marketable ideas firms before project start suppliers (including follow-up steps for purchasing development current partners) adopted ideas Promise up to 50% of purchase orders scheme Use conventional strategic procurement or contract ad libitum Promise purchase orders for a Ideas, Proposals & Rewards period if successful We reorganized our site for submitting suggestions and proposals (ktidea.kt.com) in order to create a single reception window. We have also streamlined our processes so that all Benefit-sharing Arrangement ideas or proposals are reviewed and decided within two months of receipt. The selected In 2006, KT adopted the benefit-sharing arrangement where both KT and partner firms ideas are categorized into business development, R&D, and equipment procurement, and jointly develop equipment and services in order to reduce costs and improve quality. Six different follow-up steps have been devised for each area. These improvements allow us to projects were carried out in 2008 and seven projects were launched in 2009. KT provides make the best use of the ideas from our SME suppliers. We have also introduced an idea participant suppliers with training and consulting on Six Sigma, a business management purchasing scheme for technology, business models or other ideas that contribute to our strategy. We also provide environmental testing and measuring devices to support their operations. If an idea can be commercialized, the proposer will be guaranteed up to 50 equipment development efforts. percent of the total procurement volume for the item in question. For ideas that require further development, purchase orders are assured for a pre-set period if the development Patented Technology Procurement and Usage Rights Transfer is completed successfully. We are expanding patent-related cooperation with companies and universities that possess Our commitment to supporting the R&D activities of SMEs is underlined by a KRW 45 billion superior technologies, in order to secure key technologies that will drive future business fund for commercializing ideas and technologies related to mobile applications and content. growth. We are also strengthening our business competitiveness by applying key patents An additional fund worth KRW 55 billion is planned to support projects for key IT solutions. we have already acquired. To promote win-win cooperation, we are committed to leveraging These funds lower the R&D costs of SMEs with exceptional technology and outstanding KT R&D results to turn those results into marketable items and grant SMEs the rights to ideas, and revenues earned from projects will be shared. use the technologies or patents they need at lower royalty rates. We will also continue to sell our rights to unused patents to SMEs. DREAM WITH SUPPLIERS SUPPORT FOR PARTNER FIRMS IN A WIN-WIN RELATIONSHIP 38 2010 Sustainability Report 39 We are fully aware that our competitiveness is linked directly to that of our business Support for Overseas Expansion of Outstanding Suppliers We help top-performing partners. We therefore offer multiple support measures in order to help our suppliers partner companies to expand their business and sales channels. In 2009, we pursued five enhance their competitiveness, including product quality consulting, free employee training, global IT projects with nine exemplary suppliers, generating KRW 6.1 billion in sales. Going financial support and assistance to open new sales channels overseas. forward, we will continue to strengthen our partner relationships by carrying out joint overseas expansion. Support Consulting and Accreditation for Quality (TL9000)/Environmental (ISO14001) In order to ensure a proper environmental and quality management system for our partner Fair Trade Compliance Announcement of a “win-win” program to companies, KT encourages our partner companies to be certified to TL9000/ISO14001 Fair Trade Compliance Program KT became the first in the Korean telecom industry to upgrade the IT industry and create new jobs (Quality/Environmental Management system) by providing them a financial assistance KT adopt a fair trade compliance program (CP) in 2001, in an effort to ensure strict adherence to covers 50 percent of the certificate related expenses. This support promotes the the law and prevent unfair practices. The CP conducts audits to confirm whether any unfair standardization of their quality management processes, raises their employees' awareness practices have been conducted inside the company, before they are pointed out by of environmental issues, and improves their overall productivity. Going forward, we plan to government authorities such as the Fair Trade Commission. The audit results are passed on implement rigorous follow-up measures in order to help our suppliers increase their to all organizational members so that they may draw lessons from these case studies. As a competitive edge and ensure a stable supply of equipment. result, all employees can raise their awareness and understanding of fair trade issues, thereby helping to prevent such practices from occurring. Venture AwardCompetition for start-up Support for Telecom Infrastructure and Testing Environments In order to lessen the SMEs and developers that produce new heavy R&D burdens on our suppliers, we have established an independent network business items and QOOK TV applications Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) infrastructure and provided an environment of developing and testing wireless internal Compliance programs that promotes companies' voluntary observation of fair trade laws and services to our suppliers. A total of 206 providers of mobile internet contents and solutions regulations, based on trust between companies, market and government were benefited under this support scheme in 2009. FTC conducts annual evaluations (CP rating evaluation) and provides various incentives Free Training to Partner Companies KT provides free training programs to employees of Deliberation of Regulations The Fair Competition Deliberation Center, which is staffed by SME partners, who in most cases have limited resources for HR development. In 2009, we lawyers who specialize in this area, was opened in 2005 as part of our fair trade compliance offered 39 courses, including those on equipment and service operation, customer relations, program. By conducting reviews on anti-trust issues related to the business plans of key and resource management. A total of 8,256 trainees took part. Group courses are provided at divisions, we are effectively preventing violations of fair trade laws. Additionally, we have the KT HRD Center and each regional field-training center, and the classrooms, textbooks, designated on-site (Marketing, Corporate Business and Wireless Marketing BUs) fair trade accommodations and meals are all provided free of charge. These programs have been representatives to prevent unfair business activities. enthusiastically received by our suppliers. Items for Pre-audit Financial Support for Suppliers KT operates a fund worth KRW 200 billion under KT Company-wide marketing plans, ad campaigns, PR materials Capital to provide credit loans to SMEs, which have faced difficulties resulting from the rise in Marketing agreement among service providers raw material prices and foreign exchange rates. Moreover, we have stopped settling Internal transactions among affiliates such as finance, assets, and human resources payments in promissory notes and have been providing cash settlements for deliveries by Contracts with suppliers/outside distributors/subcontractors SME partners since 2006, regardless of the contract sum. We also concluded agreements with financial institutions so that partner companies can receive loans at lower interest rates depending on their performance. By doing so, we have largely contributed to SMEs securing liquidity and operating capital. 2010 Sustainability Report 41 Protecting the Environment with Eco-friendly Technologies. Environmental Vision The environment is a vital issue that is crucial to the future of society. Accordingly, KT seeks ways to coexist successfully with nature. corporate responsibility for the environment is a crucial element of sustainability KT is developing eco-friendly IT services that are both easy to use and management and poses new business opportunities. Climate change, a major global issue environmentally safe. Meanwhile, new ways are being identified for applying IT for in the 21st century, presents risks as well as new opportunities using “green” information environmental protection purposes, thereby giving rise to new services. Such efforts help to protect nature and conserve energy for a healthier planet. technology. We aims to be an “environmental partner,” fostering an eco-friendly corporate We have established “Green IT, Green Korea” as our new environmental vision, culture while putting the earth first in the decision-making process. representing our determination to build a nation that leads the global movement towards greater environmental friendliness while realizing new growth engines in the green technology industry. Drive green revolution in Korea Seek new growth engines Preserve the Reduce CO2 emissions by Secure new growth environment promoting green telecom momentum by uncovering Purchase eco-friendly infrastructure and green sectors that can be products and support workplace converged with IT green partner firms Provide green services to Implement 5 key action Conduct “Green IT promote more eco-friendly plans (home, office, building, Supporters” activities lifestyles infrastructure, energy) Lead the way to making Korea a green economic powerhouse Green KT Green Korea Environmental Management System We became the first in the Korean telecom industry to be ISO 14001 certified for our construction and real estate businesses in 2007. The operation of our environmental management system has raised the transparency and credibility of our environmental management activities. We now aim to acquire the certification for all of our business areas and to continue to standardize methods and systems for improving our environmental performance. Other aspects of our environmental management program include Certificate for the ISO 14001 Environmental employee training, internal audits, and company-wide Management Standard environmental protection campaigns. DREAM WITH ENVIRONMENT GREEN IT 42 2010 Sustainability Report 43 Strategy and Direction Organization and Systems The IT sector continues to contribute a greater percentage to global energy use and We established the “Green IT Committee” (chaired by the CEO) to efficiently advance green greenhouse gas emissions with the ongoing spread of IT devices. Therefore, we IT-related capabilities in order to drive green growth. The committee sets annual green IT established the KT Green IT strategy, which calls for us to develop energy-saving action plans (every first quarter), and quantitatively evaluates the company's progress in information technology and eco-friendly parts and materials for IT applications. This meeting GHG emission reduction targets and in generating revenue from green products. strategy also aims to transform the current infrastructure, which consumes massive The “War Room,” a central database center from where the progress of the Green IT energy volumes, into a carbon-neutral model. To this end, we will explores new sources strategy is monitored, consists of six divisions. The system allows the status of green action of revenue generation (eg, green offices, green homes and green energy), and expand plan implementation to be tracked on a monthly basis, in order to identify projects that are our business spheres into other sectors with a basis on our Information Communication KT and Ericsson sign cooperative ahead of schedule, on schedule, and behind schedule, and to induce necessary actions. agreement for IT Technology (ICT). Green Infrastructure Create a “Smart Green Company” : KT's Green Social Infrastructure Green KT Green Korea : Incorporating Green IT Project in provides ICT solutions for other Green Home Green Building the KT Ten Management Strategic industries that pursue green Priorities Solutions for strategies. Solutions are categorized Solutions that support Green Energy Promote green ecosystems Build green infrastructure Seek new growth engines eco-friendly lifestyles buildings/industrial into the following four areas Green Office More eco-friendly and reduce household facilities that need Purchase eco-friendly products Promote green telecom Secure new growth momentum Corporate solutions for replacements for to comply with and support green partner infrastructure and green by identifying sectors that can expenditures meeting regulations fossil fuels regulations firms workplace be converged with IT Conduct “Green IT Supporters” Facilitate green energy use Implement 5 key action plans Business solutions SoIP/IPTV Energy/other KT-MOS activities (home, office, building, collaboration solutions video telephony new & renewable energy sources monitoring, infrastructure, energy) video conferences remote control waste management building energy Education/wireless services management e-Learning WiBro systems KT Green Objectives (*CCC: Cloud Communication Center) Greening of IT: Reduce GHG emissions 20% from 2007 levels by 2013 Organizational Chart of the Working Committee for Green IT Greening by IT: Seek future growth engines in the green industry Improve telecom/IT infrastructure Green Infrastructure Subcommittee Build simple network (Network Division) Develop new business services based on electronic power technology Provide green services Reduce energy use Promote eco-friendly Green Home Subcommittee Be paperless & green energy sources (Home Customer Division) Reduce energy used by Promote visualized telecom services buildings Solar photovoltaic Promote remote service for corporate customers Green Office Subcommittee Expand videoconferencing Geothermal heating and Pursue businesses targeting mobile terminals (Corporate Customer Division) Achieve a paperless office cooling Build Green IDC Develop smart, green businesses Green Service Subcommittee Discover green, home-office business models (Research Center) Standardize Green IT technology Realize green property and promote new & renewable energy Green Environment Subcommittee Build low energy-consumption network (GSS) Provide environmental support to partner firms Improve telecom/ Seek new growth Promote green mobile convergence IT infrastructure engines Green Individual Subcommittee Engage in green marketing (Individual Customer Division) All-IP IT convergence Build the foundation for a green network Integration of telecom Flexible work hours centers Smart grid Green IDC, CCC* GHG Emission Reduction Targets We plan to lower our GHG emissions by 20 percent by 2013 (from 2007 levels) by conserving energy, using alternative energy sources, upgrading telecom and IT infrastructure, and promoting a green workplace. To this end, we have set progressive annual emission reduction targets to lower aggregate CO2 emissions by 1.73 million tons annually. DREAM WITH ENVIRONMENT GREEN IT ACTIVITIES 44 2010 Sustainability Report 45 GHG Emission Reduction Targets KT plans to develop and provide highly efficient green infrastructures across the country. KT became the first in the Korean telecom industry to build a company-wide GHG inventory Our green Internet data centers (IDCs) will integrate the network and infrastructure. The system, which serves as a platform to manage data on GHG emissions. next-generation IDC, which was developed in-house, will help us significantly reduce The system directly and indirectly collects GHG emission data from disparate sources, and energy use in the future. calculates the total amount of greenhouse gases released. In 2009, we examined the energy consumption of our buildings and increased the energy efficiency of our facilities, Changeover to Low-carbon Emission Energy thereby surpassing our original GHG reduction target. During the year, we released 8.48 We installed two solar power plants, at Sinnae-dong and Hwaseong where one of our office billion tons of CO2, which is 428.2 million tons lower than the volume recorded for 2008. buildings and a power transmitting station are respectively located in. The facilities produce 130,000 kW-h of electricity per year, reducing our CO2 emissions by 1,100 metric tons GHG Emissions (Unit: ton CO2) annually. As of 2009, the aggregate output of the power plants has reached 118,826 kW-h. scope1 scope2 KT will continue to expand the use of new & renewable energy sources, strengthening the Type 2007 2008 2009 848,879 Fixed combustion 36,254 36,686 37,245 foundation for low-carbon operations. 844,045 806,057 Mobile combustion 23,894 21,925 22,047 60,148 58,611 SCOPE 1 1. Solar power system on the site of the Total 60,148 58,611 59,292 59,292 Hwaseong transmission station. 790,268 Electricity 780,320 787,132 743,937 783,897 01 02 SCOPE 2 Steam 3,577 3,136 2,828 746,765 Total 783,897 790,268 746,765 2. Solar power system on top of the KT Total 844,045 848,879 806,057 office building at Sinnae-dong. 2007 2008 2009 * Former KTF's data coverage on GHG emissions and electricity consumption before and after the merger is not included above. Use of Highly Efficient Equipment We are now engaged in a company-wide effort to maximize energy efficiency, including the Geothermal Heating & Cooling Systems mandatory installation of more efficient equipment As heating and cooling facilities are Heavy dependence on electricity as a major energy source poses a severe problem. This can be thought of as a major source of energy consumption and GHG emission, we are addressing solved by using geothermal energy for hot water and temperature control system in buildings. that problem by replacing the existing systems with those that have energy-saving heat We are partnering with Korean SMEs to develop a more eco-friendly method of hole-boring, pumps. We are also replacing halogen and incandescent lights, which lose great volumes of which does not produce particles and noise, for geothermal energy systems. Such a system is energy through radiant heat, with LED lamps. In addition, we have adopted valuenow in place at our Gongju Branch, providing air conditioning and heat without burning fossil engineering approaches in our construction operations, and are now using thermallyfuels. As a result, annual CO2 emissions have been cut by 42 metric tons. insulated glass, triple-component glass, double-glazed windows, higher-efficiency 1. Using a more eco-friendly way to bore insulation materials, and cool thermal energy storage. Importantly, the “smart-heating” holes for geothermal energy systems controller system has proven to be outstanding in lowering energy consumption by optimizing both centralized and decentralized temperature control system. 2. Installing pipes in the earth for use as Power Consumption (Unit: GWh) heat exchangers 1,829 Reduced Power Consumption of IT Equipment We have applied green ICT technology to our telecom infrastructure, marking a turning 1,768 point in improved network efficiency. In 2009, we lowered electricity consumption by 01 02 1,736 5.1percentfrom the previous year by installing Fiber To The Home (FTTH) communication Lower GHG Emissions through Videoconferencing facilities implementing stricter thermal standards for telecom systems, and consolidating Videoconferencing helps to reduce carbon emissions as well as to increase productivity by telecom centers. Moreover, we plan to extend the service coverage area of our telecom accelerating decision-making and cutting travel costs. The KT Economics Research Institute 2007 2008 2009 centers from the current 4km radius to a 50km radius by 2015, reducing power estimates that replacing 20 percent of all international and domestic meetings with consumption by up to 40 percent. We will also increase the power efficiency of our telecom * This table does not include data from the videoconferencing would bring an annual savings of KRW 13.7 billion, as a result of reduced former KTF. network by replacing existing switches and the current wireless network with 3G systems. carbon emissions, lower travel costs and increased productivity. DREAM WITH ENVIRONMENT GREEN IT ACTIVITIES 46 2010 Sustainability Report 47 Conventional videoconference solutions require high initial installation costs and pose quality Since the BEMS (Building Energy Management System) was applied to several KT office issues such as audio-video lag. We adopted a PC-based model to address these buildings identified by high energy consumption such as Mokdong internet data centre, we shortcomings. These systems have been installed in the videoconference rooms in 90 of our have collected their energy data and managed the performances. Demand for the office buildings to ensure all employees, even those who are working away from the office, monitoring equipment is expected to increase in step with the growing need to verify GHG can use their PCs to participate in meetings. In 2009, the savings resulting from videoand emission reduction results, as carbon emission credits will be traded and the government mobile-conferencing totaled KRW 5.37 billion. will expand energy use target schemes. Real-time System for Monitoring Support for Customers to Reduce GHG Emissions Energy Consumption (GHG Emissions) KT provides customers with services for measuring and reducing energy consumption, USN naturally inducing them to adopt greener IT options. We have applied our technical knowhow to develop smart-grid telemeasuring, telemeting and remote control solutions that Power consumption conserve energy. In addition, we provide green home, green office, green building and green energy services. Gateway Energy Consumption USN Data collection and GHG Emissions ·KT videoconferencing system Participation in Government Projects for Green Growth Water, gas, and analysis Monitoring System ·KT-Gyeonggi Province Investment Fund fuel, hot water server for Green Growth We are participating in various projects in step with the Korean government's green growth drive. Examples are a pilot project to establish targets for building energy use in cooperation with the Ministry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs; a pilot carbon emissions trading project with the Ministry of Environment; and a project to set energy-use targets in the Temperature, humidity, broadcasting and telecom sectors with the Korea Communications Commission. In addition, CO2 density we took the initiative to form the KT Consortium in order to participate in the Jeju Island Smart Grid Test-bed project, which was launched in 2009 by the Ministry of Knowledge Ongoing Environmental Protection Campaigns Economy. We established the KT Smart Green Center on the island; this Center monitors On every World Environment Day (June 5th), we internally disseminate our green guideline energy management systems, analyzes energy use patterns, controls energy distribution on green lifestyles of reducing energy consumption and GHG emission, and operate an services, and sells electricity. internal online community for our employees to share their ideas and practices of the guide. Fund for Green Growth Intranet community for environmental protection (name: Green tok talk) KT created the KRW 30 billion KT-Gyeonggi Investment Fund for Green Growth in cooperation with the Gyeonggi Provincial Government. The fund is designed to provide financial and technical support to venture companies or startups in the region that are developing energy-saving technology. Real-time Monitoring of Building Energy Use for Micro-management of Efficiency We developed a device that measures and reports the energy use and carbon emissions of various facilities on a real-time basis, and that also manages relevant targets. The development project was initiated by the Korean government on the condition that it would purchase the outcome when completed. KT partnered with SMEs to execute the project as a part of efforts to promote win-win cooperation. DREAM WITH ENVIRONMENT REDUCED RESOURCE USE AND RECYCLING 48 2010 Sustainability Report 49 Water Use Recycling of Telecom Devices KT compensates purchasers of new cell phones on their Water Use To conserve water used in KT buildings, we established the “Progress toward Green Energy” old devices returned to us, which are rented back to our customers who are without their Water Use(unit: thousand ton) index and have tracked water data and managed our performances. In 2009, water use was phones. KT rents modems to broadband Internet or IPTV service customers and reclaims Water Use of unit won(unit: ton/KRW million) up 2 percent from the previous year, but the ratio of water use to revenue dropped 24 percent them when the service is terminated. The returned modems are quality tested to determine 0.231 0.231 from 2008 despite the merger with KTF. Meanwhile, water used at our business sites is whether they can be reused or must be scrapped. 0.175 treated at local sewage plants. Waste Disposal KT disposes of end-of-life products such as batteries, cables and 2,776 2,756 2,722 Green Procurement machinery in accordance with pertinent laws. Designated waste, including batteries that We reflect environmental aspects in our specification requirements for procuring contain waste fuel, acid and other harmful substances, are registered in the “allbaro” system Telecommunication facilities. We help our suppliers minimize the environmental impacts of (www.allbaro.or.kr), and their discharger, collector/transporter and disposer are identified. their products from the stage of product development, by providing them guidelines on Cables and machinery are sold to recycling firms and are fully recycled for their copper, iron, 2007 2008 2009 environmental friendliness of surface treatment, availability of recycle and reuse, and precious metals and other content, while empty cable drums are resold to cable suppliers. minimization of packaging materials. We also have a program in place to encourage the procurement of green products we use Waste Disposal Process green labels on our consumable products to allow consumers to easily recognize green products. We update the green information of the labels twice a month, based on the data Waste handling firm provided by Eco-Products Institute. We also conduct training to encourage the purchase of Logistics center (Produce raw material) (Produce finished product) more eco-friendly products. Waste cables Copper Cable, copper products Reduction in Photocopy Paper Use Saving Resources Installations (telecom infraGold, silver, iron, aluminum Precious metal 38,546 Build an E-office Environmen “E-office” refers to an optimal working environment that structure, machinery) minimizes environmental impact by adopting information technology. We replaced our 34,996 Waste batteries Lead Batteries A decrease of paper-based offline approval process with an e-document system, and operate an “e3,550 boxes cabinet” whereby various documents are stored and managed as electronic files rather than Empty drums Cable drums (9.2%) as paper printouts stored in physical filing cabinets. Vehicles and generators Reuse (for reused car sales, and for use in plants and ships) 2008 2009 Lower Paper Use Company-wide We are promoting use of AnyFaxan e-fax service as part of an ongoing drive to achieve the truly paperless office environment. Offices that adopt the e-facimile service can turn in their old fax machines for use elsewhere. In 2009, companywide consumption of photocopy paper dropped by 9.2 percent (3,550 boxes @2,500 sheets per box) from the previous year. 2010 Sustainability Report 51 Making Rapid Strides with World-class Talent. Passion is sparked when people believe their dreams can really come true. KT's employees are provided with diverse on-/offline training opportunities and are compensated on the basis of fair performance assessments. As such, Organizational members are both the generative source of corporate competitiveness and both the company and its people are focused on the same goal: be among the the key competitive edge of the company. KT pursues “partnership in growth,” whereby labor world's very best in their respective fields. We know that employee talent is the and management advance in tandem to foster a “win-win” corporate culture. This approach true measure of KT's value in the global marketplace. Therefore, we foster a working is designed to bring together company productivity with individual employee competitiveness. atmosphere of mutual respect and recognition, allowing labor and management to Our goal is to increase the value of our people by maintaining trust, passion and fun in the grow together as partners. Labor and management share the dream of workplace, as well as a harmonious work-life balance. making KT the “Global ICT Convergence Leader.” Goals & Strategies A workplace full of trust, passion and fun, where work and private life are balanced A workplace that A workplace with A workplace full of trust guarantees personal work-life balance Invigorating internal growth and opportunities communication Strengthening family-friendly Managing employee careers operations Expanding safety activities to with a job focus Expanding employee benefits eliminate accidents Identifying and nurturing Encouraging productive, talent efficient meetings Helping employees to become experts New KT Way: Action All for Customer Collaboration Trust Innovation Ownership Now Current workforce KT employed 31,405 persons as of the end of March 2010, and the total number of employees has been decreasing each year. Persons classified as “legally disabled” constitute 2.9 percent of all KT employees, which surpasses the government-mandated minimum of 2 percent, and 14.6 percent (4,603 persons) of our workforce are women. Employees are hired either on permanent or temporary status to meet our requirements for specific job skills and work competencies. The portion of temporary workers was 3.3 percent higher at the end of March 2010 than a year earlier, and this rising trend continues each year. We strictly adhere to the Temporary Employee Protection Law and provide our temporary employees with fair compensation. In addition to our domestic employees, we employ more than 2,400 people at subsidiaries in Mongolia and Russia. DREAM WITH EMPLOYEES ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE 52 2010 Sustainability Report 53 Retirement The Labor Union Disabled Persons in the Workforce The 2009 merger with KTF resulted in the voluntary resignation of more than six thousand Employee Satisfaction KT employees are free to organize their own labor union and other representative bodies. people. Most of these were working in fixed-line operations, were 50-plus years old and had an The collective agreement stipulates that new hires are automatically members of the labor No.of disabled Proportion of the disabled average of 26.1 years in service with the company. After the merger, internet telephone, IPTV, 79 union. As of March 2010, 77.2 percent of the KT employees were registered union members. 929 78.4 841 921 and the 3Ws* became the mainstay operations for KT. Efforts have also been made to develop 77.1 a new growth engine through the integration of wireless and fixed-line services. These changes “Win-Win” Labor-Management Communication necessitated a restructuring of the workforce in order to establish greater competitiveness. KT recognizes the labor union as the representative of our employees, who are our “internal 2.9% customers” and are a vital partner for corporate survival. Raising pay and improving work The voluntary retirees and regular retirees are provided with a career assessment and with 2.6% 2.3% counseling for their work life after KT. We also provide them with various kinds of training in conditions are issues negotiated with the union through the collective bargaining process. All changes in the workforce, including downsizing, are carried out after discussion with the union. order for them to be able to start their own businesses, get rehired elsewhere, or acquire job 2007 2008 2009 2007 2008 2009 KT seeks “win-win” relations with employees through comprehensive discussions between labor qualifications, helping them to make a successful career transition. (* Wi-Fi, WiBro, WCDMA) and management. Labour-management discussions take place every quarter, and the results are *The employee satisfaction survey includes reflected in management's decision making. In March 2010, the labor union and management Support Programs for Occupational Transition 55 indices on categories that include job descriptions, employee engagement in jointly declared a constructive new approach to their relationship (the “olleh KT Constructive New Course Format Content Attendees the organization, promotions & career Career change Classroom Change management, 4 social insurance 659 Labor-Management Culture Joint Declaration”), joining forces in the spirit of mutual benefit to development, compensation & employee Ratio of Women to Men in the Workforce support workshop (2 days) programs, financial planning (182 spouses) benefits, internal communication, and generate sustained corporate value, maintain amicable labor relations, provide a satisfying work Understanding startups, aptitude test, colleagues & teamwork. Classroom 549 environment, fulfill all corporate social responsibilities, and create new work opportunities. Men Women Startup Business occupation selection, commercial area (5 days) (113 spouses) analysis, shop management, marketing 31,696 30,245 26,802 Understanding rehiring, career analysis, Dealing with Employee Grievances Career design strategies Classroom résumé writing, image marketing, 66 We consider it essential to provide a workplace where all employees feel good about themselves 4,603 (for “retirement”) (4 days) 5,683 5,281 interviewing skills (15.2%) (14.9%) (14.6%) Counseling Starting up a business, and about their employer. A practical and systematic approach has been taken to prevent and Unstructured 600x a year (startup, rehiring) getting hired for a new job resolve grievances. Factors that could lead to employee dissatisfaction are eliminated with respect to company policy, employee workload, working environment, human resources, 2007 2008 2009 Female Employees employees' concerns outside of work, and employee benefits. Employees can also submit any KT does not differentiate in any way between men and women with regard to hiring, grievances they may have by phone, letter, e-mail, or through the company website. performance evaluation and compensation, or promotion. Three basic directions have been Women in the Workforce established regarding the personnel system, non-discriminatory hiring, promotion and A Happy Workplace A Happy Workplace compensation policies, and leadership training for women so that women can devote Head Office (1) Total female employees No. of female employees with a managerial themselves to a career without sacrificing their role as mothers. Joint Labor -Management Branches (12) Grievance Settlement Committee post or higher Conference For example, female employees receive a special payment after giving birth to a child, and the Sub-units (437) 5,683 5,281 company helps to defray the cost of childcare and early child education. Daycare facilities are 4,603 run at the worksite, and online training courses are made available to mothers on maternity leave in order to ensure a smooth return to their jobs. Rapid settlement, Offline, face-to-face interviews are used, confidentiality guaranteed activities focus is on prevention The number of women in senior management is also increasing. We hired two women from 322 On-Line Off-Line 306 outside for senior managing director posts and we promoted two internally to probationary Grievance settlement apparatus in operation Linked Grievance Settlement Committee with labor and 115 managing director positions. A new training course has been adopted to prepare women for Counseling available for personal problems management representatives 2007 2008 2009 Health, legal or children's issues At Head Office, branches and sub-units middle management, and 150 female employees completed the course in 2009. SOS (for submitting opinions or asking for help onsite) Problems are addressed proactively at 437 locations nationwide Counseling centers are run offline at each major worksite. (Legal Basis) Rules of Joint Labour-Management conference, Manual for Settling Employee Grievances DREAM WITH EMPLOYEES HR DEVELOPMENT 54 2010 Sustainability Report 55 KT's Ideal Employee & HR Philosophy Training System KT's vision of an ideal employee is can be summarized as “Top Talent in ACTION.” We Program Course Self-development “Self-development notes”is an annual promote the professionals who have passion and executive energy to accomplish plan, made by each employee to challenging goals based on mutual cooperation, trustworthiness, and innovative thinking improve his or her competencies. Employees use an online HR system to submit from a customer's perspective. Thus our HR system aims to support our employees to competency levels (overall as well as jobChange Leader (Ⅰ,Ⅱ, Ⅲ) internalize the three core values customer-oriented, trustworthiness and passion. A specific) with respect to their current position. High-performer Creation Core Values They verify how they are improving, and devise Master Plan has been devised for cultivating the personnel necessary to achieve sustainable olleh BOOM, olleh Innovation a plan for individual growth targets and selfgrowth. Human resources are being developed with an emphasis on skills enhancement, Training, olleh Change Agent cultivation activities. Their superiors provide Blue-board Kickoff Workshop coaching and feedback as part of employee and all employees are encouraged to learn and improve constantly. They are provided with a development efforts at each worksite, and lifetime development plan and are compensated on the basis of performance, which is individual employees are provided with 60 evaluated fairly. hours of structured training per year. Training for team leader and upper Leadership management; courses for people newly Ideal KT Employee hired or newly promoted Top Talent in ACTION Basic training for the newly hired, The Ideal Passionate and results-oriented professionals, the top in their respective fields, think Commonlycourses for key work skills: 12 courses Employee innovatively from the customer's perspective and work on the basis of cooperation and required Training covering 5 different areas trust to achieve challenging targets without fail. Specialized Basic intermediate and expert Job Skills level courses for specific work areas External training programs for top managers and team leaders External training Time-based domestic training scheme Customer Orientation Trustworthiness Passion Day-based domestic training scheme MBA overseas Employees must be able to put Employees must adhere to Employees must act responsibly, Competencies e-Learning: Kate, an HRD Center customer needs first when ethical principles when dealing as owners, in the conduct of their making decisions and taking with other individuals or duties and accept the corporate Outside link: ktedu.kt.com Online & action. They have to approach organizational units. They have vision and values holeheartedly. Language Academy: Other Programs problems with flexibility as to respect others' positions They have to set ambitious goals cyber.yhmsisa.com/edukt new perceptions arise and and be leaders in fostering and persist in achieving those (open to employees' family members) markets change, in order to organizational harmony and goals regardless of obstacles. As ensure that customers are mutual consideration. such they are leaders in getting impressed and that customer things done and generating Training & Learning Tools value is generated. results for the company. Elective Courses for Individuals Elective Courses for Certification courses m-Learning Development of Employee Competencies Individuals Lessons by email e-Books audio books We have established a mid-/long-term HRD Master Plan with the aim of fostering experts who KMS can achieve sustainable growth amid a rapidly-changing business environment and generate Company-mandated HRD consultants who Job-related Courses Job-related Courses reach out value for customers. In addition, we have established a competency-based HRD system, which A corporate culture of Study groups Mentoring program classifies personnel by job position and duties, specifying the competencies needed to carry out constant learning Coaching OJT SOP Courses A cultivation of people their roles and responsibilities. The system allows employees to assess their competency levels who can generate results Company-mandated Courses and improve step-by-step, thereby realizing their full potential. e-Learning Outsourced courses A perpetual learning system is in place that accommodates individual skill levels, and a multiOn-site classes KT HRD Center Training Support channel learning enviornment (m-Learning by smart phone, UTC) is in place. The curriculum has Training Support been expanded to support self-directed learning. All employees are required to take certain In-house lectures HRD consulting training programs, while leadership training, job-related training and online training courses are Learning opportunities for high performers Learning contract system also offered individually. At the same time, core personnel are provided the opportunity to attend Course completion certification MBA programs or other Master's and Ph.D. programs at domestic or foreign universities. DREAM WITH EMPLOYEES HR DEVELOPMENT 56 2010 Sustainability Report 57 Knowledge Management Self-development Notes KT has developed an advanced knowledge management system (KMS) using the latest Each employee is required to devise an annual self-development plan and then receives 60 information technologies, thereby boosting work efficiency and promoting a more creative hours of instruction during the year to accommodate that plan. This is an autonomous HRD organizational culture. The KMS allows all employees to share information, which is program that allows the individual's current work competency level and self-development collected and maintained as corporate intellectual property. Information that needs to be progress to be confirmed via the online HR system, followed by coaching and feedback from shared is classified appropriately and registered in the KMS database. The information the supervisor. The program fosters constant learning, prompted by the employee's own registered in the system must be assessed and inspected by designated “Knowledge initiative, and ensures that all employees have the same access to learning opportunities. Masters” in the relevant fields before it can be qualified for use as KT corporate information. The results have been positive regarding the acquisition of specialist qualification certificates Knowledge Management System In addition, KT uses a “Wiki”-style tool for idea generation and operates the “Idea Bank” and employee satisfaction with the HRD system. system as a way to uncover new ideas and provide a creative work environment open to all employees. Smart Working This is not a one-off campaign for organizational units to submit ideas. Rather, ideas are KT was the first company in Korea to adopt the new Smart Working program, which allows gathered throughout the year, and the best suggestions submitted through the Idea Bank employees to select their work hours and workplace more flexibly. Information technology is are immediately reflected in operations. An award of up to KRW 100 million is given to the used to enable employees to telecommute from home or from the Smart Working Center at people who submit ideas that are adopted, providing an incentive for employee involvement. each worksite. The first of these centers, along with a top-of-the-line videoconference room, Training is also offered in cooperation with outside institutions. is scheduled to go on line at the Bundang Office in September 2010, and centers will be operative at 30 locations nationwide by 2012. Knowledge Management Bulletin Board The Smart Working approach is expected to deliver multiple benefits, to include new 1. All employees can ask their questions freely, opportunities for working mothers, higher work efficiency, lower administrative costs, and using the same format as the Naver Knowledge In site less traffic congestion. KT has selected working mothers, researchers, and people in support 2. Rewards points are given to those who provide useful “Tell Me, Please” questions and answers 14 questions & answers positions as the first candidates for the Smart Working program. bulletin board 3. An average of 14 questions and answers per day, daily, generating 7,388 inquiries with 7,388 inquiries Training Summary 4. An in-house portal window posts new questions, expediting responses and maximizing employee participation 2007 2008 2009 A participatory knowledge-sharing bulletin board similar to Courses Attendees Courses Attendees Courses Attendees Treasure Chest Wikipedia (the initially posted item can be amended or Aggregate postings: 639 E-learning 314 139,134 253 177,998 223 116,758 expanded by others) ·Smart Working Center Aptitude 52 148,680 99 179,550 Knowledge Once an item is posted, experts in the related area will ·PC-based Videoconference Room at the Reading course 210 3,693 100 4,246 90 2,877 Sharing Place assess it and make necessary corrections. Aggregate postings: 45,975 Smart Working Center Language 359 9,231 364 8,614 525 8,903 New ideas or suggestions regarding work are posted and Academy Idea Wiki Aggregate postings: 45,566 then evaluated by the relevant committee prior to adoption DREAM WITH EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEE EVALUATION, COMPENSATION & FRINGE BENEFITS 58 2010 Sustainability Report 59 Evaluation & Compensation KT has established a clear vision regarding the safety and health of all employees. To this end, In January 2010, KT replaced the seniority-based personnel system, which includes automatic each worksite devises and implements its own occupational safety & health (OSH) plan and takes pay raises for time in service, with a performance-centered annual salary system. Previously, proactive measures to ensure a safe and clean working environment. The Industrial Safety & remuneration was classified by job position and rank, but now differences in pay depend Health Committee, consisting of representatives from both labor and management, has been entirely on the performance of the individual employee. Each employee receives one of five formed (in accordance with Article 11 of the Control Regulations for the Occupational Safety and evaluation ratings -A, B, C, D or Fand the number of employees who receive a “B” Health Act) to help the individual worksites to work closely with the HQ, in order to maximize the performance rating, which pays median salary rate, is kept at 60 percent of the total workforce. performance of OHS activities. Committee decisions cannot be in violation of the OSH Act, Performance pay at KT consists of three types: individual, unit and corporate. The individual collective agreements, or in-house OHS regulations. In addition, KT complies with ILO bonus ceiling for non-executives (i.e. lower level and middle management positions) has been Convention. Website dedicated to employee welfare and raised from 60 percent to 100 percent of the base annual salary. The maximum incentive pay benefits for executives, meanwhile, has been elevated to 210 percent of the base salary, thereby Safety-first Corporate Culture motivating senior managers to perform at their peak. The rate of corporate performance pay is KT conducts diverse activities to make safety an integral part of the corporate culture. For decided on the basis of KT's annual financial results (i.e. operating profit and sales growth), example, regular OHS training courses are provided online, and employees are continuously while unit performance pay is based on how well individual units fared during the year. encouraged to learn about accident prevention and health promotion issues. “Safety message” Each January all employees are required to draw up and submit both a list of objectives for the alerts are texted to employees on the job in advance of inclement weather, including heavy rain, coming year and an action plan for reaching those objectives. Their supervisors will assess their snow or fog. A theme event and group “hardhat-cleaning” are held on the fourth day (Safety progress once or twice during the year, and each employee receives an annual evaluation by an Comparison of Industrial Accident Rates Inspection Day) of every month, promoting safety and camaraderie at work as well as helping to executive. The final performance assessment is based on how well the employee achieved the KT The telecom industry Korea instill the “safety-first” mindset. Rewards for receiving the company's “Accident-free Workplace” goals he or she set at the beginning of the year. The assessment results are then reflected in the 0.72 0.70 designation also help to lift morale and bolster activities to prevent industrial accidents. 0.71 employee's individual pay and directive for personal competency development. In addition, KT is now running the Talent Market program, whereby a poll of available talent is maintained among 0.56 Joint Labor-Management Activities to Prevent Accidents 0.45 the organizational units so that people can be reassigned as needed by the company. Our commitment to fostering a safety-first corporate culture and eliminating accidents is 0.23 ongoing. Special training is provided on industrial safety, and employees gain indirect experience 0.16 0.16 0.19 Employment Benefits through case studies in an effort to sharpen their awareness of how accidents happen. A Our employee benefits are largely divided into an employment benefits system and a family2007 2008 2009 company OHS conference every May includes lectures by specialists on topics such as accident friendly system in order to maximize employee satisfaction. Going forward, KT plans to introduce investigation methods and health promotion. more diverse programs to raise employees' satisfaction levels at work and in their family lives. Annual Accident Rate at KT Commitment to Advanced OHS Practices Extending Employment Welfare Injury Rate in 2009, Injuries We work constantly to promote employee well-being and prevent industrial accidents or KT operates a variety of programs regarding children's education, self-development, Occupational Accidents, Fatalities illnesses. To this end, employees learn OHS management techniques via online courses (2 hours leisure activities and health management in order to improve the quality of life for 75 every month, at least 20 hours annually for supervisors). An advanced industrial accident control employees' families. In 2002, we opened the web-based cyber welfare center 61 system is also run to inform all of the people in charge of OSH management company-wide as 56 (b4u.kt.co.kr), which serves employees' and retirees' needs in their daily lives. Each year, soon as any accident is reported. This helps to raise their interest in accident prevention. the labor union and management discuss employee benefits and welfare issues in depth so that balanced benefits can be enjoyed in every aspect of an employee's life. Employee Health Promotion 3 2 0 KT regularly provides employees with various kinds of information on health and nutrition in an Family-friendly Program 2007 2008 2009 effort to encourage healthier, happier lifestyles. All employees receive an annual physical A low fertility rate and childcare are now major issues confronting Korean society, and examination for illnesses that were incurred on or off the job, and periodic e-mail messages are various programs are in place at KT to help address these problems. For example: delivered to assist them in their personal health management. In addition, employees with daycare facilities are now in operation at worksites; maternity leaves are granted to seniority of 10 years or more are given a paid six-month sabbatical to recharge and refresh female employees; and a special one-time payment is given when an employee gives themselves. Lounge areas are provided on each floor of company offices, while dedicated physical birth. This family-friendly program aims to help boost employee morale by promoting a trainers are assigned to company office buildings (including the Bundang Branch and the better balance in life on and off the job. These programs have improved employee loyalty Mokdong Information Center). and enhanced employees' ability to focus and perform at work. 2010 Sustainability Report 61 Advancing Social Harmony with Sharing. The more one shares, the greater the joy. The slogan “KT Shares with Everyone” describes our public spirit. Our business is to create a world where everyone can enjoy the benefits of Corporate social activities are a means to form a sound relationship between a company and information technology. IT is a core competency of KT, and KT is teaching society by sharing corporate resources with local communities, contributing to mutual people how to use it most effectively. Sites such as our olleh Square allow growth and progress. KT has introduced diverse initiatives to address the problem of the the public to experience the latest IT first-hand as well as enjoy cultural digital divide and enhance quality of life in local communities. Our management directive events. We understand that sharing is not a matter of cutting something calls for us to be a respected company under the slogan of “Together, Come, olleh.” in half but rather of multiplying it. As such we aim to grow along KT is committed to achieving a win-win relationship with society by maximizing corporate with society, by sharing with society. profits and social benefits at the same time. To this end, our social activities were designed after analyzing our core competencies with respect to core values, vision and strategies, and the linkage between our corporate strategy and social contributions. Our corporate social activities pursuits are broadly classified into four areas of sharing activities: IT, Love, Culture, and Green. Going forward, we will continue to work hard to earn the respect of society. Missions and Direction Create a brighter world through 'olleh' sharing activities Mission Serve all of society through continuous social contributions Support the marginalized by sharing core strengths Vision Create a more pleasant world by sharing Slogan Together, Come, olleh Children Multicultural families Key area Children: Offer various education programs and learning opportunities to children, who will lead the future Multicultural families: Help multicultural families play a role in society, and ensure their childrencan be globally competent citizens IT sharing Love sharing Culture sharing Green sharing Approach A more A more pleasant A cleaner Broader IT usage caring world culture environment 2009 Social Contribution Expense by Sector 4 3.4 2.8 (Unit: KRW 100,000 million) 39 8 42 8 40 8 Matching grants Education/school/research 30 28 31 Arts and sports 250 2007 250 2008 250 2009 20 17 20 Sponsorships 351,000 348,000 352,000 Support for IT-related activities in local communities Cause marketing DREAM WITH SOCIETY IT SHARING 62 2010 Sustainability Report 63 IT Supporters Performance of IT Supporters (Unit: Person) Launched in 2007, KT's IT Supporters is a volunteer organization dedicated to enhancing Year Total “Digitally General Youth Multicultural Companies/ disadvantaged public families organizations people's ability to utilize the benefits of information technology. IT Supporters makes the 2007 151,302 71,259 35,467 30,210 7,164 7,202 Internet more accessible by providing education on how to use the Internet and IT devices to 2008 453,084 216,502 115,792 81,043 21,022 18,725 those who are technologically disadvantaged. They also answer questions from Internet 2009 515,286 202,371 185,747 80,688 25,991 20,489 users, and provide free classes to facilitate Internet use. As of 2010, more than 200 IT Accumulated No. 1.12 mil 0.49 mil 0.34 mil 0.19 mil 54,000 46,000 Supporters members are serving at 23 locations nationwide. The role of the organization has *Period: Jan. Dec., 2009, Jan. Dec., 2008, Apr. Dec., 2007 expanded to include support for multicultural families, small business owners, and self*“Digitally disadvantaged:” Disabled, low-income families, the elderly, people living in rural areas IT Supporters activity employed persons, as well as to provide knowledge on the latest IT devices such as smart phones. IT Supporters activities present a new model of corporate social activities, in which a Mitigate the Adverse Effects of IT company not only gives financial support to charity but also donates its knowledge to society. Widespread Internet use has given rise to various adverse effects, and KT has joined with the KT Cultural Foundation to address these issues. We carried out studies on the negative repercussions of the information society and conducted meta-analysis on cyber ethics. We also organized symposia, forums by experts and workshops on Internet ethics. Utilization Prevention of IT of adverse KT set up a website (www.cefy.org) called CEFY, which stands for “Cyber Ethics for You,” and Utilization in daily of the latest effects has held a competition for schoolteachers who submit their teaching plans and materials on activities from IT ·IT Supporters activity Support for IT devices Support for ·Cyber Ethics for You site CEFY(www.cefy.org) cyber ethics. In addition, our employees are participating in the “Onnuri Volunteers,” an multicultural small company Customized owners and the IT families self-employed education organization dedicated to checking computer security vulnerabilities for those who are in the “digital divide,” in cooperation with the Korea Communications Commission and Korea Support for multicultural families Utilization of the latest IT devices Information Security Agency. Provide computer & software teachers Teach how to use smart phones Teach Korean language & culture to assist in the Help with using social network services via smart naturalization process phones Help with online shopping, finding locations, and other Teach how to use tablet PCs daily activities utilizing PCs Customized IT education Utilization of IT in daily activities Teach how to use computers and printers Use online banking, shopping and reservations Help with Internet searching Issue government-generated documents Create UCC and digital photo albums Issue public key certificates Teach how to use word processors, Excel and Power Utilize e-mail and instant messengers Point Build webpages and blogs Support for small company owners and Provide tips on digital cameras, MP3 players and mobile phones the self-employed Provide marketing instruments by building webpages and blogs Prevention of adverse effects from IT Increase productivity through classes on software Hold lectures on diagnosing and preventing Internet applications addiction Prevent cyber crimes and voice phishing, and protect personal data Block harmful sites, teach how to use PC usage time control program Provide IT education programs for both parents and children DREAM WITH SOCIETY LOVE SHARING 64 2010 Sustainability Report 65 KT Volunteer Corps of Love Support for Local Children's Centers KT Volunteer Corps of Love was founded in March 2001 to promote greater efficiency by Our volunteer teams are now focusing on support for children from disadvantaged families, integrating KT employees' volunteer activities, which had been conducted individually, into a and are involved in ongoing programs organized in cooperation with children's centers systematic, company-wide movement. As of 2010, the Corps consists of 395 teams with across the country. As part of this effort, volunteers around the country accompany the roughly 16,000 employees donating their time to various causes such as supporting the children once a month to various events related to the natural environment or to a cultural underprivileged, providing disaster relief assistance, and extending a helping hand to farming activity. Recently the KT Volunteer Corps of Love members have established multipurpose and fishing communities. We reorganized the Volunteer Corps to focus on providing support centers using idle space inside KT branches to serve children from the local children's for children. Participants now spend their time and money to support local children's center. In addition, KT is engaged in the “IPTV Study Room” project in association with the Newly hired employees perform centers, children's education programs, and scholarships for gifted students. Korea Digital Media Industry Association and local governments. The project involves the community service at local children's donation of QOOK TV educational contents to facilities where low-income children can go center during the holiday season Activities of KT Volunteer Corps of Love after school. 2007 2008 2009 Volunteer hours 224,211 255,219 89,621 Support for Hearing-impaired Children No. of participants 35,589 39,878 15,723 We have helped children and teenagers from low-income families to restore their hearing ·Support for multicultural families since 2003. As of the end of 2009, KT has funded artificial cochlea implants and rehabilitation Organizational Chart of ·Ceremony to establish formal ties with a local children’s center treatment to 119 children, while 161 more have been given digital hearing aids. KT Volunteer Corps of Love Head (CEO) : 395 teams in total Establishing sister village relationship Secretariat KT has established “sisterhood” relationships with approximately 200 farming and fishing (PR Office) communities and maintains close ties with the local residents. KT employees volunteer their assistance during the busy planting and harvesting seasons, buy local produce, and provide Headquarters Personal Home Customer Corporate Network Division IT instruction. Our exchanges with the members of these communities help us to learn their (65) Customer Division Customer Network opinions and increase mutual understanding. Division Wireless Marketing Team Division Operating Team Marketing Team (18) (18) (8) (11) Disaster Recovery Branch volunteer When stricken by unexpected disasters, KT works hard to repair telecommunications NSC volunteer groups groups facilities and restore services as quickly as possible. We also provide public phone services to (236) the victims without charge, as well as telecommunication services at reduced or exempted rates in order to ease their hardship. In addition, KT Volunteers are dispatched to the scene “Love Sharing” Fund to deliver relief supplies and donated funds as well as to help out with the recovery effort. To promote charitable activities, KT has run the Love Sharing Fund since 2003, led by the voluntary participation of employees. KT adopted the matching grant scheme to support employees' philanthropic activities, and 74 percent of our employees made donations through this foundation in 2009. Volume of Donation Collected through Love Sharing Fund 2007 2008 2009 Fund raised (Unit: KRW 1 million) 1,970 2,120 2,030 KT employees' participation rate (%) 74 79 74 DREAM WITH SOCIETY CULTURE SHARING 66 2010 Sustainability Report 67 olleh Square Preservation Activities near the Dong River In June 2006, we converted the first-floor lobby of the Gwanghwamun Office in downtown We have been engaged in activities to protect the Dong River, which boasts breathtaking Seoul into the KT Art Hall. The “Jazz and the City” concert series has been held regularly scenery. As part of this effort, we sponsored a project to build a traditional Korean house here since April 2007. Admission is only KRW 1,000, and all proceeds go to helping children near the river in Jejang Village, Jeongseon-gun, Gangwon Province. We began to raise funds from underprivileged families. The KT Art Hall was renovated in early 2010, and reopened as in 2003 to purchase a 17,190m2 site for the house. Employee volunteers completed the “olleh Square,” which continues to provide the public with a place to relax and a venue for house, dubbed “Dong River Love” in August 2005. The house has become a symbol of the performance art. Of course, this is also a place where people can experience the latest IT river preservation drive and is used to teach teens about the importance of protecting the products and services from KT. environment. The olleh Square is a multi-purpose facility that exemplifies KT's “thinking-outside-of-theCampaign to preserve an endangered flower on Ganghwa Island box” approach to management. People can visit a coffee shop inside, do some shopping ,and Protecting Ranunculus Kazusensis Makino Colonies in Ganghwa Island attend a performance while trying out the latest IT devices on display. Free Wi-Fi connection Since 2003, KT has been leading the movement to protect colonies of ranunculus kazusensis is available everywhere on the 3,300m2 premises, and visitors can use tables embedded with makino, an herbaceous water plant belonging to the buttercup family. This species grows a laptop and touch-screen display to access the Internet, listen to music online, and play only in Ganghwa Island and has become threatened with extinction due to habitat loss. The video games for free. National Trust of Korea designated this wild plant as the country's first Citizen's Natural Heritage. We created mountain paths near the colonies to prevent their being damaged, and ·olleh Square KT Chamber Hall we sponsor trips to view the flowers in bloom every May. ·KT Chamber Hall The KT Chamber Hall was opened inside the Mokdong IDC in Seoul in May 2009 as part of a Meanwhile, since 2009 KT has been supporting local residents' efforts to prevent damage to remodeling project. As the name suggests, the venue is designed to stage chamber music the olleh hiking trails on Jeju Island and to promote them as a tourist attraction. performances. The Hall can accommodate an audience of 410, while parking is available for 600 vehicles. Prominent chamber music artists are invited to perform, and the recorded performance is broadcast on our QOOK TV classical music and concerts channels. Customer Involvement Programs KT introduced “Think Korea” fee plans (Goguryeo, Dokdo Island, and Loving Koreans) to support public interest campaigns. Under these plans, subscribers donate KRW 500 per month to the Think Korea Fund, which supports activities for protecting Korea's cultural heritage and raising public awareness on national history. In addition, customers can donate points from their SHOW rewards program accounts, which are converted into money at a preset rate and used to fund IT classes for underprivileged people as well as to support cultural events. Moreover, customers who want to contribute to youth scholarship programs can add a small amount to their mobile telephone bill. The fund targets artisticallyor athletically-gifted students from low-income families. DREAM CREATOR, KT FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE IN 2009 68 2010 Sustainability Report 69 KT Membership in Domestic & Key Financial Ratios The 2010 KT Sustainability Report is the second issue following the KT-KTF merger in 2009. Overseas Organizations 2007 2008 2009 KT's management recognition of the business importance of managing the “non-financial” Current ratio 110.7% 146.1% 113.9% areas of the business, with sustainability foremost among them, lead to establishing Korea Debt-to-equity ratio 102.2% 111.6% 134.1% Korea Internet Corporations Association, sustainability management policies and reorganization of the management structure in order Federation of Korea Information Industries, Dependence on Stability 28.7% 33.7% 76.7% to emphasize the sustainability of the company as a whole following the merger. The 2010 Korea Digital Media Industry Association, borrowings ratio Report satisfies the general standards on the task of addressing sustainability challenges. The Institute of Electronics Engineers of Korea, Interest coverage relative to U-Korea Forum, Korea Listed Company operating income 4.6 3.4 1.4 contents relating to company-wide summaries, policies and control systems have been Association, Korean Society for Journalism & Operating income margin 12% 9.4% 3.8% reported fairly extensively, facilitating reader comprehension of where KT is coming from and Communication Studies, Korean Association Net income margin 8.2% 3.8% 3.3% where it aims to develop further in the future. In certain cases, the merger with KTF restricted for Broadcasting & Telecommunication Return on assets (ROA) 5.3% 2.4% 2.8% the reporting of consolidated figures and performance data for past years, but with a newly Profitability Studies, Federation of Korean Industries, Return on equity (ROE) 11.3% 5.1% 5.4% established corporate-wide sustainability performance management system, data going Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Operating cash flow to 16.7% 7.8% 7.8% forward is expected to be tracked and reported in detail and with precision. Korea IT Leaders Forum, Korea Association of total assets Information and Telecommunication, Korea This Report summarizes policies and establishing guidelines for sustainability management Operating revenue growth rate 0.7% -1.3% 35% Fair Competition Federation, Korea Employers in support of overseas interests and operations. It is hoped that the company will remain in Growth and Operating income growth rate -18.4% -22.3% -45.1% Federation, Council of Korea Employers' step with the growing number of projects and strategic investments outside Korea, Turnover Net income growth rate -20.4% -54.2% 14.8% Organizations, Korea Industrial Safety improving the reporting of sustainability management issues and activities in KT operations Total assets growth rate -0.3% 4.3% 30.3% Association, Network Security Forum, globally. In addition, KT is expected to report more concrete results of internal research to Korea Home Network Industries Association, answer questions on future risks and challenges that affect corporate sustainability. One Korea Institute of Information Security & Summary Balance Sheet (Unit: KRW billion) Cryptology, Korea Advanced Intelligent Robot 2007 2008 2009 particular issue is the impact of electromagnetic radiation associated with wireless Association Current assets 3,310.4 3,778.1 6,474.5 communication technology, which has attracted interest by consumer groups around the Assets Non-current assets 14,606.8 14,906.8 17,867.9 world. We have no doubt that the management at KT understands that open communication Overseas Non-current assets 17,917.2 18,684.9 24,342.4 on such issues is desirable for all parties. WFA(Wireless Fidelity Alliance), Current liabilities 2,991.4 2,585.9 5,864.2 KT's efforts to advance sustainability management have been publically recognized by FMCA(Fixed-Mobile Convergence Alliance), Liabilities Non-current liabilities 6,065.9 7,267.2 8,259.9 different agencies. The company was included in the DJSI World 2010/11, the most OMA(Open Mobile Alliance), WiMAX Forum, Total liabilities 9,053.7 9,853.1 13,944.2 VoiceXML Forum, DSL Forum, respected benchmark for corporate sustainability management assessments globally. Capital stock 1,561 1,561 1,564.5 WBA(Wireless Broadband Alliance), However, internal and external performance results on sustainability management are not Capital surplus 1,440.8 1,440.6 1,448.6 TMF(Telecommunication Management an end in themselves but rather mark a new beginning for KT. The sustainable approach to Capital adjustment 3,984 3,994.7 2,615.7 Forum), APT(Asia Pacific Telecommunity), Stockholders' Accumulated other management is the right approach to long-term corporate development, advancement and ITU(International Telecommunication Union) Equity 0.8 10.8 -44.5 comprehensive income sustained growth. It is advisable that KT establishes a detailed roadmap for long-term Retained earnings 9,842.9 9,814.1 9,595.5 corporate sustainability, with midand long-term targets set for all issues pertaining to Total stockholders' equity 8,859.9 8,831.8 10,398.2 sustainability management. Such targets both qualitative and quantitative are helpful for Total liabilities and stakeholders, both internal and external, to grasp the company's potential for long-term 17,917.2 18,684.9 24,342.5 stockholders' equity sustainability and growth. We strongly believe that the advancement of a green IT industry paired with integrated sustainability management as a core corporate strategy is the right Summary Income Statement (Unit: KRW billion) way for KT and its customers to enjoy a prosperous future. 2007 2008 2009 Operating revenue 11,936.4 11,784.8 15,906.1 Operating expenses 10,502.7 10,671.4 15,294.6 Operating income 1,433.7 1,113.4 611.5 Non-operating income 415.6 855.3 884.3 Non-operating expenses 574.6 1,408.7 939.7 Income before income taxes 1,274.7 560 556.2 Income tax expenses 292.7 110.2 39.6 CEO, SolAbility Sustainability Advice Andy Gebhardt Net income 982 449.8 516.5 DREAM CREATOR, KT GRI G3 INDEX 70 Indicators Index Page Indicators Index Page Indicators Index Page Strategy and Analysis Management Approach and Performance Index Labor Practices and Decent Work 1.1 4~12 Economic LA1 51~52 1.2 6~7,15, 33 EC1 9, 19, 20 Compliance LA2 51~52 Organizational Profile Economic EC2 42, 43 LA3 58 2.1 8~9 Performance EC3 2007 CSR Labor/ ManageLA4 53 2.2 8 EC4 46 ment Relations LA5 53 2.3 9 EC5 20 LA6 59 2.4 9 Market Presence EC6 24 Occupational LA7 59 2.5 9 EC7 51 Health and Safety LA8 2.6 13, 20 Indirect EC8 60~67 LA9 59 2.7 8~9 Economic Impacts EC9 22~23 LA10 57 Training 2.8 8~9 Environmental LA11 52, 55 and Education 2.9 8 EN1 44 LA12 58 Materials 2.10 8 EN2 49 Diversity and LA13 52~53 Report Parameters EN3 44 Equal Opportunity LA14 51~52 3.1 1 EN4 44 Human Rights 3.2 1 Energy EN5 44~45 HR1 3.3 1 EN6 44~45 HR2 Non-Discrimination 3.4 70 EN7 44~45 HR3 14 3.5 17 EN8 48 HR4 14 3.6 1 Water EN9 48 Freedom of 3.7 1 EN10 48 Association and HR5 53 3.8 9 EN11 Collective Bargaining 3.9 1 EN12 Child Labor HR6 3.10 1 Bio Diversity EN13 67 Forced and HR7 52 3.11 1 EN14 67 Compulsory Labor 3.12 70 EN15 Security Practices HR8 30~3 3.13 1, 69 EN16 44 Indigenous Rights HR9 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement EN17 44 Society 4.1 12, 13 EN18 44~47 Community SO1 61 4.2 13 EN19 2008 CSR SO2 35, 39 Emissions, 4.3 13 EN20 2008 CSR Corruption SO3 39 Effluents, 4.4 17 EN21 48 SO4 14 and Waste 4.5 13 EN22 49 SO5 Public Policy 4.6 13 EN23 49 SO6 4.7 13 EN24 Anti-Competitive SO7 39 4.8 12, 14 EN25 48 Behavior Additional Information 4.9 12, 15 EN26 42~43, 47 Compliance SO8 Additional information is available at KT's homepage and other related websites. Product If you want to view or download this report and need more information on our CSR 4.10 12, 15 EN27 49 Product Responsibility Performance activities, please visit our website(http://csr.kt.com/eng) and contact us at the following. 4.11 15 Compliance EN28 42 Customer Health PR1 31 4.12 12 Transport EN29 & Safety PR2 31 Websites 4.13 68 Overall EN30 PR3 29 KT homepage (http://csr.kt.com/eng) Product & 4.14 17 PR4 31 Financial Supervisory Service's electronic disclosure system (http://dart.fss.or.kr) Service Labeling US Securities and Exchange Commission website (http://www.sec.gov) 4.15 17 PR5 31 4.16 17 Marketing PR6 25 Contact Information 4.17 18, 26, 34, 40, 50, 61 Communication PR7 31 Public Relations Department, Public Relations Office 100 Sejong-ro, Jongno-gu, Customer PR8 30~31 Seoul 110-777, Korea Protection PR9 31 TEL: 02-730-0354 FAX: 02-730-0308 e-mail: homepage@kt.com Cut on the dotted line Satisfaction Survey on the 2010 KT Sustainability Report KT wants to hear your feedback on the 2010 KT Sustainability Report in order to make improvements. Your valued opinions will be used to enhance our sustainability management effort and create subsequent reports. Respondents will be given a token gift, and we would like to thank you for your interest in this Report. 1. Please rate the overall satisfaction of this Report. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied 2. Please evaluate this Report in the following terms: It covers major issues relating to KT. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied It provides sufficient useful information. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied Contents are trustworthy. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied It is easily understandable. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied Its design helps to understand the content. Very satisfied Satisfied Not sure Dissatisfied Very dissatisfied 3. Please indicate the area(s) that concern(s) you most among the following: Overall management of KT Performance data Corporate governance Risk management Ethical management Brand management Customer relations Customer protection Youth protection Growing together with suppliers Environmental management Green IT Employees Social contributions 4. Please note the most satisfying part and the most dissatisfying in this Report. The most satisfying part The most dissatisfying part 5. Please note your opinions on KT’s overall sustainability management activities or aspects of this Report that needed to be improved. 6. What group(s) do you belong to among the following? Shareholders and investors Customers Suppliers Civic organizations Government institutions Media Academia Employees Others ( ) Please send this feedback via mail, e-mail or fax to the following address. KT PR Office, Sejong-no 100, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea (Zip code:110-777) TEL: 02-730-0354 FAX: 02-730-0308 e-mail: homepage@kt.com
