sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 Contents IntroductIon EnvIronMEntal rESPonSIBIlIty – rEducIng thE EcologIcal 04 Profile FootPrInt oF our actIvItIES 06 International presence 09 Message from the chairman of the 48 greenhouse project Management Board 50 Environmental emissions 10 Interview with the Sustainable 54 waste management development director 56 water 12 Strategy and commitments 58 Biodiversity 14 organization 60 Focus on china 16 targets and results aPPEndIcES EconoMIc rESPonSIBIlIty – 62 Methodology note EnSurIng SuStaInaBlE growth 64 Quantified results 66 Statutory auditors’ report and coMPEtItIvEnESS 67 Process overview 20 value creation strategy 22 Innovation 26 Investments and acquisitions 30 Shareholder relations SocIal rESPonSIBIlIty – a long-tErM aPProach to huMan rElatIonShIPS 34 Employment and workforce data 36 careers 38 Safety 40 health 42 civic responsibility strategy 44 Focus on Brazil 3 To meet the world’s new energy challenges, Vallourec provides innovative tubular solutions to ensure the responsible use of resources. Sustainable development is one of the cornerstones of Vallourec industrial strategy. The Group focuses on three main objectives: • Help our customers achieve their performance and safety objectives; • Ensure the health and safety of all our employees and respect all stakeholders; • Reduce our environmental footprint by making economical use of the resources that we need for our activities. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 ProFIlE a MajOR PlayeR in PReMi vallourec is the world's leading supplier of tubular products and solutions for the most complex environments, operating primarily in the energy markets, and in particular the oil and gas, power generation and petrochemicals industries. It also has expertise in industrial applications in the mechanical engineering, automotive and construction sectors. working closely with customers, vallourec harnesses its very high-performance products, quality services and network of local representatives to provide the most appropriate solutions for their requirements. 8 8 3 8 7 6 1  5 6  8  2 intRODuCtiOn 5 uM tubulaR sOlutiOns KEy FIgURES More than  4 50 production facilities in over 20 countries 20,600 employees e4,491 million in sales in 2010 78% of sales in the energy sector (oil and gas, power generation and petrochemicals) 74% of sales outside the European union SAlES By BUSInESS automotive 7 % oil & gas 53 % 1 Mechanical engineering 9% Petrochemicals 8 % other 6 % Power generation 17 %  6 1. tubes and connections for drilling and oil and gas well equipment: drill tubes, casing, tubing, vaM premium connections. 2. tubes for undersea oil and gas well line pipes and links: flow-lines, risers. 3. tubes for thermal power plant equipment. 4. tubes for nuclear power plant equipment. 5. tubes for petrochemical plants and process industries. 6. tubes for mechanical engineering. 7. tubes for the automotive and transport industries. 8. tubes for construction. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 IntErnatIonal PrESEncE cloSE to our cuStoMErS – worldwIdE in addition to modern, high-performance industrial facilities worldwide, Vallourec operates local sales and service offices as well as a network of VaM licensees in the field of oil and gas connexions. this comprehensive network enables the Group to serve its customers directly and provide them with appropriate premium solutions. SAlES By REgIOn France 4% germany 14% north america 25% other Eu countries 8% rest of the world 7% South america 25% asia and Middle East 17% WORKFORCE By REgIOn asia, Middle East, africa 7% north america 11% Europe 46% UnITED KIngDOm UnITED STATES Brazil 36% Aberdeen Brunswick (gA) Serimax valtimet hPt vallourec Mannesmann Broussard (lA) oil & gas uK v & M tube alloy Bellshill Casper (Wy) vallourec Mannesmann v & M tube alloy oil & gas uK Houma (lA) Evanton v & M tube alloy lIST FRAnCE maubeuge Interfit Serimax Houston (TX) OF lOCATIOnS Aulnoye-Aymeries v & M France Saint-Saulve RUSSIA Serimax llc v & M Star vallourec Mannesmann v & M France moscow v & M uSa corp oil & gas France v & M France Serimax russia vaM uSa Europe vaM drilling France Tarbes v & M rus vaM drilling uSa Cosne-sur-loire vaM drilling France v & M tube alloy gERmAny vaM drilling France Venarey-les-laumes morristown (Tn) Düsseldorf-Rath Déville valtimet valtimet Inc. v & M deutschland vallourec umbilicals* Düsseldorf-Reisholz v & M France la Charité Villers-Cotterêts north america muskogee (OK) v & M Star v & M deutschland valti Serimax youngstown (OH) Huckingen CAnADA mitry-mory v & M Star hKM (hüttenwerke nisku Serimax v & M Star Krupp Mannesmann)* montbard nETHERlAnDS vaM canada v & M two** Krefeld Heerhugowaard St-John valti valti gmbh vallourec Mannesmann vaM canada valinox nucléaire mülheim oil & gas nederland vallourec tubes canada v & M deutschland intRODuCtiOn 7 mEXICO asia / Middle East / mAlAySIA RESEARCH lEgEnD Veracruz vaM Mexico africa Pasir gudang Serimax Malaysia CEnTRES ● Finishing units CHInA ● Steel mills InDIA Changzhou Hyderabad Europe ● Pipe mills South america v & M changzhou vaM (changzhou) oil & gas cSt valinox gERmAny ● Forest and mine BRAzIl Premium Equipments InDOnESIA vallourec research düsseldorf Belo Horizonte changzhou carex vallourec research riesa ● Sales and service offices valinox components Batam v & M do Brasil Pt citra tubindo v & M do Brasil changzhou valinox FRAnCE v & M do Brasil great wall welded tubes vallourec research aulnoye guangzhou SIngAPORE vaM drilling Brasil valinox nucléaire Serimax Singapore Brumadinho v & M Mineração tubes guangzhou** SAUDI ARABIA north america Curvelo Beijing v & M Beijing Dammam UnITED STATES v & M Florestal Xi’an v & M al Qahtani tubes** vallourec research houston Jeceaba vallourec & Sumitomo Xi’an Baotimet valinox tubes* UnITED ARAB EmIRATES tubos do Brasil** Rio de Janeiro SOUTH KOREA Dubaï vaM drilling Middle East South america Serimax do Brasil Bupyung Abu Dhabi BRAzIl Poonsang valinox* vaM drilling Protools oil Equipment vallourec research Belo horizonte nIgERIA * non-integrated sites Onne (see Methodology note ) vaM onne* ** Sites under construction. intRODuCtiOn 9 EdItorIal taCklinG ChallenGes faCinG the eneRGy inDustRy – PRePaRinG fOR the futuRe If the world is to meet the needs of a growing population and support economic development in emerging nations, it must face the huge challenge of managing and making best use of the planet's energy resources at the same time as reducing the environmental footprint of human activity. vallourec is helping to meet this challenge by providing technological expertise to enable production of increasingly hard-to-access hydrocarbons and to optimize the energy efficiency of power plants. Safety is our overriding priority, and we are proud to have reduced the frequency of accidents involving our employees by a factor of three over the last three years. we also firmly believe that our products play a significant role in enabling our customers to operate safely and efficiently. day in, day out, all over the world, vallourec personnel play their part by working with our customers to develop ever more reliable solutions, higher-performance products and innovations to satisfy future needs. as the leader in its markets and a major global industrial operator and economic player, vallourec is well aware of its own responsibilities. we therefore remain committed to improving our environmental performance year after year, whether in terms of our carbon emissions, the proportion of renewable energy that we use or the percentage of our industrial waste that is recovered. these achievements are described in the report. In a cyclical industry such as ours, we understand the importance of constructive labour relations. In this respect, we pay particular attention to developing our employees' skills, valuing their expertise, and promoting talent by providing career opportunities for the men and women working for and joining the group. lastly, at a time when we are investing in major strategic projects in Brazil, china, the united States, France and the Middle East, we are careful to ensure that these new locations blend into the surrounding economic, environmental and social fabric. Similarly, we make a point of welcoming the many new people joining the group, who enhance our cultural diversity and expertise and help us pursue our shared goal of being widely acknowledged as a responsible player in the energy sector. Philippe Crouzet chairman of the Management Board sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 IntErvIEw “We set OuRselVes aMbitiOus yet RealistiC taRGets” what are vallourec's ambitions in terms of sustainable development? the group has four stated ambitions: operate as a responsible corporate citizen; merit the trust of our employees; use the resources we need sparingly; and enable our customers to achieve their objectives. the principles set out in the code of Ethics being rolled out throughout the group are closely related to these aims. to make these commitments clear to all our partners, we also signed the global compact en 2010. how are you putting your policy into practice? we try to share our ambitions by presenting sustainable development issues to employees in a pragmatic, credible way. It is important for individual employees to realize that they can play their part while doing their job, and that their actions can strengthen the company's business Jean-louis merveille, Sustainable development director model. over the past two years, we have set up almost 350 continuous improvement teams at our plants. these cIts have focused on three areas enhance safety, ensure compliance with our that were given priority status because they commitments and deliver more effective control concern all employees: personal safety, energy over our resources. I firmly believe that these efficiency and health risks posed by chemical objectives hold the key to lasting performance use. Management involvement in this type of benefits, and I am therefore very confident initiative is crucial. accordingly, our Sustainable for the future. we also hope that vallourec development committee now includes senior employees understand the reasons for our action management representatives, and in particular the and feel proud to be involved. I was therefore Management Board. particularly satisfied to learn that, in a staff survey, the vast majority of our employees stated how do you measure the results of your action? that they approved our strategy and considered whenever it is possible to quantify the effects of the company to be respectful of its environment. the vallourec policy, we introduce performance indicators and set ambitious yet realistic improvement targets, consistent with vallourec’s strategy of continuous improvement. this was reflected in the 5% decrease in carbon emissions per tonne produced in 2010. clearly, therefore, our caPtEn+ programme is much more than just another energy savings plan, because it will intRODuCtiOn 11 sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 StratEgy and coMMItMEntS long-tErM coMMItMEnt Vallourec has organized its sustainable development Respect for people, their dignity and their diversity is crucial to vallourec employees. as well as enriching the strategy around two major commitments – lives of individual employees, this attitude enhances the introduction of a rigorous code of ethics our collective performance. respect begins with safety, and signing the united nations Global Compact. a fundamental priority for the group. Joint commitment. all vallourec employees make a collective contribution to drive the group’s growth. this shared goal is based on solidarity, loyalty, attentiveness to OUR CODE OF ETHICS – others, teamwork and the sense of responsibility. THE “VAllOUREC WAy” Implementation launched in 2010 Core values In late 2010, vallourec ran information and awarenessvallourec drew up a formal code of ethics in 2009, as a raising campaigns for all employees as a prelude to binding thread among all employees. this document – the the introduction of the code of ethics. a booklet “vallourec way” – ensures that the core values essential entitled Living our Values was distributed to employees, to the group’s operation are methodically disseminated illustrating vallourec values through practical examples all over the world. the code provides pragmatic guidance and personal accounts. this booklet, available in six to all employees in their everyday working lives. languages, is in essence a code of conduct. In parallel, Integrity and transparency. Integrity is the sine qua a poster campaign was conducted at all vallourec sites, non for all vallourec decisions and practices. Ensuring and Vallourec Way presentation meetings were organized confidence among co-workers, transparency implies the by managers and human resources departments. circulation of clear, objective and timely information. Standards and professionalism underpin vallourec’s ETHICS COmPlIAnCE PROgRAmmE success in a global marketplace characterized by a race for performance. these values are the foundation of the In keeping with the ethics strategy of vallourec, the group group’s sustainable growth ambitions. has launched a worldwide programme to ensure compliance Performance and responsiveness. the key to satisfying with standards and regulatory requirements relating to vallourec’s customers is constant innovation, coupled with corruption, competition law and the environment. this high-quality, high-performance products and services. our programme, which is currently being implemented, will staff must therefore be responsive to changing market be accompanied by an awareness-raising campaign conditions. aimed at plant managers and senior executives, as well intRODuCtiOn 13 EnCOURAgE ETHICAl DIAlOgUE “A fter rolling out the Code of Ethics, which is currently underway, we will put it into practice with the key focus on ‘ethical dialogue’. The goal is to the find the most appropriate solutions for ethical problems by fostering discussions between the employees involved and their superiors or local Human Resources managers. At Vallourec, ethics primarily centres on sharing common values and training staff in the rules of the game.” Denis Husson, Manager, code of Ethics as other managers whose activities are subject to such companies signing the global compact undertake to make regulations. “vallourec aims not only to ensure compliance year-by-year progress in relation to one or more principles with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements, (see inset). this implies introducing or maintaining a but to encourage all employees to adopt our values and continuous improvement programme, backed by in-house achieve the stated progress targets”, says Philippe dupeyré, and external communication relating to the company’s general counsel. undertakings and achievements. In 2010, vallourec set goals in terms of pursuing our COmmITmEnT TO THE UnITED nATIOnS safety improvement strategy (via the cap ten Safe project) and implementing a group-wide code of ethics. By signing the united nations global compact in 2010, vallourec agreed to uphold a set of principles among its employees and stakeholders and to promote their progress. 10 A coherent worldwide message the global compact is an initiative of the un aimed at encouraging international companies to agree to adopt, uphold and apply – in their respective spheres of influence – a set of fundamental values relating The number of principles that to human rights, labour practices, the environment Global Compact member and anti-corruption measures. as of 1 January 2011, 6,287 businesses worldwide (including 620 in France) companies agree to uphold in had made this commitment. their operations and strategies. GlObal COMPaCt PRinCiPles • human rights – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and – Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • labour rights – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; – the effective abolition of child labour; and – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • environment – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and – Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • transparency and anti-corruption – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, within their sphere of influence. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 organIzatIon ManagIng a ProgrESS StratEgy “Deciding” and “doing” are the two basic steps in any the committee took action to move the group forward in progress. in order to effectively orchestrate the Group’s terms of energy efficiency, best practices relating to the environment and biodiversity, preventing and controlling sustainable development strategy, Vallourec has set up chemical risks, stakeholder identification and responsible two new, dedicated structures over the past two years: purchasing. at the local level, sustainable development policy is a sustainable Development Committee and an operational implemented by the management team of each business Department dedicated to sustainable Development. unit, consistent with corporate management guidelines. If necessary, policy may be adapted to reflect local contexts and activities, as long as the basic principles of the vallourec Management System (see opposite) are upheld. A proactive operational department the main missions of the Sustainable development ClOSE SUPERVISIOn department are to: – Identify challenges and risks, listen to stakeholders the Management Board created a dedicated committee and represent vallourec; in 2009 to oversee vallourec’s sustainable development – oversee production of shortand long-term action plans policy. the Sustainable development department created by the departments concerned; in 2010 is responsible for implementing the measures – Supervise the implementation of actions approved by decided by this committee. the committee; – develop awareness of sustainable development issues An open, responsible Sustainable among all employees. Development Committee the Sustainable development department is a small unit the Sustainable development committee, chaired by with direct management responsibility for the Environment Jean-yves le cuziat, who is Managing director of the E&I department and for running the “greenhouse” energy division and a member of the Executive committee, defines efficiency project (see page 48). the department’s role vallourec’s strategic orientations and priority projects, also involves working closely with all divisions, support ensures that they are coherent and supervises their functions and countries, to ensure that all business units implementation throughout the group. the committee, understand the practical role they play in implementing the which meets five times a year, includes the director of sustainable development policy. each division, representatives from support departments the Sustainable development department manages the and two members of the Management Board. Involvement network of Environment managers at vallourec’s larger by senior management is a key success factor. facilities, as well as the network of energy managers In 2010, as well as deciding to join the global compact, appointed at industrial facilities. GOVeRnanCe In 1994, vallourec adopted a dual governance system with a Supervisory Board and a Management Board. the Supervisory Board, chaired by Jean-Paul Parayre, has eight independent members out of a total of eleven. Its role is to define the strategic orientations of the group’s activities and oversee their implementation. It fulfils this mission in accordance with the recommendations issued in the aFEP-MEdEF 1 code of corporate governance. the Board is advised by three special committees: the audit and Finance committee, the appointments, remuneration and governance committee and the Strategy committee. For more information, refer to the 2010 registration document or visit our website at www.vallourec.com 1. French federations of private enterprises. intRODuCtiOn 15 vallourec’s head office in Boulogne-Billancourt. PAVIng THE WAy TO CO-RESPOnSIBIlITy “F or several years, we have been implementing practical measures – such as reducing water consumption and rolling out the GreenHouse project – at our facilities throughout the Group. Sustainable development concerns are opening up new opportunities for us. It is now time to unify and coordinate the many environmental, social initiatives conducted throughout the Group. The mission of the Committee that I chair is to pave the way to responsible business, taking into consideration our natural and human environment and adopting a long-term view of Vallourec’s activities.” Jean-yves le Cuziat, chairman of the Sustainable development committee PROPRIETARy mETHODOlOgy the Sustainable development department also organizes an annual convention on each continent, attended by vallourec uses a proven proprietary methodology to plant managers, quality and hSE managers, etc. the aim implement its sustainable development policy: the vallourec of this conference is to encourage operational personnel Management System (vMS). this management system, which to share their ideas and to spread best practices. these was introduced to further enhance group performance, is part events – which feature presentations on environmental of a broader continuous improvement strategy covering all or safety-related topics, for example, followed by best vallourec sectors and management levels. vMS is therefore an practice workshops – are now seen as important vectors appropriate vehicle for addressing sustainable development of vallourec sustainable development policy. issues. the system is organized around three main elements: – Steering committees, which are responsible for implementing management directives and monitoring results, – action plans, – cross-departmental, multidisciplinary continuous Improvement teams (cIts), which coordinate the efforts of volunteers – in some cases from different facilities – to achieve a shared target of improving performance and processes. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 targEtS and rESultS PrEcISE, MEaSuraBlE PErForMancE IndIcatorS Over time, Vallourec has introduced annual performance indicators for each area of sustainable development. these indicators are used to track performance and progress throughout the Group. Strategy ECOnOmIC RESPOnSIBIlITy Competitiveness and sustainable development Profitability: EBITDA/Sales ratio Ensure a margin above 15% at the trough of the cycle Financial strength: net debt/equity Maintain a healthy balance sheet at all times R&D budget Maintain our technological lead Equity owned by employees Involve employees with the group’s results and strategy Dividend remunerate shareholders over the long term by distributing 1/3 of net earnings SOCIAl RESPOnSIBIlITy long-lasting human relationships Employees Make new employees feel welcome Staff turnover Encourage stable employment Safety reduce the frequency of accidents by adopting best practices Training anticipate requirements and changing skills manager performance Introduce annual assessment interviews for all executives EnVIROnmEnTAl RESPOnSIBIlITy Reduce the ecological footprint of our activities Water decrease water consumption Electricity gas Improve energy efficiency via the greenhouse project CO2 emissions Waste recovery Maximize waste recovery * ltIr : lost time Injury rate (see definition on p.38). ** Processed tonne. n.m : not measured. intRODuCtiOn 17 Unit 2009 2010 Page % 22 20.6 20 % 9.9 7.9 20 € million 65 70 22 % 2.6 3.4 30 % 38.6 37.3 31 unit 18,567 20,561 34 % 9 7 34 ltIr* 5.27 3.16 39 hours 520,000 650,000 36 % n.m 66 37 m3/t** 2.2 1.7 56 kwh/t 366 328 48 kwh/t 810 697 48 kg/t 226 199 50 % n.m 86 54 ensuRinG sustainable GROWth anD COMPetitiVeness EconoMIc rESPonSIBIlIty For vallourec, economic responsibility goes hand in hand with competitiveness, growth and sustainability. Profits and cash flow generated by the group’s activities enable vallourec to grow independently, by financing industrial, technological and human investments, and by developing innovative products and manufacturing processes. the added value thus created is then distributed among stakeholders. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 valuE crEatIon StratEgy PlayIng For thE long tErM Vallourec has a long-term value creation strategy Competitive strengths having an extensive network of local facilities puts vallourec based on operating in prosperous energy markets, in a stronger position to serve its customers’ requirements strengthening the Group’s market positions in regions and is a significant competitive advantage. the group has of dynamic growth and developing premium and the expertise to offer a comprehensive range of services, from the design of products to their on-site use. In 2010, innovative tubular solutions. Serimax, the world leader in the provision of welding solutions for offshore line pipes, was acquired as part of this strategy, enabling the group to expand its offer for deepwater offshore applications. mARKET POSITIOnIng BASED On PREmIUm PRODUCTS A nEW CUSTOmER-ORIEnTED SAVIngS PlAn due to the complexity of oil and gas installations and growing environmental concerns, there is considerable vallourec business levels recovered strongly in 2010. demand for innovative solutions in the energy markets. Sales volume rose by 26% compared with 2009 and plants In this context, vallourec has steadily strengthened its operated at high capacity, particularly during the second offer of premium tubular solutions segment, primarily half of the year. this did not prevent the group from for energy markets. this policy has been supported pursuing its efforts to achieve lasting improvements in by investing heavily in r&d and by modernizing and operational efficiency. expanding the group’s industrial facilities. Encouraging progress TARgETIng HIgH-gROWTH REgIOnS to improve competitiveness in 2008, vallourec introduced the three-year “cap ten” cost savings programme. the as vallourec grows internationally, it pays special aim of this programme was to generate cost savings of attention to strengthening its industrial and commercial more than €200 million by 2010. nearly 1,500 continuous presence in regions and market segments that offer improvement teams (cIt) around the world took part in high growth potential. a number of acquisitions in the programme, which ultimately yielded pre-inflation cost recent years, together with decisions to invest in new savings of €280 million by the end of 2010. production capacity, particularly in Brazil, the united In early 2011, vallourec launched caPtEn+, a new threeStates, the Middle East and china, are helping the group year programme with a broader scope, aimed at improving to penetrate local growth markets while also enhancing operational efficiency, quality, service and customer competitiveness. satisfaction. this programme also seeks to reduce the environmental footprint of the group’s industrial activities. the new target is to generate cost savings of €300 million by the end of 2013. EBITDA trend RESPOnSIBlE PURCHASIng POlICy 30.1% Introducing an efficient, responsible purchasing policy 1,500 28.5% 26.3% 30% is an effective means of boosting competitiveness. 24.6% after conducting a survey focusing on the practices of 22.0% 20.6% each division’s purchasing departments, the corporate 1,000 20% Purchasing department launched the “Sustainable Procurement” project. this initiative is organized in 500 10% three stages: classify suppliers by risk level; adjust the list to reflect previous experience with suppliers; and 1,061 1,665 1,751 1,694 981 925 define individual action plans based on the risk levels 0 0% thus identified. In 2011, when the project is implemented, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 the group will begin a certification process. EBITDA (€ millions) In parallel, vallourec launched an “upstream” risk EBITDA / sales assessment initiative, with particular focus on risks Due to a combination of savings plans and a flexible cost relating to access to resources and raw materials (iron structure, the EBITDA margin (EBITDA/sales) remained high in ore prices, scarcity of certain alloys, changing energy spite of the marked slowdown caused by the 2008 economic crisis. prices, etc.). eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 21 A SOUnD FInAnCIAl POSITIOn Sales history 7,000 2,838 2,766 3,000 vallourec has a solid balance sheet and limited debt, achieved through prudent financial management. this 6,000 2,500 strong financial position means that the group can 1,888 5,000 2,000 continue to grow across the successive economic cycles 1,503 while still also paying dividends to shareholders. 4,000 1,500 3,000 1,000 2,000 500 4,307 5,542 6,141 6,437 4,465 4,491 1,500 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales (e millions) Shipped production (in millions of tonnes) After a 31% decrease in sales in 2009 and a drop of 46% in sales volume, 2010 was a year of stable sales and a rebound in activity (sales volume +26%). the VallOuReC GROuP in MOtiOn 1997 creation of v & M tubes by merging the seamless tube businesses of vallourec (55%) and Mannesmann (45%) in a joint venture. 2000 acquisition of Mannesmann’s Brazilian business, renamed v & M do Brasil. 2002 acquisition of north Star Steel, renamed v & M Star, in the united States. 2005 vallourec gains full control of v & M tubes with the acquisition of Mannesmann’s 45% stake. 2006 creation of vaM drilling following the acquisition of the american company omsco and the purchase of SMFI in France. vallourec became the world number two in drill pipes. 2007 development of vallourec’s operations in china, with the construction of a finishing unit for power plant tubes and an octg threading unit. 2007 decision to invest in a new integrated plant in Brazil (vSB). 2008 acquisition of three premium octg companies in the united States. 2009 Increase in vallourec’s participating interest in Pt citra tubindo, the leader in premium octg threading in Indonesia. 2009 development in the Middle East, via acquisitions of drill pipe businesses (dPal and then Protools). 2010 Start of construction of an octg threading unit in Saudi arabia. 2010 decision to invest in a new pipe mill in the united States, to support the development of unconventional gas drilling. 2010 acquisition of Serimax in France. 2010 new developments in china, including an expansion in capacity at v & M changzhou, a new valinox nucléaire investment project in nansha and the acquisition of 19.5% of tianda oil Pipe. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 InnovatIon StandIng out FroM thE crowd Making innovation a key element of its strategy greater coherence to increase the coherence of its research capabilities, ensures that Vallourec will be able to overcome the group reorganized all of its technology, r&d and future technological challenges, maintain its premium Innovation activities to form a single department positioning and penetrate new markets. Vallourec has (trdI) in early 2010. this new department supervises the five vallourec research centres. In all – when staff invested in additional human and technical resources at the various divisions and plants are included – more to implement this policy. than 500 engineers and technicians work for vallourec research teams. the annual r&d budget continues to grow, exceeding €70 million in 2010. Rolling processes In order to innovate for the most complex applications, vallourec set up a unique pilot research centre in riesa, germany, devoted to hot-process tube rolling. vallourec research riesa is the only industrial pilot centre of its ADDITIOnAl R&D RESOURCES kind in the world, equipped with a state-of-the-art tube rolling mill and other heat treatment machinery. this facility vallourec is very attentive to the needs of the market, accelerates the development of new rolling processes without operating a global r&d policy based on cross-divisional disrupting the operation of the group’s plants. the new r&d research and expertise centres as well as development centre extends over more than 2,000 sq. m and is staffed teams working in the group’s subsidiaries. this policy by a team of highly experienced specialists. also relies on numerous partnerships, close cooperation with customers, sharing best practices, and assistance OVERCOmIng nEW CHAllEngES from laboratories and universities. as customers gain access to increasingly competitive and developing innovative premium solutions is essential, extensive offerings, vallourec is redoubling its efforts enabling vallourec to satisfy the requirements of its in three key areas: manufacturing processes, products customers, which are constantly faced with new challenges, and services. such as those posed by shale gas and carbon dioxide storage. eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 23 TECHnOlOgICAl lEADERSHIP BUIlT On EXPERIEnCE AnD InnOVATIOn “B y operating an ambitious innovation strategy, we are able to respond to increasingly specific requests from our customers and anticipate their future needs. Our emphasis on innovation is also one of Vallourec’s competitive advantages. Our technological leadership is the result of decades of experience backed by a major R&D and innovation effort aimed at improving the performance of our processes and the quality of our steel, tubes and connections, as well as creating new products. Today, the major challenge for the Group is to provide global solutions based on high-performance manufacturing processes, optimized costs and environmentally-friendly practices.” Christoph Prasser, chief technology officer Supporting growth in shale gas production in the concerns deep-lying saline aquifers, empty oil and gas United States reservoirs, as well as deep tunnels in disused coal mines, Industrial-scale production of shale gas is well under way which offer the largest storage capacities. in the united States, and by 2030 may account for almost vallourec is a partner in the France nord project, 60% of the country’s gas supplies. Shale gas is extracted which is studying the feasibility of establishing a pilot via a well shaft that includes a long horizontal section, infrastructure for carbon dioxide transportation and which generates very high torque forces that must be storage in the sedimentary basin in the centre-nord withstood by pipe connections. Specially developed for region of France. this project – selected and supported use in shale basins, the research centre in houston, by adEME, the French environment and energy agency – is texas, developed a special threaded connection for shale being run as a partnership between industrial companies gas in record time to handle these new deposits. this and French and European research institutions. compact connection, known as the vaM Sg®, delivers the premium gas tight performance customers expect from 5 vaM® as well as exceptional torsional strength, making it an ideal solution for the difficulties involved with this type of drilling. Carbon dioxide capture and storage carbon dioxide capture and storage technologies Research centres support Vallourec recover carbon dioxide present in combustion fumes from industrial facilities or in process gases. the carbon innovation projects. These facilities are dioxide can then be removed and injected in a suitable located in Aulnoye in France, Düsseldorf storage location. and Riesa in Germany, Houston in the vallourec is participating in research into carbon dioxide capture and storage in underground geological formations, United States (VAM development centre), for which tubular solutions are necessary. this research and Belo Horizonte in Brazil. a neW CuttinG-eDGe business in DeePWateR OffshORe aPPliCatiOns In February 2011, vallourec announced the start-up of vallourec umbilicals, a new subsidiary located in venarey-les-laumes (France). the term umbilicals relates to structures comprising tubes, cables and optical fibres, derived from high-technology laser, ultrasound and X-ray processes. they are used to connect seabed equipment to a control station on the surface. the stainless steel seamless tubes manufactured by vallourec umbilicals for use in umbilical products are an innovative addition to the group’s range of premium products for the energy markets. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 PrEon® used for the building frames at the vSB plant. InnOVATIVE, EnVIROnmEnTAlly-FRIEnDly Reduced carbon dioxide emissions PRODUCTS Ferritic (Vm12) and austenitic (TX304HB) grades. these steel grades, designed for use at high temperatures, are For a number of years, vallourec has been developing extremely resistant to steam oxidation. Such performance products in anticipation of a range of emerging is crucial for applications in ultra-supercritical thermal environmental protection needs. power plants, which operate at much higher temperatures and pressures than conventional power plants. By enabling non-polluting coatings the construction of more efficient power plants that emit Cleanwell®. Dope is a lubricant widely used when less carbon dioxide per gwh generated, these steel grades connecting tubes in the oil and gas industry. the play a part in preserving our climate. cleanwell® range of coatings which are applied directly to the threaded connections at the manufacturing plant lighter structures provide a grease-free solution. PREOn® is a patented tubular roof frame system developed for industrial and commercial buildings. round Environmental safety or rectangular-sectioned tubes are assembled to form Vm125SS steel grade. developing steel grades resistant strong but lightweight architectural structures. Benefits to corrosion by hydrogen sulphide (h2S) and carbon of the system include the ability to create large spans. dioxide is essential for the oil and gas industry. the the resulting structures require fewer raw materials and vM125SS grade offers outstanding resistance, making energy during the construction process. it possible to operate safely in increasingly complex mSH angle sections for overhead cranes. this environments. technology uses hot-rolled rectangular hollow sections Welding solutions for offshore line pipes. the flow lines to decrease the cost of both manufacturing and installing through which oil and gas is piped from the seabed up overhead cranes, while at the same time delivering to floating oil rigs are subjected to very powerful forces. higher performance than with conventional solid-beam the welding solutions provided by Serimax are suitable technologies, as a result of the reduced weight of these for use in the most critical conditions. tubular structures. eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 25 R&D FOCUSED On FORESTS In Brazil, v & M Florestal, a subsidiary of v & M do Brasil, operates a eucalyptus plantation, producing charcoal to burn in the blast furnaces at the Brazilian steel mill. the company is a pioneer in managing this type of plantation, and is at the technological cutting edge in its field. In particular, the company has an r&d team with more than 40 people working exclusively on this activity. Solving both economic and ecological challenges v & M Florestal began cultivating its first plantations in 1969, in the north-west part of the Brazilian State of Minas gerais, a region of poor soil and low rainfall. v & M Florestal r&d teams sought ways to boost productivity in the plantations by selecting species suited to these difficult conditions, and by conducting research in a wide range of other areas, including soil analysis and fertilization, plantation management and protection, disease and pest treatments, as well as improvements in the trees’ genetic stock and the quality of their wood. this research significantly enhanced plantation productivity, which rose from 7 m³ of wood per hectare per year in the early 1980’s to approximately 50 m³ per hectare per year today. these advances have been accompanied by specific initiatives aimed at maintaining areas of natural vegetation, preserving biodiversity, and recycling fertilizer produced as part of the process. as a result of its r&d efforts, v & M Florestal has considerably increased the quantity of biomass produced, which has had a highly positive impact both on the v & M Florestal. ecosystem and on operating costs. Increase in plantation productivity 7x in the past 30 years. CleanWell® DRy, the neW GRease-fRee sOlutiOn fOR VaM PReMiuM COnneCtiOns Faced with growing demand for grease (dope)-free products, particularly in the north Sea, the cleanwell® range of coatings is being expanded to cover an increasingly wide spectrum of applications. the new “cleanwell® dry” is a totally dry coating designed for use in offshore, arctic and desert applications, an eco-friendly, safer, cleaner and more effective solution. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 InvEStMEntS and acQuISItIonS MovIng Forward on Eco-InvEStMEnt in 2010, Vallourec once again stepped up its HEAlTH, SAFETy AnD EnVIROnmEnT investments, making several strategic acquisitions. InVESTmEnTS although the Group’s actions are guided by the desire From major projects to the upgrade of production facilities, to strengthen its positions in growth regions, sustainable vallourec makes sure that its investment projects respect the environment. development issues are also taken into account. an assessment is conducted prior to each new project in order to gauge any environmental impacts. vallourec pays special attention to limiting noise both inside and outside workshops, collecting runoff water – thereby avoiding the need to extract water from the natural environment and recycling all waste. More generally, the group favours A RECORD yEAR FOR InVESTmEnT all measures that improve the facility’s energy efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. notwithstanding the global economic crisis, vallourec has considerably stepped up its strategic investments in Energy savings by design recent years, in order to strengthen its market position the new vSB plant in Brazil incorporates technologies as the leader in premium tubular solutions while also that use gases produced by the industrial process to enhancing its competitiveness. this investment policy supply 22% of the plant’s requirements, and systems was made possible by the group’s strong financial that recover the energy released by motor braking. In situation and effective cost control policy. addition, the building’s PrEon® structure makes use From an operational perspective, vallourec goals include of high-performance, lightweight and easily-installed enhancing the group’s industrial and commercial reach vallourec tubes and is equipped with noise abatement in regions with high growth potential, focusing even solutions. more closely on customers’ requirements and improving when designing the extension to the valinox nucléaire quality of service. Many major projects have recently been plant in France, no effort was spared to save energy: highlaunched, including the extension of the valinox nucléaire efficiency motors; electronic control for the hydrogen plant in France, the construction of the vSB plant in Brazil furnaces; the hydrogen required for the production (now at the startup stage), additional investments in process is produced on-site to avoid transportation; production capacity in china, and the construction of a and in workshops, the intensity of natural light is taken state-of-the-art tube mill in the united States. into consideration by the neon lighting control system. Environmental protection measures at the site include noise abatement solutions, runoff water recovery ponds, a leak containment pond and a waste recycling facility. the company is currently assessing solutions for preserving biodiversity in the vicinity of the site. vallourec also invests to upgrade existing facilities, in particular to optimize the energy efficiency of heating Vallourec’s industrial investments (€ millions) installations (such as improved insulation for furnaces 900 and heat treatment lines), to reduce water consumption 800 by using runoff water recovery and recycling ponds, to 700 600 improve waste collection and recycling, and to limit noise 500 pollution by reducing noise at its source. 400 300 200 100 192 282 438 529 677 873 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 To prepare for the future, Vallourec has steadily increased its industrial investment, in spite of the economic crisis of 2008. A total of almost €3 billion has been invested since 2005. eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 27 view of vSB, Jeceaba (Brazil). Trend in HSE investments (€ millions) 175 2010: Major projects 164.5 150 20% 125 100 75 50 25 0 17.4 24.8 31.4 28.3 25.6 181 Share of the Group’s industrial 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 investment devoted to HSE HSE investments, excl. major projects HSE investments, incl. major projects performance improvements. Excluding major projects, Vallourec invested €16.5 million in health, safety & environment (HSE) measures in 2010. When major projects are included, this amount rises to €181 million, representing more than 20% of total investment by the Group. a state-Of-the-aRt PiPe Mill in yOunGstOWn the plant currently under construction in youngstown (ohio, united States) is vallourec’s response to strong growth in the north american octg market. the new facility will initially be equipped to produce 350,000 tonnes of smalldiameter seamless tubes with potential to be increased to 500,000 tonnes at a later date. For this investment in the construction of a new pipe mill, vallourec wanted to apply the most advanced eco environmental techniques employed in European industry. From the outset, particular attention was paid to selecting the most energy-efficient and environmentally-friendly equipment (burners, closed-circuit cooling towers, air compressors, etc.). It should also be noted that the plant is being built on a rehabilitated brownfield site. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 Serimax – welding on a barge in the china Sea. ACQUISITIOnS – ClEARly-DEFInED by tianda oil Pipe for the chinese market. tianda’s new OBJECTIVES rolling mill puts the two companies in strong positions to benefit from the rapid growth forecast for the chinese the group is pursuing a strategy of targeted acquisitions oil and gas market. aimed at increasing its local presence or accessing specific technology and expertise enabling it to expand Enhanced premium offering its premium offering. Examples of this targeted approach through the acquisition of Serimax in 2010, vallourec has include the acquisition of a majority holding in Ptct expanded its offering in the area of deepwater offshore in Indonesia, the acquisitions of dPal and Protools in applications, by providing customers with new services the Middle East, as well as a participating interest in which complement the products sold by the group’s other tianda oil Pipe in china, and the acquisition of Serimax business units. in France. An ACQUISITIOn mETHODOlOgy THAT Improved local coverage InClUDES HSE COnSIDERATIOnS the acquisition of a 19.5% stake in tianda oil Pipe in china increases vallourec’s presence in the world’s secondat vallourec, risk assessments conducted for proposed largest octg market. under the terms of a cooperation acquisitions cover various aspects of sustainable agreement, vallourec’s vaM changzhou plant is to provide development. For the Serimax project, for example, a a local premium threading service for tubes manufactured comprehensive on-site review was conducted to assess any health, safety and environmental (hSE) risks, in addition to the economic considerations examined by conventional due diligence studies. €1.6 concerning safety, in addition to performance indicators, which are benchmarked against vallourec indicators (ltIr and trIr*), the audit considers the standard of billion. risk reduction procedures and initiatives (in terms of reporting, risk prevention, communication, training, Total value of strategic acquisitions workshops, etc.), and assesses the level of commitment by Vallourec since 2005. by management. eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 29 SUCCESSFUlly InTEgRATIng SERImAX InTO THE VAllOUREC gROUP “G iven the natural fit between the respective businesses of Serimax and Vallourec, integrating the teams from the two companies did not pose any problems. As the world leader in integrated welding solutions, we share the same service culture as Vallourec, and we are combining our efforts in terms of innovation for the benefit of our shared customers. From an operational perspective, bringing Serimax expertise to Vallourec business units is generating some interesting opportunities.” David Williams, chairman of Serimax opening ceremony in august 2010 for the extension to the v & M changzhou plant. Potential health risks are identified by conducting a detailed analysis of the list of products used, and by analyzing the quality of the atmosphere in workshops. In the event of non-compliance with applicable Financial investments (€ millions) standards, the audit verifies the corrective measures to 700 be implemented. regarding the environment, vallourec ensures that 600 all major facilities obtain ISo 14001 certification and 500 assesses the scale of any environmental issues relating to 400 the business of the target company. the group also verifies 300 the quality of a target company’s performance indicators 200 and checks that they are monitored correctly. lastly, a 100 search is performed to reveal any legal contentions. 651 94 4 541 109 161 In each of these three areas, corrective measures may 0 be envisaged and costed if the audit concludes that 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 such action is necessary, particularly if material risks In recent years, Vallourec has made a series of acquisitions are involved. that have enhanced the Group’s local presence and * ltIr: lost time Injury rate; trIr: total reported Injury rate. expanded its offering. seRiMax: CustOM WelDinG sOlutiOns Serimax is an international group that designs and manufactures integrated welding solutions for offshore line pipe applications for the most extreme conditions. the group, which employs 800 people, has its head office in France and welding shops in the united States, France, the united Kingdom and Malaysia. Serimax recently opened sales offices in russia and Brazil in response to growing demand in those countries. In 2009, Serimax carried out 50 projects in more than 20 different countries, generating total sales of €152 million. SharEholdEr rElatIonS EStaBlIShIng a conStructIvE dIaloguE Vallourec seeks to build lasting relationships with all – the annual report (The Essentials), Shareholder’s guide individual shareholders and institutional investors, whatever and Sustainable development report, – all information provided to the financial markets their nationality. in parallel, the Group ensures that value is (quarterly results, press releases, finance and strategy shared among all stakeholders, with particular emphasis on presentations, audio and video broadcasts), – all regulatory information (registration document, clarity and transparency. half-yearly report, information concerning the annual Shareholders’ Meeting). Value 10 – A success story More than 13,000 vallourec employees in eight countries (Brazil, canada, china, France, germany, Mexico, the uK EARnIng THE COnFIDEnCE OF InDIVIDUAl and united States), representing almost 70% of the group’s SHAREHOlDERS AnD EmPlOyEES total workforce, have participated in vallourec’s global employee share ownership plan, known as value 10. this the group strives for a trust-based relationship with its operation has been a resounding success, with a higher shareholders, including individual investors and employees. employee participation rate than previous initiatives. the role of vallourec’s Investor relations department is to More than 3% of the group’s capital is now owned by provide information about the group’s results and outlook its employees, and the decision was made to nominate in a fair and transparent way. Pascale chargrasse at the annual Shareholders’ Meeting to all shareholders have access to a range of documents at the represent the interests of vallourec employee shareholders vallourec website (www.vallourec.com). these publications in her capacity as a member of the Supervisory Board. include: eCOnOMiC ResPOnsibility 31 REgUlAR mEETIngS WITH AnAlySTS AnD InVESTORS Dividend history 4 37.4% 38.6% 37.3% 40% the Investor relations department regularly organizes 34.7% 33.2% meetings with institutional investors, financial analysts and Socially responsible Investment (SrI) analysts, both 3 25.1% 30% in France and elsewhere. In particular, these meetings include: 2 20% – Quarterly financial statements presented by the members of the Management Board during a conference call and 1 10% at a face-to-face meeting held in Paris to present the 1.12 3.0 3.5 2.0 3.0 1.75 1.3 annual and half-yearly results, 0 0% – roadshows at which Management Board members and 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 representatives of the Investor relations department Ordinary dividend (1) (in euros per share) regularly meet portfolio managers and financial analysts Payout ratio (2) (in percentage of earnings per share) Exceptional distribution of 4 July 2007 in Europe and north america, (1) The amount paid out in dividends was recalculated to take account of the 2:1 stock split distributed on 9 July 2010. – conferences for investors specializing in the oil sector, (2) Calculation of the payout ratio does not take account of the exceptional distribution of 4 July 2007. – an annual Investor day event, at which the group’s strategy and businesses are presented to institutional It has been decided to ask the Annual Shareholders’ Meeting to investors and analysts, approve payment of an ordinary dividend of €1.30 per share for – a presentation for SrI investors, to accompany the financial year 2010, with the option to receive payment in cash or publication of the Sustainable development report. shares. The proposed dividend corresponds to a payout ratio of 37.3%. DIVIDEnD POlICy to encourage long-term shareholder loyalty, vallourec aims for a long-term average dividend payout ratio of approximately 33% of net income, group share. For the third consecutive year, shareholders will have the option to receive payment of the dividend as shares, benefitting from a 10% discount on the price of their new shares. VAlUE AllOCATIOn AmOng STAKEHOlDERS cuStoMErS Sales: €4,491.3 million SuPPlIErS €2,756 MIllIon EMPloyEES €960.5 MIllIon StatE & local authorItIES €248 MIllIon 14,400 active suppliers 20,561 employees Income taxes: €199.5 million amount of purchases: €2,756 million compensation and social security Taxes and duties: €48.6 million contributions: €888.4 million Employee profit shares: €49.5 million Employee share ownership, share options and performance shares: €22.6 million nEt ProFIt attrIButaBlE to coMPany ownErS €409.6 MIllIon caSh Flow FInancIal InStItutIonS (cash generated by the business + Increase in debt: sale of shares and other items) €787.2 million €351.1 MIllIon InvEStMEntS SharEholdErS Industrial investments: €872.6 million Dividend distributed in cash, including Financial investments: €161.1 million employee share ownership: €104.7 million note: 64% of dividends were paid in shares a lOnG-teRM aPPROaCh tO huMan RelatiOnshiPs SocIal rESPonSIBIlIty vallourec pays particular attention to its relations with employees, including career development and knowledge management aspects, and operates a fair and motivating remuneration policy. the group strives to maintain the highest standards of health and safety in order to protect its employees, and lives up to its responsibilities with respect to local communities all around the world. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 EMPloyMEnt and worKForcE data caPItalIzIng on cohESIvE FactorS Vallourec's growth is driven by the quality of its regions, however. Europe, where the number of employees remained largely stable, now accounts for less than half workforce. the Group is therefore particularly (46%) of the group's total workforce. Brazil – where the attentive to employee recruitment and integration, workforce expanded by 21% as a consequence of recovery and the ramping-up of activity at the new vSB plant – is and to employees' remuneration and sense of now home to more than a third (36%) of all employees. belonging to a team. In north america (+7%) and asia (+13%), the increases were essentially the result of Serimax joining the group. the distribution of employees by category remained relatively stable although it should be noted that as a result of requalifying certain positions, the proportion A gROWIng WORKFORCE of executives increased relative to the proportion of intermediate managerial staff. as of 31 december 2010, vallourec employed 20,561 people at its production facilities and service offices Planning for changes in the age pyramid (this figure includes employees on permanent and fixedthe age structure of employees at vallourec’s European term contracts). headcount increased by 11% compared plants is such that 15% of employees are over 55 years with 2009, largely due to the acquisition of the Serimax old. vallourec is preparing for a wave of retirements by group (800 employees). a recovery in business levels in developing a proactive skills management strategy. the most countries also prompted an increase in the number aim is to ensure that knowledge and skills are transferred of temporary workers, which by the end of 2010 almost within the group, by expanding the training available to matched the figure for the end of 2008. young employees and by implementing a dedicated action this situation varied significantly between geographic plan to encourage older employees to continue working. sOCial ResPOnsibility 35 “OPInIOn” – PROmISIng RESUlTS “T he Opinion surveys conducted in France and China in 2010 were very well received by employees, with an 84% response rate. For us, this participation is first and foremost a sign of trust in the Group. The initial results reveal that employees are genuinely proud to work for Vallourec and feel a sense of loyalty. The survey also reveals a positive perception of the Group's image and reputation, and employees are generally satisfied with Vallourec's organization, management and communication. Although there are still many issues with room for improvement, this show of confidence bodes well for our future success.” François Curie, human resources director mOTIVATIng COmPEnSATIOn vallourec has introduced a number of tools in recent years to support its international expansion and in particular vallourec offers employees fair, motivating remuneration to facilitate the integration of employees from newlypackages that reflect local employment market conditions acquired companies. these tools include a database and include profit-sharing mechanisms. of employee occupations and skills, and employee In 2010, total payroll (excluding temporary workers) was satisfaction surveys have also been conducted. €960 million, up almost 17% compared with 2009 owing to the recovery in business levels. this remuneration was OPInIOn – An In-HOUSE EmPlOyEE composed as follows: SATISFACTIOn SURVEy – €633 million in wages and salaries, – €49 million in employee profit-sharing payments, the opinion satisfaction survey, first carried out in Brazil, – €21 million for costs relating to share subscription aims to measure the degree of motivation and commitment of and share purchase options and performance shares, all employees, based on an individual questionnaire containing – €257 million in social security charges. 80 items. the purpose of the exercise is to identify any sources of dissatisfaction and take appropriate action to improve the lABOUR RElATIOnS AnD STAFF situation. REPRESEnTATIOn vallourec is firmly committed to maintaining a rich, constructive dialogue between management and employees, in accordance with applicable legislation in each country in which the group operates. a European committee of 30 French, german and British employee representatives is regularly briefed about vallourec's activities, results and strategy in Europe and the rest of the world. +11% EmPlOyEES By CATEgORy Managers and experts 14% operators 68% technicians and supervisory Workforce growth in 2010. staff 18% Two-thirds of the Group's employees are operators. The proportion of managerial staff increased, largely as a result of requalifying certain positions. carEErS EncouragIng JoB SatISFactIon an international company with multiple businesses SmOOTHER CAREER PATHS knows that developing skills and expertise, assessing the energy markets will be faced with major challenges shortand medium-term requirements, managing during the 21st century. to overcome these challenges, career paths, stimulating mobility and encouraging vallourec is counting on its employees to exercise a wide knowledge sharing are clear priorities. Day after day, range of professions in an environment dominated by technological innovations. human resources management plays an important role the diversity of vallourec employees' backgrounds is an in the growth of Vallourec. invaluable asset, and the group's many human-scale organizations help them to work autonomously, adding to their sense of responsibility and job satisfaction. vallourec constantly strives to ensure that the motivation and dedication shown by its employees is rewarded with frequent, personalized career opportunities, whether in France or elsewhere. Employees are offered training in new trade skills to encourage them to pursue their vocational goals and facilitate their career advancement within the group. Training in the mutual interests of the employee and the group vallourec training policy aims to reconcile the needs of the group with the career aspirations of its employees. In 2010, expenditure in this area was equivalent to 3% sOCial ResPOnsibility 37 An InITIATIVE In lInE WITH gROUP STRATEgy “F or Vallourec, the benefits of a Knowledge Management strategy are undeniable: productivity improves by standardizing practices; feedback is used to improve product quality; and knowledge becomes permanent as it is shared. Our best practice communities deliver all the advantages of networking. By dispensing with hierarchical barriers, they give centre stage to experts and accelerate communication. For employees, this results in very significant time savings, greater expertise and enhanced performance.” Séverine Ozange, group KM manager of payroll, and 650,000 hours of training were provided continents is a key performance factor for large enterprises. to 70% of the group's employees. although managers and over the last few years, as vallourec continues to expand technicians were the categories that benefitted most, internationally, developing and acquiring new expertise, blue collar workers spent more time in training due to it has been implementing a comprehensive knowledge and the emphasis placed on technical courses. expert management strategy, primarily via a network of best practice communities. use of the group's electronic Standardizing the talent management process knowledge management platform has increased greatly For many years, vallourec has been using performance since it was launched in 2001. this platform currently evaluation systems for managers in all countries in has nearly 35 communities and 2,200 members, who which it operates. over the last two years, the group's have made nearly 20,000 contributions since launch. the human resources department has been taking steps to platform is a valuable tool for implementing the group's standardize these assessment processes, by setting job collaborative working strategy. baselines for each profession and specifying technical and managerial skills, and by standardizing the system of individual targets and the manager interview process. a new human resources management system – named talent 360 – was launched in January 2011 to facilitate 650,000 this standardization. In 2012, this tool will be expanded to other staff categories in France. KnOWlEDgE mAnAgEmEnT AT VAllOUREC the ability to develop, secure and make rational use of Number of training hours received by knowledge held by multiple subsidiaries on different Vallourec employees in 2010. ManaGeRs RetuRn tO the ClassROOM vallourec university was inaugurated in 2011 – initially for vallourec executives and line managers – as a new training and knowledge-sharing centre, with a particular focus on helping people become effective leaders. Its main missions are to promote an understanding of the group's values and encourage excellence. the courses – on topics such as leadership and team management, project management, customer relationship management, change management and sharing a strategic vision – feature a combination of theory and practice. training sessions will initially be conducted on an itinerant basis, although the vallourec intranet currently being deployed will subsequently provide access to e-learning programmes. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 SaFEty aIMIng For zEro accIdEnt safety is a fundamental value for Vallourec, – developing a pervasive safety culture including organizing safety visits: more than 3,000 managers which redoubled its efforts in this area in 2010. around the world have now received specific training, the aim was to mobilize the entire workforce in order and over 60,000 safety inspections have been arranged to make decisive progress. the results have largely since 2008. the group's safety performance has improved exceeded expectations. considerably since cap ten Safe was introduced. the consolidated accident frequency rate, or ltIr (lost time injury rate: number of accidents requiring time off work, per million hours worked) fell from 9.3 in 2008 A PERVASIVE SAFETy CUlTURE to 3.2 in 2010, considering all individuals working at our facilities, including temporary workers. Safety is an absolute priority for vallourec, which has vallourec's goal is to achieve an ltIr of 2 in 2012, successfully implemented a systematic action plan. and to considerably reduce the number of accidents without lost day. Cap Ten Safe – Essential leverage the cap ten Safe plan, which was launched in late 2008, Safety Day – A global safety awareness day has been managed in strict compliance with the principles In 2010, a group-wide Safety day was organized for the of the vallourec Management System (vMS): full support first time, to encourage even greater commitment by by the management team; involvement of all personnel; employees. numerous events attended by management and the introduction of performance indicators. the plan were organized at vallourec plants, partly to increase focuses on three main areas: employee awareness of safety risks and corresponding best – Building a safety management system based on ohSaS practices, but also to present awards acknowledging the 18001 audits and the certification of more than 90% effectiveness of safety-oriented continuous improvement of vallourec industrial facilities. teams. all employees were also given a safety brochure – assessing risks and forming continuous improvement published in the languages of every country in which teams at each site. the group operates. sOCial ResPOnsibility 39 SAFETy DAy – AnOTHER SIgn OF THE ImPORTAnCE gIVEn TO SAFETy “O rganizing a worldwide Safety Day helped us to remain focused on achieving our safety improvement targets. This was the first such event staged by the Group. I was impressed by the commitment and motivation shown by all employees taking part in the various workshops, which included basic first aid, fire response training, road safety initiatives, and presentations of new systems at our plants. This goes to show how important safety is to our employees, and encourages me to believe that further progress can be achieved.” Franck Vedel, Safety manager, capten Safe project manager EVERyDAy COmmITmEnT By PERSOnnEl campaigns at a number of facilities, including the v & M changzhou plant in china, for example. continuous improvement teams (cIt) play a major role in vallourec's safety performance. when cap ten Safe Overhead cranes in Brazil – Eliminating the risk was launched in 2008, there were 58 cIts focused on In 2010, a continuous improvement team was set up safety. By 2010, that figure had risen to 278, almost a in Brazil to find ways to reduce the risks involved with fivefold increase. overhead crane operation at the hot-rolling mill. the cIt focused its efforts on improving communication between The importance of the Hands Free CITs the crane operator and personnel on the ground by the group continued to roll out hands Free cIts across introducing two-way radios and by simplifying handling all vallourec plants in 2010. More than 50% of industrial operations, for example by devising a new system for accidents still involve employees' hands. one solution transporting waste skips. involves reducing the number of occasions on which an operator touches tubes with his or her hands. this mOVIng UP A gEAR is the principle behind the hands Free cIt. with the aid of photos representing the processes, operators Building on the success achieved in previous years, describe the circumstances in which they touch tubes. vallourec launched the caPtEn+ Safe plan with new after ranking the causes, the cIt can look for ways to safety targets (a target ltIr of less than 3 days has minimize or eliminate these manual operations. Best been set for 2011), to increase the level of vigilance and practices were then passed on through communication involvement by staff and to achieve further progress. Accident frequency rate (LTIR, Lost Time Injury Rate) 12 10 3.2 The accident frequency 8 6 rate (LTIR) recorded by 6 5 Vallourec in 2010. 4 3 2 2 10 9.2 5.3 3.2 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Results (perm. + temp. emp.) Targets The Cap Ten Safe project launched in the second half of 2008 was an immediate success. The project was carried over into 2010, and the targets, although ambitious, were exceeded by a considerable margin, as shown in the chart above. hEalth antIcIPatIng rISKS Vallourec is extremely vigilant regarding healthClOSER mOnITORIng OF CHEmICAlS related risks, including exposure to hazardous correctly monitoring and managing substances that are substances and stress, which is often responsible potentially hazardous for employees is critically important for psychosocial disorders. Preventive or corrective for vallourec. the risks associated with the use of products are studied at every stage of the manufacturing process. action is taken where necessary. the chemsafe programme introduced in 2010 focuses on chemical risks. Risk mapping after an initial stage that involved raising awareness by personnel and providing training, chemsafe’s primary focus has been product monitoring. the aim is to catalogue DETECTIng PSyCHOSOCIAl RISKS products in a software application in order to produce a risk map, taking into account the precise conditions In the context of the publication of the légeron-nasse in which products are used. More than 5,000 chemicals report on stress in the workplace, a psychosocial risk have been recorded, 50 of which pose significant risks. assessment was conducted at vallourec's French facilities data is published online and the chemical watch system in 2010. after consulting with trade unions, a three-part has been rolled out across the group, facilitating action plan was implemented involving: a survey of stress widespread adoption of best practices. levels among employees; an information and awareness Substituting the most hazardous products is naturally a campaign for 1,000 managers and supervisory staff; and priority. vallourec suppliers have therefore been asked an enhanced stress watch system with the support of to provide products that do not contain hazardous occupational physicians. substances. For example, degreasing spray units that note that this initiative was inspired by experience originally used cMr(1) solvents have been replaced with in Brazil. In this area, vallourec's local business units sprays that do not contain solvents or cMr products. already have an appropriate organization supported by the group's strategy also involves monitoring the adoption psychologists and dedicated programmes. of new products, which are systematically evaluated and sOCial ResPOnsibility 41 A KEy ROlE FOR OCCUPATIOnAl PHySICIAnS “A s an occupational physician, my role involves making a significant contribution to preventing chemical risks to employees' health. In recent years, particularly since the introduction of the REACH programme, department managers, research engineers and end users are all much more aware of this issue than before, and the substitute products have proven their effectiveness. The medical monitoring that I provide in Aulnoye is particularly thorough if an employee is exposed to hazardous products. In such cases, we produce an exposure sheet for traceability purposes and perform additional examinations to ensure that any exposure is minimal and within statutory limits. I have received toxicology training, which has proved invaluable for our Chemsafe initiative. I also take part in discussions with fellow doctors in Saint-Saulve and Montbard, and I sincerely hope that progress achieved at local level benefits the Group as a whole.” Doctor El Haddad, occupational physician at the aulnoye plant their use is subject to prior approval from safety and Following an initial pre-registration phase, the second hSE managers, as well as the occupational physician. phase of the rEach programme (2009-2010) required to facilitate this task, some facilities have installed manufacturers and importers of chemicals to prepare a database software to identify hazardous substances in comprehensive file describing the potential hazards entailed products. If a particular substance poses a major risk, the by the users of such substances. accordingly, vallourec product is banned and the supplier is asked to propose maintained a close dialogue with suppliers to ensure that a substitute product. all product applications were included in the study. last but not least, employees are monitored by medical Furthermore, in its capacity as a producer, vallourec was services based at vallourec facilities. their knowledge of the part of the slag(3) consortium and fulfilled its obligations group's products and processes is invaluable when it comes concerning the registration of the two slag products sold to monitoring exposure (see personal account above). by the group. Europe sets the example (1) cMr: carcinogenic, mutagenic and reprotoxic. In Europe, the introduction of the rEach(2) regulation is (2) rEach: registration, Evaluation, authorization and restriction of offering a real opportunity to expand the group's chemical chemicals. safety knowledge. (3) “Slag” is a carbonate by-product of the steel-making process. 1,000 Number of managers in France who received training in recognizing psychosocial risks in 2010. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 cIvIc rESPonSIBIlIty StratEgy our rolE In thE coMMunIty Vallourec is aware of the integral role its facilities play vallourec business units have launched a variety of initiatives within their surroundings. the Group's strategy of fair, to support the development of these communities. vallourec's Brazilian subsidiaries, for example, are very active in this area, balanced growth involves behaving responsibly towards arranging training for young people and organizing numerous neighbouring communities and contributing to local cultural events (see pages 44 and 45). In the united States, the v & M Star plant in youngstown, ohio, also performs residents' wellbeing. charity work and provides support to families of employees experiencing financial difficulties. Alizé®, Solidarity between businesses the alizé® programme was set up six years ago to promote mutual assistance and cooperative development A WIDE RAngE OF InITIATIVES by and between companies in the same employment basin. the principle is simple: large enterprises provide In view of their size and locations, vallourec facilities their expertise to SMEs(1) in their region, free of charge, have a significant influence on surrounding communities. when asked for a technical opinion or assistance local residents, elected representatives and interest groups developing their businesses. the vallourec plants in near plants often have a wide range of social, economic France's Burgundy region (valinox nucléaire, valtimet, or environmental expectations. therefore our primary goal valti and vallourec umbilicals) are among the 14 large is to establish relationships based on mutual trust and enterprises that have agreed to support this initiative. understanding. the first contribution the group can make Since alizé® was established, 38 SMEs have received to a local community is to recruit its workforce locally support from members, representing a total of 294 days whenever possible. of free consulting services. sOCial ResPOnsibility 43 youngstown – Reindustrializing CIVIC RESPOnSIBIlITy – an employment basin through its v & M Star subsidiary, vallourec has been RESUlTS OF THE In-HOUSE SURVEy operating in youngstown for a number of years. the Here are few personal reflections relating to civic decision to invest in a new high-end pipe mill for smalldiameter tubes was guided by the plant's proximity to responsibility. major shale gas deposits. with this 650 million dollar “O investment, vallourec will create several hundred new jobs ur action must be appropriate to the to become the region's largest employer. In this way, the facility concerned. Activities necessary group is contributing to the economic development of for implementing a partner-focused strategy in a region which as suffered from the gradual loss of its communities such as Youngstown and Houma are industrial base and a chronic job shortage. President obama visited vallourec’s youngstown plant different from those required for our operations in to give a speech on economic policy and highlight the Houston's industrial districts. At the same time, it is effectiveness of his recovery plan. he confirmed both his important to share best practices.” attachment to this region and the importance he gave the vallourec project. In parallel, the two cities where the Chuck Hoose, v & M Star (houston, texas, uS) pipe mill is located received federal support to upgrade the railway line and access roads leading to the site. gOIng THE EXTRA mIlE “W e have decided to break with the traditional culture of discretion. French industry needs to rebuild its image, and explain its vallourec wishes to encourage civic responsibility by purpose and responsibilities. ” setting out a clear set of principles. a detailed survey of current practices at the group's facilities is currently Jean-marie gros, v & M France in progress, with the aim of cataloguing the initiatives (ctIv in valenciennes, France) in this area and identifying stakeholders' expectations in “W local contexts (see personal accounts). this will enable e have a proactive attitude to local the group to establish guidelines in this area. communities and organizations. We have (1) Small, Medium-sized Enterprises. set up a public affairs committee to strengthen and expand our initiatives beyond this area.” Eric Shuster, v & M Star (youngstown, ohio, uS) “P romoting our values to the community can have positive effects both inside and outside the company.” Dr markus Ring, v & M deutschland (Mülheim, germany) “A civic responsibility strategy is essential for our industry. We are doing a lot, but we would like to do more.” norbert Keusen, v & M deutschland (rath, germany) 294 The number of days of consulting services offered by Vallourec to SMEs since the Alizé® programme was first set up. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 BrazIl harMonIouS local growth Vallourec’s brazilian business units – renowned Constantly striving to blend with local communities v & M do Brasil and its two subsidiaries make a for their production of green tubes through a steady, transparent effort to maintain good longprocess which uses plant biomass – have created term relationships with all neighbouring communities a proactive social and civic policy. their many in 24 different municipalities in north-east Minas gerais. regular meetings are held with community and varied initiatives have been delivering results representatives in order to define a framework for local for several years. development initiatives. this approach, which targets issues such as education, the arts, sports and environmental preservation, provides practical projects such as entertainment productions, workshops, conferences and trade shows. V & m DO BRASIl – these initiatives directly or indirectly benefit tens of WIDE-RAngIng InITIATIVES thousands of Minas gerais residents: in 2010, v & M do Brasil took part in no fewer than 59 social and cultural major impact on society projects involving 668 different activities. with its 4,400 employees, v & M do Brasil (vMB) is now Similarly, the Sidertube foundation has established the biggest employer in Belo horizonte, the capital numerous programmes to enhance the quality of life city of Minas gerais, the State with the third-largest of employees and their families. regional economy in Brazil. this business unit, including Some of these initiatives are particularly emblematic. its two main subsidiaries – v & M Florestal and v & M For example, in 2010 v & M Florestal helped to set Mineração – generates a total of 6,100 direct jobs. up a cancer treatment centre that will benefit the It attaches great importance to the motivation and populations of 51 municipalities in its catchment area. sense of belonging of its Brazilian employees, and to the company also invested in an anti-drugs programme developing their abilities. for 2,700 students. sOCial ResPOnsibility 45 an aRts CentRe in belO hORizOnte In Belo horizonte city centre, the disused cine teatro Brasil cinema is to be given a new lease of life. the venue, which had been closed for a decade, was bought in 2006 by the Sidertube foundation – a not-for-profit organization that manages v & M do Brasil’s social and cultural projects to facilitate the local population’s access to arts productions. now that the restoration of the facade is complete, the renovation of the interior of the building is currently underway. the work has uncovered original art deco frescoes beneath the paintwork which have now been restored. the building, renamed the v & M do Brasil cultural center, will be opening its doors in 2012. In the interim, a website devoted to cinema culture is to be created to showcase this heritage building. the company supports many such projects through offering free internet access, and an archaeological direct financial contributions and/or via tax exemption museum that houses items discovered at the site where mechanisms. the budget for this assistance was the vSB plant is being built. r$11.3 million (€4.8 million). numerous cultural activities were organized as part of the “tempo Sustentavel” programme (literally: “it is time for VSB OPERATES A PROACTIVE CIVIC sustainability”) in 2010, including theatrical productions RESPOnSIBIlITy STRATEgy and musical performances for children. vallourec & Sumitomo tubos do Brasil (vSB), which has created 10,000 jobs during the plant’s construction, will employ 1,500 people when it enters its operational phase. the company is aware of the facility’s importance to local communities, and has decided to develop close relationships with them even before production begins. It has formed a plan to provide support to five 250,000 municipalities, which are home to a total of around 20,000 people. this plan includes provisions for healthcare, teaching programmes for schools and cultural activities, craft training, support for neighbourhood security initiatives and information bulletins for local populations. For example, in São Brás do Suaçuí, a new Number of people living within the sphere arts centre will feature a municipal library, a telecentre of influence of the Barreiro plant. VAllOUREC lOCATIOnS In BRAzIl mInAS gERAIS v & M Florestal (vMB)  v & M Mineração (vMB) v & M do Brasil (vMB)  ESPÍRITO SAnTO  BRAzIl vallourec & Sumitomo tubos do Brasil (vSB)  Plant  Mine RIO DE JAnEIRO  Plantation SãO PAUlO Reducing the ecological footprint of our activities Environmental responsibility The goal of Vallourec’s sustainable development policy is to significantly decrease the environmental impact of the Group's activities. Vallourec is implementing a continuous improvement strategy and has set itself a series of targets aimed at reducing energy, water and raw material consumption, limiting environmental emissions and recovering waste. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 grEEnhouSE ProJEct SavIng EnErgy the aim of the Greenhouse project is to significantly the best available technologies. Energy managers in each business unit received specific training in energy reduce Vallourec's consumption of electricity and efficiency. vallourec also established best practice natural gas, and by extension the Group's greenhouse communities specializing in thermal and electric gas emissions, which are a factor in global warming. processes, compressed air usage and refractory material selection, and 60 continuous improvement teams (cIt) focusing exclusively on energy performance went to great lengths to identify appropriate solutions (see examples opposite). measuring and monitoring energy consumption mETHODOlOgy Energy efficiency diagnostic audits were performed; these revealed the need to implement real-time consumption the vallourec Executive committee is aware of the need measurements for a better understanding of consumption to reduce the amount of energy used by the group's profiles to assist decision-making. industrial activities, and has set a target of cutting gas and electricity consumption by at least 20% by Investing in thermal equipment 2020; the performance and product portfolio of 2008 as part of its 2010 action plan, vallourec performed energy constitute the baseline for this target. this goal will diagnostic audits at the group's ten most energy-intensive be achieved by implementing a rigorous methodology facilities and carried out 30 heat balance assessments based on the vallourec Management System (see p. 15). at its heat treatment furnaces (see diagram opposite). an investment plan is currently being drawn up based Sharing best practices on the results of these assessments. In 2010, the greenhouse project was implemented to encourage the sharing of best practices and roll out Exploring new avenues lastly, vallourec has conducted research into potential applications of renewable energy in our industrial processes, as well as heat recovery and carbon dioxide sequestration solutions. Example of a furnace heat balance EnCOURAgIng RESUlTS THROUgHOUT THE gROUP Waste gas to the stack 27% the methodology implemented via the greenhouse project yielded positive results in 2010. after considering the lower level of activity than in the baseline year Combustion air preheating (2008) and the higher proportion of premium products Recuperator (which require more energy to produce), average energy consumption was 1,022 kwh per tonne produced per plant for the entire group in 2010; this figure represents an energy efficiency improvement of more than 5% over Waste gas to the recuperator the 2008 baseline figure. Heat input: Steel 441 kW/h heating 12 gWh of gas saved at the Saint-Saulve pipe mill 54% a continuous improvement team was set up at the pipe mill in Saint-Saulve (France), to reduce natural gas consumption by its billet heating furnace. the main task of the cIt was to implement best practices already Refractories 5% Cooling water Door losses Others 1% 3% 10% identified by vallourec, in order to optimise furnace idle periods during the week and on weekends, and to limit energy consumption during the heating process. as a result of these initiatives, energy consumption by these Furnace heat balance studies reveal energy losses and installations was reduced by a total of 12 gwh over the enable the necessary work to be carried out to improve course of the year, saving the equivalent of 2,000 tonnes furnace heating efficiency. of carbon dioxide emissions. enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 49 V & m Tube Alloy delivers a 10% electricity saving a cIt at the v & M tube alloy facility in Sommermeyer (houston, texas) enabled electricity consumption to be reduced by at least 10%. the most significant initiatives in this area included covering and isolating the phosphating tanks, creating additional light tubes in the production shop, fixing leaks and lowering the operating pressure of the compressed air system. more than 63 gWh saved at V & m do Brasil 20% v & M do Brasil set up an energy efficiency department in 2010, tasked with coordinating action in the field: nine cIts were either set up or reassigned to research potential energy savings. Preliminary diagnostic assessments were carried out at workshops and heat balance studies were conducted for the largest facilities. By implementing The GreenHouse project aims to achieve these greenhouse initiatives, v & M do Brasil achieved energy savings of more than 63 gwh (equivalent to almost a 20% reduction in the amount of energy €5 million) in 2010. consumed per tonne produced by 2020. VallOuReC GROuP eneRGy COnsuMPtiOn electricity • Electricity represents 20% of the group's total energy consumption. • the two electric arc furnaces (in France and the united States) account for more than 40% of electricity consumption. • the group's 10 rolling mills located in germany, Brazil, the united States and France account for a further 35%. Gas • natural gas accounts for 42% of the group's total energy consumption. Charcoal • this energy source, used by the Brazilian plants to convert iron ore into cast iron, represents 36% of the group's total energy consumption. Other energy sources (2%) next-generation burners. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 EnvIronMEntal EMISSIonS actIvE on EvEry Front Controlling emissions of greenhouse gases, vapour and 106,037 tonnes of co2 and actual emissions in 2010 particulate matter, soil pollution and audible nuisances totalled 62,963 tonnes of co2. the difference is mainly attributable to a decrease in production and to efforts have long been priorities for Vallourec. the Group's to optimise the loading plan. approach focuses on preserving the environment and the From 2013, the European directive will also apply to wellbeing of local residents. the group's pipe mills and finishing units in France and germany. Implementation of these quotas is currently in the process of being approved by the European Parliament. InnOVATIVE SOlUTIOnS FOR REDUCIng CARBOn DIOXIDE EmISSIOnS CARBOn ASSESSmEnT OF ACTIVITIES SInCE 2007 vallourec uses biomass as an energy source to operate the group's blast furnaces in Brazil, and uses electricity In order to limit greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to melt scrap metal in its electric arc furnaces at steel to combat global warming, vallourec has carried out annual mills in France and in the united States. carbon dioxide carbon assessments of its activities since 2007. these studies emissions from these installations are significantly lower are conducted by in-house specialists, with contributions from than those from traditional coke-based processes. the environment and energy correspondents in all countries in which the group operates. all calculations are performed Brazil – Case study in accordance with available methodologies. a comprehensive v & M do Brasil is the world's only seamless tube review of our approach will be carried out in 2011 with the manufacturing plant to use biomass as its main source assistance of independent consulting specialists. of energy for steel output. the company cultivates eucalyptus plantations that supply charcoal to produce European quotas this energy. as the trees grow, they consume carbon the Saint-Saulve steel mill in France is the only plant dioxide and release oxygen. this “closed circuit” process concerned by the implementation of the EtS European results in a complete photosynthesis-based energy directive on management of carbon dioxide quotas production and consumption cycle that has a positive over the period 2008-2012. It has an annual quota of impact on the greenhouse effect. enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 51 vallourec owns a 230,000-hectare property, on which it Greenhouse gas emissions trend (scope 1) grows approximately 120,000 hectares of eucalyptus, at a ratio of one hectare of native forest for every one and 1,000 226 250 a half hectares of plantation. land is worked on a seven199 year cycle, with the company using one seventh of the 900 174 200 168 plantation to produce charcoal each year. Similarly, one seventh of the forest is replanted each year. 800 150 Carboval – A new way forward 700 100 the group is developing new processes to reduce 1 ,010 976 740 924 greenhouse gas emissions from its charcoal-making 600 50 furnaces in Brazil. carboval is an innovative, nonkt 2007 2008 2009 2010 kg CO2 / t polluting carbonisation process ideally suited to the Total quantity of GHG produced (in thousand tonnes) production of charcoal for use as fuel in v & M do Brasil's Quantity of GHG produced per tonne processed (kg CO2 /t) plants. a pilot vertical steel charcoal kiln built in 2008 to The chart above shows the results of the Vallourec produce 7,500 tonnes of charcoal per year has increased carbon assessment, expressed in thousand tonnes of process efficiency and optimized the quality of the carbon dioxide equivalent (kt eq CO2). resulting charcoal. Eucalyptus wood produces extremely pure charcoal with a particularly high heating value. the process also burns all the greenhouse gases, making it Comparison of carbon emissions (kg CO2 eq/t steel) self-sufficient in terms of electricity and avoiding harmful atmospheric emissions. 1,600 1,400 V & m do Brasil wins an environmental 1,200 management award 1,000 800 the use of biomass is only one of several environmental 600 initiatives by v & M do Brasil. In 2010, the company 400 received the PMga (Prêmio Mineiro de gestão ambiental) 200 408 390 1,690 award, which was created in 2005 by the Brazilian Quality 0 association (uBQ) with support from the State of Minas Charcoal EAF Coke gerais and from the Brazilian Environment ministry. the Process Process Process award aims to encourage businesses to implement an Carbon dioxide emissions from an electric process (as used organized environmental management strategy based at Vallourec steel mills in France and the United States) are equivalent to those of a charcoal process (Brazil) whereas the coke process emits four times more CO2. Carbon assessment – Scope definitions The table below shows the results of the 2010 carbon assessment, arranged in three different scopes (1, 2 and 3). The table also indicates which types of greenhouse gas emissions are included in the calculations for each scope. 2009 results 2010 results Scope Activity Sources included in calculation tonnes co2e tonnes co2e Production at electric-arc steel mills (Saint-Saulve in France and youngstown in the united States) natural gas combustion Scope 1 Production at the Belo horizonte steel Methane emissions (estimated) direct mill in Brazil 739,804 924,248 Iron and steel production emissions combustion in furnaces oil consumption In-house transportation and handling charcoal-making, used in Brazil instead of coke Scope 2 Indirect Production of electric power consumed by Purchased electricity 326,876 451,320 emissions / our industrial activities Electricity Scope 3 Steel purchases Steel production by vallourec suppliers Indirect External transportation (estimated) oil consumption 1,058,419 1,835,131 emissions / Personnel transportation (estimated) waste processing others waste emissions (estimated) The results obtained at scope 1 in 2010 were consistent with the increase in volumes. The rise in steel purchases from HKM (for the coke process) in 2010 accounts for the increase at scope 3. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 Comparison of CO2 emissions (CO2 eq./thousand tonnes) on continuous improvement. For alexandre lyra, chief Executive officer of v & M do Brasil, this award is in recognition of the considerable efforts made by the 2,500 company in the area of environmental conservation: 2,000 all areas of our business are involved in sustainable development initiatives. we consider the consequences 1,500 of our activity on local communities and devise ways to minimise these impacts while still providing outstanding 1,000 products to our customers. 500 213 lImITIng OTHER ATmOSPHERIC EmISSIOnS 879 20 233 342 2,455 0 -879 Em In order to preserve air quality in the vicinity of its plants, vallourec systematically measures atmospheric emission iss ion sf Eucalypt rom com cha us offset bu rcoa sti l levels and employs appropriate solutions for each type (bi om on Em ass ) ission of emission associated with its manufacturing activities. ss pe cifi ctos tee Me tha ne lm aking em cha issio rco ns d al ur ma ing kin Reducing vapour emissions Tot al em char g T iss coa ion l r s ( out (St otal . S EAF VM e B) vallourec's facilities are equipped with vapour capture au ro lve ut +Y ee To ste tal e ou mis ng sio sto ns el mi wn ) and treatment systems in compliance with regulatory pro ssi du ons ced fo by r Va cok llou e r rec ou te requirements. Total volatile organic compounds (voc) may be emitted during tube finishing operations. wherever possible, the group Using charcoal rather than coke makes for a very good carbon seeks to eliminate voc emissions by phasing in alternative assessment, because the quantity of carbon dioxide emitted during steel products such as water-based varnishes. If no substitution production is more than offset by the amount absorbed by the forest. is possible, emissions are recovered and treated to ensure compliance with applicable standards. Capturing dust Electric arc furnaces are the main source of particulate emissions. the group regularly upgrades its dust capture enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 53 TACKlIng SPORADIC nOISE “A s the Rath plant is located very close to residential areas, numerous procedures and techniques have been introduced to protect local residents from noise pollution. In 2010, we installed a system to detect and record sporadic noises, such as audible warning signals or the sound of tubes banging together. If the noise measured by this system exceeds the permitted limits, the causes are analysed and corrective action taken immediately.” Burkhard niemöller, Environment manager, v & M deutschland (rath, germany) systems to counter these releases. In particular, vallourec emitted by workshops and compiling indicators based recently invested in a dust suction and filtering system at on that data, in order to analyse the source profiles its plant in youngstown (united States). the new system and produce an action plan. depending on the nature is twice as efficient as the existing installation. of the issues at local level, plants may measure noise Pipe mills and finishing plants also generate dust from inside the plant and/or at the site boundary, or even hot rolling mills as well as tube grinding and polishing at the homes of nearby residents if applicable. In some installations. Machinery is fitted with sealing, suction cases, the systems used are not only able to measure and filtering systems to capture particulate emissions at noise in particular places but also determine its source. the source, and rooftop systems capture and treat diffuse In addition, simulation software is used to assess the emissions. respective benefits of various sound insulation systems Furthermore, roads have been surfaced with concrete or and choose the best solutions. the action being taken polymer finishes to prevent the release of dust due to by the group is targeted first and foremost at decreasing movements by lorries and other vehicles. noise at its source. For example, certain plants are replacing pneumatically-controlled movement actuators REgUlAR SOIl mOnITORIng with quieter hydraulic systems, and rubber is being placed between tubes to prevent noise caused by tubes striking the group regularly commissions research into soil pollution each other. where it is impossible or too impractical to risks at its European facilities; no sites are currently classified decrease noise at its source, corrective action is taken as requiring decontamination. In certain cases, piezometric by establishing barriers (containment screens around sensor-based underground water monitoring has been machinery, noise-abating walls, etc.). introduced. In parallel to these efforts, vallourec supplies employees whilst soil and underground water monitoring are not with ear plugs to limit the health impacts of noise in mandatory at vallourec's plants in north america, the group plants. wearing earplugs in work areas is a mandatory carries out local pollution risk studies as best practice. requirement. to make them more comfortable, these In Brazil, where waste was stored at the Barreiro facility earplugs are adapted to the individual's ear, and in the past, a recycling plan has been implemented, incorporate filters that allow certain sound frequencies and piezometric sensors have been installed to enable to pass through, in order to facilitate communication. underground water monitoring. Systematic medical monitoring helps to prevent noiselastly, in china, vallourec is not aware of any soil related health problems. contamination issues, not least because the group's facilities are of recent construction. PROACTIVE On nOISE ISSUES Many vallourec activities are inherently noisy. although noise is generated by steel mill furnaces, by billet cutting and storage activities, the rolling process and all finishing operations, numerous solutions exist to minimize or totally eliminate noise. Tackling the problem at source vallourec's methodology consists in measuring the noise lEgEndE waStE ManagEMEnt EXPlorIng nEw ProcESSES as is the case for all metal-working and steelmaking reduce hazardous wastes – and recover as much waste as possible, avoiding recourse to landfill and reducing businesses, the Group’s production activities generate waste processing and disposal costs. large quantities of very different types of waste. Particular attention is therefore paid to correctly managing waste, COnClUSIVE RESUlTS with a recovery target of 95% of all waste. In 2010, a study focusing on the five most important types of waste in terms of volumes and costs was conducted at various vallourec plants, in order to compare the volumes generated, the types of treatment employed gOAlS AnD A mETHODOlOgy and the associated costs, and the waste management FOR ACHIEVIng THEm strategies implemented at each plant. In most cases, the differences observed between facilities were due to the group produced 630,000 tonnes of industrial waste the local context (locally-based waste subcontractors in 2010, nearly 90% of which was non-hazardous waste or, conversely, the need to transport waste over long such as slag and scale. Particular attention is paid to the distances, which considerably increases costs). other remaining fraction, which consists of hazardous waste differences were attributable to differences in the (dust, oil and oily sludge). the total waste volume is legal status of different waste products, which varies recorded on a monthly and annual basis, by waste type according to the geographical location of the plants. and by site, in order to prevent performance drift and lastly, differences in industrial processes explains the to be able to establish in-house benchmarks as part of variations in waste volumes and costs. a continuous improvement process. Following this study, working groups were set up to carry vallourec aims to decrease waste volumes through out in-house benchmarking and circulate best practices. more effective control over industrial processes and new treatment processes are planned to enable facilities related constraints – in particular, the group intends to to recover more waste. the aim is to progress from a enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 55 situation where energy is recovered as the waste is incinerated to one in which waste is reprocessed to Maximum waste recovery form co-products suitable for use in other production processes. Each facility takes action to recover its waste whenever possible: for example, the group's steel mills Best environmental choice Elimination recycle a large proportion of the scrap metal consisting of unused offcuts from vallourec tube mills (see inset). Steelmaking slag, the largest category of waste by Reduction tonnage, can be reused as backfill in the construction Reuse industry, thereby reducing the need for quarrying in the Recovery natural environment. the sustained efforts made in recent years are yielding Energy results, and the group as a whole now recovers 86% of its recovery waste. results vary widely between sites, however, and it is essential for vallourec to improve this rate. the group's target is to achieve a 95% recovery rate in three years. landfill dumping Quantity of waste generated in 2010 (tonnes) 700,000 628,518 600,000 568,614 500,000 400,000 86% 317,813 300,000 200,000 147,477 100,000 67,701 59,904 35,623 30,795 16,125 2,218 10,867 0 Slu Sc To Percentage of waste Du Oil Sla Ot he st dg Ot To g ale rN HW ta es he talH Cons tru lw rH as recovered 1 by the c wa tion W W Tota lN ste te HW Group in 2010. Hazardous waste (HW) Non-hazardous waste (NHW) 1. “recovery” includes using waste as a form of Total waste energy, reprocessing it for subsequent reuse, or simply eliminating waste at source. only landfill dumping and incineration without energy recovery are considered not to be forms of recovery. euROsCRaP – an aMbitiOus PROjeCt launched in 2009 and rolled out across European mills in 2010, the Euroscrap project aims to recover the maximum value form recycling the scrap metal that is produced in its mills. this is to be achieved by optimizing sorting at tube mills in order to supply steel mills with scrap suitable for making various grades of steel. at the initiative of project managers at the group's tube mills, a communication plan and methodology were implemented to inform plant personnel, assess the feasibility of sorting, implement an operational solution and create an efficient supply chain to the steel mills. For their part, the steel mills studied how their furnace loads could be adjusted to optimise this recycling without entailing any technical risks. although its basic idea of using offcuts within the group to create new raw material is simple and has already been put into practice, Euroscrap is expected to achieve significant gains through multidisciplinary collaboration between experienced personnel in a well-coordinated project. this intelligent approach to recycling should serve as an example throughout the group, demonstrating that global, collaborative management can deliver impressive results. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 watEr SaFEguardIng a PrEcIouS rESourcE Water is a major issue in any sustainable development the investment by vaM drilling at its tarbes plant, enabling the facility to no longer draw cooling water strategy, and improving our management of this for its equipment from the water table (see account in resource is a top priority for Vallourec. Our plants are inset), is a perfect illustration of the group's efforts making regular progress in terms of limiting water in this area. consumption has fallen steadily over the last ten years, consumption and controlling the quality of water from 13.89 million cubic metres in 2000 to 8.08 million discharged into the environment. cubic metres in 2010, i.e. a decrease of 42% over the period. the overall goal is to significantly reduce discharge by adopting clean technologies that reduce and recycle waste water. this will further decrease water consumption and the quantities of pollutants released REDUCIng WATER COnSUmPTIOn into the environment. water is essential in many manufacturing processes at EnSURIng EFFlUEnT QUAlITy vallourec plants. It is mainly used to cool hot-process equipment such as billet furnaces, tube rolling machinery Industrial water from most vallourec plants is discharged and heat treatment furnaces, which account for more into the municipal sewer system and then treated at the than half of total requirements, and to cool tubes during municipal waste water treatment plants. the goal for heat treatment operations (25% of requirements). water these plants is clearly to reduce the quantity of water is also used during surface treatments, pressure testing, discharged while ensuring consistent quality. non-destructive tube examinations and for cooling In certain cases – in particular at the facilities operated production equipment. by v & M France, the v & M deutschland plant in rath vallourec has invested in numerous water recycling and (germany), and the v & M Star plant in houston (united runoff water recovery solutions over the past ten years. States) – water is discharged into the environment after enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 57 DRAWIng lESS WATER FROm THE WATER TABlE “W e invested in two consecutive projects to convert the water cooling installation for the heat treatment shop and press shop at the Tarbes plant to a closed-circuit system. Our aim was to eliminate the need to draw water from the water table. After analysing the various possible solutions, we opted to install two refrigeration units in a closed-circuit primary system, to ensure that cooling water temperatures are constant all year round. Installing the new systems has reduced the plant's industrial water consumption from 150 m3/tonne to 10 m3/tonne.” yohann Bacque, QSE manager at the vam drilling plant in tarbes processing at an on-site treatment station. – chemical oxygen demand (cod) Effluents discharged from plants comply with local – total hydrocarbons (hct) regulations. Effluent quality is checked regularly and – Metals (particularly iron, zinc, chromium and nickel) monitored by administrative authorities that verify the group decided to launch a water plan in 2010, to compliance with requirements relating to the following identify best practices in terms of water consumption parameters: and management. Several improvement measures were – Suspended solids (SS) identified and are being phased in across the group. History of Group water consumption 14 4 12 2.7 2.6 1.8 3.6 2.0 1.8 10 1.8 1.6 3 2.2 1.7 8 2.4 6 1.8 4 1.2 2 11.53 10.61 10.31 10.26 10.78 9.55 9.44 7.3 8.08 0.6 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total water consumption in millions of m3 Water consumption in processed tonnes (m3/tonne) After increasing in 2009 as a consequence of below-capacity plant operation, consumption per tonne produced decreased to 1.74 m3/tonne in 2010, a rate close to the 2008 figure despite output being 18% lower. V & M flORestal: 15% less WateR at the euCalyPtus nuRseRy a continuous improvement team (cIt) was set up in 2010 to study and reduce water consumption at the eucalyptus nursery operated by v & M Florestal (Brazil). In the light of this research, numerous initiatives were implemented, including replacing the substrate in which saplings are planted. the new substrate retains moisture more effectively, resulting in water savings of up to 30%. overall, the series of measures adopted by the cIt reduced the nursery's water consumption per sapling by 15%. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 BIodIvErSIty ProtEctIng anIMal and Plant lIFE the un declared 2010 to be the international year of In BRAzIl… biodiversity in order to raise the public profile of an issue of certain vallourec activities have a direct link with great concern. Vallourec is acutely aware of the implications biodiversity, and the group has been taking very practical of this environmental issue and began implementing steps in this area for a number of years. a good example is the case of v & M Florestal, a Brazilian practical measures long before the un appeal. the Group's subsidiary of v & M do Brasil that cultivates eucalyptus brazilian plants illustrate best practice in this area. plantations. Every effort is made to preserve biodiversity using simple methods such as maintaining ecological corridors between the native forest and plantations, to ensure that wildlife movements are not impeded. Diversified plant and wildlife the company has set up programmes to monitor plant species and wildlife in the surrounding forests, in conjunction with the university of Minas gerais and lavras. It teamed up with several partners to carry 350 out research on local birds: 350 different species were reported, representing 40% of the total number of species listed as being present in the State of Minas gerais. research on bees revealed that they have adapted well. last but not least, a few endangered species of mammals The number of bird species identified were identified by a mammal monitoring programme. by V & M Florestal. another v & M do Brasil subsidiary, v & M Mineração, enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 59 PROmPTIng gREATER AWAREnESS “A ll Vallourec facilities, according to their respective characteristics, need to think about the progress to be achieved in terms of biodiversity. My role as Environment Director is to bring about this greater awareness. The Groupwide survey on biodiversity issues carried out in 2010 is a reflection of corporate citizenship concerns. This survey was launched, symbolically, during the UN year of biodiversity, and will provide the basis for forthcoming action by the Group.” Jean-luc Dupuis, vallourec Environment director operates a mining business based in the town of ROllIng OUT BEST PRACTICES Brumadinho, around 50 km from the Barreiro industrial complex. the company is deeply committed to vallourec intends to roll out best practices such as environmental restoration in mining regions. accordingly, these through its sustainable development strategy. in 2010, some 100,000 square meters of mined surfaces a comprehensive survey of the group's main industrial were returned to nature after being planted with species sites was carried out in 2010, based on experience of trees, grasses and leguminous plants native to the acquired in Brazil. the first stage involved identifying region. over the years, the company has restored more vulnerable watercourses, nature reserves, green belts, than 1.7 million square metres of mining land. threatened species, etc. this phase of the study revealed that the group is not subject to any critical problems. … AnD ElSEWHERE Even so, vallourec considers that individual sites, notwithstanding their very different natures, may see Practical initiatives were also implemented in France, fit to develop their own biodiversity analyses. at the valtimet facility in Burgundy. Environmental maintenance work was carried out at a 19th century gravel pit, where a build-up of silt was threatening the ecosystem. vegetation was selectively cut back to preserve slow-growing species, and silt was removed to create a spawning ground for aquatic wildlife. a shOW Of unity at the naGOya COnfeRenCe In october 2010, some 18,000 people attended the global conference in nagoya, a keynote event in the International year of Biodiversity. this event was followed by many others, including a symposium in Paris organized by the association Entreprises pour l’Environnement , at which vallourec spoke about its experience in Brazil. these events highlighted the business world's growing interest in protecting nature. there are many reasons for this enthusiasm: companies are guided not only by strong social demand and ethical choices, but also by increasing regulatory pressures, particularly in Europe, where a European directive stipulating offset measures or restoration in case of environmental damage was issued in 2004 and embodied in French law in the 2008 corporate Social responsibility act (loi sur la responsabilité des entreprises – lrE). sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 chIna a wEalth oF BESt PractIcES in China, the economic boom has led to a range of serious v & M changzhou was able to decrease its consumption by 15% compared with 2009, in particular by improving the environmental problems. the Chinese authorities have lighting at its premises and by searching for and fixing responded by introducing unprecedented measures to use leaks in the compressed air system. the changzhou carex natural resources more efficiently. these decisions were valinox components plant achieved a 30% reduction in three months, essentially by changing its air conditioning anticipated by local Vallourec personnel. system settings and optimizing its use of the most energyintensive machinery. lastly, vaM changzhou introduced a number of simple measures, including adjusting the air conditioning setpoint based on the outside temperature EFFORTS ACROSS THE BOARD (for example, if the outside temperature exceeds 30°c, the interior temperature is maintained at 26°28°c), In 2010, a working group made up of representatives optimizing use of the compressed air system by using a from the main vallourec business units operating smaller, more energy-efficient compressor whenever the in china identified the local priorities in the area painting line was not in operation. the plant lighting of environmental responsibility. By applying the system was also improved, by modifying the light switch vallourec Management System approach and setting unit in the production shop to provide more versatile up continuous improvement teams (cIt), all aspects lighting control depending on the activities being carried of the group's activities were examined. out. Implementing the cIt's recommendations enabled the plant to reduce its electricity consumption by 23% Electricity consumption compared with 2009. with the encouragement of the chinese government and support from the greenhouse project, all vallourec plants Waste in china set up cIts to identify ways to reduce electricity v & M changzhou set up a cIt to optimize raw material consumption in 2010. usage by increasing production yields. enViROnMental ResPOnsibility 61 An AWARD-WInnIng ImPROVEmEnT AnD KnOWlEDgE-SHARIng STRATEgy “A s a subsidiary of a multi-national company, it was particularly important for V & M Changzhou to set a good example for environmental issues. The Group adopted a continuous improvement strategy (continuous improvement teams, benchmarks, etc.) to facilitate this task. We also organized a conference in order to share our experience with other businesses in our sector, and this may have been what prompted the local authorities to present us with an environmentally-friendly business award, of which we are very proud. I should add that we also received an award for our safety performance, which is equally important to us. As these awards show, our company upholds the Chinese principle of a harmonious society.” Hailey Wu, hSE engineer, v & M changzhou Water initiatives, v & M changzhou organized a conference the main vallourec facilities in china compared their with local companies, which was attended by government respective water management systems in order to identify representatives from the city of chun Jiang. In January best practices. Examples include the water recycling 2011, the local authorities presented v & M changzhou system operated by v & M changzhou; the use of with an environmentally-friendly business award, to demineralized water for pressure and cooling tests at encourage the company to pursue its progress strategy changzhou valinox great wall welded tubes; and the (see inset). decision by changzhou carex valinox components to use a new detergent for its tube washing process, enabling the quantity of water used to be reduced by almost half. V & m CHAngzHOU WInS An EnVIROnmEnTAl AWARD -23% In order to leverage the company's environmental strategy and enable other organizations to develop similar Reduction in VAM Changzhou electricity costs between 2009 and 2010. VAllOUREC lOCATIOnS In CHInA Beijing • Beijing : v & M Beijing  • Beijing : vaM Field Service Xi'ian  Chuzou  chuzou : tianda oil Pipe (19.5% participating interest)* Changzhou  • changzhou : v & M changzhou (extension in progress)  Service centres • changzhou : vaM (changzhou) oil & gas Premium Equipment nansha • changzhou : changzhou valinox great wall welded tubes  Production units  • changzhou : changzhou carex valinox components nansha, guangzhou : valinox nucléaire tubes (guangzhou) co., ltd. (under construction) Xi’ian : Xi’an Baotimet valinox tubes* * non-integrated sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 MEthodology notE the purpose of the sustainable Development report is French, german and Portuguese) and supplied by the to inform shareholders and the general public about the Sustainable development department to its network of correspondents. action taken by Vallourec to preserve the environment with regard to safety indicators, vallourec refers to the and protect our employees. the report is based on data guidelines set out in the Occupational Safety and Health Act from the systems deployed in the Group’s facilities (1970, uSa) (1), which aims to ensure that employees do not encounter obvious health or safety hazards in the workplace. world-wide. this publication is the result of a meticulous to ensure accurate, consistent reporting of the two worldreporting strategy based on procedures that ensure that recognized indicators (i.e. the accident frequency rate (ltIr) and the severity rate (Sr)), the group has issued certain the information provided is consistent and transparent. requirements relating to their definition, due to variations in the corresponding regulations between countries. regarding social performance indicators, a precise, standardized definition has been produced (and recorded in a procedure) for use by the whole group. Reporting scope these indicators are recorded monthly for each company, the environmental and safety reporting scopes are in an Excel file. data is consolidated first at country level, determined according to rules set by vallourec’s under the responsibility of the local human resources Sustainable development department, as embodied in correspondent, before being consolidated at corporate level the corresponding procedure: by the human resources department. 1. the scope includes sites with an industrial activity. It therefore excludes the vision It centre in SaintConsolidation and inspections Saulve, the administration offices in Boulogne (France), concerning environmental performance indicators, the rath (germany) and houston (texas, united States), Sustainable development department performs checks on respectively, as well as all sales offices. For the purpose the quality (in terms of schedule compliance, accuracy and of consolidating safety indicators, all sites except small exhaustiveness) of reporting for each site at the end of the sales and commercial offices were included in the scope. quarter and financial year and requests any explanations 2. the scope includes sites owned by vallourec for at least that may be necessary in order to properly understand the six months. this rule applies in the event of an acquisition indicators. this stage is crucial, both for the quality of the or disposal. final report and for the assurance afforded by monitoring 3. the scope includes sites that carried out an industrial the indicators at corporate and local level. the Sustainable activity during the financial year. It excludes facilities development department produces quarterly summaries that are under construction or have not been operating for each site, division, and country, in order to check and for at least six months (for example vallourec & Sumitomo compare data. tubos do Brasil). Safety indicators are checked and then distributed to all 4. the scope includes facilities where vallourec holds more sites and the Sustainable development department on a than 50% of the voting rights. conversely, the scope monthly basis. excludes sites where vallourec holds only a minority Each month, the human resources department checks the interest. collected social performance data and sends a summary the social reporting scope is established by vallourec's to the vallourec Executive committee and the director of human resources department. the scope includes the same each division. companies as in the financial scope, except for: 1. companies with fewer than 5 employees. Consolidation principles 2. companies in which vallourec does not have a majority 1. companies over which the group exerts a significant interest (i.e. more than 50% of voting rights). influence (> 50%) are not accounted for in accordance with the equity method. all sites within the reporting Indicator baseline scope that are whollyor partly-owned by vallourec vallourec developed its baseline in keeping with are treated the same way for reporting consolidation the proposals described in the Global Reporting purposes, i.e. as if they are wholly-owned by the group. Initiative (grI), the purpose of which is to develop 2. Prudence concept: data is consolidated on the basis globally applicable directives for reporting economic, of cautious assessments, to avoid any reputationand environmental and social performance by companies, transfer-related risks. government agencies and non-governmental 3. the accruals concept: each financial year is treated in organizations. the environmental and safety performance isolation. indicators and their numbering system have been incorporated into the ErMIt unified web-based reporting limits of the methodology and special cases system, which tracks indicators on a monthly basis. a Indicators are subject to a few exceptions regarding the description and methodology sheet has been produced application of the aforementioned rules. these exceptions in the group’s four main working languages (i.e. English, are summarized in the table below. aPPenDiCes 63 Subject Plants Description determination of v & M Mineração the industrial activity at the v & M Mineração facility in Brazil is very different to those the reporting scope: of the other vallourec sites, i.e., the production of iron ore to supply one part of v & M do SCOPE compliance with Brazil integrated site. Its environmental indicators are tracked as in any other plant, but rule n° 1 they are not consolidated at corporate level. they are nevertheless listed separately in the data tables. all safety and civic performance indicators, however, were consolidated with the other vallourec results. discharged water v & M France Saintthe discharged water quality indicators (SS, cod, th and total metals) are only quality Saulve (steel mill & consolidated for sites that release water directly into the environment after processing pipe mill), déville at an on-site treatment plant. these indicators were calculated based on a mathematical and aulnoye, vaM average of the pollutant concentrations. Samples are collected quarterly in germany and drilling tarbes, v & M the united States, and at least weekly in France. deutschland rath, v & M Star houston Scrap all vallourec considers scrap to be a co-product , and it is therefore not included in waste EnVIROnmEnTAl InDICATORS indicator and recycling rate calculations. Sludge from blast v & M do Brasil In Brazil, sludge generated in blast furnaces is classified as non-hazardous, and is a totally furnaces and steeldifferent type of waste to pipe mill sludge. making processes dust from blast v & M do Brasil In Brazil, dust generated in blast furnaces is classified as non-hazardous, and is a totally furnaces and steeldifferent type of waste to other dust produced in north american and French steel plants. making processes Methane v & M Florestal For the purpose of estimating methane emissions, in the absence of more accurate data, calculations are based on the statistical study included by the company named “Plantar” in its Project concept document, approved and registered as a cdM project at the unFccc (cf. pages 90-94, 183-188 of the document available at: http://cdm.unfccc.int/ userManagement/FileStorage). according to this study, methane emissions created by the process depend on the efficiency with which wood is burnt in the furnaces, i.e. the ratio of the final mass of charcoal (after combustion) to the initial mass of the wood. water consumption v & M Mineração water consumption at the site is considered to include all drainage water pumped during extraction operations. number of employees all the definition used in 2010 is not the same as in the corporate reporting procedure: the figure receiving training shows the number of employees who received a combined total of at least seven hours of SOCIAl PERFORmAnCE training or more (i.e. the equivalent to one day's training). the 2010 reporting scope for this indicator includes all business units included in the social performance reporting scope with the exception of Serimax, Pt citra tubindo, v & M Mineração and vallourec & Sumitomo tubos do Brazil, i.e. approximately 85% of the group's consolidated workforce. InDICATORS turnover all the turnover indicator is calculated as being the sum of departures by employees on permanent contracts during the financial year, divided by the total number of permanent employees at the year-end. the following reasons for leaving the group were included: retirement, resignation, redundancy and other reasons (including death, change of category, termination of contract by agreement and interrupted trial periods). Production calculations tables. relative values are expressed relative to production the expression “tonne processed” refers to a tonne of volumes, stated per tonne processed . output from each plant (number of units of work produced at the plant), whether in the form of raw steel, hot tubes Carbon assessment or fully finished cold tubes. the production figures for each the carbon inventory is based on the methodology for plant are added together to yield the vallourec group's total calculating greenhouse gas emissions developed by the French output in tonnes processed. environment and energy agency, adEME. when conducting In the case of integrated sites such as v & M Star in our carbon assessment, all emission factors were taken from youngstown and v & M do Brasil in Belo horizonte, the total the most appropriate sources available, considering the output is the sum of the plant's steel and tube production geographic location of each plant. due to the large number figures. Iron ore production by v & M Mineração and charcoal of emission factors used and the variety of sources to which production by v & M Florestal are not included in the total they refer, it was decided not to describe everything in detail vallourec production figure. in this report. comprehensive information is available from the expression per tonne shipped refers to the tonnage vallourec's Sustainable development department. dispatched to our customers during the course of the year: although every care was taken in the production of this this is the official production figure included in the group's carbon assessment, it was necessary to make a small number trading results. of estimations in order to calculate the greenhouse gas emissions from some of vallourec’s industrial sites. Presentation of environmental data in this report wherever there is uncertainty regarding a particular result, Environmental data is systematically expressed in absolute vallourec has adopted a cautious approach, systematically values and relative values in charts and performance applying the most pessimistic emissions scenarios. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 QuantIFIEd rESultS DISCHARgED WATER QUAlITy Indicator Unit limit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Suspended solids total quantity tonnes/year 30.25 30.44 40.72 45.02 34.97 41.90 41.08 ✔ relative values gr/tonne processed 16.46 15.95 19.37 23.32 20.67 12.78 8.85 mg/l water discharged 30.00 mg/l 8.70 9.05 12.34 9.80 9.43 11.95 11.28 ✔ EnVIROnmEnTAl PERFORmAnCE COD total quantity tonnes/year 64.29 80.37 66.60 91.90 61.26 73.28 80.21 ✔ relative values gr/tonne processed 34.98 42.11 31.68 47.60 36.20 22.36 17.28 mg/l water discharged 100.00 18.49 23.88 20.18 20.00 16.53 20.90 22.03 ✔ mg/l HC total quantity tonnes/year 3.35 2.00 1.55 3.29 1.79 2.30 2.14 ✔ relative values gr/tonne processed 1.82 1.05 0.74 1.71 1.06 0.70 0.46 mg/l water discharged 5.00 mg/l 0.96 0.59 0.47 0.72 0.48 0.66 0.59 ✔ TOTAl mETAlS total quantity tonnes/year 1.47 2.26 1.42 1.72 1.86 3.98 4.14 ✔ relative values gr/tonne processed 0.80 1.19 0.67 0.89 1.09 1.21 0.89 mg/l water discharged 15.00 mg/l 0.42 0.67 0.43 0.37 0.50 1.14 1.14 ✔ EnVIROnmEnTAl PERFORmAnCE V & m mInERAçãO Indicator Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 WATER COnSUmPTIOn Surface/ground water m3/year 3,094,266 2,945,222 4,107,344 3,317,045 3,549,906 4,023,776 ✔ total m3/year 3,094,266 2,945,222 4,107,344 3,317,045 3,549,906 4,023,776 ✔ EnVIROnmEnTAl PERFORmAnCE (1) m3/tonne 0.8 1.1 1.0 0.8 1.1 1.0 WASTE VOlUmE non-hazardous waste tonnes/year n.m. n.m. n.m. 155 222 145 ✔ hazardous waste tonnes/year n.m. n.m. n.m. 257 145 85 ✔ total waste tonnes/year n.m. n.m. 654 412 367 230 ✔ kg/tonne n.m. n.m. 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 EnERgy Electricity gwh/year 11.5 12.7 15.4 17.2 17.3 21.3 ✔ kwh/tonne 2.9 4.8 3.8 4.2 5.2 5.2 CARBOn DIOXIDE total emissions tonnes/year 27,430 29,014 35,851 26,785 18,420 17,206 ✔ kg/tonne 6.8 10.9 8.9 6.5 5.6 4.2 n.m. = not measured (1) the municipal water and natural gas indicators are not applicable to v & M Mineração. discharged water is not yet measured. the safety performance indicators are consolidated with the vallourec group as a whole. aPPenDiCes 65 gROUP PERFORmAnCE Indicator Unit 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 PRODUCTIOn tonnes processed 5,272,369 5,641,856 6,079,970 5,379,997 5,815,294 3,273,973 4,642,266 tonnes shipped 2,838,400 2,766,400 1,503,000 1,888,000 SAlES € million 6,141 6,437 4,464 4,491 WATER COnSUmPTIOn Municipal water m3/year 1,888,333 1,943,894 2,142,429 2,075,217 3,939,111 2,816,353 3,413,161 ✔ Surface/ground water m3/year 8,420,339 8,312,177 8,636,050 7,479,055 5,504,920 4,509,957 4,665,643 ✔ total m3/year 10,308,672 10,256,071 10,778,479 9,554,272 9,444,031 7,326,310 8,078,804 ✔ m3/tonne processed 2.0 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.6 2.2 1.7 m3/tonne shipped 3.4 3.4 4.9 4.3 DISCHARgED WATER total discharged water m3/year 4,483,054 4,741,881 5,181,164 6,138,381 5,880,281 4,830,400 4,903,721 ✔ m3/tonne processed 0.9 0.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 1.5 1.06 m3/tonne shipped 2.2 2.1 3.2 2.60 WASTE VOlUmE EnVIROnmEnTAl PERFORmAnCE non-hazardous waste tonnes/year 361,781 362,401 486,677 570,644 606,597 465,047 568,614 ✔ hazardous waste tonnes/year 156,364 157,320 182,877 150,675 75,773 47,745 59,904 ✔ recycled waste (%) % 86 total waste tonnes/year 518,145 519,721 669,555 721,320 682,370 512,793 628,518 ✔ (1) kg/tonne processed 98 92 110 134 117 157 135 kg/tonne shipped 254 247 341 333 EnERgy natural gas gwh/year 3,633 3,817 4,096 3,693 3,687 2,652 3,238 ✔ kwh/tonne processed 689 676 674 686 634 810 697 kwh/tonne shipped 1,301 1,333 1,764 1,715 Electricity gwh/year 1,680 1,713 1,787 1,668 1,680 1,197 1,521 ✔ kwh/tonne processed 319 304 294 310 289 366 328 kwh/tonne shipped 588 607 796 806 co2 total emissions (2) tonnes/year 766,702 791,414 849,148 828,468 976,209 739,807 924,248 ✔ kg co2 eq./tonne 145 140 140 174 168 226 199 processed kg co2 eq./tonne 356 353 492 490 shipped ACCIDEnT FREQUEnCy RATE (lTIR) ltIr vallourec Staff % 7.96 7.66 6.53 8.08 7.79 4.88 2.90 ✔ SAFETy ltIr vallourec Staff + % 10.04 9.28 5.27 3.16 ✔ temporary workers SEVERITy RATE (SR) Sr vallourec Staff % 0.42 0.42 0.29 0.40 0.38 0.33 0.20 ✔ HUmAn RESOURCES (3) Employees n 17,484 17,542 18,217 16,874 18,561 18,567 20,561 ✔ SOCIAl AnD CIVIC number of employees n 12,691 ✔ who received training number of hours of n 520,000 650,346 ✔ training % of managers receiving % 66 a performance interview turnover % 6 9 7 (1) this total does not include exceptional waste from previous years: in 2010 = 26,057 tonnes of exceptional hazardous waste (v & M do Brasil 26,050 tonnes + vMd Mülheim 7 tonnes). (2) the results for 2002 to 2006 include only natural gas combustion and emissions from steel-making processes. the figure for 2007 represents the complete vallourec inventory, including emissions relating to internal transportation but excluding v & M Florestal methane emissions, which have only been reported since the start of 2008. (3) Indicators added to the scope in 2010, but not checked by cIts in previous years. the values for previous years (shown in italics) are provided for guidance only. ✔ : Indicators that were verified by the Statutory auditors in 2010. sustainable DeVelOPMent RePORt 2010 Statutory audItorS’ rEPort providing limited assurance on a selection of environmental, social and safety indicators of the Vallourec group for fiscal year 2010 as requested and in our capacity as statutory auditors of years. For those sites, we ensured that the Protocols had been understood and implemented. we verified calculations the Vallourec Group, we performed a review in the aim of on a sample data, performed consistency controls and providing limited assurance on a selection of environmental, reconciled data with the supporting documentation. social and safety performance indicators (1) (“the Data”) – tested a sample of calculations and verified the data consolidation at group level. selected by the Vallourec Group and identified by the ✔ the environment and sustainability specialists of our symbol on pages 64 to 65 of the sustainable Development organisation assisted us in the completion of our work. Report for fiscal year 2010. Comments we would like to make the following comments regarding the procedures related to the reporting Protocols for environmental, social and safety data: – the Protocols have been completed since last year. they now clarify the rules applicable to social data collection. This is a free translation into English of the original report however, the calculation methodology and definition of issued in the French language and is provided solely for the the indicator total number of training attendees should convenience of English-speaking readers. be detailed in order to ensure that all sites are reporting data in the same manner. the conclusions expressed below relate solely to this data – the internal control environment has been improved at and not to all the indicators presented. group data consolidation level. however, it should be the data was prepared under the responsibility of the further strengthen with a better enforcement of control Sustainable development department for the environmental procedures at site level. and safety data, and the human resources department for the social data in accordance with the health Safety Conclusion Environment, Social and co2 inventory reporting procedures Based on our review, we did not identify any material (“the Protocols”) which are available for consultation at misstatements which could call into question the fact that vallourec’s head office. the reporting methodology provided the environmental, social and safety performance indicators on pages 62 and 63 of the 2010 Sustainable development mentioned in pages 64 to 65 of the 2010 Sustainable report specifies the data collection or calculation development report, identified by the ✔ symbol, have methodologies used to calculate the published performance not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance indicators. It is our responsibility, based on the work with the abovementioned Protocols. performed, to express a conclusion on the selected data. The Statutory Auditors nature and scope of the review Paris la défense, 20 April 2011 neuilly-sur-Seine, 20 April 2011 we conducted our review in accordance with the ISaE KPMg audit deloitte & associés 3000 standards, in compliance with applicable professional division of KPMg S.a. guidelines in France. Jean-Paul Vellutini Jean-Paul Picard we planned and performed the assurance engagement Partner Partner described below to provide limited assurance that the Philippe grandclerc Jean-marc lumet selected data are free of material misstatement. a higher level Partner Partner of assurance would have required a more extensive review. For the selected data, we have: 1) Environmental performance indicators: Municipal water consumption, surface/ – assessed the Protocols with respect to their relevance, groundwater consumption, water discharge, hazardous waste quantities, nonreliability, neutrality, understandability and completeness. hazardous waste quantities, natural gas consumption, electricity consumption, – interviewed the people in charge of the enforcement of co2 emissions (scopes 1 and 2), suspended solids, chemical oxygen demand, total hydrocarbons, total metals in water. the Protocols at the holding company and at the seven Social performance indicators: workforce as at 12/31/2010, total number of selected sites (2). training attendees, total number of training hours. Safety indicators: frequency rate, severity rate of occupational accidents. – carried out detailed work at the seven selected sites 2) vMog aulnoye, valti Montbard and v & M Saint-Saulve steelworks (only covering 16 to 56% of the group’s consolidated data. the for water withdrawal, suspended solids, chemical oxygen demand, total choice of this sample was carried out according to their hydrocarbons, total metals, total recordable incidence rate, severity rate, vallourec workforce as at 12/31/2010) in France, v & M deutschland rath in contribution to the consolidated data, to their activities, germany, v & M Star youngstown and v & M tube alloy houma in the united to their locations and to the results of our work in previous States, and vaM Mexico in Mexico. aPPenDiCes 67 ProcESS ovErvIEw Input Processes Products Environmental aspects Environmental monitoring Units concerned charcoal Steel plant BOF Steel Emissions: greenhouse gases, dust emission monitoring filters v & M do Brasil (Br) Iron ore Blast furnaces billets dust, noise waste elimination, recycling v & M Florestal (Br) ld converter Consumption: water, energy and recovery v & M Mineração (Br) ladle furnace Waste: sludge, slag, scrap Energy efficiency technologies continuous casting noise control systems Scrap Steel plant EAF Steel Emissions: dioxins, wastewater treatment plants v & M Star youngstown (uS) Electric arc furnace billets greenhouse gases, dust, noise waste elimination, recycling v & M France Saint-Saulve ladle furnace Consumption: water, energy and recovery (Fr) continuous casting Waste: sludge, slag, scrap Energy efficiency technologies noise control systems Steel billets heating furnaces hot-rolled Emissions: greenhouse gases, wastewater treatment plants v & M Star (uS) hot rolling mills tubes noise waste elimination, recycling v & M tubes (Fr, gEr) Consumption: water, energy and recovery valti (Fr) Waste: wastewater (metals Energy efficiency technologies v & M do Brasil (Br) and oils), scale noise control systems hot-rolled Quench & Seamless Emissions: acidic vapours, wastewater treatment plants v & M Star (uS) tubes tempering tubes volatile organic compounds waste elimination, recycling v & M tubes (Fr, Surface treatment (voc) and recovery cn, gEr) cold-pilgering Consumption: water, energy Energy efficiency technologies valti (Fr) Finishing & Waste: phosphate sludge, noise control systems v & M do Brasil assembling wastewater acidic vapour and voc v & M oil & gas (Fr, uK, cn) dispatching treatment vaM drilling (Fr, uS, uK, asia) v & M tube alloy vaM (uS, cn, Fr) valtimet (uS, Fr) Interfit (Fr) Design and editing : Vallourec (External Communications and Investor Relations, QSE Direction), DDB Financial, Tagaro DDB. Graphic Design : Marie-Louise. Photo credits : Agence Farris, Corbis, Tiago Fernandes, Getty Images, Chris Moyse, Tristan Paviot, Photothèque Vallourec, Philippe Stroppa, Thierry Truck, Philippe Zamora, Duan Zhihong. Computer graphics : Fabrice Mathé. Printed by : Gutenberg Inside Networks, on Arctic Volume White paper, produced from sustainably managed forests. Registered Office: 27, avenue du Général Leclerc 92100 Boulogne-Billancourt (France) 552 142 200 RCS Nanterre Tel. : +33 (0)1 49 09 39 76 Fax : +33 (0)1 49 09 36 94 Internet : www.vallourec.com French limited liability company (société anonyme) with Management and Supervisory Boards and issued capital of €235,888,164
