CSR Report 2010 www.nordea.com/csr Table of contents Meet Nordea 4 A word from our CEO 6 About this report /Abbreviations 8 Governance and strategy 9 Opportunities, risks and strategic goals 12 Engaging with our stakeholders 14 Running our business 16 Returns with responsibility 20 Anti-corruption 24 Responsible credits 26 Satisfied customers are core 29 It’ s all about people 32 Engaging with society 38 GRI index 40 Auditor’ s review report 42 Nordea CSR Report 2010 3 Meet Nordea Nordea is the largest financial services group in the Nordic and Baltic Sea region. Nordea’s vision is to become a Great European bank, acknowledged for its people, creating superior value for customers and shareholders. 2010 marked Nordea’s tenth anniversary. The ten years of Nordea has an integrated operating model consisting of service has led to a leading position in nine markets. Today customer areas, product areas, service areas and group Nordea has some 11 million customers, 1,400 branch functions. Customer areas are Nordic Banking, Corpooffices and a leading netbanking position with 6.2 million rate Merchant Banking, Financial Institutions, Shipping, e-customers. Building relationships with our customers is Private Banking and New European Markets. Product fundamental. That is how we are able to provide each areas are Capital Markets Products, Savings Products, customer with what is right for him or her. Nordea offers a Life and Pensions, Account Products, Transaction wide range of products, services and solutions within Products and Nordea Finance. Service areas and group banking, asset management and insurance. functions are Group Operations, Group Corporate Nordea’s formal name is Nordea Bank AB (publ) and it Centre, Group Risk Management, Group Human is legally registered in Sweden with Stockholm as the head Resources and Group Identity and Communications. office. The Nordea share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Please see pages 19 and 179 of the Annual Report for Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen. more detailed information. Nordea has a joint venture With high market capitalisation and high liquidity, with IBM for IT operations. Nordea does not receive any the share is included in key indices. The three largest government subsidies. shareholders are Sampo Group with 20.6 % of the shares, the Swedish state with 19.9 % and Nordea Fonden with Awards during 2010 3.9 % September 2010. During 2010 Sampo Group Nordea received several awards during 2010 for its increased its holding, replacing the Swedish state as the products and services. You will find them all on largest shareholder. Nordea has approx 465,000 www.nordea.com. Among the most important awards was shareholders who hold 4,027,129,675 shares. Nordea being awarded Bank of the Year 2010 in Denmark, can trace its roots as far back as to 1820. To date 250 Norway and Sweden by the magazine The Banker, part of banks have been incorporated. the Financial Times Group. 4 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Meet Nordea 11 million customers 33,000 employees 1,400 branches EUR 33bn market cap Norway 897,500 Russia customers 58,500 Finland customers 3,391,000 Sweden customers 4,023,000 customers Estonia Denmark 122,200 customers 1,758,000 customers Latvia Lithuania 102,450 customers 136,000 customers Poland International Markets 656,000 customers Beijing, Frankfurt, London, Luxembourg, New York, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore Economic value generated Million euros: Direct economic value generated: Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets 8,455 economic value distributed: Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties, and facilitation payments 1,862 Total monetary outflows for employees (current payments, not future commitments) 2,784 All financial payments made to the providers of the organisation´s capital 1,006 Gross taxes 1,022 Donations, voluntary contributions 2 Meet Nordea Nordea CSR Report 2010 5 A word from our CEO Being a great company means being great when it comes to CSR as well. We have set ambitious targets for the company in all other respects and CSR should also be included in our strive towards a Great Nordea. We are, if possible, even more convinced than last year approach but we believe it is the best way to realise our that responsible business goes hand in hand with sustaingoal of embedding CSR into business, making it part of able business results. Consequently, we continue to work the content and not the wrapping. towards making Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Although the majority of our employees rated the an integrated part of our business, values and identity. It various issues we work with as important, only 45 % say needs to be a natural part of leadership and management that they are aware of our CSR work. They know and value in Nordea. Only then can CSR be fully embedded in our the separate aspects and actions but they do not recognise business, incorporated into our core procedures, or understand the overall concept. This is a challenge to products and services. all leaders to overcome. According to the stakeholder dialogues we conducted We are a part of society and the trust of society is one this year, the majority of our employees share this of our most important assets. More people than ever are sentiment. Approximately 75 % of our employees agree aware of the challenges of economic growth and environthat all CSR issues we included in the survey were mental impact, the various demands such as energy of important and should be part of our business. It is up to emerging economies, the demographic shifts and ageing Nordea’s leaders to find the optimal ways within their population to name a few. The challenges our societies respective areas to make this happen. It is a delegated face and the concerns our customers have need to be 6 Nordea CSR Report 2010 A word from our CEO reflected in the way we run our business and our product in-depth ESG analysis and engagement activities as well and service offering. Are the concerns reflected in a as development of a new, modern range of products where balanced and accurate way in our credit process, in our ESG aspects are fully integrated into the investment process. funds? We can never achieve our goal of creating great We also prioritise proactive engagement dialogues with our customer experiences if we do not take these aspects into largest holdings. consideration. It is what our customers expect of us and The stakeholder dialogues made it clear that our they have every right to. It is challenging, but we need to stakeholders expect us to run our own operations in an have high aspirations. environmentally friendly way. Last year we set targets to During 2010 we have continued to improve the way we reduce our CO2 emissions by the year 2016 by 18,000 run our business. We have reduced our own emissions tonnes. We have eight eco teams working on these issues. according to plan and we have intensified our work within A big change this year was the increased use of virtual responsible investments. This work will continue in 2011 meetings. As a cross-border company we are culprits accompanied by reviewing and improving our credit when it comes to travelling. Everyone in Nordea can hold processes and increasing awareness of CSR issues among a communicator meeting via the computer. Head offices our employees. have video facilities for larger meetings. Our Group To learn more about what our stakeholders think we Executive Management holds at least one virtual meeting should prioritise, we conducted stakeholder dialogues a month. We’re getting used to it, and I for one appreciate during 2010. Private customers, corporate customers, the savings in energy, time and money. employees, shareholders, analysts, suppliers, NGO’s We are on our way to incorporate CSR into our and governmental authorities were asked what they felt business, procedures and routines. When visiting Nordea should focus on in terms of CSR. branches and talking to Nordea colleagues I’ve noticed We expected diverging preferences but customers, that some of our people work very much according to shareholders, analysts, suppliers and governmental CSR principles and our values. Not surprisingly these authorities all stated that responsible lending is most branches are the ones making the best results and important followed by clear and transparent information delivering excellent customer experiences. But much regarding products and services. As already mentioned, work remains to be done – we are determined to strive employees were of the opinion that all aspects of CSR for continuous improvements and better leadership in were important. The preferences of the NGOs varied but all aspects. On the following pages you can follow our responsible investments and lending were most imporjourney. Hope you find it as interesting as I do. tant. We will utilise the results throughout the organisation and let them guide us when developing our products, services and processes. Considering that several stakeholders deem responsible Sincerely, credits important we’re glad that corporate credits have embedded CSR. This is an obvious area where a bank really can make a difference and take its corporate responsibility. As the largest bank in the Nordics we have some of the leading Nordic companies as our customers, and they have many large projects both on their home turf Christian Clausen and on the other side of the globe. To us it is clear that an President and Group CEO. environmental risk or a social or political risk is also a credit risk. Therefore we have a consistent and group wide credit policy framework and processes to analyse and check for environmental, social and political risks. All these are presented in this report. One of the most important products a bank provides is the opportunity to invest. In 2007 when we signed the United Nation’s Principles for Responsible Investments (UNPRI) we committed our selves to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into the investment analysis, decision-making processes and ownership policies and practices. In February 2010 we took a step further by adopting a new strategy on Responsible Investments. The strategy is based on an increased focus on A word from our CEO Nordea CSR Report 2010 7 About this report Nordea based the materiality of this report from our reporting systems as well as are occupied by Nordea. In some cases on the dialogues held with stakeholders as manually. We are reporting on a B+ level. The environmental data also includes consultants well as on our own knowledge of where GRI indicator index is shown on page 40-41. working for Nordea. Nordea can make a difference within CSR.1 The content of the report is guided by our The environmental data is calculated Our stakeholders agreed that responsible materiality analysis and the dialogues that we in accordance with the GHG Protocol’s credit and transparent information regarding have conducted with customers, employees, guidelines for emissions calculation, a products and services have top priority. Thus shareholders, analysts, suppliers, NGOs and corporate accounting and reporting standard these chapters are extensive. governmental authorities. by the World Resources Institute and the We will however start by giving an This report covers CSR initiatives and World Business Council for Sustainable overview of Nordea and how we work with activities in 2010 concerning the Nordea Development. CSR. Next we present all areas deemed Group in the Nordic region (Denmark, The most significant difference compared important by our stakeholders, by the CSR Finland, Norway, Sweden), Estonia, Latvia, to our 2009 report is the extended community based on practice and by our own Lithuania, Poland, Russia and in our geographical scope. For 2010 Estonia, organisation. We know the report is read by a international locations. Nordea’s CSR Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia are wide audience and therefore we have reporting cycle is annual. included in the HR and environmental attempted to make it as clear and easy to read Some positions and initiatives described indicators. as possible. More in-depth information can in the report may only apply to selected units This CSR report has been reviewed by be found on the web and by contacting or parts of the organisation, and where external auditors, and the review report Nordea. relevant, the units concerned are identified. performed by Nordea auditors, KPMG, is This is the third edition of the Nordea Our employment related indicators cover shown on page 42. Divergences from the CSR Report covering the calendar year of Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Latvia, GRI Indicator Protocols are commented 2010. Our latest CSR Report was published Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia and upon in relation to the relevant indicator. in February, 2010. During the period Sweden, unless otherwise stated. Nordea is a signatory to the UN Global 2002-2007 Nordea produced an annual Our environmental indicators cover Compact (UNGC), and this report serves as environmental report, the Nordea operations in Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Nordea’s annual Communication on Environmental Footprint (NEF). This report Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Russia Progress (COP) report to the UNGC for the is produced according to the Global and Sweden, unless otherwise stated. Our operating year 2010. Nordea has adopted Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability international network is excluded from the the Equator Principles (EP). This report Reporting Guidelines and the Financial environmental indicators as it is not material fulfils the annual reporting requirements of Services Sector Supplement (FSSS) Final in this respect. When indicators are related the EP and serves as Nordea’s EP status Version (2008). Information is gathered to our premises we cover only the ones that report for the operating year 2010. 1 In accordance with The GRI reporting principles for defining content (materiality, stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness). Abbreviations CC Consultative Committees IFC The World Bank Group’s International Finance Corporation CEO Chief Executive Officer KPI Key Performance Indicator CER Certified Emission Reduction LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design CO Customer Ombudsman NEF Nordea Environmental Footprint CO2 Carbon Dioxide NEM New European Markets: Estonia, Latvia, CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Lithuania, Poland and Russia EEI European Employee Index NGO Non Governmental Organsiation EPF Export and Project Finance unit OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development EP Equator Principles QRA Quality and Risk Analysis ERAT Environmental Risk Assessment Tool RBE Rådet for Bæredygtig Erhvervsudvikling/Council for ESD EU directive on energy and end-use efficiency Sustainable Business Development and energy services RECS The European Standard Renewable ESG Environmental, Social and Governance Electricity Certificate System EUA EU Emission Allowances RI Responsible Investment FI Financial Institution SPRAT Social and Political Risk Assessment Tool FSSS Financial Services Sector Supplement SVC Sustainable Value Creation FTE Full time employee UNEP FI Environmental Programme Finance Initiative GHG Greenhouse Gases UNGC United Nations Global Compact HR Human Resources UNPRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments 8 Nordea CSR Report 2010 About this report /Abbreviations Governance and strategy Nordea’s governance is both strict and open aiming to provide clear rules and procedures while providing the opportunity for everyone to be heard. CSR – an integrated part of our business CSR Secretariat has participated in GEM meetings four Our strategy for CSR is to implement our work throughtimes during 2010. The CSR Report is distributed to the out the organisation and in all products and services, thus Board of Directors and discussed in the board meeting making it a part of everyday business. The CSR Secrefollowing its publication. The responsible GEM member is tariat is a two-person unit that coordinates and stimupresent to discuss and to give an update on strategy and lates the CSR initiatives of business and raises internal approach for the year ahead. awareness of CSR issues. The Head of the CSR SecreTo ensure that a wide span of perspectives is taken into tariat reports to the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) who is a consideration, the CSR Secretariat has during the year member of the Group Executive Management (GEM). carried out stakeholder dialogues. The results from these He serves as CSR’s voice in GEM. Instrumental to the combined with a materiality analysis form the basis for the success of CSR in Nordea is the CSR Stakeholder Board focus areas and the overarching goals. with representatives from all business areas and group The different parts of the Nordea Group are responsifunctions. The CSR Secretariat anchors decisions and ble for converting these into concrete goals adapted for direction with the Stakeholder Board that is chaired by each division. This enables each of our employees to the responsible GEM member. The Stakeholder Board contribute to the overarching goals in their everyday work. also provides the differing viewpoints that are fundamenThe Annual General Meeting is the highest decisiontal to a group as large as Nordea. making body of Nordea. It is held in Stockholm where All major CSR initiatives as well as the direction of CSR Nordea is legally registered. At the Annual General in Nordea have to be approved by GEM. The Head of the Meetings each shareholder is entitled to vote for the full Governance and strategy Nordea CSR Report 2010 9 number of shares she or he owns or represents. Nordea 2011. This will give the shareholders in Denmark and is not entitled to vote for its own shares at the Annual Finland the possibility to meet representatives of the General Meetings. In addition, local shareholder Board and Group Executive Management in person and information meetings are held in Copenhagen and enable a closer dialogue. Helsinki prior to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) Governance structure Auditors Shareholders in Annual General Meeting Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit Credit Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Group Internal Group Audit Compliance President and CEO Elected/appointed by Group Risk Management Reporting to/informing CSR Secretariat The AGM also provides all shareholders with an opportua full process of informing and consulting employees nity to express their opinions in regards to our CSR work. about the working relationships. We do not have a specific During the AGM 2010 the Folksam representative CSR committee. The governance and evaluation of the brought two questions forward. The first concerned CSR work is performed by the Board of Directors as a Nordea’s supply chain management, specifically the whole. The Board of Directors assesses our sustainability implementation of the Code of Conduct and Nordea’s performance whenever needed, however at a minimum CSR demands on suppliers. The second concerned the once a year. Part of this evaluation is to ensure sufficient possible financing of the criticised development project knowledge of CSR issues of the Board as a whole as well of a pulp and paper plant in Tasmania, Australia. The as for individual Board members. organisation called Foreningen Kritiske Aktionaerer The Board Remuneration Committee is among other called for a vote on that Nordea only invest in pulp and things responsible for preparing and presenting proposals paper industries that are FSC certified and not invest to the Board of Directors on remuneration issues. This in companies that transform indigenous forests into includes proposals regarding the Nordea Remuneration plantations nor buy wood from the same. The AGM Policy and supplementing instructions, guidelines for 2010 decided against the resolution. remuneration to the executive officers to be decided by The Nomination Committee is comprised of the the AGM, as well as the remuneration for the CEO and Chairman of the Board and the four largest shareholders other employees in leading positions. A wide range of in terms of voting rights as of 31 August 2010 who criteria, both financial as well as non-financial, constiwished to participate in the Committee. The Committee tutes the base of the remuneration. The AGM annually submits to the AGM 2011 a proporsal for Board members, decides on remuneration to the Board of Directors. Chairman of the Board and auditor as well as a proporal The Board Credit Committee continuously reviews and for remuneration to the Board members and auditors. monitors adherence to the established Credit Policy and In the process of drawing up propositions of Board Strategy as well as Credit Instructions for the Nordea Group, members, knowledge of CSR issues is one of the parameters and evaluates the overall quality of the credit portfolio. taken into consideration by the Nomination Committee. The Board Audit Committee assists the Board in The Board of Directors is the highest governing fulfilling its supervisory responsibilities and is among body responsible for our CSR performance. The Board others things responsible for guidance on and evaluation currently consists of ten members elected by the shareof Group Internal Audit within the Nordea Group. All holders at the AGM. Three additional members and one activities, including outsourced activities and entities of deputy member are appointed by the employees to ensure the Group, fall within the scope of Group Internal Audit. Please see the Annual Report, pages 77-80 for more detailed information 1 about remuneration. 10 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Governance and strategy The annual audit plans are based on a comprehensive Directors, including rules regarding conflicts of interest. risk assessment. According to the Charter, a member of the Board of Group Risk Management continuously reviews and Directors may not take part in matters regarding: monitors adherence to the established Credit Policy and • a greements, including litigation or other legal Strategy as well as Credit Instructions for the Nordea Group, proceedings, between the member and the Bank and evaluates the overall quality of the credit portfolio. or any other entity within the Group; Group Compliance continuously reviews and • a greements between the Bank and third parties, monitors the Group’s adherence to laws and regulations. where the member has a material interest in the The auditors are elected by the shareholders at the matter which may conflict with the interests of the AGM. The auditors provide assurance on both the Annual Bank or any other entity within the Group; or Report and the CSR Report. • a greements between the Bank and a legal entity which Group Executive Management, currently consisting the member may represent, either individually or of seven members, is the highest operational body together with any other person; this provision shall responsible for the Group’s CSR work. Ari Kaperi, Chief not apply where the party contracting with the Bank Risk Officer (CRO), has CSR as his area of responsibility, is a company within the Group. hence ensuring continuous communication between the Group Executive Management and the CSR Secretariat. Policies The CSR Secretariat is responsible for coordinating The ten principles in the UN Global Compact constitute the CSR work within the Group, proposing overall the basis of Nordea’s Code of Conduct, which is the core policies, strategies and goals as well as presenting results CSR policy. The Code of Conduct applies to all personnel to the Group Executive Management. and everyone working on behalf of or representing Nordea. The UN Global Compact together with the UN Avoiding conflicts of interest Declaration of Human Rights forms the basis for our Several rules and processes to avoid conflicts of interest Corporate Citizenship Principles, which spell out the are in place. Nordea complies with the applicable rules Group’s values and commitments to ethical business. The regarding the independence of the Board. All Board Code of Conduct and Corporate Citizenship Principles members elected by the shareholders are considered apply to all personnel and everyone working on behalf of independent of the company and its executive manageor representing Nordea. The main policies are supported ment, except for Lars G Nordström who was employed by a number of specific and concrete policies to ensure as President and CEO of the Group until 13 April 2007. our compliance with our principles in everyday business. All Board members elected by the shareholders, apart Examples are the environmental policy, the human from Björn Wahlroos and Kari Stadigh, are independent resources policies, the anti-corruption policies and in relation to the Company’s major shareholders. several investment and credit policies. In addition we Björn Wahlroos is board chairman of Sampo plc and have specific industry policies setting requirements and Kari Stadigh is managing director and CEO of Sampo plc, limits, including risks, on the overall industry exposure. which owns more than ten per cent of all shares and votes These policies are monitored by industry monitoring in Nordea Bank AB (publ). Thus, the number of Board groups. We have specific industry policies for pulp and members who are independent both in relation to the paper industry, energy (with sub groups of power, oil and Company and its executive management and in relation gas, oil services and renewable energy), telecommunicato the Company’s major shareholders well exceeds the tions, aircraft, shipping, real estate, fish farming, hedge minimum requirement. No Board member elected by the funds and private equity. The Code of Conduct with Annual General Meeting is employed by or works in an relevant policies is available on the company intranet operative capacity in the Company. The Board members and in some parts on the external web. In cases where and the one deputy Board member elected by the suppliers without access to the Nordea intranet, need to employees are not considered independent since they be made aware of codes and policies these are included in are all employees of the Group. the legal documentation. The suppliers in their turn are In 2009 The Board of Directors also adopted the obliged to inform their employees of the adjoined terms. Charter, an internal document, which consists of rules More detailed information about Nordea’s governance and procedures applicable for the Nordea Board of is available in the Annual Report. Governance and strategy Nordea CSR Report 2010 11 Opportunities, risks and strategic goals Incorporating CSR into our business is a never-ending process. Knowing what our stakeholders expect of us is core. Key impacts, risks, and opportunities approached and if a venture is complex it takes time to Reaching our overall CSR goal of embedding CSR into decide whether to participate or not. our business is our main CSR challenge. We have begun Another traditional banking activity with high impact is our journey but we are not there, not yet. To succeed, investments. Nordea’s Responsible Investment team CSR needs to be part of the business strategies and a influences companies thought to be in violation of measurable key performance indicator. international treaties through dialogue and field visits. We are well on our way in areas where CSR is tangible, This is often another clear win-win, where the company such as how we run our own operations and in the credit in question, society, the environment and the investors all process. The latter is an area where a bank has potential benefit. The challenge here is to spend the time and to greatly impact stakeholders and the world at large in resources needed to discuss and visit more companies. terms of the environment as well as social and political Retail banking is improving the physical setup of our issues. Nordea has the opportunity to identify risks and branches. Customer habits have changed and more and help clients avoid them, be it environmental, social, and more people come to the branch only when they want governmental or a plain business risk. Being skilled at advice, and prefer to do their daily banking on the go, identifying risks is a clear win-win, where we help the at home via the netbank or call centres. It is a challenge to environment, society, and our clients, as well as ourselves. make all customers happy, but one that our front line staff Credits are also a topic that from time to time attract are very good at handling. Great customer experiences attention from media and the general public. It happens are a basic value and we focus on this in training and in that part of the population in a region is opposed to a procedures and will continue to do so. project or industry. It is a challenge to handle such issues in a transparent way. Banks are bound by bank secrecy Key event laws, although they do differ between countries. As the A key event during 2010 was the stakeholder dialogue. largest bank in the Nordic countries, Nordea is frequently We wanted to know what our main stakeholders, ie 12 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Opportunities, risks and strategic goals analysts, shareholders, suppliers, authorities, customers, example by climate change. Conversely, being prepared employees and non governmental organisations (NGOs) creates opportunities. Having an understanding of expect of us in terms of CSR and what they feel we should possible scenarios and strategies for our customers to focus on, so as to better prioritise. During the summer follow is a win-win for all concerned: our customers, and autumm we sent e-mail surveys to all except for the the environment, society and Nordea. NGOs with whom we held a live meeting. It is clear that When our customer responsible units, trade and responsible credits and clear and transparent informaproject finance supported by credit departement, tion about products and services are top priority. We also evaluate risks properly they can avoid the risks and create learned that we need to focus more on communicating opportunities. Same goes for our responsible investwhat we do both internally and externally, and that ments. In the areas mentioned it is difficult to name one roughly 35 % of our customers say that they take CSR risk in particular. Risks abound and it takes competence into consideration when choosing a bank. and experience to identify them. An opportunity is to recognise new innovations and Strategic goals technology and to help arrange financing to get those Based on the stakeholder dialogue and our own enterprises off the ground. Our corporate banking is business evaluation, several of our goals will focus working hard on this. Another opportunity is to provide on the credit process. services and products that suit an ageing population. Banks in Europe are currently occupied with • We will continue to improve our tools for addressing the Basel III accord that greatly impacts the evaluating environmental, social and political capital and liquidity requirements set to banks. Nordea risks. We will evaluate if updates are needed was prepared and although it is time-consuming and and if training and follow-up are sufficient. costly in terms of money and hours spent we can handle • We will review the process of applying the it. It gives us an advantage compared to our competitors. Equator Principles in the credit process within project finance. Basic risk management • We will review and update our sector specific Nordea follows the principles of “three lines of defence”, credit policies. namely the business units in the first line, the Group level control functions in the second line and the Internal We will review our web pages both externally and Audit in the third line. This structure forms the basis for internally to ensure that information is easy to find, clear the organisational controls and reporting lines. and updated. We will conduct stakeholder dialogues and The first line of defence annually checks adherence to improve them by making more roundtable sessions, in the internal control principles by answering questions addition to the surveys, to enhance understanding. put to them by the Group function for Operational Risk Long-term goals for Responsible Investments include Management in a so called Internal Control Check List. in-house ESG analysis for all Nordic stocks and to The questions in this checklist cover requirements in launch 1-3 new RI products. Group instructions and the answers form the basis for We set environmental goals during 2009 to be the Group’s Internal control reporting to the Board of reached by 2016. They are broken down into various Directors. In the second line of defence there are areas and you can read about them on pages 18-19 different kinds of risk management controls that are where we describe how we run our own business. During performed by specialists, such as the independent Risk 2010 Nordea continued to reduce our CO2 emissions and Compliance Officer. The risk controlling functions and we are on track with goals set. To ensure that we report their findings to the management and the Risk and continue on track a full time project manager will be Compliance Officers report in addition to this indepenadded in 2011. Within sourcing the overall goal is that all dently to the Group function and through that function to sourcing partners comply with Nordea’s CSR principles both the CEO and the Board of Directors. in a legally binding manner by 2016. In the second line of defence the Group risk management functions are organised under the Chief Challenges ahead Risk Officer and report both to the CEO and the Board The world at large and the sustainability trends, risks and of Directors. The third line of defence is the Group opportunities also clearly impact the long term prospects Internal Audit, which performs controls and audits on and the financial performance of the organisation. the Group’s operations and reports on these to the CEO The largest risks are not being prepared for changes and Board of Directors. in the world at large, be it new legislation, shifting economic scenarios or environmental crises, caused for Opportunities, risks and strategic goals Nordea CSR Report 2010 13 Engaging with our stakeholders We have made an effort to enhance the dialogues with our stakeholders during the year. The reason for this was threefold: to gain better understanding and learn from the respective groups, to take into consideration the stakeholder’s perspectives on our CSR work, and finally to enhance participation and communication with the different stakeholder groups. Stakeholder mapping In the case of the shareholders, also a very large group The stakeholder group Governmental Authorities was (approx 475,000), target groups in Sweden, Demark, limited to financial and customer-related authorities in Norway and Finland were also randomly selected. Since Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. The dialogue Nordea performs annual customer and employee surveys with the analysts was limited to the analysts following the CSR questions were included in these. The NGO’s Nordea on a regular basis. Suppliers being over 22,000, invited to the dialogue were for practical reasons limited a target group was randomly selected to represent them. to umbrella organisations on a national level in the Nordic countries and Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Identified stakeholder groups Russia (New European Markets, NEM), hence reaching as many NGO’s as possible. Corporate Private Using the AA1000SES standard Employees Customers Customers The stakeholder dialogues were carried out with the help of an independent external third party and according to the AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard (SES), which is an internationally renowned standard for performing stakeholder dialogues. The AA1000 frameNGOs Analysts work is based on the overall principles of Inclusivity, Completeness and Responsiveness. The AA1000 series are aligned with initiatives such as Global Compact, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and ESG indicators. Execution of the dialogues GovernShareholders mental Suppliers The dialogues were carried out during the second half of Authorities 2010, in the form of a questionnaire sent either by post or by email. As Nordea already has an established yearly 14 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Engaging with our stakeholders survey to corporate customers, private customers and groups believed each focus area to be important or very employees, stakeholder dialogue questions was included important. The exceptions were Reduction of green in this. The exception was the dialogue with the NGO’s house gas emissions and Offering sustainable products which was done in the form of a meeting in Stockholm, ie ethical funds, which both had a significant number of where internationally situated NGO’s attended via respondents in several stakeholder groups indicating it teleconference. The attending NGO’s also answered the to be of little importance, not important or even same questionnaire. insignificant. Nordea’s empoyees deemed all issues to To eliminate any language difficulties and to ensure a high be relevant and important. response rate, the questionnaire was translated into the To ensure that no area would be neglected the respective local language. Groups of analysts and suppliers stakeholders were also asked to choose three areas out were excepted, since they were deemed to have English as of fourteen that they felt Nordea should focus on, hence their working language and since their respective local given the possibility to choose other focus areas than the languages was not always known to Nordea. ones chosen by Nordea. On average all stakeholder groups rated Responsible lending and Transparent and Consistent results clear information to customers as two of the areas that In the questionnaire the stakeholders were asked to Nordea should focus on. The third choice however varied indicate their perceived importance of Nordea’s six with stakeholder group. focus areas identified in the Materiality analysis, on a Finally they were asked to choose three areas out of the five-graded scale reaching from Insignificant to Very fourteen where they believed Nordea to have the biggest important. The identified focus areas were; potential to improve. Again on average Responsible Lending and Transparent and clear information to • Responsible lending Take into account social and customers were included in top three in all stakeholder environmental impact of significant projects in loan groups. The third choice once again varied between groups. assessment The NGO meeting came to focus on Responsible • Transparency and clear information in financial Lending. Nordea presented their CSR strategy and the services and products offered to customers NGO’s shared their expertise within their respective • Offering sustainable products, ie ethical funds areas with regards to screening potential lending projects. • Anti-money laundering practices • Equal opportunities in regards to diversity (gender, Taking it one step further ethnicities, disabilities, age, religion, sexuality) The knowledge retrieved from the stakeholder dialogues • Greenhouse gas emissions reduction will be communicated to concerned parties within the Nordea Group. The information will then be analysed and The results in the different stakeholder groups varied the need for taking measures evaluated. The result of this little in general. internal process will be communicated to the stakeholders When asked to rate the importance of Nordea’s through the yearly CSR report and the CSR web. identified focus areas, a vast majority in all stakeholder Over view stakeholder dialogues Number of Response rate/ Stakeholder Group Languages Form recipients Attendance Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Mail/e-mail/phone Private customers 349,435 24% Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish (netbank not incl) Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Corporate customers Phone/e-mail 91,872 25% Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish Danish, Estonian, Finnish, Latvian, Lithuanian, Employees E-mail 34,711 93% Norwegian, Polish, Russian, Swedish Suppliers English E-mail 44 30% Analysts English E-mail 34 27% Shareholders Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish Post 89 35% Governmental authorities Danish, Finnish, Norwegian, Swedish Post 12 42% NGOs English Meeting 23 30% Engaging with our stakeholders Nordea CSR Report 2010 15 Running our business We strive to run our operations in a responsible way. During 2010 our Property & Premises unit worked hard to improve the reporting system for our environmental indicators. Colleague’s daily habits are changing as awareness increases. Running our own business Nordea has Renewable Energy Certificates (RECS) The stakeholders made it clear in the dialogues that they for all electricity consumption in the Nordic countries. expect us to run our operations in an environmentally In autumn 2009 Nordea received LEED Green friendly way. 2009 we set targets to reduce our CO2 Building certifications for 14 office buildings in emissions by the year 2016. Our target is to reduce Copenhagen, Helsinki, Oslo and Stockholm. In 2010 energy consumption by 15 % (Mwh/FTE), internal we continued the certification process and our branch travelling by 30 % (trips/FTE), customer paper conin Panorama Tower Espoo received a LEED commercial sumption by 50 % (tons/customer) and internal paper certification. This was the first of this kind in Europe. consumption by 50 % (tons/FTE). We have teams We learned many valuable things from the certification working on these issues and the results for 2010 show process; how to ensure that our premises are best positive development. maintained and made energy-efficient and eco-friendly. 16 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Running our business Thomas Sevang, Chief Press Officer, Norway, participating in a virtual meeting. Less travel saves the environment, time and money Cross-border companies tend to have many frequent flyers. Nordea uses modern technology to reduce the number of business trips. Virtual meetings reduce the impact on the environment and saves time and money. Nordea needs to have many cross-border meetings but we don’t always need to meet in person. We are now purchasing advanced video conference systems and have increased the capacity of our internal network to facilitate video meetings across the organisation. It’s been possible for some time to hold live meetings on all computers with web cameras, says Dennis Jönsson who works with Nordea’s technical infrastructure. The aim is a 30 % reduction in the number of business trips by 2016, compared to the 2008 level. The technology for video meetings plays an important role. Even though Nordea has not yet felt the full impact of the new technology, Dennis Jönsson remains optimistic: We have greatly improved the technology and now need to promote it throughout the organisation to change behaviour and thus reduce travel, he says. Therefore, we aim to continue the process by considering During 2010 we have worked intensively to improve our certifying our branch office concept. We became members reporting system regarding environmental indicators. We of the Green Building Councils in all Nordic countries to be have a new reporting manual defining scope, limitations, able to both learn from other companies and to share our methods, processes, roles and responsibilities in place. experience on our ecological footprint program. The GBC We have also organised systematic quarterly reporting network is a good forum for this. Also this forum has a great on the key environmental performance indicators. potential to impact service providers to demand them to Additionally we have started to incorporate NEM in provide more green services. our environmental management and reporting. TEAM actions As a result of systematic work the electricity consumption has decreased from Energy 2008 to 2010 by 11.7 % in the office buildings Green IT Implemented company-wide energy saving settings on personal computers. Implementing new cost allocation components in order to help printing partners changing Customer paper their printing behaviour (Less color, less A-post, less C4.) Internal Paper Started a Print Optimisation Project Travelling & virtual collaboration tools Active communication about travel and implement of practices to decrease travelling Recycling and waste Started updating waste contracts with more focus on reporting requirements and ecological aspects All suppliers invited for projects (negotiation and re-negotiations) have to fill in supplier profile, Sourcing including an acceptance of Nordea’s CSR principles Behaviour and Communication Worked to increase awareness and change habits Running our business Nordea CSR Report 2010 17 Total CO² emissions CO² emissions from energy consumption 1000 tonnes 1 000 kg /employee 1 000 tonnes 1 000 000 MJ 80 4,01 60 1000 70 50 60 750 40 50 40 30 500 30 20 20 250 10 10 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 0 0,00 0 0 Nordic NEM kg /employee (Nordic) Electricity Heating and cooling NEM Total consumption (Nordic) Total CO2 emissions have decreased steadily from 2008 to 2010 due to the use of renewable energy certificates. Increase in travel and increased Carbon dioxide emissions from energy consumption have decreased emissions due to heating offset the reduction somewhat in 2010. since 2009 due to the use of renewable energy certificates. In the CSR Report 2010 the energy consumption is also reported in Megajoules. Explanation: CO2 emissions for 2008 are reported differently than in CSR report 2009. Explanation: Total carbon dioxide emissions from energy (heat and cooling) are extrapolated to cover all Nordea’s Nordic premises (same as in 2009 CSR report). CO² emissions from travel 1 000 tonnes Water consumption 30 1000 m³ 1 000 litres/employee 25 500 15 450 20 400 350 15 14 300 10 250 200 5 13 150 2008 2009 2010 100 0 50 2008 2009 2010 Short-haul air travel Long-haul air travel 0 12 Car travel Rail travel NEM Nordic NEM 1 000 litres/employee (Nordic) Although virtual meetings increased so did total travel due to increased business demand. Water consumption has increased in 2010 mostly due to extreme weather conditions, for example increased water need for cooling Explanation: Rail travel data in 2010 only includes Sweden and Norway and is during the summer. All water used is purchased. not comparable to the 2009 and 2008 data. Categorisations have changed. Short-haul now includes all flights except for intercontinental flights. During Explanation: Water consumption figures are extrapolated to cover all Nordea’s Nordic 2009 short-haul included domestic and intra-Nordic flight. Also starting from premises. Actual water consumption data from Russia is not available. Consumption Q4 2010 the emission conversion factors (Lipasto) have been updated. New has been extrapolated based on average consumption in other NEM countries. updated conversion factors are accessible via http://lipasto.vtt.fi/. Travel figures regarding NEM are extrapolated to cover all NEM full time employees. The cars include employees’ own cars, used in the job, rental cars, company cars and management cars serving high level executives. In the CSR Report 2010 the full-time employee figures used for the environmental indicators include external consultants working at Nordea’s premises. Environmental data on New European Markets (NEM) is included in this report for the first time. * 2016 targets cover only the Nordic countries. 18 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Running our business Waste management *Flight travel 1 000 tonnes kg employee Flights/F TE 5 250 7 6 4 200 5 3 150 4 2 100 3 2 1 50 1 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 0 0 0 Recycled Composted Incinerated Special treatment The travel and virtual collaboration team has focused on promoting Landfills NEM kg employee (Nordic) alternatives to business travel. Despite this increased business activity demanded more travel. Waste per employee was reduced and the trend seems to continue. Explanation: In the CSR Report 2010 we specify the number of flights flown per Explanation: Actual waste data from Russia is not available. Waste in NEM has employee/FTE. therefore been extrapolated based on average waste in all NEM countries. *Internal paper consumption *External paper consumption kg/FTE g/customer 40 400 35 350 30 300 25 250 20 200 15 150 10 100 5 50 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 0 0 The internal printing team has continued awareness campaigns to reduce External paper consumption is paper used for documentation and printing and to collect and communicate data on printing. Despite these information to customers. This is where we use the most paper by far in actions internal printing slowly increased in 2010. Nordea but we managed to decrease paper consumption by providing information on the web and by consolidating. Explanation: In the CSR Report 2010 we specify the internal paper consumption as well as the external paper consumption separately. 0 % recycled paper. Explanation: In the CSR Report 2010 we specify the internal paper consumption as well as the external paper consumption separately. 0 % recycled paper. *Energy consumption kWh/FTE 10000 9000 8000 7000 6000 5000 4000 3000 2000 1000 2008 2009 2010 0 Relative to the number of employees the energy consumption has increased slightly; mostly due to the extreme weather conditions 2009 and 2010. Running our business Nordea CSR Report 2010 19 Returns with responsibility Modern asset management is about managing financial, environmental, social and governance issues and risks. It is about providing long-term performance and solutions for our clients and the world we live in. There are many ways to express this, we believe that responsibility is the key and we call this Returns with Responsibility. Sasja Beslik, Head of Responsible Investment and Governance Responsible investment and Corporate team has long experience within the area and was in 2010 governance within Nordea Investment Funds awarded by Financial Hearings as Best team within the Our journey started in 2007. By signing the United ESG sector. The team’s continuous competence improveNations Principles for Responsible Investments ment is conducted through participation in seminars with (UNPRI), Nordea 1 committed to incorporate environminimum frequency every month and external courses mental, social and governance (ESG) issues into the e.g. SA8000. investment analysis, decision-making processes and ownership policies and practices. The foundation In February 2010 we took a step further by adopting a Since the Responsible Investment policy was launched in new strategy on responsible investment. The strategy is 2007, all our funds 2 and portfolios have been screened based on increased focus on in depth ESG analysis and semi-annually for companies verified as violators of engagement activities as well as development of a new, international norms regarding environmental protection, modern range of products where ESG aspects is fully human rights, labour standards and business ethics. Our integrated into the investment process. Another part of external provider Ethix SRI Advisors, one of the leading the new strategy is to increase the level of communication responsible investment advisors in the Nordic countries, regarding results achieved and key developments conducts the screening. The responsible investment within Nordea. policy covers all funds, except funds-of-funds investing In line with the new strategy a dedicated Responsible in external funds and funds within Nordea’s Guided Investment and Governance team has been formed. The Fund Universe. More over, Nordea does not invest in 1 Nordea’s fund companies and Nordea Investment Management 2 The policy does not apply to funds-of-funds investing in external funds and funds within Nordea’s Guided Fund Universe 20 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Returns with responsibility companies that are involved in the production of illegal breaches of international norms, it will re-enter into weapons. Exclusion of companies is used as a last resort the investment universe. when violations are severe and when companies are unwilling to change or improve their behaviour. Field visits We believe that understanding of business conditions in ESG analysis – to identify sustainable companies the companies we invest in is one of the most important During 2010, we developed our own ESG analysis elements in order to influence positive change. Field visits criteria and methodology. Our analysis is conducted with are one way of learning more. a positive approach. Throughout the analysis companies’ overall management practices regarding key ESG issues India are assessed together with their strategic approach to In the beginning of May ESG analysts Helena Hagberg these issues. The analysis seeks to find best company and Sasja Beslik took part in a field visit to India. The practice and companies that manage their risks, opportupurpose was to meet the planting seed manufacturer nities and/or develop sustainable products. Our in-house Monsanto and investigate the working conditions for analysis mainly focuses on Nordic companies, since the cotton farmers. Nordic region is our local market. For global companies As part of our analytical work we often meet companies we process and assess ESG analyses conducted by our that are either located in or use suppliers located in India. external service provider MSCI Inc. We make site visits to find out whether these companies During 2010, the focus of the ESG analysis has are aware of their operational risks and if they have tools been our largest holdings, mainly in the Nordic but also to handle these risks. Monsanto is one of the world’s globally. In line with our objectives for 2010 we have largest manufacturers of planting seeds. Through its finalised ESG analysis of our 50 largest holdings, whereof operations in the agricultural sector, the company has for 40 Nordic and 10 global. We have also met about 40 several years been accused of contributing to an increased of our largest Nordic holdings and discussed how they number of suicides among cotton farmers. manage relevant ESG risks and capitalise on ESGWe met Monsanto’s representatives as well as opportunities. The information from these meetings representatives of different trade unions and other will be provided to portfolio managers and used in the interested parties. The input we got was that the frequency investment decision-making processes. of suicides has declined in recent years. The fundamental problem in rural India does not involve Monsanto; it is Our engagements and dialogues rather the absence of a functional financial system. There Nordea prioritises engagement with companies identified are no banks and no reliable ways of borrowing money. as being involved in confirmed breaches of international Concerning Monsanto we draw the conclusion that the environmental, human rights, labour rights and business company lacks an overall strategy for handling a number ethics related norms. Nordea is currently engaged in of social and environmental aspects of their operations 16 norm-breaching companies worldwide. During 2010, in India. However, it is difficult to detect signs of the we successfully ended our engagement in the Mosaic company consciously contributing to worsening the Company. Our dialogue with the company concerned farmers’ prospects for a better life. its sourcing of natural resources from the occupied area Western Sahara. The company acknowledged the human Sweden rights issue, with its involvement in this controversial In October ESG analyst Helena Hagberg visited SSAB and activity and decided to discontinue it. its steel plant in Oxelösund. The overall theme of the visit We also prioritise proactive engagement dialogues was sustainability and corporate responsibility. During the with our largest holdings. It is our practice to engage in visit presentations by SSAB representatives were followed face-to-face dialogue with companies. This is carried out by a tour around the plant. Issues such as health and safety, by in-house expertise, our external engagement service diversity, supply chain management and recycling of provider Hermes Equity Ownership Services or through production waste were discussed. cooperation with other stakeholders. During 2010 we The steel industry is a high-risk sector with major participated in Carbon Disclosure Project, Water environmental impact and high safety risks. Safety in Disclosure Project, Sustainable Value Creation and in general, and in relation to contractors, has been local sustainable investment forums, so called SIFs. discussed with several of the Nordic companies that we Nordea’s committee for responsible investment analysed during the year. Best practice identified is to reviews selected engagements. The committee decides measure and include contractors’ safety performance in on the level of engagement and if a company should be the copmanie’s own targets. Companies need to evaluate excluded from the investment universe due to lack of their contractors not only in operation but also before progress. When a company is no longer involved in entering into a new contract. Returns with responsibility Nordea CSR Report 2010 21 to corruption and bribery, human rights, environmental aspects etc. International as well as Russian companies are limited in their disclosure on how they manage and address these risks. During our visit we met with NGOs, companies and investors. The challenge of doing business in Russia from an ESG perspective was not understated by any of the companies or organisations we met. A strong risk management system is fundamental. Corporate Governance Corporate governance deals with the relationship between shareholders and the companies’ boards and executive management. It shall be exercised on the basis of the shareholders’ common interest in good investment returns. To reach our goals we, among other things, participate in general meetings and nomination committees. We have voted at general meetings regularly since the 1980s and participated in nomination committees in a large number of listed companies since the 1990s. Our work in this area is based on principles stated in our guidelines on corporate governance. Dialogues and initiatives South Africa During 2010 we participated in 26 nomination commitIn August ESG analyst Sasja Beslik went to South Africa tees. We voted at 150 general meetings and had meetings to meet representatives of the world’s biggest mining with several companies concerning planned incentive company, Anglo Platinum. The company has been programs prior to the meetings. Many programs are criticised of forcing hundreds of thousands of people to still complex in design and, where several programs were leave their homes in order to extract precious metals. concerned, we gave support only after changes were made Meanwhile the company is prospecting for new mines in response to viewpoints presented. In one specific in an area that is very densely populated. During the last company we voted no to the incentive program since five years Anglo Platinum has moved close to 200,000 the proposal lacked performance requirements for people in order to gain access to platinum, a precious allocations to the management. metal for which there is growing demand worldwide. In advance of some shareholder meetings we also As a part of our visit in South Africa we have recominitiated dialogues with a number of companies on mended Anglo Platinum to conduct an independent proposals regarding share buy-backs. The reasons review with representatives from local and international are that board proposals often have been unclear. For academia, experts and business leaders. We have also example, it has not been clarified that the company will recommended Anglo Platinum to reevaluate previous repurchase the lowest priced shares on the stock market compensation and to reestablish direct contact with or why share buy-back is a preferred method for people living in the villages on issues related to returning capital. Share buy-backs could lead to resettlement and consultation. unwanted risks for the minority owners, especially if the company has two listed share classes with differentiated Russia voting rights. Due to these risks from our point of view In December Helena Hagberg went on a field visit to for minority owners, we voted against a proposal on share Russia. The visit was triggered by research made on buy-backs. We initiated dialogues with both companies Russian companies combined with the fact that many and shareholders and also wrote an article on that theme. European companies operate in Russia. Russia is identified by non-govermental organisations (NGOs) as a country with many challenges when it comes 22 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Returns with responsibility Challenges in new Africa 26 August 2010 As I travel from Johannesburg to the platinum mines situated on the border of Zimbabwe, I am stunned by the sight of red earth, the effects of globalisation and the endless possibilities that exist in this country. Africa, a continent which in 20 years will contain close to 18 % of the world population, is suffering a prolonged hangover due to corruption, civil war and the great supply of natural resources. I am in South Africa to meet representatives of the world’s biggest mining company, Anglo Platinum. The company has been criticised for having forced hundreds of thousands of people to leave their homes to enable the company to extract precious metals. Substantial growth has taken place in recent years in the area. Company representatives and ordinary African people bear witness to the positive effects of globalisation. There are, however, less positive aspects. At the same time as leading countries like South Africa and Botswana establish new places in the world economy, the structural, environmental and social problems are in certain cases exacerbated. In many cases there are regulations and laws that are meant to protect both the environment and people, but the authorities lack the capacity and knowledge to ensure compliance with the regulations. This means that both domestic and international companies have an increasingly prominent role to play in the formation of a new sustainable Africa. I study the figures I have just received from Anglo Platinum’s staff. They show that 20 % of their workforce have contracted HIV at the same time as prospecting is in progress for new mines in an area which is smaller than Skåne but with over four million inhabitants. In the last five years Anglo Platinum has moved close to 200,000 people in order to gain access to platinum, a precious metal for which there is growing demand worldwide. The removal of people has caused many conflicts. This has been primarily a matter of survival for the population. For the people this is about getting compensation for that land they have lost while, for the company, it is a matter of acquiring natural resources in a sustainable way. This is why I am here. Nordea Investment Funds invests in Anglo Platinum and we have begun a dialogue with the company concerning the complaints resulting from the removal of people from their land. Many people question whether we who come from the Nordic countries are really able to influence what happens in this part of the world. The answer is simple. We can. Both through the knowledge and through the power we have as investors we can influence companies to act in a more sustainable way. If you want to change you have to engage. The future is not determined by the roles we wish to avoid but by the roles we actively take on to create a sustainable future. Sasja Sasja Beslik, Head of Responsible Investments, blogs on Nordea´s internet. Returns with responsibility Nordea CSR Report 2010 23 Anti-corruption Combatting financial crime is an important responsibility that entails stringent procedures and policies combined with our employee´s expertise and ability to treat people right. Compliance framework in place. The basis is laid out in instructions Nordea plays a considerable role in the prevention of endorsed by the CEO called “Instructions on sound financial crime. This is not unique to us but the responsiknow-your-customer practices and measures against bility of all banks. Global and EU regulations have money laundering and terrorist financing in Nordea”. increased drastically during the last few years to combat These instructions set minimum requirements for sound the financing of terrorism, drug cartels and trafficking. know-your-customer practices in Nordea in order to Nordea’s Code of Conduct and Guide to Sound ensure adequate awareness and management of risks Business Relationships cover requirements for our staff related to customers. Such practices prevent Nordea to ensure proper business behaviour, such as policies from becoming involved with counterparts with unidentirelated to anti-corruption, bribery and competition issues. fied backgrounds and from being subject to or used for The number of employees and the amount of internal criminal or unethical purposes. These instructions also rules and procedures that need to be in place are costly, set minimum requirements regarding the prevention, time consuming and part of daily banking yet an detection and reporting of money laundering, terrorist unnoticed by the average customer. Our front line staff financing and other objectionable activities and in the branches, whether working in Oslo or Moscow, transactions. has learned to handle the situations. It is not uncommon The practical part of the framework includes two sets that customers get irritated and there have been several of instructions. The “Financial Crime Management instances where our staff has been threatened. Instructions” explains the responsibility of Nordea’s risk In order to fulfil international and national requireorganisation to prevent Nordea becoming involved with ments on financial crime we have an internal regulation counterparts with unidentified backgrounds and from 24 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Anti-corruption Rebecca Blad, Head of Customer Services Nordea makes money at Nordea’s branch on St Eriksgatan, Stockholm laundering more difficult Like all banks, Nordea is under an obligation by law to prevent money laundering and the financing of terrorism. The bank is responsible for knowing the origin of money deposited or transferred. This can be challenging for both the bank employee and the customer. When customers deposit large sums or break the norm in one way or another, the bank employee must demand to see proof of the customer’s identity and ask questions to ascertain where the money comes from. To prevent the customer taking it personally, it is important that we explain why we are asking these questions. Our attitude at the very beginning of the conversation is decisive. If needed, more information about this can be obtained from the Swedish Bankers’ Association’s brochure “Why the bank has to ask”, says Rebecca Blad, head of customer services at Nordea’s branch in St Eriksgatan in Stockholm. To be able to have a good dialogue with the customer, the staff needs proper training and the possibility to discuss experiences. We constantly share experiences and keep the discussion alive in the branch. That way we will feel more comfortable and act more professionally when talking to the customers. It is also important that we stay updated on what is required of us, says Rebecca Blad. being subject to or used for criminal or unethical purpose. policies for the specific areas and of course following up “Instructions concerning handling of internal crimes procedures. Nordea has approximatly 130 Risk and within the Nordea Group” are about decision-making Compliance Officers throughout the Group. They help and handling of internal crimes. their units to act in accordance with all applicable laws, Each unit in Nordea is responsible for identifying, rules, codes and standards and respect the principles of assessing and mitigating all operational risks. We use a integrity and fair dealings at all times. tool called the Risk Self Assessment process. With this We provide compliance training to our employees. process each division identifies, assesses and decides Anti-money laundering training is provided as part of on mitigation actions for at least their three biggest risks. the anti-corruption training both as e-learning and These key risks are reported to Group Operational in classroom training sessions. All new branch office Risk Management where a group risk map is drawn employees are trained, as well as new managers. up every year. Additionally risk and compliance officers give dedicated There is currently a project ongoing in which risk training on anti-corruption and anti-money laundering. appetites are discussed. The aim is to have risk During 2010, we trained almost 11,000 employees definitions and risk appetites defined for risks falling and managers. within the risk categories of solvency, liquidity, earnings It is a challenge to keep all employees updated within and non-financial risks. Non-financial risks include their respective fields since new regulations come into operational risks, reputational risks and compliance risks. force all the time. Currently Group Compliance, Group No decision on any risk appetite has yet been made, but Legal and Group Security are working together to once that happens this exercise will also support linking improve training, in part due to new bribery acts in risk awareness to business strategy. Sweden and the UK with extraterritorial impact. It would not be possible to be compliant with laws, This requiers an update of all policies and processes regulations and internal policies without sound plans, by 1 January 2011. Anti-corruption Nordea CSR Report 2010 25 Responsible credits Credits are an obvious area where a bank really can make a difference and take its corporate responsibility. To us it is clear than an environmental, social or political risk is also a credit risk. Credits detailed instructions for business units how to define, As the largest bank in the Nordic countries some of the measure, execute and report on specific issues including leading Nordic companies are our customers and they how to manage CSR risk assessment within lending. have many large projects both on their home turf and Furthermore, we have specific industry policies (pulp and on the other side of the globe. To us it is clear than an paper industry; energy with sub-groups of power, oil and environmental, social or political risk is also a credit risk. gas, oil services and renewable energy; telecommunicaWe have a credit framework in Nordea including tions; aircrafts; shipping; real-estate; fish farming; hedge environmental, social and political risks as well as funds and private equity) setting requirements and limits, processes and procedures on how to analyse and identify including risks, on the overall industry exposure all risks. There are two high level Group directives adopted reviewed by industry monitoring groups. by the Board of Directors; “Credit Policy and Strategy for the Nordea Group” and “Credit Instructions for the Environmental, social and political risks Nordea Group”. The main tool used to screen for environmental risks is The first directive establishes the overall principles the Environmental Risk Assessment Tool (ERAT). Its such as that the granting of credit within the Group is purpose is to consider environmentally related risks in based on good banking practice and high ethical the corporate lending process and to produce an environstandards. It also establishes that the Group should in mental risk profile, incl climate change risks. In order to no way compromise generally accepted ethical and legal better handle the corporate social responsibility (CSR) principles, nor should the Group have dealings with risks in the corporate lending process, Nordea has counterparts that we suspect to be of questionable morality. The Credit Instructions define practical guidelines and processes when evaluating and granting credits in general. Additionally we have guidelines giving Nordea signs a Baltic Sea commitment The Baltic Sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world. Nordea made a commitment to help save it at the Baltic Sea Action Summit on 10 February 2010 in Helsinki. Nordea donates time and know-how Nordea’s Export and Project Finance experts will determine what financing is best suited for projects that could have a positive impact on the environment of the Baltic, and may also help arrange the financing. We are all close to the Baltic Sea and feel obliged to support the work carried out in connection with the Baltic Sea Action Summit, says Aila Aho Head of Export and Project Finance. The Baltic Sea Action Summit brought together businesses, heads of state and governments, communities, non-governmental organisations and international organisations from the countries surrounding the Baltic, ie Nordea’s home market. All the participants at the meeting made a commitment to action. Read more: http://www.bsas.fi/commitments/all-commitments 26 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Responsible credits developed a supplementary tool, the Social and Political Risk Assessment Tool (SPRAT), which was implemented in 2009. Nordea’s risk definitions build on commonly Environmental risks accepted international standards from the World Bank and the UN Global Compact. All customers are subject reviewed before lending to an annual review, as a minimum. By applying the ERAT and SPRAT tools our analysts go Environmental risks are reviewed for all new corpothrough how our clients handle environmental and social rate lending in Nordea beyond a certain credit limit. risks and requirements. The credit decision is based on the The evaluation is based on the company’s general customers fulfilling the ERAT and SPRAT and submission environmental policies and processes as well as of false information or withholding of facts constitutes its track record for handling risks. a legal issue. ERAT includes two checklists that credit analysts To ensure an ethical code of conduct Nordea has use to determine the overall risk. The first checklist developed the Environmental Risk Assesment Tool determines industry risk, and if the industry risk profile (ERAT). ERAT assesses risks at both industry and meets certain criteria, a second set of checks and test are company level and the decision to apply ERAT in performed on company level. The findings of the ERAT the credit analysis is part of Nordea’s credit routines. process result in an overall environmental risk profile For large customers an ERAT review is mandatory. that is added to the credit evaluation process. ERAT is mandatory for customers with credit limits I use ERAT in two thirds of my credit analyses, over EUR 500,000. mainly in the pulp and paper industry. Due to the The main purpose of SPRAT is to identify relevant pre-screening where industry risk level is assessed, social and political risks in a particular customer’s ERAT is primarily used for reviewing credits for business with potential impact on the customer’s ability heavy industry projects, says Robert Fogelholm, to fulfil the credit obligations or likelihood of damage Credit Analyst in Nordea Finland. to Nordea. SPRAT is a three-step process. First, a risk profile is First I examine the companies’ adherence to created for the country in which the customer or project common environmental standards like ISO 14001. is located. Then the industry risk is identified. These two If no standard is in use or an insufficient number of findings are combined and compared to determine operations are covered, I ask the customer for further actions to be taken in a third phase. In the end, complementary information. If significant environan overall social and political risk profile is created and mental problems have occurred in the past, included in the credit evaluation process. SPRAT is I look into how these have been handled. mandatory for new customers with credit limits over EUR 5 million. SPRAT is also used for customers with The result of the ERAT evaluation is a comprecredit limits below EUR 5 million for companies that are hensive environmental risk profile which forms obviously predisposed to social and political risks. The an integral part of the credit analysis along with higher limit threshold for SPRAT compared to ERAT other criteria. is due to the fact that social and political risks are most commonly a feature in large, international projects Robert Fogelholm, Credit outside the Nordic region, where as environmental risks Analyst in Nordea Finland may occur in industrial projects more generally. An essential aspect of our credit process is that most credit analysts are dedicated to a specific industry in which they have deep and thorough knowledge. No tool can cover everything and our analysts’ competence is essential. Internal training is offered to all Nordea analysts. Training is provided for analysts that are assigned to a new industry, which they are unfamiliar with and to new employees to ensure that they understand ERAT and SPRAT since the tools are unique to Nordea. Analysts also participate in external general training and industry specific training. Responsible credits Nordea CSR Report 2010 27 Project finance environmental and social consultants and possibly site Project financing is funding in which the lender looks visits. Nordea uses independent experts in category primarily to the revenues generated by a single project A projects, which is what the EP stipulates. Due to our both as the source of repayment and as collateral for the relationship strategy and Nordic focus the number of loan. Project finance is often used for large projects for projects subject to the EP tends to be small; in 2010, example in power plants, pulp and paper, mines or eight projects were assessed, six were in the energy sector, transportation infrastructure where several parties one in the mining and one in the construction industry. cooperate in project development and/or financing. The toolkit provides guidance on how to apply the Large and complex projects also imply more complex EP in the day-to-day business of Nordea project finance risks including social and environmental risks due to deal managers (DM). The ten principles contained in location, local population issues and so on. If they the EP are organised into four workflow steps, 1) Initial materialise, such risks may impose large practical and project review; 2) Project appraisal; 3) Project negotiafinancial consequences on the project, the project tion, commitment and monitoring; and 4) External participants or other stakeholders. reporting. The steps match the Nordea project finance The Export and Project Finance (EPF) unit is responcycle and are integrated with the general credit evaluation sible for project finance in Nordea. In 2007 Nordea and decision workflow. adopted The Equator Principles (EP), a global, voluntary Each project finance case is presented to the Nordea’s standard for commercial lenders to identify and address EP Advisory Group for recommendation and classification. social and environmental risks in project financing based If the recommendation is positive, the terms and condion the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) tions to participate in the project are established, including guidelines for environmentally and socially responsible environmental and social representations and covenants. financing. The analysts and other relevant personnel have Nordea monitors, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually, been trained in using the routines and tools. Internal depending on type of project, the performance of all seminars are held annually to provide staff with updates active projects in its portfolio to ensure compliance with and the opportunity to knowledge sharing. environmental, social and other conditions. The borrower will provide annual social and environmental monitoring Applying the Equator Principles reports usually verified by an independent expert. Nordea follows the Equator Principles Manual (toolkit) In case of any non-compliance, Nordea will determine for training and in the decision making process. The an appropriate course of action together with the toolkit is updated as the EP develops. other lenders. Nordea evaluates the borrower’s capacity to adequately identify, mitigate and manage key social and environmental risks and impacts of the project based on documentation provided by the borrower, independent From waste dump to green energy The Equator Principles were applied when Nordea enabled financing of a solar park on a previous waste dump in Sulkov, the Czech Republic in cooperation with amongst others Eksportfinans. The Norwegian company Scatec Solar is turning a 60 hectare waste dump just outside Pilsen into green energy. By late 2010 the plant will generate approximately 10 200 Megawatts hours per annum. This equals the consumption of 3 000 Czech households. The EP were applied to ensure that social or environmental risk were identified and addressed, says Magne Schreiner, from Export and Project Finance in Nordea. In addition GIEK, the Norwegian Export Credit Agency, assessed and accepted the project according to OECD environmental guidelines. The Equator Principles were adopted by Nordea in 2007 to enable closer governance of environmental and social risks in the lending process. The principles provide an in-depth review and tend to be used for big and complex developing projects. In 2010, eight projects were assessed. 28 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Responsible credits Satisfied customers are core Great customer experiences is one of Nordea’s core values and what the whole organisation strives for. Training, procedures, policies and development are geared towards that goal. In Nordea we measure our ability to deliver great quality of our customer meetings, our service in general customer experiences and our performance compared to and the quality of our advice. our main competitors in an annual customer satisfaction The survey is conducted so that each branch and survey (CSI). During 2010 approximately 126,000 region can see where they stand and follow-ups and customers voiced their opinion on Nordea and thereby action plans are mandatory. Group Executive Managegave valuable input for improvements.1 Some 23,000 ment takes a strong interest in the survey and actions are customers of our competitors responded to the same taken on a group level as well. Customer satisfaction is questions. The survey was conducted from late September also a relevant part of the strategic steering of the group, to early November. It targets all customer segments in as both “Relative Customer Satisfaction Improvement” Corporate, Household and Private Banking. The main and “Delivery Satisfaction Index” are two of Nordea’s key focus areas in this year’s survey were proactivity, the performance indicators. We know that there is a strong 1 These CSI figures include netbank responses. Satisfied customers are core Nordea CSR Report 2010 29 Micro Savings Support Good Cause Nordea has a savings option for card users available via the Internet bank. The savings option called Micro Savings and works much like an electronic piggy bank. Whenever you use your credit card a pre-set amount goes to one of your savings accounts. Nordea Finland has now made it possible to direct the amount saved straight to a charity called the Womens’ Bank which supports female entrepreneurs in developing countries. Customers that select this option get a card with the Womens’ Bank’s logo. connection between great customer experiences, for changes and developments in order to create Great living our values and our financial results – they all go Customer Experiences based on customer complaints hand in hand. and feedback. The local banking management gets a Our Customer Satisfaction Index continued to rise detailed report each quarter. In case something alarming particularly among relationship customers. That is has come up, the customer ombudsmen have a direct line the most important driver behind the inflow of new to the local head of banking. During a three-month customers. During 2010 we welcomed 200,000 new period the Customer Ombudsmen in Finland and Sweden gold and private banking customers. receive on average 6,000-7,000 calls, e-mails or letters, whereas the Norwegian receives 2,000-3,000 and the Building relationships that last Danish receives between 1,000 and 2,000. The differBuilding long lasting relationships with our customers is ences are due to the fact that the populations differ and essential. The better we know our customers the better we most importantly that in Sweden and Finland the can serve them. Those of our customers who have Nordea Customer Ombudsmen have been active longer and have as their main bank tend to be Gold Customers, which more staff to receive and register the complaints. Outside entitles them to a dedicated personal banker. We have set the Nordic countries similar locally adopted processes practices that we believe lead to satisfied customers. At are in place. In Poland, Estonia and Latvia we have least once a year the personal banker should invite the designated persons who handle customer complaints. In customer to an advisory 360 degree meeting to go Lithuania we have a Customer Complaints Committee for through all aspects of the customer’s finances. During the the same purpose and in Russia the Customer Complimeeting it should be clear if the customer will need more ance department handles customer complaints. advice in the near future. We know that customers like us to be proactive and to be available when they need us. Addressing complaints Nordea’s other core value is One Nordea Team and the Reacting to feedback cooperation between the different units in banking is The customer satisfaction surveys are made once a year strong. The complaints noted by the customer ombudsbut our customer ombudsmen in the four Nordic men are channelled to product development. countries give feedback reports every two weeks stating if During 2010 we are happy to say we had no something has come to their attention that has caused or complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy or might cause bad customer experiences (major worries), losses of customer data. Nor did we receive any fines or just stating that there is nothing to report. The role as for non-compliance with laws and regulations concernCustomer Ombudsman is to point out important needs ing the provision and use of products and services. 30 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Satisfied customers are core Developing our services netbank easily. Nordea regularly conducts usability tests When it comes to our core products and services, Nordea and has a specialised team programming the accessibility. focuses on “ease of consumption” as well as transparency and clarity of our products to both customer and Approval process colleagues. It goes without saying that a customer should The Risk Self Assessment process is a core operational know what he or she has bought. During 2010 we have risk process. The Risk Self Assessment process enhances tested new approaches and product concepts in “live understanding of the Division’s main risks as well as input labs” to ensure that our products and services are to the sufficiency of the internal controls with regard to transparent. Ensuring product transparency and clarity these risks. The Risk Self Assessment process provides is based on trial and error. We have run customer focus the Division Management with a structured process groups for a long time to ensure this. including a method to identify, assess, map and mitigate An example of development is the introduction of a the identified main operational and compliance risks in new branch model to enhance customer service. In the each Division. Financial impact consideration is part of future we will have branches that are dedicated to advice the assessment. and others dedicated to transactions. The new model The most significant risks will be reported to Group makes it more clear what service the customer can get Executive Management in the Group Risk Map report. where and the staff is specialised and dedicated to the Quality and Risk Analysis (QRA) is a process used in specific needs of the customer. Before being introduced Nordea to limit new risks and to ensure disciplined on a broad scale the concept was tested and we found that change management. It aims at documented decisionour customers appreciate having dedicated branches. making regarding risk and quality aspects connected to The call centre and telephone bank is one option for changes, explicit responsibility for decisions and actions customers with disabilities but as we aim to always taken as well as a systematic follow-up. improve, another product development has been aimed at All new or changed products, processes, routines, Nordea Netbank. The work has focused on improving the systems and organisations should be analysed from a on-line accessibility for the visually impaired. This is quality and risk perspective before they are put into use. done in accordance with the AA-level of Web Content When introducing significant changes through larger Accessibility Guidelines 2.0. In the Nordic countries projects or programs, or when developing new products Netbanks work differently due to national preferences or changing existing products, a QRA is part of the change and practice. The netbank in Sweden, for example, is documentation and is a mandatory input to the decision equipped with a “Talking Card Reader”, an authentication making process. method that allows the visually impaired to access the Satisfied customers are core Nordea CSR Report 2010 31 It’s all about people As a relationship bank, Nordea is committed to people, not least our employees. It is our skilled and dedicated employees and their ability to deliver great customer experiences that distinguish us from our competitors and make Nordea great. People Strategy to the procedures and policies and for informing about Nordea’s Human Resources (HR) strategy the People changes and ensuring that employees understand Strategy emphasises that for Nordea to reach its goals the implications. our employees need to reach theirs. This means that There are two main tools for follow-up, both annual. Nordea has to provide opportunities for our people to The Employee Satisfaction Survey is a tool to get an grow and live well-balanced lives. This mindset is overview of how our employees evaluate Nordea, and as implanted in all managers through leadership training a result identify and prioritise activities how to make and management programs. Nordea Great. Our response rate is high, 93 % in the All employees are introduced to Nordea’s policies and 2010 survey, which shows our employees’ great commitprocedures when hired. Managers are responsible for ment to this survey. The other tool is the mandatory ensuring that the employees reporting to them adhere Performance and Development Dialogue that takes 32 Nordea CSR Report 2010 It´s all about people ESI Results 2010 2009 2008 high-quality succession and development plans giving Satisfaction and motivation 73 72 72 us the option to hire from within. Development 73 72 72 Nordea’s own Training & Development unit provides Considered a good workplace 79 78 77 and arranges leadership and employee development in Proud to tell others where I work 82 82 80 the Nordic countries. Employees within Nordic Banking Recommend others to start received an average of 3.09 days of training as compared 78 77 76 working at Nordea to 1.7 days for other employees. In total Training & Living the values 78 77 76 Development provided 47,260 days of training with Great Customer Experiences 81 81 80 38,122 days directed towards employee training and It's all about People 75 74 73 9,138 towards manager training. In addition, business One Nordea team 78 78 77 areas have arranged training on specific skills and issues The overall sentiment is very positive. Close to all drivers and results in the ESI that are not centrally recorded, thus not included here. survey 2010 on Group level show improvement compared to 2009 and none show a negative trend. The same is seen across Business Areas and Group Functions as well across countries. Opportunities to develop and grow Nordea employees should feel that Nordea is a company with many possibilities offering them to grow within the place between immediate manager and employee, Group. Development is a joint responsibility of the requiring preparation on both parts as well as manager and the employee. Employee motivation, follow-up throughout the year. commitment to business goals and targets are addressed through the yearly Performance and Development Focus on values and leadership Dialogues. 76.1 % of employees received a performance We understand our values and leadership to be the and career development review during 2010. These strongest drivers for performance as well as for building dialogues also form the basis for personal development and developing our corporate culture. Having good people plans and short and long-term career plans. Developskills is as important as having professional knowledge. ment within Nordea is a combination of on the job It takes Great leaders to build a Great European bank. training, i.e. professional development by broadening Great leadership in Nordea is the ability to engage and your experience within the group by taking on new tasks motivate people to reach out for the common vision and or greater responsibilities, coaching and training. the ability to gather the right team to make it happen. Nordea facilitates internal mobility. It is a strategic The ability to be a good coach is an important aspect choice and one we deem necessary. The financial sector, of leadership. Our coaching training is carried out in five like the world at large, is constantly changing. We may steps on three management levels, two modules for new need less people in one unit and more in another. New and experienced managers and a separate module for competencies may be required. We need flexibility to executive managers. The training is a mix of teaching, find the right person, for the right place at the right time. plenum dialogue, exercises and reflection. Our training is Concrete actions are often local. Yet, there are common built on action-reflection-learning principles, primary principles that are applied group-wide, for example a job learning from one’s and other people’s experiences and matching process; a process where open positions and focus on training the cornerstones in Team Coaching over available people are discussed to find a good solution and over again, working on issues that are relevant and benefitting both the employee and Nordea. real for the people present. Cross-border mobility and international assignWe support new leaders in their new roles by way of a ments are ways to enhance job rotation and develop the special introduction programme giving them access to employee’s competence, and also build overall corporate information and familiarising them with the tools and citizenship and culture enforcing the “One Nordea processes related to their managerial roles. All new leaders Team” value. are invited to a new leaders programme within 4-12 We have found that the opportunity to work in months after being appointed. The programme runs for different countries and different value chains is greatly ten days in total and consists of four modules. valued by younger staff such as participants in our trainee One Nordea team is one of our key values and the programme. It’s a fast track to get to know Nordea’s coaching culture plays a vital role in identifying and culture and organisation and is a measure of our ability releasing the potential of all employees as well as to attract some of the best young talents. The programme discovering people of outstanding ability and future is in high demand and graduates are guaranteed a leaders. Talent Management at Nordea ensures we have permanent position. strong leaders and competent employees/specialists in Nordea strives to increase the equality in the Group to all key positions, and an availability of talent as well as give all employees the same opportunities. All vacancies It´s all about people Nordea CSR Report 2010 33 are posted on the intranet. There are still more men Nordea strives for a transparent and holding managerial positions than women even though sound remuneration structure the workforce is made up of approximately 60 % women Nordea has clear remuneration policies, instructions and 40 % men. To come to terms with this, it is mandatory and processes, ensuring sound remuneration structures that one woman be among the top three candidates for throughout the organisation. These structures are every managerial position. Increasingly young top summarised both in a separate section in the annual managers take paternity leave encouraging others to report (page 77-80) and in separate annual disclosures follow, but as in society at large this is a generation on our website focusing on risks related to remuneration. issue. There have not been any discrimination cases Information can be found in note 8 of Nordea’s Annual during 2010. Report 2010 (page 119-120 ). We do not keep statistics on the diversity of our work In Nordea salaries are decided according to the nature force, because Nordea is domiciled in Sweden where of duties performed. registering ethnic origin is illegal. During 2011 we will, however, register the languages spoken by our employees Balance in life in the Nordic countries to get a better understanding of Nordea’s starting point is that a sound, business and value the diversity. driven working environment where employees feel good Nordea managed to come out of financial crisis creates great results. Our focus on health and working without layoffs. In 2010, Nordea continued to recruit in environment aims at identifying and strengthening the all markets. For example in Q3, Nordea recruited four factors that lead to better working conditions and good people in Denmark and two people in Finland every day. health for our employees. All Managers in Nordea Group During 2010 Nordea employed on 2008 2009 2010 average 33,589 full time employees and on 31 December 2010 Nordea had 33,809 full time employees. Female, 47.2 % Female, 43.8 % Female, 46.2 % Male, 52.8 % Male, 56.2 % Male, 53.8 % 34 Nordea CSR Report 2010 It´s all about people At Nordea, we recognise that people have different needs Occupational Health Care is closely regulated in Finland, in different phases of their lives, and it is important that Norway and Sweden. In general, Nordea provides its there is a sensible balance between private and working life. employees a significantly wider range of health care We have different ways of ensuring this, adjusted to services than stipulated by the local legislations. With the local conditions, rules and regulations. We aim to aim to promote and maintain the working ability of our organise work in a way that secures mutual flexibility. We staff throughout their working careers, and to provide a strive to create flexible working conditions on a day-tohealthy and safe working environment we provide our day basis. We offer our employees access to occupational employees with the following of free-of-charge health services, with complete health check-up as well as occupational health services. good conditions for leaves of absence. Nordea follows the national legislations and collective •H  ealth examinations and a wide range of specialised agreements. By year-end 88.2 % of our employees in the medical services. Nordic countries (71.6 % of all Nordea employees) were • S urveillance of the work environment to recognise covered by collective bargaining agreements. The and mitigate health hazards of the work environment collective bargaining agreements include a number of and work community. This includes ergonomic advice provisions that may differ from country to country; this and participation in planning new offices in order applies for example to terms of notice which vary from to ensure the work ability and well-being of our 1–6 months depending on country and also length employees. of service. •D  evelopment of the work community to enable a fully functioning and cooperative work place and thus good Safety at work work ability for our staff. This includes consultative In terms of health and safety topics, the legislative services, e.g. personal and group discussions used requirements in Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden to solve various work community-related problem are regarded as satisfactory and the collective bargaining situations. agreements are subordinate to national regulations. • Support and advice on alcohol and drug abuse We have measured the number of days absent from • Physiotherapy work but also work-related injuries. 1 • Nutritional therapy • Psychological consultations • Work-related stress policy. Work-related stress Average FTE´s 2010 (WRS) is a serious and yet common factor undermining our employees’ well-being. We take WRS % of very seriously; its prevention is firmly on the agenda collective Country All Male Female OR local of our HR division. We offer our employees relevant agreement information and tools to prevent WRS. We have Denmark 8,881 4,042 4,839 88.7 in place a specifically drafted WRS Policy, Finland 7,754 1,800 5,954 84.6 which seeks to: Norway 3,547 1,905 1,642 68.7 -Make it natural to address working Sweden 7,654 3,344 4,310 99.9 conditions in order to prevent WRS. Estonia 452 105 346 0 Make a contribution to reducing Latvia 504 127 377 0 Lithuania 368 106 262 0 absence due to WRS. Poland 2,101 726 1,375 0 Russia 1,659 692 967 0 In Denmark, we provide our employees with health United States 81 44 37 0 insurance, which covers cases where employees require Great Britain 67 40 26 0 health care services, such as hospital care, physiotherapy, Germany 44 22 21 0 or consultations with a psychologist, from an external Singapore 58 24 34 0 service provider. In addition, full-time employees are China 18 7 11 0 offered a health check every three years. Brazil 3 2 1 0 In Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and Russia, the Luxembourg 399 249 150 0 scope of Occupational Health Care services provided vary Total average 33,589 13,236 20,353 88.2 depending on local legislation. In all countries, we comply Total FTE 33,809.08 at least with the minimum standards set in local regula31.12.2010 tions. In Estonia, in accordance with the Occupational 1 In Finland and Sweden injuries that occur when commuting to/from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related Illness is not registered in Denmark. It´s all about people Nordea CSR Report 2010 35 Health and Safety Act, we organise and cover the cost of The main safety issue in a bank is the threat of armed medical checks for any employees whose health may be robberies in branches. Nordea has precautions in place affected in the course of their work by risk factors of the such as mandatory training sessions for all branches and working environment or the nature of their work. In procedures for how to act in case of robberies as well as Lithuania, depending on occupational risk factors, we structured processes how to support the employees provide periodical medical examination for our employees affected. As an example Sweden has a support group of annually or every two years. In Poland we have an colleagues who are trained and prepared to physically go Occupational Safety and Health Service, which in to a branch that has been robbed when alerted. Together cooperation with HR supervises the execution of with professional psychologists they will support the occupational safety guidelines and health examinations. employees subjected. There is a set procedure in place In Russia, we have no centralised Occupational Health that lasts for several years after an incident. Care service; instead, we provide free social and medical insurance for our employees. Work related injuries/illnesses COUNTRY WORK RELATED ROBBERY ACCIDENTS WHILE FATALiTIES WORK RELATED INJURIES CASES COMMUTING ILLNESSES Denmark 18 73 Finland 81 1 116 0 3 Norway 3 0 0 0 1 Sweden 14 49 12 0 0 Estonia 0 0 0 0 Latvia 0 0 0 0 Lithuania 0 0 0 0 Poland 2 0 0 0 Russia 0 0 0 0 Employment turn-over rate by unit in Nordea Group Absenteeism because of sick leave in Nordea Group Employee turnover as a percentage of total number of employees The average sick leave per employee in 2010 was 9 days, was 4.4 %. We do not track employee turnover by age group, one day less than in 2009. gender or region. Employment turn-over rate by unit in Nordea Group Absenteeism because of sick leave in Nordea Group % Days 9 12 8 10 7 6 8 5 6 4 3 4 2 2 1 0 0 Other Other Group Risk Management Group Risk Management New European Markets, Banking Products and Group Operations New European Markets, Banking Products and Group Operations Shipping, Private Banking & Savings Products Shipping, Private Banking & Savings Products Coporate Merchant Banking and Capital Markets Coporate Merchant Banking and Capital Markets Nordic Banking Nordic Banking 36 Nordea CSR Report 2010 It´s all about people Our goal is to be a part of and support a sustaina ble future for generation s to come. It´s all about people Nordea CSR Report 2010 37 Engaging with society Youth in focus The education consists of a class-room discussion Becoming financially literate including a case-based solving exercise, followed by an Nordea piloted Financial Education to schools in invitation to a follow-up meeting to learn more. The the Nordic countries in 2010. The education targets initiative is a way for Nordea to contribute in the local 13-18 year-olds with the aim to give them a basic community and is based on volunteers among the economic understanding and to help them handle employees. The aim for 2011 is to reach 20,000 youths their own daily finances. across the Nordics visiting 1,000 classes. The pilots generated lively discussions about pros and cons of cash and cards, for which purposes a loan is OK Combating sexual exploitation of children and when to avoid it, how to save money when buying your Nordea works with other actors in Sweden to prevent daily soft drink etc. And not least how you finally can get the sexual exploitation of children. There are commercial that special something by making a budget and saving for it. websites providing child pornography, through direct We want to teach young people how to take charge of their finances by using basic, objective information and lots of concrete examples relating to their everyday life, says Anu Numminen, Nordea’s Private Economist in Finland. 38 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Engaging with society payments. A financial coalition was formed to make it Auditions are held once a year and are open to all young more difficult for the financial systems to be used for musicians throughout Finland. such transactions. – Young, gifted musicians need opportunities to play The Financial Coalition in Sweden consists of banks, in big orchestras. My first experiences of playing with a The National Swedish Criminal Investigation Departsymphony orchestra were so meaningful that I decided to ment, the organisation End Child Prostitution and become a musician, says conductor Jukka-Pekka Saraste. Trafficking (ECPAT)Sweden and the card companies Since 2007 more than 250 musicians (age 12-30) have Visa and MasterCard. The coalition has been active for participated in the orchestra holding regular more than a year and there has been a marked decline performances. in the number of commercial websites providing child pornography, and the possibility of making direct Track and field in Sweden payments to such sites. Nordea has been youth ambassador for track and field Human trafficking generates a multi-billion turnover since 2006. Nordea sponsors local athletic clubs so that and, according to the United Nations, is the third most the clubs can arrange local track and field schools and profitable criminal activity after weapons and drugs. training. The activities take place during the summer and ECPAT Sweden works to prevent and stop all forms are directed towards children and youth from 6 to 16. of sexual exploitation of children. The older children who are active within track and field are given the opportunity to become coaches. During Sponsoring young athletes and musicians 2010 a record number of approximately 20,000 children Nordea’s sponsoring focuses on helping activate children participated in Nordea’s Track and Field Academies. and teenagers. Nordea aims at broader sponsorships with a wide participation within sports and music. Supporting popular sports in Norway Nordea supports Paralympics Committee and Handball for youth in Denmark Confederation of Sports (NIF), which is the umbrella Handball is a popular sport in Denmark and Nordea was organisation for sports in Norway. The organisation has the main sponsor for the Danish Handball Federation’s more than 2 million memberships and includes 12,000 youth activities. Nordea’s contribution went to recruiting sports clubs. The agreement with NIF covers popular more coaches and supporting the annual handball camps. sports like skiing and handball focused on children The aim was to give children the chance to try out the and youth. popular sport during one week of their summer holiday. Close to 8,500 children participated in 154 handball camps during the summer of 2010. Orchestra for youth and professional musicians in Finland The Nordea Jean Sibelius Orchestra gives young people the opportunity to perform with top professionals. Coaching Latvian entrepreneurs Many Latvians want to become entrepreneurs due to high unemployment. Therefore Nordea launched the Nordea Business School. The school is open to unemployed customers and the general public who would like to establish their own business. Classes run over a six-month period and are taught by leading business consulting and staff training companies in Latvia along with Stockholm School of Economics in Riga. The sessions are filled and will continue for the foreseeable future. The aim is to help emerging entrepreneurs in a step-by-step process from idea to meetings with potential investors. The school provides participants with lectures, practical advice as well as individual coaching and mentoring sessions. As a result, we aim for several new companies to be established at the end of the school-year, says Jana Strogonova, Head of Retail Banking of Nordea Latvia. Engaging with society Nordea CSR Report 2010 39 GRI index 4.6 GRI content index Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board Pages 11, AR 71 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications of board We have self-declared our reporting to be Application members 10, AR 71 Level B+ (Self-declared). Our auditors have checked our 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 11, 20, 26 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work reporting and have confirmed it to be Application Level B+ 9-10 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own (Third-party-checked). performance AR 72 The index below includes degree of reporting and page Commitments to external initiatives reference to the relevant indicators in this report. In some 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is applied 13, 31 instances reference is made to the Nordea Annual Report 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, 11, 20, 26 (25-29 2010 (AR). All core indicators are included in the table, principles, etc CSR Report 2009) 4.13 Memberships in associations 11 together with the additional indicators Nordea has found Stakeholder engagement relevant, and a selected number of indicators from the 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 14 GRI Financial Services Sector. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 13, 14-15 with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 13, 14-15 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported Not applicable 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 15 through stakeholder engagement GRI content index Pages 5. Economic indicators Disclosure on Management Approach 1. Strategy & analysis 4, 6-7, 9, 12. 1.1 CEO statement 6-7, AR 2-3 Economic performance AR 4-11, 16-21,178-179 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 6-7, 12-13, AR 57-69 Market presence 5, AR 39-41 2. Organisational profile Indirect economic impacts 13, 20-26 2.1 Name of the organisation 4 The economic performance of Nordea is managed by the CEO and the CFO and their rela2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 4-5 ted organisations and due care is taken to secure that sustainability aspects are integrated where necessary. This is for example governed in the Nordea CoC and followed up as part 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 4, AR 19 of our risk management processes. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 4 Economic performance 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 5 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5, 38-39 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4 EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change 12-13, 26 2.7 Markets 5 5 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined AR 107-108 2.8 Scale of the organisation 4-5, AR 11, 32-36, 88 benefit plan obligations (Note 22) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 5 EC4 Financial assistance received from government 4-5 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 4 Economic performance 3. Report parameters EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers Report profile EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management 3.1 Reporting period 8 hired from the local community 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 8 Indirect economic impact 3.3 Reporting cycle 8 EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided for public purposes hired from the local community 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 43 6. Environmental performance indicators Report scope and boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 8 Disclosure on Management Approach 3.6 Boundary of the report 5, 8 Goals and performance 11, 18-19 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Organisational responsibility 9 3.7 8 of the report Training and awareness 20, 25, 26 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 8 Data measurement techniques and Monitoring and follow-up 8, 18-19 3.9 8 calculation principles Materials Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3.10 8, 16-19, 32-37 information provided in earlier reports EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 19 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 8 EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 19 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 40-41 Energy Disclosures in the report 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 8, 42 external assurance for the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 18 4. Governance, commitments & engagement EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 16 Governance renewable energy based products/services 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 9-11 Water 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 9-11 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 18 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 9-11 Biodiversity provide recommendations to the board 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 77-80 EN11 Location/scope of land owned near protected areas/areas of biodiversity value EN12 Impacts of products or operations on biodiversity 40 Nordea CSR Report 2010 GRI index GRI content index Pages GRI content index Pages Emissions, effluents & waste Society EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 18-19 Disclosure on Management Approach EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 18-19 Goals and performance 24-25 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 16 Policy 24-25 reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Organisational responsibility 24-25 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions Training and awareness 24-25 EN21 Total water discharge – water consumption is relevant SO1 Programs for evaluating the operation’s impacts on communities to our business not discharge SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 19 SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s 25 EN23 Number and volume of significant spills anticorruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 25 Products & services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 20-22, SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying products and services 26-28, 31 SO8 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with applicable laws EN27 Products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Product responsibility Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach EN28 Fines and/or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws Goals and performance 29-31 Transport Policy 11, 12-14 EN29 Environmental impact of transports 18-19 Organisational responsibility 30-31, AR 32-37 7. Social performance indicators Training and awareness 29-31 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Disclosure on Management Approach products and services are assessed Goals, performance and policy 11, 32-36 PR3 Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to 31 Organisational responsibility AR 179 such information requirements Training and awareness 32-36 PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including 29-30 results of surveys Monitoring and follow-up 32-36, AR 41 PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and A group level HR unit is responsible for Nordea's HR policies and processes. These 31 voluntary codes for marketing communications are implemented by (and when necessary adapted to the local regulatory framework) and followed up by local HR units in all countries where Nordea is operating. PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 30-31 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Employment PR9 Monetary value of fines for non-compliance with regulations LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 35 concerning the use of products and services contract and region Rate of employee turnover by age group, Financial services sector supplement indicators (selected) LA2 36 gender and region FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social 19-31 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees components applied to business lines LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 35 20-28 bargaining agreements environmental and social risks in business lines LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of 35 20-23, changes and compliance with environmental and social 26-28 requirements included in agreements or transactions LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 36 work related fatalities FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and 24-28 LA8 Education, training, prevention and riskprocedures as applied to the business lines 32-36 control programs in place FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal regarding environmental and social risks and 24-28 35-36 agreements with trade unions opportunities LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 33 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 5, AR 21-39 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career specific region, size and by sector 33 development reviews FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting AR 41, 120 20-22 according to diversity indicatores organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 20-21 Human rights environmental or social screening FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial Disclosure on Management Approach 30, 31, 38-39 products and services Human Right issues can be direct and indirect for Nordea. In the direct case these issues FS16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy by type of 38 are governed by the UN Global Compact and the Nordea CoC, and are the responsibility beneficiary of the Human Resource organisation. The compliance function (second line of defence) and IA functions (third line of defence) are also available to secure compliance but the overarching principle is a decentralised responsibility for the operating organisation, see 11,13. In the indirect case this is mainly a responsibility for the credit organisation and the Report Application Levels investment organisation, see 20-26. Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured HR1 Investment agreements that include human 20-28 Selt declared rights clauses HR2 Suppliers that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Third party checked Optional HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 34 actions taken GRI checked HR5 Operations where freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken 2002 C C+ B B+ A A+ HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and actions taken HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour and actions taken index Nordea CSR Report 2010 GRI Index 41 Auditor’s Review Report on the Nordea CSR Report 2010 To the readers of Nordea CSR Report 2010: • An update of our knowledge and understanding of We have been engaged by Nordea’s Group Executive Nordea’s organisation and activities. Management to review the Nordea CSR Report 2010. • An assessment of the outcome of the stakeholder The Board of Directors and Group Executive dialogues conducted during 2010. Management are responsible for ongoing CSR activities, • I nterviews with responsible management, at different and for the preparation and presentation of the CSR levels within the Group, with the aim to assess if the Report in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our qualitative and quantitative information stated in the responsibility is to express a conclusion on the CSR CSR Report is complete, correct and sufficient. Report based on our review. •R  eading of internal documents to assess if the information stated in the CSR Report is complete, Scope of review correct and sufficient. We have performed our review in accordance with •E  valuation of routines used for the collection and RevR 6 Assurance of sustainability reports issued by Far reporting of CSR information and data. (the institute for the accountancy profession in Sweden). •E  valuation of the model used to calculate CO2 A review consists of making inquiries, primarily of emissions. persons responsible for CSR matters and for preparing • Analytical review of reported information. the CSR Report, and applying analytical and other review • Review of underlying documentation, on a test basis, procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an to assess whether the information and data in the audit conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards CSR Report is based on that documentation. on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally • Review of qualitative information and statements in accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures the CSR Report. performed consequently do not enable us to obtain an • Assessment of Nordea’s self-declared application assurance that would make us aware of all significant level according to GRI’s guidelines. matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, • Overall impression of the CSR Report, and its format, we do not express an audit opinion. considering the information’s mutual conformity with The criteria on which our review are based are the the applicable criteria. parts of the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, G3” • Reconciliation of the reviewed information with the published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which sustainability information in the Nordea Annual are applicable to the CSR Report. We consider these Report 2010. criteria suitable for the preparation of the CSR Report. Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality Conclusion and risk, among other things included the following Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention procedures: that causes us to believe that Nordea’s CSR Report 2010 • Assessment of suitability and application of criteria has not, in all material aspects, been prepared in in respect to stakeholders’ need of information. accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, February 10, 2011 KPMG AB Carl Lindgren Åse Bäckström Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of Far 42 Nordea CSR Report 2010 Auditor’s Review Report Contact info: csr@nordea .com www.nordea.com/csr Advisor: Ethos International Graphic design: Bilbao.se
