Communication on Progress Report of the BMW Group 2010 I. Statement of continued support (Message from the CEO) p. 2 II. Global Compact Principles and Sources of Information on the BMW Group p. 3 III. Sustainability Objectives of the BMW Group in 2010 with regard to Global Compact Principles p. 5 2 I. Statement of continued support (Message from the CEO) Ladies and Gentlemen, The BMW Group has a clear vision to be the world’s leading provider of premium products and premium services for individual mobility. Premium is, and will remain, our business – and premium has many facets. We believe sustainability is one of them. With premium comes an obligation to accept economic, ecological and social responsibility. The BMW Group has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2001 and is committed to implementing its ten principles. Every day we work on making progress in all of the relevant areas – within the BMW Group, in our cooperation with business partners and also in our dealings with all of our other stakeholder groups worldwide. Our new Global Compact progress report outlines what we see as the present challenges for the ten principles. We also describe our achievements over the past year. A particular highlight for the BMW Group was the intensive dialogue with our employees. In 2010, around 13,000 managers worldwide received special training on the strategic challenges the company faces. One of the four focus topics was corporate sustainability. In small groups, the managers worked on tasks that included defining what corporate sustainability means for their area of responsibility. Another highlight was the creation of the “Sustainability Board”, comprised of all Board of Management members. The aim of this board is to define the strategic alignment for sustainability issues and decide on all related measures. In this way, the implementation of ­corporate sustainability throughout the BMW Group’s value chain is firmly established at the highest level. The aim of the current Communication on Progress report is to provide you with a comprehensive overview of actual projects and measures at the BMW Group. We would also like to inform you about additional implementation goals we have set ourselves. Please refer to the “Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010” document for key figures where indicated. These figures underscore the success of our efforts. We would like to hear from you if you have any feedback or questions regarding this progress report. Because the only way we can turn the goals of the UN Global Compact into reality is by working together. Worldwide. Every day. Yours, Dr. Norbert Reithofer Chairman of the Board of Management of BMW AG 3 II. Global Compact Principles and Sources of Information on the BMW Group. Human Rights GC  Sources of Information on the BMW Group*  GRI (G3)   Principle 1  Businesses should support and – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 11, 14 –15, 50, 53 – 56, 58 EC5, respect the protection of interna– Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 73, 97– 98, 101 LA4, tionally proclaimed human rights. – Annual Report 2009, p. 31, 38 – 39, 66, 158 LA6 – 9, – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 1 LA13 –14, – Value-oriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of HR1– 9, the BMW Group, p. 1 SO5, – Long-term personnel policy and social policy of the BMW Group, p. 2 PR1– 2, PR8 Principle 2  Businesses should make sure – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 14 –15, 22, 50, 53, 58 HR1– 9, they are not complicit in human – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 77 SO5 rights abuses. – Annual Report 2009, p. 31, 38 – 39, 66, 158 – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 1 – Value-oriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of the BMW Group, p. 1 – Long-term personnel policy and social policy of the BMW Group, p. 2 Labour Standards GC  Sources of Information on the BMW Group*   Principle 3  Businesses should uphold the – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 14 –15, 50, 58 LA4 – 5, freedom of association and – Annual Report 2009, p. 82 HR1– 3, the effective recognition of the – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 2 HR5, right to collective bargaining. SO5 Principle 4  Businesses should uphold the – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 14 –15, 50 HR1– 3, elimination of all forms of forced – Annual Report 2009, p. 158 HR7, and compulsory labour. – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 1 SO5 Principle 5  Businesses should uphold the – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 14 –15, 50 HR1– 3, effective abolition of child labour. – Annual Report 2009, p. 158 HR6, – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 2 SO5 Principle 6  Businesses should uphold the – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 14 –15, 22, 50, 53, 56 EC7, elimination of discrimination – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 77, 97– 98, 101 LA2, in respect of employment and – Annual Report 2009, p. 158 LA13 –14, occupation. – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, p. 2 HR1– 4, – Value-oriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of SO5 the BMW Group, p. 1 – Legal Compliance Code: Acting responsibly and lawfully, p. 15  4 Environment GC  Sources of Information on the BMW Group*  GRI (G3)   Principle 7  Businesses should support a – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 02 – 03, 08 –11, 14 –15, 22, 26 – 28, 34 – 35, 40 – 41 EC2, ­precautionary approach to – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 73, 77 EN18, ­environmental challenges. – Annual Report 2009, p. 31 – 35, 72, 147 EN26, – Legal Compliance Code: Acting responsibly and lawfully, p. 13 EN30, – Efficient Dynamics Strategy, p. 2 – 6 SO5 – Environmental Guidelines: Responsibility for our Environment, p. 1 – 2 Principle 8  Businesses should undertake – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 07 –11, 14 –15, 26 – 31, 34 – 35, 40 – 46 EN1– 30, ­initiatives to promote greater – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 72 – 73, 78 – 85, 86 – 95 SO5, ­environmental responsibility. – Annual Report 2009, p. 22, 31 – 35, 38 PR3 – 4 – Legal Compliance Code: Acting responsibly and lawfully, p. 13 – Efficient Dynamics strategy, p. 2 – 6 – Environmental Guidelines: Responsibility for our Environment, p. 1 – 2 Principle 9  Businesses should encourage – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 08 –11, 26 – 31, 35, 40 – 46 EN2, the development and diffusion – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 78 – 85, 86 – 95 EN5 – 7, of environmentally friendly tech– Annual Report 2009, p. 31 – 39, 72 EN10, nologies. – Legal Compliance Code: Acting responsibly and lawfully, p. 13 EN18, – Efficient Dynamics Strategy, p. 2 – 6 EN26 – 27, – Environmental Guidelines: Responsibility for our Environment, p. 1 – 2 EN30, SO5 Anti-Corruption GC  Sources of Information on the BMW Group*   Principle 10  Businesses should work against – Sustainable Value Report 2008, p. 20 – 22 SO2 – 6 corruption in all its forms, including – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, p. 77 extortion and bribery. – Annual Report 2009, p. 9, 68 – 69, 158 –161  * Sources: – Sustainable Value Report 2008, PDF, 110 pages; Document – Indicators for Sustainability Update 2010, PDF, 36 Pages; Document – Annual Report 2009, PDF, 248 pages; Document – Joint Declaration on Human Rights and Working Conditions in the BMW Group, PDF, 3 pages; Document – Value-oriented Human Resources Policy: The 8 guidelines of the personnel policy of the BMW Group, PDF, 1 page; Document – Long-term personnel policy and social policy of the BMW Group, PDF, 6 pages; Document – Efficient Dynamics Strategy, PDF, 6 pages; Document – Environmental Guidelines: Responsibility for our Environment, PDF, 2 pages; Document – Legal Compliance Code: Acting responsibly and lawfully, PDF, 14 pages; Document 5 III. Sustainability Objectives of the BMW Group in 2010 with regard to Global Compact Principles Sustainability Management Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Strategy and organisation  Further development of Further development of the sustainability The Sustainability Circle and Sustainability 1 – 10 BMW Group’s sustainability strategy and increased coordination of Board both met twice to review sustainability ­management ­individual divisions worldwide targets. Each division has been fleshing out details of the corporate sustainability strategy adopted in 2009 since spring 2010. Target management process for sustainability goals also further established. Integration of sustainability strategy at sub­ Possible initiatives currently being explored. 1 – 10 sidiaries and retail organisations worldwide Involve all employees in implementing the Sustainability on Tour roadshow held for 1 – 10 sustainability strategy employees at the Munich, Regensburg and Dingolfing locations. Also, special training on the topics of sustainability and environmental protection held for managers and planners. Extend the risk management system to Workshop held with all divisional strategy 1–9 include ecological and social factors departments concerned to explore opportunities and risks associated with climate change. Investor relations  Integration of sustainability issues Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) roadIn 2009 / 2010, issues relating to corporate 1 – 10 into investor relations work shows, conference calls – in 2006 approx. sustainability at the BMW Group were more 5 % of all IR contacts specifically on SRI. closely integrated into classic investor relaGoal: 10 % of roadshows on SRI and alter­ tions activities. The requirements of SRI spenative / environmentally-sound drive trains cialists and mainstream investors and analysts are increasingly converging. As a result, it has become virtually impossible to distinguish between SRI content and classic investor relations content. Targets therefore both fulfilled and exceeded. The BMW Group’s standard investor presentation has included the main elements of its sustainability strategy and activities for several years. Sustainability issues are therefore addressed at every “classic” investor meeting. The BMW Group’s Investor Relations department also hosted special SRI roadshows and attended SRI conferences in Europe and the UK once again in 2009 / 2010. Shareholder dialogue  Continuation of stakeholder Host further stakeholder roundtables in 2009 First Stakeholder Roundtable on sustainable 1 – 10 ­dialogue and 2010 mobility and resource conservation hosted in 2009 in Munich. Second Stakeholder Roundtable on the subject of electro-mobility held in Munich in 2010.  6 Human Rights Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Occupational health and safety protection and promotion  Company-wide coverage by Introduce occupational safety management In progress 1, 2 occupational safety management systems at all BMW Group sites: systems Introduce occupational safety management systems in accordance with OHSAS at British, US and Thai sites Certification of Steyr plant according to Steyr plant certified according to OHSAS in 1, 2 OHRIS 2009 Commitment to fighting HIV / Aids  Fight against HIV / Aids HIV retesting campaign with the slogan A second retest was completed at BMW 1 “Vision of Life” at BMW South Africa South Africa. 86 % of employees had par­ ticipated by the end of 2008. In 2009, the HIV / Aids programme was expanded to include employees’ families under the motto “BMW Caring Together”. To focus on minimising risks, general checkups conducted as well as HIV / Aids testing. Extension of HIV / Aids activities Transfer specific elements of the programme In progress 1 to other sites from South Africa to other countries, e. g. China, Russia and Thailand Extend BMW South Africa’s HIV / Aids proThe “Dealer HIV / Aids” project in South 1 gramme to local dealerships Africa lays the foundation for HIV programmes in the vicinity of BMW dealerships through social network mapping. Several dealerships have adopted the programme, in full or in part. ­Programmes are constantly updated (for instance, in connection with the 2010 soccer World Cup) and social groups affected or at risk integrated. Sustainability in the supply chain  Integration of ecological and social Develop suitable indicators to identify deviaRevised questionnaire for self-assessment 1, 2 standards in processes between tions and room for improvement early on of suppliers includes an evaluation matrix with purchasing and ­suppliers / partners exclusion criteria from the fields of environmental protection, social standards and ­product development. Suppliers are required to provide detailed information about the materials and substances they use in the form of technical data sheets as well as on REACH requirements. Inadequate fulfilment of the necessary sustainability requirements is resolved in close cooperation between the BMW Group departments concerned and the suppliers. Efficient supply chain that applies Establish assessment processes at suppliers’ Verifying suppliers’ sustainability status also 1, 2 the same ambitious sustainability locations and take sustainability aspects into firmly established as part of the requalification standards worldwide and at all consideration at all stages of value creation in process for quality assurance. stages of value creation the concept phase of new vehicle projects Raise awareness among purchasers for the In progress importance of ecological and social standards and validate supplier partners  7 Labour Standards Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Diversity and equal opportunities  Promotion of diversity at the Develop strategic fields of action and targets In progress 6 ­company (also other aspects of in the area of diversity diversity apart from the advanceRaise awareness at the company for diversity In progress 6 ment of women) issues Demographic change  Enhancement and maintenance Implement the new partial retirement regulaImplementation complete 6 of the productivity and employation bility of BMW Group employees Develop standards for the creation of ageTarget fulfilled 6 and enabling of flexible, demandappropriate work systems in production Rollout concept currently in preparation oriented retirement Environment Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Innovative technologies  Compliance with the EU’s CO2 Further development of Efficient Dynamics As part of the innovation process, additional 7–9 emissions performance standtechnologies such as the thermoelectric genEfficient Dynamics measures constantly ards (average CO2 emissions erator or Auto Start Stop function in autobeing researched; development of more than of new cars sold in the EU of matic-transmission models 30 measures authorised for 2011 alone. max. 140 grams CO2 / km) for 2015 Reduction in fuel consumption of up to 20% Details of wide-scale rollout of large number compared to vehicles with combustion of hybridised models currently being planned. engines through use of hybrid technology Development of hydrogen Partnerships on global introduction of hydroSince the BMW Hydrogen 7 successfully 7–9 ­infrastructure gen for use on the roads: demonstrated the technical maturity of H2 – Initiatives to promote development of H2 vehicles, the focus has been on optimising infrastructure the core H2 components – drive system – Continued participation in the Clean Energy and storage unit. Partnership (CEP) project in Berlin Advancement in alternative drive Development of a series-produced electric The Megacity Vehicle will be launched in 7–9 technologies car, the Megacity Vehicle, in connection with 2013. Initial technical details, such as the project i ­carbon fibre-reinforced plastic (CFRP) body, the LifeDrive concept and early design sketches already presented to the public. Product recycling  Use of recyclates in vehicles Further determination of suitable components The use of recyclates continues to be explored 8, 9 to be used as recyclates. At present, approved for each model, and potential identified. plastic recyclates account for up to 15 %. The percentage of recyclates used remains unchanged at up to 15 %.  8 Environment Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Environmental protection in service  Reduction of products’ environEstablish and enhance recovery systems for Continues to be established and refined. 7, 8 mental impact at each stage of the end-of-life parts from maintenance and repair ­Currently working on a joint system with life cycle in service garages in Western Europe and other manufacturers in Spain. optimise recovery paths Develop methods for a streamlined life cycle In progress assessment approach, i. e. comprehensive assessment of material groups for a more efficient and faster accounting of entire vehicles Inform markets about product Promote networking on matters of environProfessional networking continues to be 7, 8 responsibility requirements in mental protection in the retail organisations ­promoted. Environmental officers appointed accordance with environmental and expand the network of environmental in 99 % of cases (attrition). laws officers in individual markets Global introduction of one of the market-­ Market-specific shop disposal systems con7–9 specific shop disposal systems recomtinue to be established and updated. mended by the BMW Group at dealer and service operations, as well as inclusion of related requirements in importer contracts. Resource and environmental protection management  Breakthrough goal of a 30 % Following developments reported between 8–9 reduction in energy consumption 2009 and June 2010: as well as VOC, water, process – Energy consumption: 5 % increase from wastewater and waste per vehicle 2.80 to 2.94 MWh / vehicle produced between 2006 and – VOC emissions: 21 % reduction from 2012 (5 % per year) 1.96 to 1.54 kg / vehicle – Water consumption: 12 % reduction from 2.56 to 2.25 m3 / vehicle – Process wastewater: 8 % reduction from 0.64 to 0.59 m3 / vehicle – Waste for disposal: 32 % reduction from 14.84 to 10.13 kg per vehicle The energy efficiency index shows that overall resource efficiency enhancements are in the agreed target range. The increase in energy consumption per vehicle produced is due to lower production volumes during the 2009 economic crisis. Further measures to raise employee awareEmployees at all German-speaking plants ness of energy saving potential were educated and advised about how to use energy and water efficiently at work and at home through exhibits, information material, a film and a quiz as part of the “Energy Days” held for all plants. Energy-saving tips are posted in the intranet. Poster campaigns and the intranet call attention to topical energysaving options at the start of winter and during vacation time. Integration of findings from the Munich The findings from the pilot project at the pilot project on consumption structures and Munich plant were applied and implemented energy flows at all German locations at German locations. Full implementation of odour-free foundry Switching from organic to inorganic binders at the Landshut plant by 2010 with the subin the die casting process for manufacturing sequent further reduction in VOC emissions sand cores made it possible to shut down the natural gas post-combustion plant and reduce emissions by 98 %. This also saves energy costs of about 745,000 euros per year. Decrease in potable water consumption Water consumption reduced by about through recycling in production and use of 460,000 m3 (approx. 13 %) in 2009. other water categories such as near-surface ground water Nature conservation and bio­ Develop a biodiversity indicator for the BMW Ecological reviews currently being performed 8 diversity Group’s production network at the Regensburg and Wackersdorf locations to provide a complete set of data for the de­ velopment of a biodiversity indicator.  9 Environment Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Energy consumption and emissions  Increased use of renewable Evaluate and promote the option of using The use of wind power in the vicinity of the 7, 8 ­energies wind and geothermal power at various Leipzig and Oxford sites is currently under ­locations evaluation. The use of geothermal power is also being explored at several locations. Materials use and waste management  Introduction of waste manageIntroduction of ABIS at the plants in GoodThe plant in Chennai, India was integrated 7–9 ment worldwide wood (UK), Rayong (Thailand) and into the BMW Group’s ABIS waste informaChennai (India) tion system in 2008. ABIS scheduled for launch at the Goodwood (UK) and Rayong (Thailand) plants in 2011. Sustainability in the supply chain  Integration of ecological and social Develop suitable indicators to identify deviaRevised questionnaire for self-assessment of 7–9 standards in processes between tions and room for improvement early on suppliers includes an evaluation matrix with purchasing and suppliers / partexclusion criteria from the fields of environners mental protection, social standards and product development. Suppliers are required to provide detailed information about the materials and substances they use in the form of technical data sheets as well as on REACH requirements. Inadequate fulfilment of the necessary sustainability requirements is resolved in close cooperation between the BMW Group departments concerned and the suppliers. Efficient supply chain that applies Establish assessment processes at suppliers’ Verifying suppliers’ sustainability status also 7–9 the same ambitious sustainability locations and take sustainability aspects into firmly established as part of the requalification standards worldwide and at all consideration at all stages of value creation in process for quality assurance. stages of value creation the concept phase of new vehicle projects Raise awareness of the importance of ecologiIn progress cal and social standards among purchasers and validate supplier partners Efficient transport logistics  Reduction in environmental imConversion of vehicle distribution to exclude Further reductions in surface protection for 7–9 pact of surface protection mate­ surface protection (by the start of 2008, 95 % vehicles lowered emissions. Due to delivery rials for new vehicle transport of BMW Group vehicles to be delivered withproblems with the closed wagons needed out extra surface protection) for transportation, about 91 % of all new ­vehicles were delivered without surface protection such as wax, adhesive films or pro­ tective sheaths in 2009 (2008: 82 %). Increase percentage of low-­ Development of supply concepts from global Logistics partners contractually obliged to 7–9 emissions transport usage procurement sources to BMW Group producuse vehicles that meet latest EU norms. tion sites under consideration of sustainable, ­Further supply concept measures currently environmentally-friendly transport concepts in preparation. Optimisation of transport volumes Development of concepts on traffic reduction Concepts for traffic reduction and transfer 7–9 (capacity utilisation) and traffic relocation to to more environmentally-friendly carriers conmore environmentally-friendly carriers tinue to be monitored and possible actions explored.  10 Anti-Corruption Objectives  Action  Status  GC Principles  Continuous optimisation of Complete the implementation of the com­ Implementation at BMW AG and several Ger10 ­compliance organisation pliance organisation at BMW AG, BMW Bank man subsidiaries completed in June 2009. GmbH and other German subsidiaries Continue the rollout of compliance processes International rollout at more than 69 BMW in business units at BMW Group in Germany Group units worldwide completed in Novemand abroad, including the completion of the ber 2009, included training in compliance second phase of the compliance training rollbasics for more than 10,000 managers and out for an additional 3,000 managers at all employees worldwide. international group companies Translation of the Legal Compliance Code The BMW Group’s Legal Compliance Code – into seven additional languages to complethe principles of lawful behaviour – has ment the German and the English versions been available in eight additional languages (French, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Japanese, Thai and Korean), besides German and English, since 2009. 
