@@GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010@@ @@OF AUSTRIAN POST@@ in line with the guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) CONTENTS 1. Sustainability strategy Page 4 1.1 Statement by the most senior decision-maker of the organisation Page 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 6 2. Organisational profile Page 7 3. Report parameters Page 11 4. Governance, commitments and engagements Page 14 4.1 – 4.9 Corporate governance Page 14 4.11 – 4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Page 19 4.14 – 4.17 Stakeholder engagement Page 20 Economic performance indicators Page 23 Aspect: Economic performance (EC1) Page 23 Aspect: Market presence (EC6) Page 25 Aspect: Indirect economic impacts (EC9) Page 25 Ecological performance indicators Page 27 Aspect: Materials (EN1 – EN2) Page 27 Aspect: Energy (EN3 – EN5) Page 28 Aspect: Water Page 30 Aspect: Biodiversity Page 30 Aspect: Emissions, wastewater and waste (EN16 – EN18, EN22, EN24) Page 30 Aspect: Products and services (EN26) Page 33 Aspect: Compliance with legal regulations (EN28) Page 35 Aspect: Transport (EN29) Page 35 Social performance indicators: Labour practices and decent work Page 36 Aspect: Employment (LA1 – LA3) Page 36 Aspect: Employer-employee relationship (LA4) Page 38 Aspect: Occupational safety (LA7 – LA9) Page 38 Aspect: Training and education (LA10 – LA12) Page 40 Aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity (LA13 – LA14) Page 43 Social performance indicators: Human rights Page 45 Aspect: Investment and procurement practices (HR2 – HR3) Page 45 Social performance indicators: Society Page 47 Aspect: Local community (SO1) Page 47 Aspect: Corruption (SO2 – SO4) Page 48 Aspect: Public policy (SO5) Page 49 Aspect: Anti-competitive behaviour (SO7) Page 49 NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 2 Aspect: Compliance with laws (SO8) Page 50 Social performance indicators: Product responsibility Page 51 Aspect: Labelling of products and services (PR3 – PR5) Page 51 Aspect: Marketing communications (PR6 – PR7) Page 52 Aspect: Protection of customer data (PR8) Page 53 Aspect: Compliance with laws (PR9) Page 53 Thematic and goal matrix Page 54 GRI Content Index Page 55 Independent certification Page 63 Contact and imprint Page 65 NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 3 1 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 1.1 Statement by the most senior decision-maker in the organisation As a large Austrian company, Austrian Post is aware of the importance of sustainable development and the responsibility it bears. We actively accept our corporate social responsibility in the fields of economy, environment, employees and society. This Sustainability Report 2010 provides an overview of the sustainability-related activities of Austrian Post. As one of Austria’s largest companies, Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility towards its stakeholders and the social environment. Clearly defined visions and values are the basis for target-oriented, sustainable behaviour. With this in mind, Austrian Post, which is subject to large-scale changes in its business development, developed a new mission statement in the year 2010. This mission statement based on three core guiding principles, “Everything we do revolves around our customers”, “We are future-oriented” and “We are all part of Austrian Post” serves as the foundation for the sustainability strategy of Austrian Post. Each of the four main issues encompassed in the sustainability strategy – economy, environment, employees and society – can be clearly assigned to one of the guiding principles in the mission statement and directly focuses on these principles as reflected in the related objectives and measures. For the management of Austrian Post, successful business management does not comprise exclusively coordinating the day-to-day business operations of the company according to quantitative criteria, but making qualitative criteria a top priority, due to the fact that they also impact the long-term success of the company. The things that really matter to Austrian Post are profitability and sustainability, customer orientation as well as communication and appreciation for its employees. Although Austrian Post is subject to dynamic changes in its business environment, considerable importance is attached to sustainability aspects in all management decisions. Naturally, as a publicly listed company, Austrian Post is committed to economic success for the benefit of its shareholders – the Republic of Austria as well as institutional and private shareholders. In addition, the company voluntarily and deliberately takes responsibility for society, its employees and the environment. Austrian Post is committed at all times to considering economic, social and ecological considerations as an integrating whole. For this reason, in the year 2007 Austrian Post joined the UN Global Compact, an initiative launched by the United Nations. Accordingly, the company is committed to adhering to global principles defining ethical, ecological and economic behaviour. The UN Global Compact contains ten principles stipulating minimum ecological and social standards. These principles comprise the primary demands of the international community represented in the United Nations relating to sustainable business management in the interests of all stakeholders. In order to fulfil these broad-based commitments, Austrian Post has developed structures and processes designed to enable the ongoing optimisation of its sustainability strategy, and the development of appropriate measures. Accordingly, Austrian Post considers sustainability to be a management task with clearly-defined areas of responsibility and objectives. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 4 Sustainability process and structure Sustainability is permanently entrenched at Austrian Post in the form of a clearly defined process. An extra-disciplinary team, the “CSR Board“ (Corporate Social Responsibility Board), meets twice per year in order to analyze sustainability-related issues at the company and develop measures presented to the entire Management Board for its approval. Moreover, various teams continually work on implementing the agreed-upon objectives and measures. In organisational terms, responsibility for the issue of sustainability at Austrian Post is directly assigned to Chief Executive Officer Georg Pölzl in the Department of Investor Relations & Corporate Governance. Austrian Post has defined sustainable development with respect to its stakeholders as encompassing four main focal points with corresponding goals: Society: As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Post bears a considerable responsibility. It makes an important contribution towards maintaining and safeguarding the communications infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top-quality nationwide postal services in Austria. Environment: Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to protect the environment, and thus continually strives to identify optimization potential in order to minimize its ecological footprint. This includes the consistent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the efficient use of natural resources and promoting renewable energy sources. On the basis of the “CO₂ neutral delivery” initiative, the company takes a leading role in eco-friendly operations among international logistics providers. Economy: The top priority for Austrian Post’s management is to achieve the basic goal of ensuring profitability on a long-term basis. Only a successful company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis and make an appropriate contribution to fulfilling social and ecological needs. Employees: Motivated and productive employees are the basis for corporate success. The company also wants to ensure future perspectives for its employees in a market environment in which the demands on staff are continually subject to change, and individually promote their professional development. In this regard, a healthy and safe working environment and individual career perspectives are important pre-requisites. These four main themes with their corresponding objectives and measures are presented in a condensed form in the target and thematic matrix found on page 54. This not only lists the measures carried out in the year 2010, but also provides an outlook for measures to be implemented in the year 2011. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 5 1.2 Statement of key impacts, risks and opportunities As the leading postal and logistics services provider in Austria, Austrian Post is subject to a variety of operational risks in carrying out its business operations which the company consciously deals with. The focus on its core business activities, along with decades of experience in the business, have enabled Austrian Post to identify risks at an early stage, evaluate them and quickly take suitable precautionary measures. A unified risk management system has been established at Austrian Post integrating all business units and subsidiaries and including an internal control system for all main processes. Risk management is fundamentally oriented to the COSO Standard Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework. The focal point of Austrian Post’s risk management is the identification, evaluation and control of major risks from the company’s business operations. This process is coordinated by the Management Board and key managers in the various divisions and business areas. In the interest of sustainability, risk evaluation, risk management and the planning of risk control measures take ecological, social and ethical aspects into consideration. The Internal Control System (ICS) serves as part of the risk management system of Austrian Post, and encompasses risk-oriented procedures integrated into day-to-day business operations. Accordingly, appropriate measures support project implementation or are carried out within the context of upstream or downstream operations. The ICS has been set up in line with legal regulations, and also takes into account the demands imposed by the Management Board and Supervisory Board of Austrian Post on such a control system. In addition, the systematic documentation of important processes and controls comprise the starting point for a general optimisation of internal processes and structures, and thus can also lead to increased operational efficiency in addition to the improvement of the ICS. As a control instrument with a sustainable effect, the ICS supports the implementation of the business strategy and the achievement of the company’s objectives, and thus contributes to the success of Austrian Post. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 6 2 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE Österreichische Post AG, whose headquarters are located in Vienna, address Postgasse 8, is Austria’s leading logistics and services provider, with annual revenues of EUR 1.6 billion in the year 2010 (individual financial statements according to the Austrian Commercial Code), and a total of 21,000 employees. The company is committed to providing basic postal services throughout Austria, and guarantees the highest quality service, both in the mail and in the parcel segments. The Sustainability Report presented here refers exclusively to the parent company Österreichische Post AG (“Austrian Post” in this report). The subsidiaries of Austrian Post are not included in this report. However, if any statements in the report also relate to the entire Group (including all subsidiaries), the text will clearly use the term “Austrian Post Group”. Structurally speaking, the Austrian Post Group and thus Austrian Post is divided into three divisions: Mail Division, Parcel & Logistics Division, as well as the Branch Network Division. Mail Division The Mail Division encompasses the business areas of Letter Mail, Infomail and Media Post. The division’s core business consists of the acceptance, sorting and delivery of letters, postcards, addressed direct mail items, unaddressed household advertising mail and regional media. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 7 The delivery staff of about 11,000 people deliver mail every day to a total of 4.2 million households and companies throughout Austria, corresponding to more than 6 billion mail items annually. This range of services is complemented by new services for business and advertising mail, including address and data management, mailroom management, intelligent scanning and response management. The core business in letter mail, the most important contributor to revenue and earnings, is being continually optimised and modernised. Austrian Post is counteracting the trend towards declining letter mail volumes caused by electronic substitution on the basis of a systematic, customer-oriented expansion of its product and service offering, in addition to its quality and performance excellence. The full-scale postal market liberalisation as of January 1, 2011 offers the opportunity to tailor services to market requirements in accordance with international trends. Performance data of the Mail Division in Austria: Some 22,000 pick-up points throughout Austria Daily, nationwide and top quality delivery services (95% of letters are delivered on the next working day) Delivery of about 1 billion letters per year to 4.2 million households and companies Delivery of approx. 680 million addressed and 3.8 billion unaddressed direct mail items annually Delivery of about 770 million print and regional media per year Parcel & Logistics Division Basically Austrian Post’s parcels segment relies on nationwide service and the strongest possible market position as the basis for offering efficient logistics and additional services to its customers which are tailored to the needs of the respective market and segment. In 2010, the Parcel & Logistics Division successively took advantage of its regional market shares in the B2B business as well as the growing potential in the private customer segment. In the strategic parcel and logistics growth market, Austrian Post is exploiting additional opportunities in a targeted manner. In recent years Austrian Post has been able to increase its business volumes in these dynamic business areas. Performance data of the Parcel & Logistics Division: Delivery of about 56 million parcels and EMS mail items per year Parcel and EMS service in 220 countries around the world Parcel pick-up for business customers and processing of mail items in 7 sorting centres and 13 own delivery bases Branch Network Division The branch network of Austrian Post ranks among the largest private customer networks in the country, offering high quality postal, banking and telecommunications products and NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 8 services to its customers throughout Austria. Featuring a total of 1,850 company-operated branches and third-party operated outlets and close to 4,300 employees, the branch network ensures nationwide customer proximity. In addition, approximately 500 BAWAG P.S.K. banking consultants stationed in the branches and some 80 mobile consultants provide competent advice on financial issues. Performance data of the Branch Network Division in Austria: 62 million customer visits annually 1,850 company-operated branches and third-party operated outlets provide nationwide service throughout Austria 393 million letters and 14 million parcels are deposited in the branch network each year Business locations of the Austrian Post Group In recent years, Austrian Post has proactively taken advantage of the opportunities opened up by dynamic changes in Europe’s postal market, building up a focused business portfolio in Central Europe and in South East/Eastern Europe with a particular emphasis on parcel and logistics services as well as unaddressed direct mail. Accordingly, it has successfully positioned itself as a provider of specialised postal services in attractive market niches, for example specialty logistics focusing on combined freight and temperature-controlled logistics, as well as in geographic growth markets. The Austrian Post Group is currently represented by 23 operating subsidiaries in the letter mail and parcel segments in 11 countries: Austrian Post is represented in Hungary, Croatia and Slovakia with subsidiaries specialising in the distribution of advertising materials, and also delivers addressed direct mail items in the metropolitan areas of these countries. Whereas these services are provided by existing companies in Hungary and Slovakia, Austrian Post set up a new company in Croatia, Post d.o.o., and began building up its own delivery network. Furthermore, Austrian Post has its own sales subsidiary in Germany, Austrian Post International, which provides advisory services for international postal dispatch solutions for the German market. Since the beginning of 2011, the direct mail activities of Swiss Post Solutions and the Austrian Post subsidiary meiller direct GmbH have been bundled within the context of a joint venture. The new company MEILLERGHP is the leading direct mail producer in Germany. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 9 Today Austrian Post is active in the Belgian, Bosnian, Croatian, Dutch, German, Hungarian, Montenegrin, Serbian and Slovak markets, offering integrated logistics services. Austrian Post serves the Slovak and Croatian markets in cooperation with the international logistics specialist UPS. All in all, Austrian Post has successfully established a foothold as a specialist in selected segments and regions with high growth potential. According to Austrian Post’s own analysis, the Group has the following market position in the individual markets and segments: Austrian Post is the market leader in Germany for the distribution of shipments in the pharmaceutical sector, as well as in the combined freight segment. It also serves as the leading provider of parcel delivery services for business customers in Slovakia, Croatia, Serbia and Bosnia-Herzegovina, and is the market leader for unaddressed advertising mail in Hungary and Croatia. Shareholder structure Austrian Post has been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since May 31, 2006 as Europe’s third postal company to be publicly traded on the stock market. As a consequence of the Initial Public Offering in 2006, 49.0% of the shares were placed with investors. The shareholding held by the Austrian state holding company Österreichische Industrieholding AG (ÖIAG) in the share capital of Austrian Post decreased from a 100.0% stake to 51.0%, or a total of 35.7 million of the outstanding shares. In relation to the 67,552,638 shares currently in circulation at present, ÖIAG holds a 52.8% stake in the company, and thus remains the majority shareholder of Austrian Post. Austrian Post is not aware of any other investors who own more than 5% of the total share capital in the company. A shareholder ID carried out in January 2011 concluded that, in addition to the main shareholder ÖIAG, 38% of the shares are held by European investors (plus 4 percentage points compared to the previous analysis of January 2010). 12% of the shares are held by private and institutional investors in Austria (plus 1 percentage point), 14% in Continental Europe (plus 2 percentage points) and 10% in Great Britain (plus 2 percentage points). A total of 8% (minus 2 percentage points) of the shares are currently held by North American investors (USA, Canada), whereas investors in the rest of the world account for much less than 1% (unchanged). Private investors in Austria also include Austrian Post employees, who have a combined share of more than 2%. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 10 3 REPORT PARAMETERS The current Sustainability Report 2010 is the third Sustainability Report published by Austrian Post. The period of review encompasses the financial year from January 1, 2010 to December 31, 2010, and which picks up where the Sustainability Report 2009 published in September 2010 left off. The sustainability reporting of Austrian Post encompasses two different but complementary publications this year. In addition to the present Sustainability Report 2010, whose structure and contents are closely oriented to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines, an additional report was published as a supplement to the Austrian daily newspaper, “Der Standard”. This new form of reporting was selected in order to take advantage of the high circulation of this daily newspaper in order to inform a broader target group about the activities and projects of Austrian Post in the field of sustainability. In addition, the standardised structure of the current Sustainability Report is designed to provide a high degree of transparency for the benefit of the company‘s stakeholders and comparability with other companies. The Sustainability Report 2010 of Austrian Post was prepared in accordance to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3), and corresponds to the B+ Application Level. Compliance with the related formal criteria as well as the information contained in the report was reviewed and certified by an independent third party. The Assurance Statement of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. can be found at the end of this report. The report refers exclusively to the parent company Österreichische Post AG and does not include its subsidiaries, due to the fact that as things stand today, some sustainabilityrelated data still does not exist in a consolidated form. The objective of Austrian Post is to integrate the subsidiary trans-o-flex, which contributes about 25% of total Group revenue, in the sustainability reporting within the next five years. The remaining subsidiaries only generate about 5% of Group revenue. The compiling and calculation of data in this report was the responsibility of Group accounting and controlling, as well as the departments responsible for the vehicle fleet and building management. The scope of the reporting and the measuring methods which were applied are similar to last Sustainability Report. The decision on the contents of the report was based on the principle of materiality. This report covers all the sustainability aspects reflecting the significant economic, ecological and social influences on the part of the organisation, or which have a considerable influence on the evaluation and decisions of stakeholders. Due to the current limited availability of data, Austrian Post is only able to partially report on some important GRI performance indicators (see GRI Content Index). Austrian Post is working on optimising data collection for these indicators, in order to be able to comprehensively report on all performance indicators of material significance. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 11 The evaluation of the materiality of sustainability aspects and individual performance indicators was carried out in the core sustainability team as well as in cooperation with external consultants. Other issues which are not fully covered by the performance indicators but which are relevant to the sustainability development of Austrian Post were defined by the “CSR Board”. This CSR Board consists of employees from different departments who are in contact with a broad spectrum of stakeholder groups and integrate the diverse demands imposed by these stakeholders on sustainability reporting. The direct involvement of stakeholders in the sustainability process and reporting took place in June 2011 within the context of a Stakeholder Roundtable. About 30 invited representatives of various stakeholder groups discussed currently relevant sustainability issues which are of primary importance to Austrian Post. Corresponding adjustments and additions were made to the Sustainability Report as a result of this discussion. The Sustainability Report 2010 according to GRI guidelines and the report which appeared as a supplement to the daily newspaper “Der Standard” are available on the Website of Austrian Post (www.post.at/csr). Statement on GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) develops globally applicable quality criteria for sustainability reporting in consultation with a wide range of stakeholders drawn from business, employer and employee representatives, civil society, academic institutions and other areas. The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines are designed to serve as a universally valid framework which an organization can use to report on its economic, environmental, and social performance. The voluntary adoption of the criteria set out in the Guidelines increases transparency, credibility, and comparability in sustainability reporting. The performance indicators supply comparable information on the economic, ecological and social performance of the organisation, and are characterised using the following abbreviations: EC (Economy), EN (Environment), LA (Labor), HR (Human Rights), SO (Society) und PR (Product). Organizations that use GRI guidelines for their reporting are obliged to declare the extent to which the GRI Guidelines have been utilized. The requirements for reporting on each of the three Application Levels, A, B, and C, are shown in the table below. The “+” following the letter of the alphabet indicates that the report was reviewed by an independent third party. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 12 The present Sustainability Report 2010 of Austrian Post meets the requirements of the B+ Application Level of the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 13 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 – 4.9 Corporate Governance 4.1 Corporate governance and management structure In accordance with the Austrian Stock Corporation Act, the Management Board has sole responsibility for managing the company for the benefit of the enterprise itself, taking account of the interests of the shareholders and employees as well as the public interest. In the year 2010 the Management Board consisted of five members. Georg Pölzl has served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Management Board since October 2009. In January 2011 the Supervisory Board resolved to merge the Mail and Branch Network Divisions by the beginning of 2012, in which case the number of Management Board members would be reduced from five to four. The aim is to enhance the efficiency of the company and more strongly orient its business operations to customer proximity and market requirements. The Management Board regularly provides the Supervisory Board with timely and comprehensive information about all relevant issues pertaining to planning, business development, the risk situation and risk management at Austrian Post. The Supervisory Board consists of twelve members – eight shareholder representatives elected by the Annual General Meeting and four employee representatives elected by the Central Works Council of Austrian Post. The Supervisory Board appoints the members of the Management Board. It supervises and consults the Management Board on managing the company’s business activities. In accordance with the stipulations contained in the Austrian Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board has defined criteria modeled after Appendix 1 of the code. If these criteria are fulfilled the Supervisory Board member is considered to be independent. All the members of the Supervisory Board elected by the Annual General Meeting declared their independence in accordance with these criteria. Moreover, the Supervisory Board consists of six representatives who can be considered as independent from the core shareholder of Austrian Post. Accordingly, the majority of the Supervisory Board members do not have any direct relationship to the majority shareholder of the company. Details on the criteria defining the independence of Supervisory Board members can be found in the Annual Report 2010 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, pages 13 and 14. The Supervisory Board has resolved to establish committees consisting of its own members to carry out specific functions. The executive committee is responsible for regulating the relationships between the company and the members of the Management Board. The presidential committee deals with issues relating to appointing members of the Management Board. The audit committee carries out the responsibilities defined in § 92 Para. 4a Austrian Stock Corporation Act. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 14 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the highest governance body of Austrian Post, does not simultaneously serve as the Chairman of the Management Board. In the 2010 financial year Peter Michaelis carried out his mandate as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The Annual General Meeting held on April 28, 2011 appointed Markus Beyrer to be the new Chairman of the Supervisory Board. The incompatibility of a supervisory board member serving on the management board at the same time is regulated in detail in §90 Para. 1 Austrian Stock Corporation Act. 4.3 Structure of the management bodies The Supervisory Board of Austrian Post consists of twelve members – eight shareholder representatives elected by the Annual General Meeting and four employee representatives elected by the Central Works Council of Austrian Post. The members of the Supervisory Board in the 2010 financial year are listed in the Annual Report 2010 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, pages 12 and 13. 4.4 Employee and shareholder participation in the decision-making process Shareholder rights can be asserted within the framework of the Annual General Meeting. For the first time, shareholders were given the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting 2011 to exercise their voting rights by mail. Each shareholder has the right to propose resolutions at the Annual General Meeting. Moreover, every shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting is entitled, upon request, to be provided with information on matters concerning the Company’s affairs, to the extent that this information is required to enable the shareholder to properly evaluate the relevant items on the agenda The staff representative bodies have the task of representing and promoting the economic, social, health-related and cultural interests of the employees in the company. The staff representative bodies of Austrian Post are structured into a Central Works Council based in Vienna, a total of six staff committees and more than 90 employee ombudsman committees. 4.5 Remuneration system for the Management Board and top executives The remuneration system is based on the fundamental idea of taking a three-tiered approach (fixed and variable salary components as well as a Long-Term Incentive Progamme). The fixed salary is linked to the salary structure of publicly listed Austrian companies, and takes into account the range of responsibilities assumed by each of the members of the Management Board. The variable remuneration system is linked to a large extent to measureable, short-term quantitative performance indicators and also NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 15 encompasses the achievement of qualitative performance targets. More information is available in the Annual Report 2010 of Austrian Post, Part 2, Figures & Values, page 15. The principles underlying the remuneration of the Management Board are applied in adjusted form to top executives. The salaries of top executives include fixed and variable components, which are based on achieving both financial and non-financial corporate targets as well as individually defined objectives. The remuneration of the Supervisory Board for the previous financial year is determined annually by the Annual General Meeting, which also decides on the fee for attending meetings. 4.6 Processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest Pursuant to § 13 of the internal rules of procedure for the Supervisory Board of Austrian Post, Supervisory Board members are required to immediately report any conflicts of interest to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board. If the Chairman is also involved in a conflict of interest, he must immediately notify the Deputy Chairman. The internal rules of procedure applying to the Management Board of Austrian Post stipulates that a member of the Management Board is not permitted to vote on a proposed resolution if the Management Board meeting deals with matters relating to the personal or business interests of this member. 4.7 Expertise of the Supervisory Board on economic, environment or social issues Relevant expertise and experience in management positions are of primary importance in the selection process for members of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the composition of the Supervisory Board also pays attention to ensuring sufficient diversity. With this in mind, it should be noted that one of the eight shareholder representatives elected by the Annual General Meeting 2010 is a woman, one member is over 50 years old and two members are not Austrian nationals. 4.8 Corporate principles, code of conduct and sustainability principles The basis for sustainable corporate management at Austrian Post is the Austrian Corporate Governance Code. Since its Initial Public Offering in May 2006, Austrian Post has been committed to complying with the stipulations of the Austrian Corporate Governance Code in the spirit of ensuring a responsible and transparent management of the company. This is complemented by compliance guidelines as well as a Code of Conduct which took effect in 2011. Both the compliance guidelines and the Code of Conduct apply to the entire Group. Furthermore, Austrian Post is developing its compliance organisation above and beyond its legal obligations with the goal of establishing an integrated, Group-wide compliance NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 16 management system. In addition to ensuring adherence to the binding capital market regulations, this system is designed to establish a value-oriented Group culture focusing on a risk-oriented prevention strategy, and to support employees on the basis of a practiceoriented training and consulting offering. Specific, Group-wide guidelines have been adopted on the specific thematic issues of capital market compliance and anti-corruption encompassed in the compliance management system of Austrian Post. The compliance guidelines correspond to currently valid Austrian capital market regulations as well as the Compliance for Issuance Ordinance of the Financial Market Authority, and have been adopted to prevent insider dealings. The Group directive relating to the “Acceptance and Granting of Gifts, Invitations and Other Advantages” describes in a detailed manner the extent to which the acceptance or granting of gifts is permissible, in order to prevent bribery and corruption as well as potential conflicts of interest. The Code of Conduct developed in the 2010 financial year and published in 2011 contains the principles underlying ethical and legally impeccable behaviour on the part of all employees of the Group. The Code of Conduct is oriented to international agreements as well as ethical standards, and reflects the commitment of Austrian Post to complying with the principles of the UN Global Compact. The compliance management system of Austrian Post Compliance Risk Landscape  Risk early warning system and risk management system m Co s Gu  Regular compliance risk id n tio el assessment and in sa development of suitable  Clearly defined roles e  Compliance definition measures and responsibilities ni an and strategy  Compliance Committee ga Or d Du  Code of Conduct  Corporate Compliance tie  Ascertaining of specific Officer ce s ian pl duties (regular updates)  Decentralised Compliance Compliance Officer Management System en tP  Monitoring of Austrian Post ro n ce ia  Compliance self Incident Management pl assessments  Regular and ad-hoc ss m es Co  Inspections by Internal reporting ce Audit Department M an M  Help desk ag rin em ito  Information on  Communications concept ia nc g  Target group-oriented e training incl. e-learning Co mpl Compliance Information and Communications NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 17 Mission statement A company cannot operate in a goal-oriented and sustainable manner without clearlydefined visions and values. With this in mind, Austrian Post – operating in a market environment subject to major challenges – developed new corporate principles in the year 2010. In this respect, it was important to involve a large number of employees in the process, in order to put the new value framework on a solid foundation. In formulating its new mission statement, Austrian Post linked several objectives reflecting changes in the marketplace and its own activities as well as the economy and the overall working environment: • Cultural change – in the way employees deal with each other, but also with customers and partners of Austrian Post • Strengthening identity and identification with the company – pride in one’s own company and its contribution to society • Increasing the attractiveness of the company – for employees, customers and other stakeholders Austrian Post developed the draft of the new corporate principles in spring and summer 2010 within the framework of a broad-based, multi-phased top down/bottom up process. The basis was laid by a separate corporate principles team, set up as part of the “performance culture” project, which eventually defined four value categories: • Customer orientation and drive for innovation • Efficiency and performance orientation • Reliability and quality • Appreciation and open communications Subsequently, this basic framework was translated into specific contents and discussed in detail by executives and employees. At first, the individual value categories were interpreted and commented upon by the Executive Management Council of Austrian Post by means of an online questionnaire. The next step was for 156 executives and employees from all divisions and different levels to develop specific examples and definitions at six workshops. Finally, the top 270 executives of Austrian Post got involved in the process on the basis of an online survey, and asked to submit their feedback. On balance, some 500 employees directly contributed to the development of the new corporate principles. Three value categories were defined as a consequence of this comprehensive evaluation and discussion process: • Customer orientation: Everything we do revolves around our customers • Profitability and sustainability: We are future-oriented • Communication and appreciation: We are all part of Austrian Post Now the challenge is to implement the new corporate principles in the daily work of all Austrian Post employees and embed these principles in their hearts and minds. Only when these principles are consciously practiced day in and day in will they fulfill the pre-defined objectives. In a first step executives in particular will serve as promotional ambassadors. The following management guidelines have been developed for this purpose: assume responsibility, provide orientation, build confidence and promote cooperation. Based on NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 18 these guidelines and special training, executives should convey the mission statement to their employees, but even more importantly, they should set an example. Austrian Post will succeed in bringing this mission statement to life by means of a cultural transformation in dealing with each other as well as with customers and partners, strengthening the identification with the company and increasing the attractiveness of the company for stakeholders. 4.9 Procedures to oversee the sustainability performance At present, no special control and verification mechanism to monitor the sustainability performance of the company has been set up by the Supervisory Board, the highest governance body. Information pertaining to the ecological and social performance of the company is presented to the entire Management Board at its meetings. The Management Board and Supervisory Board jointly coordinate the way in which sustainability-related issues are dealt with. 4.11 – 4.13 Commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Addressing the precautionary principle Among the objectives of the sustainability approach of Austrian Post is to prevent or minimise any potential burden on the environment or dangers for human health on the basis of early and forward-looking behaviour. This not only includes preventing potential risks, but also the efforts to minimise the environmental impact of the company. The risk management system of Austrian Post is designed to identify, evaluate and control significant business risks. In the interest of sustainability, the risk evaluation, management and planning of appropriate measures takes account of ecological, social and ethical aspects. 4.12 External agreements, principles and initiatives Austrian Post orients its efforts to implement its goals and activities to the UN Global Compact, which it joined in 2007. Against this backdrop, Austrian Post is committed to complying with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact focusing on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and corruption prevention, and reports on its progress in living up to these principles. In order to increase its activities in the field of anticorruption, Austrian Post will cooperate with Transparency International in the future. Furthermore, Austrian Post is a member of “respACT – austrian business council for sustainable development“, the leading corporate platform in Austria for corporate social responsibility and sustainability development. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 19 In 2010, Austrian Post further intensified its commitment and participation in international programmes, i.e. the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme” of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop as well as the “Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)” of the International Postal Corporation (IPC). Accordingly, the data gathered by Austrian Post on the environmental impact of its business operations was audited and accepted without any reservation by a PostEuropdesignated auditor (third-party audit). 4.13 Membership in associations and interest groups Austrian Post is a member of several national associations and interest groups, including the Vienna Chamber of Commerce, the Austrian Federation of Industries, the Austrian Association of Share Issuers and Investors, the Public Relations Association of Austria (PRVA) and the Cercle Investor Relations Austria (C.I.R.A.). On an international level, Austrian Post belongs to the European association of public postal operators PostEurop as well as the International Postal Corporation (IPC). 4.14 – 4.17 Stakeholder engagement 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 20 4.15 Basis for the selection of stakeholders with whom to enagage The stakeholder groups which are relevant for Austrian Post were defined by the “CSR Board” as part of a structured process. The term “stakeholder“ is broadly defined at Austrian Post, due to the fact that Austrian Post has a very high significance to society as one of the biggest employers in the country and a provider of universal postal services. The “clustering“ of stakeholder groups as well as the structured organisation of the ongoing dialogue with them are regularly discussed at “CSR Board” meetings. In order to appropriately deal with sustainability issues which are currently relevant to the company and meet the demands of the general public, Austrian Post intensifies its contacts to the respective federal ministries and NGOs if necessary. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement The objectives and measures underlying Austrian Post’s sustainability efforts are always oriented to the demands and expectations of the company’s stakeholders. On the one hand, the business activities of Austrian Post have a direct effect on its stakeholder groups. On the other hand, they can partly have a considerable influence on the economic success of the company. For this reason, key factors include transparent communications as well as an open dialogue, in order to identify potential conflicts among the individual stakeholder groups at an early stage. Different stakeholders have different opinions concerning the corporate social responsibility of Austrian Post, and thus place different expectations on the company. For this reason, Austrian Post uses different channels to maintain a dialogue with its stakeholder groups, and invites them to interact and provide feedback. The employees of Austrian Post are in regular contact with their stakeholder groups. As a result, the “CSR Board” of Austrian Post includes employees from different departments, due to the fact that these employees can contribute to the discussion by integrating the wishes and requirements of the respective stakeholder groups. Moreover, the company also takes advantage of special types of events to address individual stakeholder groups, in order to take a structured approach to respond to their specific requirements. For example, in 2010 Austrian Post also participated in the Austrian Local Government Conference once again, in various working groups established by the federal ministries or in sustainability platforms. In the year 2011 a structured roundtable took place for the first time in order to enable an exchange of views on the expectations of the individual stakeholder groups within the context of a roundtable discussion with Austrian Post CEO Georg Pölzl. Some 30 participants were involved in this roundtable discussion, including at least two representatives of every relevant stakeholder group. The objective of the stakeholder roundtable meeting was to provide a strong impetus for future sustainability activities and to identify key issues. Particular attention is paid to these topics in the present Sustainability Report. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 21 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns The stakeholder groups of Austrian Post attached considerable importance to the issue of ensuring ongoing reliable postal services (mainly in connection with the structural transformation of the branch network and the expansion of the postal partner network), both within the context of the ongoing dialogue with stakeholders as well as the structured stakeholder roundtable in June 2011 (refer to indicator SO1 on page 47 and EC9 on page 25). The ecological effects of Austrian Post’s business operations were also a top priority of stakeholders (see ecological performance indicators starting on page 27). Due to the relevance of these issues to the stakeholder groups, Austrian Post is continually working to take specific measures in these areas, as well as to provide stakeholders with information on the company’s efforts. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 22 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The top priority for Austrian Post’s management is to ensure profitability on a sustainable basis. Only a profitable company can seriously assume its corporate social responsibility on a long-term basis and make an appropriate contribution to fulfilling social and ecological needs. Accordingly, sustainably safeguarding profitability is of central importance. Current developments on the international postal and logistics markets pose major challenges to Austrian Post’s efforts to achieve its business targets, but also open up new opportunities. In order to exploit these chances, Austrian Post clearly defined its objectives and strategic measures within the framework of a broad-based strategy development process. The following core strategies were laid out: safeguarding and defending market leadership in Austria and growth in selected markets. The basis for achieving these objectives is an ongoing enhancement of efficiency and increased flexibility of the cost structure, as well as consistent customer orientation and innovation in all business areas. Business targets  Enhance shareholder value supported by an attractive dividend policy  Medium-term revenue growth of 1-2% p.a.  Sustainable EBITDA margin of 10-12% These business targets also apply to the entire Austrian Post Group. ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The income statement of Austrian Post (individual financial statements pursuant to the Austrian Commercial Code) shows the following results for 2010: Income statement (EUR m) 2008 2009 2010 Revenue 1,657.5 1,620.0 1,595.0 Other operating income 73.3 83.0 73.1 Raw materials, consumables and services used -246.8 -258.3 -266.5 Staff costs -996.4 -994.8 -974.8 Other operating costs -226.8 -211.2 -212.5 Results from investments consolidated at equity -28.2 -14.7 30.1 NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 23 Income statement (EUR m) 2008 2009 2010 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 232.5 224.0 244.4 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses -75.9 -64.7 -67.0 Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) 156.6 159.3 177.4 Other financial result -2.9 0.3 3.9 Profit before tax 153.7 159.6 181.3 Income tax -40.4 -39.7 -32.8 Profit for the period 113.3 119.9 148.6 The 2010 financial year in the Mail Division was particularly impacted by the volume decline in the Letter Mail Business Area, driven by electronic substitution, as well as the volume growth for direct mail items. The parcels business posted notable growth, whereas revenue of the Branch Network Division fell due to the necessary structural transformation. On balance, total revenue was down 1.5%, to EUR 1,595.0m. Revenue distribution among the individual divisions shows the importance of the Mail Division, which accounted for 76.9% of revenue. The Parcel & Logistics Division generated 13.7% of revenue, and the Branch Network Division contributed a share of 9.4%. Other operating income decreased by 11.9%, to EUR 73.1m, which is mainly the result of lower income from rents and leases, and lower proceeds from the reversal of provisions. Operating expenses for raw materials, consumables and services used rose by 3.2%, to EUR 266.5m. Other operating expenses were up 0.6%, to EUR 212.5m. Staff costs, which comprise the largest operating expense item at Austrian Post and account for 61.1% of revenue, rose by 2.0%, to EUR 974.8m during the period under review. The results of investments consolidated at equity increased by EUR 44.8m from the prioryear level, which can be attributed to impairment losses of EUR 23.7m carried out in the previous year as well as higher proceeds from these investments in the 2010 financial year. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment of Austrian Post climbed 3.5% in 2010, to EUR 67.0m, comprising 4.2% of revenue. The increase is due to higher impairment losses. Earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) of Austrian Post improved by 11.4% in the 2010 financial year, to EUR 177.4m. Earnings before tax (EBT) amounted to EUR 181.3m in 2010, or 13.6% higher than in the previous year. After deducting the income tax of EUR 32.8m, the profit for the period totalled EUR 148.6m, a rise of 23.9% from the prior-year figure. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 24 Taking account of the allocation and reversal of untaxed reserves as well as the profit carried forward, the balance sheet profit amounted to EUR 149.4m The consolidated income statement can be found in the Annual Report 2010. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers One of the purposes of the Federal Procurement Acts (BVergG) is to ensure the equal treatment of bidders, with a particular focus on the European Union. Accordingly, a regional limitation of the procurement market is a violation of this law and thus forbidden. Of the 7,000 suppliers with which Austrian Post currently works, about 4-6% are large companies (mostly based in Austria, although the value creation may take place abroad), whereas the remaining 94-96% are SMEs, in which case it can be assumed that these suppliers are for the most part in Austria. The medium-term objective of Austrian Post is to take social and ecological aspects into account both in the tender process and in the selection of suppliers. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC9 Indirect economic impacts Austrian Post ensures the provision of nationwide postal services on behalf of the Austrian population, and thus contributes to maintaining the infrastructure in rural areas. In particular, the concept of the postal partner offices, in which local tobacconists, retail shops and also municipal offices cooperate with Austrian Post, is very successful. Through their expanding offering, postal partner offices strengthen the local availability of essential services. The branch network of Austrian Post ranks among the largest private customer networks in the country. It features more than 1,800 company-operated branches and third-party operated outlets, offering high quality postal, banking and communications products and services to its customers throughout Austria. Austrian Post speedily pressed ahead with the customer-oriented restructuring of its post office network in 2010. An integral part of this effort has involved the resolute implementation of the postal partner concept. For this reason, Austrian Post made an offer to all municipalities: “A postal service point for each community”. Austrian Post aimed at finding new postal partners in cooperation with the Austrian Association of Municipalities and the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber. This system is designed to sustainably secure nationwide postal services by having local businesses offer postal services in addition to their normal operations. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 25 The advantages of complementing the branch network with postal partner offices are: • Customers benefit from the close proximity to postal partners in their own communities, and from the longer opening hours of these shops. • Small businesses in rural areas can safeguard their existence due to the additional revenue, and also profit from increased customer frequency in their core business. • Existing business structures in rural areas of the respective regions and federal provinces are strengthened. • Austrian Post makes a contribution to efficiently providing the full range of postal services exceeding the requirements stipulated by law. The branch network of Austrian Post consisted of 418 postal partner offices at the beginning of 2010, which expanded to 1,117 at the end of 2010. A total of 1,212 postal partners already offered postal services at the half-year reporting date on June 30, 2011. Thus the postal partner drive has proven to be extremely successful, and will be intensified both in rural regions as well as increasingly in metropolitan areas. As a consequence, the total number of postal service points has significantly increased, climbing from 1,552 at the beginning of 2010 to 1,850 at the end of the year. As at June 30, 2011, Austrian Post boasted a nationwide network of 1,876 postal service points. As a result, the branch network is much denser than the legally stipulated minimum of 1,650. Further information is also available under Indicator SO1 on page 47. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 26 ECOLOGICAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS As the largest logistics company in the country, Austrian Post is involved in a very energyintensive business. Each year it delivers about 6 billion mail items. To make this possible, the employees of Austrian Post cover a distance of more than 200,000 km everyday on foot or by bicycle, moped and using delivery vehicles. The company requires about 15 million liters of fuel for its vehicles, and consumes some 170 million kWh of energy annually in the buildings it uses. In turn, this leads to CO2 emissions which burden the global climate. Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment. For this reason, it continually tries to identify additional optimisation potential in order to minimize its ecological footprint. We are reducing the environmental impact of our business operations by applying environmentally-efficient technologies and by continuously optimizing our environmental management activities based on the improved compiling and analysis of our environmental data. This data will enable the company to identify, analyse and actively influence changes and subsequently take appropriate countermeasures in a much more targeted manner. Austrian Post’s commitment and participation in international programmes, i.e. the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme” of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop as well as the “Environmental Measurement and Monitoring System (EMMS)“ of the International Postal Corporation (IPC) were further intensified in 2010. Accordingly, the data gathered by Austrian Post on the environmental impact of its business operations was audited and accepted without any reservation by a PostEurop-designated auditor (third-party audit). Environmental objectives  10% reduction of CO2 emissions by 2012  CO2 neutral delivery as of 2011  Reduction of energy consumption by 10% by 2012 ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. This indicator primarily refers to production companies i.e. firms which manufacture goods and products. Austrian Post is a logistics company. Therefore its paper consumption is of primary importance, which is why it is presented in the following table: NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 27 Environmental indicators 2008 2009 2010 Paper consumption (t) 484.4 426.4 337.1 thereof recycled paper (t) 9.6 2.6 25.3 The decline in paper consumption in the year 2010 is due to the fact that paper was purchased and stored by the central purchasing department of Austria Post until the middle of the year, and then sent to the respective sites when needed. In July 2010, the system was changed to an external paper supplier. In each case the actual amount of paper required was directly obtained from the supplier by the particular department of the company. As a result, centralised paper storage was no longer necessary and the paper volume was oriented to actual use. ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source Environmental indicators 2008 2009 2010 Composition of significant quantities of resources (KWh million) Total 178.1 170.7 156.7 * Natural gas 37.6 33.6 30.0 Heating oil 15.4 11.3 9.3 District heat 36.3 37.2 41.5 Electricity 88.9 88.6 76.0 2 Building space (m ) 1,284,000 1,220,988 1,186,753 thereof owned by Austrian Post 817,000 766,045 748,936 Fuel consumption: petrol, super, diesel, natural 15,525,409 15,289,178 15,205,915 gas (l) thereof diesel 15,112,978 14,899,709 14,745,075 * Due to the current possibilities to compile data, the consumption figures supplied above include consumption in space which has been leased out by the company but not the space rented by the company. In the next year Austrian Post will try to improve its data analysis capabilities. Due to the fact that leased out space is predominant, it is assumed that the actual energy indicator will be lower than shown at the present time. The ongoing decrease in energy consumption in buildings can be attributed to the improved energy efficiency of the buildings in use, the optimisation of the building infrastructure taking ecological aspects into account as well as an overall reduction in recent years of floor space being used. For example, the changeover from heating oil to the resource-saving and more climate-friendly district heat has led to a continuous rise in district heat consumption. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 28 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements In addition to consistently expanding the share of delivery vehicles operating on the basis of alternative drive technologies, such as natural gas and electric power, Austrian Post is continually taking measures to keep the environmental burden caused by conventionally powered vehicles to a minimum. On the one hand, this is achieved on the basis of optimized route planning. Empty runs are avoided, the capacity utilization of vehicles is being continually improved and the number of kilometres required to transport mail items is being reduced. On the other hand, use of a modern vehicle fleet together with regular maintenance ensures the ecological efficiency of the company’s transport activities. The employees of Austrian Post are also making a considerable contribution to climate protection. In cooperation with the motor vehicle club ÖAMTC, the company’s own ECOtrainers are continuously training the drivers of Austrian Post’s vehicle fleet in fuel efficient driving behaviour. E-mobility has long been anything but a vision of the future. Supported by the “klima:aktiv mobil“ promotional campaign coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Waste Management, Austrian Post regularly purchases vehicles featuring alternative drive systems. At the end of 2010, the vehicle fleet of Austrian Post already contained 70 single-track electric-powered vehicles and 77 environmentally-friendly natural gas-powered delivery vehicles. Austrian Post is also committed to consistently improving the energy efficiency of its buildings. For this purpose, the company has already installed an ongoing monitoring system for energy consumption in order to identify optimisation potential. Furthermore, the use of LED lighting is being evaluated. Particular attention is also being paid to ecological considerations in the optimisation of a building’s infrastructure. Outlook: Measures as of 2011 Austrian Post is planning to significantly increase its fleet of electric-powered vehicles. In 2011, a total of 175 single-track vehicles (electric mopeds and electric bicycles) as well as 18 electric cars will be purchased. The company will consistently push ahead with its efforts to further expand its fleet of electric powered cars in the years to come, depending on technical availability and the suitability of these vehicles for the postal business. Each year Austrian Post consumes about 170 million kWh of energy (average 2008-2010), of which half is comprised of electricity, and the rest natural gas, heating oil and district heat. In its new electricity tender valid as of 2012, Austrian Post will focus on green electricity (electricity derived from renewable energy sources). This is because this ecoelectricity exploits the natural energies of the Earth, in particular, solar energy, hydropower, wind power, biomass and geothermal energy. Generating this energy is sustainable, and virtually no greenhouse gas emissions arise. Austrian Post would like to make a contribution to promoting renewable energy sources. One specific measure is the company’s contracting a feasibility study in 2011 to examine the technical and economic viability of installing photovoltaic facilities at its sorting centres. Implementation studies will be subsequently developed on the basis of the results of this study. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 29 ASPECT: WATER Water consumption in the company is of secondary importance due to the fact that Austrian Post is not a production but a service company. ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY Compared to manufacturing and processing companies, Austrian Post has a very limited and insignificant impact on biodiversity. Nevertheless, it is also naturally a matter of concern to Austrian Post to preserve various forms of life. This is why the company attaches great importance to reducing the impact of its operations on the environment. With respect to biodiversity, the Vienna Letter Mail Centre the largest logistics hub operated by Austrian Post is an ecological forerunner. At the Vienna Letter Mail Centre, roof greening designed as natural protection against solar radiation supports the air conditioning system of the sorting centre hall encompassing an area of 30,000 m2. In this way, energy savings can be realized and a contribution to preserving biodiversity can be made. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, WASTEWATER AND WASTE As the largest logistics company in the country, Austrian Post is involved in a very energyintensive business. In turn, this leads to CO2 emissions which have a negative effect on the environment. Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to the environment. For this reason, it is continually striving to identify optimisation potential in order to minimise its ecological footprint. For the purpose of implementing sustainable waste management, Austrian Post is actively working to reduce the environmental burden from waste to a minimum. If it is not possible to completely avoid waste, the waste must be disposed of in an environmentally compatible manner. Austrian Post makes a significant contribution to reducing residual waste on the basis of the separation of recyclable materials according to material types. At the same time, these measures enable the economically and ecologically meaningful utilisation of these valuable residual materials. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 30 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Environmental indicators 2008 2009 2010 CO2 emissions (Scope 1+2) according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (in t) 80,996 78,609 75,226 Road transport (own transport activities) 41,477 40,868 40,621 Buildings 39,519 37,741 34,605 CO2 emmissions (Scope 1-3) according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (in t) 97,141 96,706 94,482 Road ransport (own transport) 41,477 40,868 40,621 Road transport (partner companies) 16,145 18,097 19,256 Buildings 39,519 37,741 34,605 Data compilation is carried out on the basis of the “GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector“, the basis of which is the “Greenhouse Gas Protocol” (GHG). This is the most widely used international standard for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. More information is available at www.ghgprotocol.org. Scope 1 and 2 encompasses reporting on greenhouse gas emissions caused by internal company activities (Scope 1) and from the energy supply (Scope 2). All greenhouse gas emissions related to Austrian Post’s operations in Austria are included, but rail and air transport is not taken into account. Scope 3 emissions arise as a result of outsourced transport services. Many subcontractors do not publish any details about their CO2 emissions. For this reason, reporting on Scope 3 emissions is primarily based on computational models, assumptions and, insofar it is available, on data provided by the companies themselves. Waste gas emissions resulting from business trips and commuting is not included, with the exception of the distances travelled by company vehicles, which are presented in Scope 1. The reduction of its CO2 emissions by 10% in the period 2007 to 2012 is one of the environmental objectives Austrian Post is committed to achieving within the context of the “Greenhouse Gas Reduction Programme” of the European association of public postal operators PostEurop. Austrian Post is continuously coming closer to meeting this target thanks to the implementation of sustainable initiatives in its vehicle fleet as well as the buildings it uses. EN17 Other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight No other relevant greenhouse gas emissions arise within the context of Austrian Post‘s business operations. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 31 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Transport operations, a very important component of Austrian Post’s business activities, are carried out in the most environmentally compatible manner possible. On the one hand, this is achieved on the basis of optimized route planning (avoidance of empty runs, consistent optimization of capacity utilisation in the vehicles used, reduction in the number of kilometres required to transport mail items). On the other hand, this is ensured by the use of a modern vehicle fleet, regular maintenance and ongoing driver training in eco-efficiency. Furthermore, Austrian Post is also increasingly relying on alternative drive systems in its delivery services in order to keep its ecological footprint at a minimum. Supported by the “klima:aktiv mobil“ (climate compatible mobility) campaign coordinated by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Waste Management, Austrian Post regularly purchases vehicles operating on the basis of alternative drive systems. At the end of 2010, Austrian Post very successfully deployed 70 single-track electric-powered vehicles and 77 environmentally-friendly natural gas-powered delivery vehicles. Vehicles 2008 2009 2010 Vehicle fleet (total) 9,289 9,165 9,248 Bicycles 967 973 1,032 thereof electric bicycles 0 14 64 Mopeds 1,095 1,082 1,252 thereof electric mopeds 6 6 6 Vehicles up to 3.5t 7,031 6,925 6,788 thereof gas-driven vehicles of up to 3.5t 77 77 77 Vehicles > 3.5t 196 185 176 Total number of kilometres (km million) 126 123 120 Motorised vehicles according to emission classes Euro 0 (no Euromotor) 11 5 3 Euro 2 327 225 63 Euro 3 4,007 3,741 3,026 Euro 4 2,882 3,068 3,714 Euro 5 0 71 158 Other vehicles (only mopeds) 1,095 1,082 1,252 Austrian Post is also committed to consistently improving the energy efficiency of its buildings. For this purpose, the company has already installed an ongoing monitoring system for energy consumption in order to identify optimisation potential. Furthermore, the use of LED lighting is being evaluated. Particular attention is also being paid to ecological considerations in the optimisation of a building’s infrastructure. Each year Austrian Post consumes about 170 million kWh of energy (average 2008-2010), of which half is comprised of electricity, and the rest natural gas, heating oil and district heat. In its new electricity tender valid as of 2012, Austrian Post will focus on green electricity (electricity derived from renewable energy sources). This is because this ecoelectricity exploits the natural energies of the Earth, in particular, solar energy, hydropower, NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 32 wind power, biomass and geothermal energy. Generating this energy is sustainable, and virtually no greenhouse gas emissions arise. Austrian Post would like to make a contribution to promoting renewable energy sources. One specific measure is the company’s contracting a feasibility study in 2011 to examine the technical and economic viability of installing photovoltaic facilities at its sorting centres. Implementation studies will be subsequently developed on the basis of the results of this study. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method At Austrian Post, waste mainly arises as a result of used packaging related to customer deliveries, and primarily consists of cardboard, plastic and wood pallets. Another major type of waste is paper from our offices and other facilities. Waste management concepts exist for individual sites with a specified size. Several sorting centres have gone a step further and developed their own waste disposal and recycling concepts for the entire region. For example, in the Brieflogistik Ost (letter mail for the eastern region of Austria), the concept includes the following: recycled plastic, paper and cardboard can be remunerated at the Vienna Letter Mail Centre. However, the disposal of reusable scrap materials must be paid for at the delivery bases, where small quantities of waste are generated. Thus the reusable materials in the delivery bases are separated, but the waste is delivered to the Vienna Letter Mail Centre for recycling. Unused capacities in the delivery vehicles transporting goods are used for this purpose. This concept not only benefits the environment, but also results in considerable cost savings. The recording of data with respect to waste management is not carried out centrally. Austrian Post’s objective over the next few years is to centrally collect and evaluate this data. EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous Hazardous wastes, for example grease separators, fluorescent lamps, refrigerators, waste oil and solvents as well as spent batteries are disposed of in the regions using consignment notes. A centralised data acquisition system for this waste does not yet exist. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services In the 2010 financial year, initiatives were launched to reduce the CO2 emissions of Austrian Post as described under point EN 18. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 33 The most important initiative to minimise the environmental impact of our products and services was launched in July 2011. “CO2 Neutral Delivery” initiative as of 2011 For years Austrian Post has been pursuing the goal of keeping the environmental impact of its business operations to a minimum by deploying environmentally-friendly technologies and efficiently making use of natural resources. The most recent climate reports show that climate change is proceeding uninterruptedly. For this reason, every individual but especially every company and political decision makers are called upon to take steps to slow down this development. In this regard, Austrian Post wants to set an example. Accordingly, all letters, parcels and direct mail items transported by Austrian Post in Austria will be delivered in a CO2 neutral manner. On balance, Austrian Post is responsible for some 95,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions each year. About 35,000 tons arise from operating buildings and sorting centres, another 40,000 from the company’s own vehicle fleet and the remaining 20,000 tonnes from partner companies. Initially compensation for these greenhouse gas emissions will be based on savings achieved by the vehicle fleet as well as in operating buildings and from logistics operations. This will occur partly the determined reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by applying more environmentally-friendly technologies, the efficient use of natural resources and promoting renewable energy sources. All emissions of Austrian Post and its partner companies which cannot be avoided will be compensated by voluntary support for national and international climate protection projects. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, particular attention will be attached to the ecological and socioeconomic aspects of the project, in order to fully take the objective of pursuing a comprehensive sustainability strategy into account. As a result of this bundle of measures, Austrian Post’s business operations will not, on balance, have a negative effect on the climate. With this initiative Austrian Post confirms its commitment to sustainable environmental and climate protection. In addition, it is also responding to customer demands for sustainable products and services. In the future, Austrian Post will issue a separate “CO2 neutral certificate” to its large customers to prove that the delivery services implemented for their benefit are carried out in a CO2 neutral manner. In order to ensure that the targeted positive ecological effects are achieved, the process will be supported, monitored and assessed by experts at TÜV AUSTRIA. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 34 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL REGULATIONS EN28 Sanctions and fines due to non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations In the reporting year no fines and sanctions were imposed on Austrian Post for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transport operations Transport comprises the core service of Austrian Post. For this reason, the environmental impacts connected to its transport operations have already been described within the context of the performance indicators EN5, EN7, EN16, EN18 and EN26. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 35 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK As one of the biggest employers in the country, Austrian Post is aware of its responsibility to its employees. Motivated and productive employees are the basis for corporate success. High value must be placed on the factor “employees“, especially in a service company. An important pre-requisite is a healthy and safe working environment. Occupational safety, health protection and healthcare comprise key elements of Austrian Post’s corporate policy. The company also wants to ensure future perspectives for its employees in a market environment in which the demands on staff are continually subject to change, and individually promote their professional development. Employee objectives  Creation of individual future perspectives  Promotion of a corporate and leadership culture  Enhancing occupational health and safety at the workplace ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type and employment contract Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 1 Total number of employees (FTE) 22,667 21,598 20,695 thereof women (FTE, %) 29.5% 29.6% 29.5% thereof men (FTE, %) 70.5% 70.4% 70.5% Civil servants (FTE) 12,514 11,803 11,005 Salaried employees (FTE) 9,536 9,306 9,456 2 Temporary staff (FTE) 392 265 13 Employees pursuant to Austrian Civil Code (FTE) 225 224 221 Full-time employees (total) 20,513 19,498 18,559 thereof women (%) 23.3% 23.5% 23.3% Part-time employees (total)) 4,163 4,075 3,977 thereof women (%) 89.2% 87.4% 85.0% Average tenure of civil servants at Austrian Post (years) 25 26 26 Average tenure of salaried employees at Austrian Post (years) 11 11 11 Employees with special needs (total as at December 31) 1,037 1,144 1,189 1 FTE … Full-time equivalents 2 Employee vacations, sick leave NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 36 LA 2 New employee hires and employee turnover by age group and gender Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 1 Employee turnover (nominal) 1,438 1,583 2,038 thereof women 702 786 933 thereof men 735 797 1.105 By age group Under 30 394 462 709 30-50 years 748 714 905 Over 50 296 407 424 1 Employee turnover (%) 6.3% 7.3% 9.9% thereof women 48.9% 49.7% 45.8% thereof men 51.1% 50.3% 54.2% By age group Under 30 27.4% 29.2% 34.8% 30-50 years 52.1% 45.1% 44.4% Over 50 years of age 20.6% 25.7% 20.8% 1 Turnover of permanent staff with an employment contract of at least six months The increasing employee turnover rate is due to the enhanced willingness of new employees to accept change following implementation of the new collective wage agreement (effective August 1, 2009), as well as the generous social plan offered to employees as support to the required structural changes being carried out in the company. LA3 Benefits provided depending on the employment relationship All employees of Austrian Post are entitled to take advantage of all additional employee benefits, regardless of their age, gender and the extent of their employment. Thus these benefits are also available to part-time employees. All employees of Austrian Post receive an EBIT bonus (participating in the company’s success). The gross total of EUR 702 was paid to each employee for the 2010 financial year. Civil servants and employees in 2010 who had been working at the company for more than six months were eligible to take part in the profit sharing programme. Employees receive a pro rata share if they worked less than 40 hours a week or if the employment contract did not extend for the entire year. Other benefits enjoyed by Austrian Post employees are offered via the joint welfare association “post.sozial“. For the most part, the annual funding for the organisation’s activities is provided by the company. The joint welfare association “post.sozial“ reflects the social responsibility of Austrian Post to its employees based on additional social services above and beyond legally stipulated obligations. These services range from food coupons for all employees (EUR 4.8 million) and financial support to employees faced with unusually high costs as a result of illness or natural catastrophes (EUR 700,230) to discounted tickets for cultural events and more NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 37 favourably priced holiday deals and childcare service during vacations. Furthermore, support is provided for healthcare measures and recreational activities designed to prevent illness. The non-profit association was established to provide social support to active employees of Austrian Post and its subsidiaries as well as to retired employees, family members and surviving relatives of employees. 1% of the total wages and salaries paid by Austrian Post and its subsidiaries are devoted to funding the association. This financial support totalled EUR 6.7 million in the year 2010. Furthermore, “post.sozial” is also funded by third party donations. ASPECT: EMPLOYER-EMPLOYEE RELATIONSHIP LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 1 Salaried employees (FTE) 9,536 9,306 9,456 Salaried employees 9,536 8,979 7,801 Salaried employees subject to collective 325 1,646 wage agreement 2009 Trainees 2 10 Civil servants (FTE) 12,514 11,803 11,005 1 FTE … Full-time equivalents The new collective wage agreement concluded in 2009 is in line with market trends, enabling Austrian Post to offer competitive remuneration to its employees. Employees serving on the delivery staff also receive appropriate daily allowances for their field work. Employees in the sorting centres have also been entitled to a night duty allowance for night shifts since June 1, 2011. A large percentage of employees at Austrian Post are employed under public law, and are thus subject to civil service regulations. This results in special situations in connection with the deployment of these employees. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Austrian Post attaches considerable importance to the health and safety of its employees. The main focal points of the company’s efforts include trainings on safe and healthy workplace behaviour, tobacco and alcohol abuse prevention, ensuring health-promoting and ergonomic working conditions as well as creating workplaces tailored to the needs of disabled or older employees. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 38 LA7 Rates of injury, lost days, absenteeism and work-related fatalities Austrian Post – Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 1 Rate of employees on sick leave (FTE , %) 7.3% 7.3% 7.5% Days lost per sick leave (working days) 10.4 9.9 10.0 2 Number of occupational accidents 1,043 1,050 1,226 Average number of days lost per accident 17.2 16.4 17.8 Fatalities resulting from occupational accidents 2 0 0 1 FTE … Full-time equivalents 2 Incl. occupational accidents without bodily injury as well as incl. accidents commuting to/from/during work In the 2010 reporting year, the number of occupational accidents and lost days increased compared to 2009. A total of 1,226 occupational accidents took place, of which 947 led to days lost from work. About 70% of these accidents involved less than 21 days lost (day lost = calendar day). All employees at Austrian Post are considered in these figures. The number of occupational accidents also encompasses leased personnel. However, these employees are not taken into account in calculating the number of days lost from work. The significant rise in the number of occupational accidents can be attributed to the winter weather conditions in the year 2010. The number of accidents during the winter months of 2010 was close to double the comparable figure for 2009. The work-related fatalities in the year 2008 were commuting accidents (1 accident during working hours, 1 accident commuting from work). All occupational accidents (including those incurred by leased personnel) must be immediately reported to the company as a key pre-requisite for efficient accident prevention and for preparing accident reports, in those cases in which there is a legal obligation to report the occurrence to the responsible regulatory bodies. LA8 Measures designed to prevent serious diseases In addition to the nationwide offer to provide free flu vaccinations to employees, Austrian Post also once again offered employees the possibility to take advantage of low-cost TBE, tetanus, diphtheria, polio and hepatitis vaccinations. About 3,700 vaccinations were given to Austrian Post employees throughout the country. Austrian Post also organised occupational health examinations for night shift employees and those working with computer monitors and screens, which 360 employees took advantage of in 2010. Extensive health check-up opportunities were offered to employees in 2010 within the context of four Austrian Post Health Days, which measured the blood sugar, cholesterol level and blood pressure of employees and offered detailed medical advice. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 39 Approximately 3,000 inspections of workplaces, including the identification and evaluation of dangers and specification of required danger prevention measures, made a major contribution during the reporting period to creating an ergonomic working environment conducive to the good health of employees. The health care programme entitled “Die Post bewegt” (Austrian Post Moves), launched in 2007 for the mail distribution area, has involved more than 13,200 employees and executives up until now. It was expanded in 2010 to the sorting centres, parcel logistics and freight transport operations due to its great success. The focal point of this health-related programme targeting all employees and executives in these business areas is the offering of information lectures and events about correct posture and exercise at the workplace. Austrian Post is continuing to participate in “Fit for the Future – the Austrian Programme to Maintain Work Ability” launched in 2008 by the Austrian Social Insurance for Occupational Risks and the Social Security Administration. This project being carried out with the cooperation of pilot companies from different sectors is designed to demonstrate that it is possible to maintain work ability and even promote it at an advanced age. Accordingly, awareness building workshops with executives, workplace and task analyses as well as employee surveys have been implemented. Based on these results, suitable measures will be defined, for example ergonomic trainings, the redesigning of workplaces, noise measurements as well as improved information and communication. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Austrian Post considers occupational safety and accident prevention to be top priorities. In addition to legal regulations, there are internal organisational guidelines designed to contribute to the protection of our employees. The trade union and the Works Council are included in all issues relating to occupational safety and accident prevention. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION The target group and competence-oriented training and professional development of employees comprise a further focal point of Austrian Post’s human resources activities, and were intensively continued in 2010. The measures implemented consisted of specialized instruction, continuing education courses, coaching and training in all business areas of the company. Moreover, Austrian Post attached great importance to the training of management staff within the framework of special executive training programmes. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 40 LA10 Training and education In order to continually improve the service offering in the post offices and within the network of postal partner offices, intensive training programmes and further education courses were carried out in the Branch Network Division, including branch manager and financial consultant training, telecom sales colleges and training for postal partners. The Mail Division offered team-building workshops, sales trainings and seminars for key account managers. The Parcel & Logistics Division implemented executive training and customer management programmes as well as language training, amongst others. Moreover, employees can continually selected courses from an extensive and practice-oriented seminar programme designed to promote the individual career development of employees and make them fit to meet future challenges. The course offering ranges from leadership and business know-how, languages, IT, social and team qualifications and development initiatives in the various departments. The recording of data with respect to training and education is not carried out centrally. Austrian Post’s objective over the next few years is to centrally collect and evaluate this data. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning In addition to specific training and educational offering for employees in all business areas and age groups, Austrian Post also offers support to employees who are impacted by restructuring measures and who wish to reposition themselves on the job market in the form of the Austrian Post Internal Labour Market. Competition in the postal market is continually intensifying, a situation aggravated by the full liberalisation of the letter mail market in the year 2011. Accordingly, the increasingly demanding business environment in the postal sector requires the company to implement ongoing efficiency improvement measures as well as adjustments to the personnel structure. In this case, responsible corporate behaviour means reacting to the resulting changes confronting employees, thus actively planning and supporting them on their career path in a socially acceptable manner – which is also of primary importance to the future of Austrian Post. Austrian Post set up the “Internal Labour Market”, an effective platform to ensure that the affected employees gain the qualifications required for new jobs inside or outside the company. The objectives of the Post Internal Labour Market: Promoting and supporting internal mobility Promoting employee readiness for change and facilitating training and further education measure Promoting the respectful interaction of employer and employees In 2010, the responsibilities of the Internal Labour Market were defined in detail, and divided into four strategic areas for action: Qualifications and motivation: identifying potential as well as professional development and training NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 41 Optimisation of internal staff deployment: develop employment possibilities or identify them in a timely manner New career perspectives: for example, Austrian Post employees transferred to the public sector or enabling job transfer to other areas outside of Austrian Post (e.g. charities) Social cushioning: new social plan as well as promotion of outplacement foundation models One measure designed to cushion the effects of the restructuring programme was a cooperation agreement concluded in the summer of 2010 between Austrian Post and the Vienna Employment Promotion Fund (WAFF) on the basis of the existing social plan in the company. Since September of 2010, staff members who have lost their jobs due to restructuring measures and whose employment contract with Austrian Post was terminated by mutual agreement as well as civil servants, who have declared their intention to leave the company, have been eligible to participate in an outplacement foundation. This outplacement foundation offers interested employees an ideal opportunity to reposition themselves in the labour market. For this purpose, individual training measures are determined and financially supported by Austrian Post. A total of 130 employees joined this outplacement foundation in the year 2010. The opportunity was also created for civil servants at Austrian Post to transfer to the Austrian Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Internal Affairs or Ministry of Finance. The ministries offer new career perspectives to Austrian Post employees. The numerous job applications and visits to information events show that Austrian Post is on the right track. By December 31, 2010, 180 employees had already transferred to one of the federal ministries. A new social plan was developed and agreed upon in December 2010 in the course of negotiations held between the company and the Works Council. The agreement, which took effect on January 1, 2011, and remains in force until December 31, 2012, offers extensive possibilities to provide support to civil servants and employees who are impacted by restructuring measures or job cuts, and who wish to reposition themselves on the labour market. LA12 Performance reviews and career development planning Performance appraisals (employee reviews) are held regularly but at least once annually between employees and their immediate superiors. These employee reviews comprise a platform for partners to interact on a personal level and an opportunity to change the working relationship. They also represent an investment in the job satisfaction of employees and in creating a trusting working environment. The discussions with employees have two main objectives. On the one hand, to look back at the employee’s past performance and come to a conclusion regarding the success of the employee in carrying out the assigned tasks and the effectiveness of the cooperation. On the other hand, there is a looking ahead to the future defining a working focus, formulating goals and support measures. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 42 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY In the future Austrian Post will devote more attention to diversity Management. Social diversity should be constructively exploited within the context of diversity management. Austrian Post not only aims to tolerate the individual differences among employees, but particularly highlight them in the spirit of promoting mutual esteem and respect. The objectives are to create a productive overall atmosphere in the company, prevent the social discrimination of minorities and improve equality of opportunity. Differences encompass visible and perceptible differences such as gender, ethnic background, age and disability as well as subjective differences such as religion and life style. Austrian Post attaches considerable importance to ensuring equal opportunity at work in all business areas, and thus decisively opposes any kind of discrimination, bullying and sexual harassment. LA13 Diversity of employees and governing bodies Austrian Post: Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 1 Total number of employees (FTE) 22,667 21,598 20,695 thereof women (FTE, %) 29.5% 29.6% 29.5% thereof men (FTE, %) 70.5% 70.4% 70.5% Full-time employees (total) 20,513 19,498 18,559 thereof women (%) 23.3% 23.5% 23.3% Part-time employees (total) 4,163 4,075 3,977 thereof women (%) 89.2% 87.4% 85.0% Employees with special needs (total on the 1,037 1,144 1,189 st reporting date of December 31 ) Employees (FTE) by age group Under 30 1,723 1,571 1,567 30-50 years 16,410 15,395 14,344 Over 50 years of age 4,533 4,631 4,785 2 Employees in management positions Number of employees in management positions 159 157 153 (total) thereof women 34 34 37 thereof men 125 123 116 By age group Under 30 3 1 1 30-50 years 123 123 116 Over 50 years of age 34 33 35 NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 43 Austrian Post: Employee indicators 2008 2009 2010 Employees in management positions (%) 0.7% 0.7% 0.7% thereof women 21.4% 21.8% 24.4% thereof men 78.6% 78.2% 75.7% By age group Under 30 0.6% 0.7% 0.9% 30-50 years 78.3% 78.0% 76.0% Over 50 years of age 21.1% 21.3% 23.1% 1 FTE … Full-time equivalents 2 CEO and Chairman of the Management Board, Management Board members, member of a division or business area at corporate headquarters, head of a department or business area in a region In 2010 Austrian Post employed about 20,700 people, of which approximately one-third were women. In order to promote the compatibility of family and career, Austrian Post offers customised part-time work models tailored to the specific needs of individual employees which are used by some 3,400 women as well as about 600 men. In the past years the share of women holding management positions has consistently risen. The proportion of women in the Austrian Post management team was 21.8% in 2009. In the meantime, this figure already increased to 24.4% in 2010. A woman, namely the lawyer Edith Hlawati, serves as Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Two women are among the eight shareholder representatives elected to the Supervisory Board by the Annual General Meeting 2011. Austrian Post has realised that the cultural diversity of its staff comprises an important competitive advantage. Austrian Post’s workforce consists of employees from 52 different nations. Some 410 employees are not Austrian citizens, and the share of employees with a migration background is considerably higher. The senior management level at Austrian Post includes five individuals with a migration background. In past years Austrian Post more than fulfilled its employment obligations towards people with disabilities. In the year 2010 1,189 people with special needs were employed by the company. People with disabilities work in a diverse range of positions, for example as executives, Central Works Council representatives, on the delivery staff or post office employees. LA14 Salary differences by gender Both the civil servants employed by Austrian Post, salaried employees subject to the stipulations of the “old” collective wage agreement and those subject to the “new“ collective wage agreement (effective August 1, 2009) are paid in accordance with the respective remuneration scheme or pay scale. Each position in the company is assigned to a specified classification within the context of this remuneration schemes or page scale, which applies to all employees regardless of gender. As a consequence of the remuneration system described above, there are no salary differences between men and women with the same education and training who perform the same work. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 44 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: HUMAN RIGHTS Austrian Post stands up for human rights and respects the dignity of each individual. We firmly reject any form of child labour or forced labour. We do not tolerate any unfair business practices, and resolutely oppose any form of corruption and bribery (for example bribes). We also expect our business partners to adhere to these principles. As a company which signed the UN Global Compact, Austrian Post is committed to the fundamental principles contained in this document (www.unglobalcompact.com). Austrian Post will also cooperate with Transparency International in the future in order to intensify its anti-corruption efforts. Moreover, a binding set of behavioural and ethical guidelines, the Code of Conduct, was developed for all Austrian Post employees. It contains principles designed to promote the ethical and legally impeccable behaviour of all employees. The Code of Conduct was published in the year 2011. ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES Since 2007 Austrian Post has belonged to the UN Global Compact, an initiative launched by the United Nations. As a consequence, it is committed to complying with global principles of ethical, ecological and business behaviour. Furthermore, the Code of Conduct developed in the 2010 financial year and published in 2011 also contains principles underlying the ethical and legally impeccable behaviour of all Austrian Post employees. In the light of our adhering to these principles and standards, we are committed to observing fundamental human rights and expect the same from our suppliers and business partners. HR2 Suppliers undergoing human rights screening The procurement policies of Austrian Post are in line with the Austrian Federal Procurement Act. Generally speaking, bidders are screened with respect to their compliance with the stipulations of the Aliens Employment Act, as well as concerning child labour and illegal employment practices. Fundamentally speaking, Austrian Post almost exclusively resorts to suppliers from Austria and the EU, and thus there is little reason to suspect any violation of basic human rights. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 45 As an additional measure, Austrian Post plans to include a code of conduct for suppliers as an integral part of business contracts. HR3 Employee training on human rights At the present time no employee training courses are held which specifically focus on the issue of human rights. On a medium-term basis, once a code of conduct has been developed and introduced for suppliers, plans call for special human rights training to be given to employees in the central procurement department. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 46 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: SOCIETY As a provider of universal postal services, Austrian Post bears a considerable responsibility to society. It makes an important contribution towards maintaining and safeguarding the communications infrastructure on the basis of providing reliable, top-quality nationwide postal services in Austria. It wants to offer services to meet the modern needs of society. For years, a combination of company-owned post offices and partner-operated postal service points has proven its value in ensuring that nationwide postal services are maintained on behalf of the Austrian population. In particular, the concept of the postal partner offices, in which local tobacconists, retail shops and also municipal offices cooperate with Austrian Post, is very successful. Through their expanded offering, these postal partner offices also strengthen the local availability of essential services. Societal and social objectives  Expansion of reliable, nationwide postal services  Promising and providing clearly-defined services  Promoting the common good and corporate social responsibility ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITY SO1 Impact of business activities on the local community Only Austrian Post delivers letters and parcels each day to every address throughout Austria, whether to a city flat or to a farm. Austrian Post is a reliable partner, and thus makes a valuable contribution to providing basic services for Austrian cities and municipalities in the form of postal services that are of outstanding quality. As a result, more than 95% of all letters are already delivered to recipients on the next working day. Starting in the year 2011, Austrian Post will provide these services in a fully liberalised market, continuing to guarantee the security and reliability of postal services for the entire country. The branch network, consisting of more than 1,800 outlets, ranks among the largest private customer networks in the country. It offers high quality postal, banking and communications products and services to its customers throughout Austria. Austrian Post speedily pressed ahead with the customer-oriented restructuring of its post office network in 2010. An integral part of this effort has involved the resolute implementation of the postal partner concept. For this reason, Austrian Post made an offer to all municipalities in 2010, „A postal service point for each community“. Austrian Post aimed at identifying and attracting new postal partners, working in cooperation with the Austrian Association of Municipalities and the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber. This system of having local businesses offer the additional services provided by Austrian Post can sustainably safeguard the supply of postal services throughout the country. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 47 The postal partner concept has been very well received by customers. A study carried out in the year 2010 gave high marks to Austrian Post’s partner-operated service points. 500 people were interviewed from communities which have had a postal partner office since August 2009. 76% of the interviewees said they were very satisfied or satisfied with the level of service. In particular, people consider the opening hours, which often extend to Saturday as well, to be a distinct advantage, not to mention the possibility to do errands they need to take care of and fulfill their postal needs at the same time. The postal partner offices often perform well in other customer satisfaction surveys and thus, similar to company-operated post offices, convincingly provide a very good level of service just as the post offices do. At the beginning of 2010, the network of postal service points in Austria consisted of 418 postal partner offices. By the end of the year, this figure has increased to 1,117. At the halfyear reporting date on June 30, 2011, a total of 1,212 local businessmen served as postal partners offering postal services. Accordingly, the postal partner drive of Austrian Post has turned out to be extremely successful and will continue in the future, both in rural areas as well as increasingly in cities. On balance, the total number of postal service points has risen significantly, climbing from 1,552 at the beginning of the year to 1,850 at the end of 2010. As at June 30, 2011, Austrian Post boasted a nationwide network of 1,876 outlets, a much denser network than the legally stipulated minimum of 1,650 postal service points. More information is also available under indicator EC9 on page 25. ASPECT: CORRUPTION As a member of the UN Global Compact, Austrian Post is committed to abiding by these principles (www.unglobalcompact.com). In order to increase its activities in the field of anticorruption, Austrian Post will cooperate with Transparency International in the future SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption Potential risks of corruption are also taken into account by Austrian Post’s risk management system. No risks related to corruption in Austria were reported to the risk management system in the year 2010. In 2010 Austrian Post launched a drive to further develop its internal compliance organisation to include a Group-wide integrated compliance management system. One of the focal points of these efforts was in preventing corruption. Corresponding measures were carried out in 2011. For example, a Code of Conduct applying to all employees was published, which contains principles and guidelines for valueand legally-compliant behaviour in everyday business. This code of conduct and ethics clearly stipulates that Austrian Post does not tolerate any form whatsoever of bribery and corruption. Moreover, a central compliance helpdesk was set up in 2011, as a contact point for concerns, questions or indications of potential violations on compliance-related issues such as bribery or corruption. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 48 SO3 Employee training in preventing corruption The issue of anti-corruption is one of the priorities of Austrian Post’s compliance work. For this reason, Austrian Post established binding internal anti-corruption rules in the Group guideline “Accepting Gifts and Bribery”. This guideline was updated in 2011, and has gained importance as a result of corresponding rules contained in the Code of Conduct. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In the reporting year no corruption risks were reported via the risk management system of Austrian Post. In specific cases disciplinary measures or measures in line with employment laws are taken. In the year 2010 a series of measures were launched to prevent corruption within the context of the compliance management system of Austrian Post. Several of these measures were already implemented in the year 2011 (see SO2). ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development In 2010 Austrian Post once again stated its concerns within the framework of its membership in various trade and professional associations and the relevant decisionmaking bodies and working groups, and will continue to do so in the future. In particular, the focus was on the issues of infrastructure and security of supply. The objective of Austrian Post is to provide postal services throughout the country for the benefit of the Austrian population. This must take place in a modern and service-oriented manner. The mediumterm goal is to agree on an up-to-date definition of universal postal services, to develop a public services law in line with market requirements and to ensure the free selection of the optimal operating model for postal service points. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR SO7 Legal actions due to anti-competitive behaviour There were no legal actions against Austrian Post on grounds of alleged anti-competitive behavior, the establishment of monopolies or creation of cartels. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 49 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS SO8 Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with laws During the reporting year no fines or monetary sanctions were imposed against Austrian Post for violations of legal regulations, with the exception of minor administrative penalties, for example traffic offences. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 50 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY The principle of product responsibility is embedded in the mission statement of Austrian Post. We give our customers a clearly-defined performance commitment and continually fulfill our promise. We design our products and services in a customer-oriented, simple and easily comprehensible manner. Austrian Post pursues the target of setting standards for quality and customer orientation. The company takes criticism voiced by customers seriously, and sees it as an incentive for improvement. ASPECT: LABELLING OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PR3 Products and services subject to statutory information requirements All services provided within the context of the universal service obligation are subject to statutory information requirements. PR4 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning production and service information and labelling During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with valid legal regulations and voluntary codes concerning production and service information and labeling. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Since the beginning of 2010 Austrian Post has launched a series of initiatives in order to fulfil customer needs for simpler and easily understandable products and for greater convenience. These initiatives were accompanied by performance and quality controls, which consistently resulted in outstanding feedback on the part of customers. For example, the customer satisfaction survey sent to 3.6m households in November 2010 by the Mail Division proceeded gratifyingly (290,000 returned questionnaires). 94% of the respondents said they were very satisfied or satisfied with letter mail delivery services. Furthermore, 91% of the people surveyed expressed their confidence in Austrian Post. In response to the question which advertising materials about new products and promotional campaigns people most highly valued, 46% of respondents mentioned flyers as the most popular form of advertising media, and 31% said personally addressed advertising mail was the preferred choice. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 51 On balance, 49% of the respondents said they had received a “yellow notification” in the previous months about a parcel to be picked up. On the basis of these results, Austrian Post has already implemented measures to increase customer convenience in this area. For example, pilot operations of Austrian Post’s recipient boxes commenced in August 2011. Parcels and larger letter mail items which cannot be directly delivered could be securely deposited in the future in these new Austrian Post recipient boxes. 52% of the customers said that they would like to be informed in advance per SMS or e-mail about a mail item they would have to personally accept. For this reason, pilot operations of this new service began in September 2011, with the roll-out planned by the end of 2011. The survey also indicated that there is still little awareness of the online services offered by Austrian Post. 82% of the people surveyed are not familiar with the online services, but 49% said they were interested in these services. For this reason, Austrian Post’s advertising and communication activities will focus on this area more intensively in the future. Since the beginning of 2011 Austrian Post has also been carrying out quarterly surveys to determine the level of satisfaction on the part of its private customers. The fields of delivery and shipping services, the branch network, Internet and customer services are evaluated by 1,000 people in each round of telephone interviews. ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications The focal point of our advertising is our core service, namely the secure and trustworthy delivery of mail items. Sustainability issues are integrated into these communication activities. Austrian Post does not evaluate its advertising only according to economic criteria, but also includes ethical aspects. Austrian Post strictly rejects any form of advertising but which is immoral and which does not correspond to generally-accepted ethical and cultural standards. PR7 Incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications During the reporting year there were no incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning advertising, promotion and sponsorship. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 52 ASPECT: PROTECTION OF CUSTOMER DATA PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data With the exception of a few isolated complaints in connection with consent granted to passing on data on forwarding mail forms (redirections) for advertising purposes, there were no complaints with respect to breaches of customer privacy. Austrian Post has been granted authorisation to exercise the trades of address publishing and direct marketing. Within this framework, it is standard policy to request permission to pass on data for advertising purposes on the forms used for requesting mail to be forwarded. This consent was originally recorded manually and thus transcription errors were made in exceptional cases. In the meantime, the implementation of technical measures has helped to solve this problem. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS PR9 Fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations related to products and services During the reporting year no fines were levied for noncompliance with laws and regulations related to products and services. NAGR GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 53 THEMATIC AND GOAL MATRIX 3 Main corporate We focus on our customers We act in a future-oriented manner We are all Austrian Post principles Definition of the sustainability strategy CSR priorities SOCIAL/SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT ECONOMY SOCIAL/EMPLOYEES 1. Expansion of reliable, nationwide 1. 10% CO2 reduction by 2012 1. Increased shareholder value 1. Creating individual future perspectives postal services 2. CO2 neutral delivery as of 2011 supported by an attractive dividend 2. Promotion of corporate and leadership 2. Promise clearly-defined services and 3. 10% reduction of energy consumption policy culture Targets uphold these commitments by 2012 2. Medium-term revenue growth of 1% to 3. Promotion of occupational health and 3. Promotion of the common good and 2% p.a. safety at the workplace social involvement 3. Sustainable EBITDA margin of 10% to 12% * Post Partner Offensive 2010 * Participation in international climate * 2010 revenue 0.3% above prior-year * New corporate principles * Intensification of the dialogue with protection programmes level on a comparable basis * Voluntary profit sharing scheme for mayors and provincial representatives * Higher eco-efficiency in transport * EBITDA margin of 11.1% employees * Customer drive operations * EBIT rise of 5% to EUR 156.9m * post.sozial * Support of art galleries and museums * Vehilces with alternative drive systems * Free cash flow of EUR 153.6m in 2010 * Reorientation of the Austrian Post Current measures * Charitable projects (e.g. Ö3 Optimisation of building infrastructure * Dividend of EUR 1.60 per share Internal Labour Market 2010 * Wundertüte) * Monitoring/optimisation of energy use * New social plan model * Waste prevention and reduction * Training on safe and healthy behaviour at the workplace * Health care days and vaccinations * Regular stamps as platform for * CO2 neutral delivery in Austria Further development of core strategy: * Reorientation of Group-wide training contemporary art museums * Expanded tests on electric-powered * Defence of market leadership in the and professional development * Development of teaching materials via vehicles core business measures the institution Austrian Post * Focus on electricity from renewable * Growth in selected markets * Development of a diversity management New measures * Membership in Transparancy energy sources * Efficiency improvements/Flexible cost strategy as of 2011 International * Feasibility study for solar plants at structure * Development of new leadership sorting centres * Customer orientation/Innovation guidelines * Support for climate protection projects * Ongoing further development of the compliance organisation * The area of focus on Economy presents relevant indicators applying to the 2010 financial year. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 54 GRI CONTENT INDEX The GRI Content Index shows where the individual indicators are presented and explained in the report, and also describe which publications provide additional information. GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Declaration on the profile 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker in Declaration of 1.1 Page 4 support the organisation 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Page 6 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Page 7 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Page 7 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Page 7 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Page 7 Number of countries where the organisation 2.5 Page 9 operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Page 7/10 2.7 Markets served Page 7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Page 7 There were no major changes in size, Significant changes regarding size, structure or 2.9 structure or ownership in the reporting ownership period. Austrian Post received no awards in the 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period reporting period. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 55 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Page 11 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Page 11 3.3 Reporting cycle Page 11 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 3.4 Page 64 its contents 3.5 Process for defining report contents Page 11 3.6 Boundaries of the report Page 11 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Page 11 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries 3.8 Page 11 etc. Data measurement techniques and the bases of 3.9 Page 11 calculations 3.10 Re-statements of information Page 11 Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods Page 11 3.12 GRI Content Index Page 55 3.13 External assurance for the report Page 63 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Corporate governance and governance structure Page 14 Measures to 4.2 Independence of the highest governance body Page 15 implement principles 1-10 Structure of the highest governance body in Austrian Post has a Supervisory Board 4.3 organisations without a Supervisory Board n.a. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 4.4 provide recommendations or direction to the Page 15 highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of 4.5 the highest governance bodies and the Page 15 organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to prevent conflicts of interest Page 16 Expertise of the highest governance body on 4.7 economic, environmental and social issues Page 16 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 56 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Internally developed statements of mission or 4.8 values, codes of conduct and principles relevant Page 16 to sustainability Procedures for overseeing sustainability 4.9 performance Page 19 The evaluation of the highest Processes for evaluating the highest governance governance body is not the 4.10 body’s own performance with respect to n.a. responsibility of the reporting sustainability organisation (Austrian Stock Corporation Act). Extent to which the precautionary approach is Measures to 4.11 addressed by the organisation Page 19 implement principle 7 External developed charters, principles or other Measures to 4.12 initiatives Page 19 implement Memberships in associations and industry principles 1-10 4.13 associations Page 20 List of the stakeholder groups engaged by the Progress report 4.14 organisation Page 20 conveyed to Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders of 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage Page 21 the company 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Page 21 Key topics and concerns raised through 4.17 stakeholder engagement Page 22 Disclosures on Management Approach Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach EC implement DMA EC Page 23 (economic performance) principles 1, 4, 6 &7 Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach EN implement DMA EN Page 27 (environmental performance) principles 7, 8 & 9 Disclosure on Management Approach LA (labour Measures to DMA LA Page 36 practices and humane working conditions) implement GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 57 principles 1,3&6 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Measures to Disclosure on Management Approach HR (human implement DMA HR Page 45 rights) principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 Disclosure on Management Approach SO Measures to DMA SO Page 47 implement (society) principle 10 Disclosure on Management Approach PR Measures to DMA PR Page 51 implement (product responsibility) principles 1 & 8 Performance indicators Economic performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 23 EC6 Policy and practices towards local suppliers Page 25 Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 Page 25 economic impacts Ecological performance indicators Results from EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Page 27 implementing principle 8 Percentage of materials used that are recycled Results from EN2 Page 27 implementing input materials principles 8 & 9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Results from EN3 Page 28 source implementing EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Page 28 principle 8 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 58 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Results from The most important initiatives and Energy saved due to conversation and efficiency implementing measures to reduce energy EN5 Page 29 principles 8 & 9 consumption were reported on. The improvements specific amount of energy saved could not be determined and reported. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Results of EN16 Page 31 emissions by weight implementing Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions principle 8 EN17 Page 31 by weight Measures for Similar to EN5, the most important and results of initiatives and measures to reduce Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions implementing greenhouse gas emissions were EN18 Page 32 and reductions achieved principles 7, 8 & reported on. The specific reduction of 9 CO2 could not be determined and reported. Total weight of waste by type and disposal Results from The primary types of waste arising in EN22 Page 33 implementing Austrian Post’s operations were method principle 8 reported on. The respective volumes EN24 Total weight of waste deemed hazardous Page 33 and waste disposal methods could not be determined and reported. Measures to Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of implement EN26 Page 33 products and services principles 7, 8 & 9 Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with Results from EN28 Page 35 environmental laws and regulations implementing principle 8 Transport comprises the core service provided by Austrian Post. For this Significant environmental impacts of transporting reason the main transported-related EN29 Page 35 products and other goods and materials environmental impacts are presented under the performance indicators EN3, EN4, EN5, EN7, EN16, EN18 & EN26. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 59 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Social peformance indicators: Labour practices and decent work Specific regional data is not of Total workforce by employment type, employment material importance, due to the fact LA1 Page 36 contract and region that the staff of the company is only employed in Austria. Total number and rate of new employee hires and Results from LA2 employee turnover by age group, gender and Page 37 implementing region principle 6 Benefits provided depending on employment LA3 Page 37 relationship Percentage of employees covered by collective Results from LA4 Page 38 implementing bargaining agreements principles 1 & 3 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days Results from LA7 and absenteeism, and number of work-related Page 39 implementing fatalities principle 1 LA8 Measures designed to prevent serious diseases Page 39 Results from Health and safety topics covered in formal implementing LA9 Page 40 agreements with trade unions principle 1 In terms of content, the focal points of Austrian Post’s training and Average hours of training per year per employee educational programme have been LA10 Page 41 and employee category included in the report. Data on training and education could not be centrally collected and reported on. Programmes that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in Page 41 managing career endings Performance of employees receiving regular LA12 Page 42 performance and career development reviews GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 60 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason LA13 Diversity of employees and governance bodies Page 43 Results from Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women implementing LA14 Page 44 to men principles 1 & 6 Social performance indicators: Human rights Measures for Suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 Page 45 and results human rights screening from implementing HR3 Employee training on human rights Page 46 principles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 & 6 Social performance indicators: Society Programmes to assess the impacts of operations SO1 Page 47 on communities and society SO2 Analyses of risks related to corruption Page 48 Results from Employees training in anti-corruption policies and implementing SO3 Page 49 procedures principle 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of Measures to SO4 Page 49 implement corruption principle 10 Public policy positions and participation in public Measures to SO5 Page 49 implement policy development and lobbying principles 1-10 Legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, antiSO7 Page 49 trust and monopoly practices Sanctions and fines for noncompliance with laws SO8 Page 50 and regulations Social performance indicators: Product responsibility Measures for Products and services subject to statutory and results PR3 Page 51 from information requirements implementing principle 8 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 61 GRI Code Indicator Status Refer to UNGC Explanation/Reason Total number of incidents of noncompliance with Results from PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 51 implementing product and service information and labelling principle 8 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction Page 51 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards PR6 and voluntary codes related to marketing Page 52 communications Total number of incidents of noncompliance with PR7 regulations and voluntary codes concerning Page 52 marketing communications Total number of substantiated complaints Results from PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and Page 53 implementing losses of customer data principle 1 Fines for noncompliance with laws and PR9 Page 53 regulations related to products and services Fully reported Partially reported n.a. Not applicable EC1 Core indicators (normal print) EC9 Additional indicators (italics) The Sustainability Report 2010 of Austrian Post was prepared in line with the guidelines for sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3), and corresponds to the Application Level B+. Adherence to the formal criteria contained in these guidelines and the information provided in the report are subject to an auditor’s review and confirmed by an independent third party. The independent certification on the part of Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. is provided at the end of this report. GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 62 Ernst & Young Unabhängige Bescheinigung Prüferische Durchsicht des vorliegenden GRI-Nachhaltigkeitsberichts 2010 der Österreichischen Post Aktiengesellschaft. Auftrag Kriterien Wir wurden von der Österreichischen Post AktienDie Informationen des Berichts wurden auf Basis der gesellschaft zur Durchführung einer prüferischen folgenden für das Geschäftsjahr 2010 maßgeblichen Durchsicht des vorliegenden GRI-Nachhaltigkeitsberichts Kriterien (nachfolgend „die Kriterien“) erstellt: 2010 (nachfolgend „Bericht”) beauftragt. ► G3.0 Richtlinien der Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2 Wir führten den Auftrag durch, um eine begrenzte Prüfsicherheit darüber zu erlangen, inwieweit die ► GHG INVENTORY STANDARD FOR THE POSTAL Informationen, in allen wesentlichen Belangen eine SECTOR, Version for 2010 (UPC, IPC, PostEurop)3 verlässliche und ausreichende Darstellung der Richtlinien, Wir beurteilen den Bericht anhand dieser Kriterien und gehen Geschäftstätigkeit, Ereignisse und Leistungen im Bereich davon aus, dass diese Kriterien für die Durchführung unseres Nachhaltigkeit im Berichtszeitraum 2010 geben. Prüfauftrags angemessen sind. Unsere Prüfungshandlungen wurden gesetzt, um eine begrenzte Prüfsicherheit als Grundlage für unsere Beurteilung zu erlangen. Der Umfang der Verantwortung des Managements Prüfungshandlungen zur Einholung von PrüfungsDas Management der Österreichischen Post nachweisen ist geringer, als jene für hinreichende Aktiengesellschaft ist für die Erstellung des Berichts und für Prüfsicherheit (wie beispielsweise bei Jahresabschlussdie darin enthaltenen Informationen, in Übereinstimmung mit prüfungen), sodass ein geringerer Grad an Prüfsicherheit den oben genannten Kriterien, verantwortlich. Diese gegeben ist. Verantwortung beinhaltet die Entwicklung, Implementierung Die „Allgemeinen Auftragsbedingungen für Wirtschaftsund Sicherstellung von internen Kontrollen. Diese sind für die treuhandberufe“1 in der Fassung vom 21. Februar 2011, Erstellung des Berichts maßgeblich um wesentliche falsche herausgegeben von der Kammer der WirtschaftsAngaben auszuschließen. Weiters beinhaltet die treuhänder, sind Grundlage dieses Auftrags. Unsere Verantwortung die Auswahl und Anwendung geeigneter Haftung ist gemäß Kapitel 8 beschränkt. Demnach haftet Standards sowie Bewertungsmethoden und Schätzungen, der Berufsberechtigte nur für vorsätzliche und grob welche in Anbetracht der Umstände angemessen sind. fahrlässig verschuldete Verletzungen der übernommenen Verpflichtungen. Im Falle grober Fahrlässigkeit beträgt die maximale Haftungssumme gegenüber der Österreichischen Unsere Vorgehensweise Post Aktiengesellschaft und Dritten insgesamt Unsere Verantwortung besteht darin, ein Urteil über die EUR 726.730. Informationen im Bericht auf Basis einer prüferischen Durchsicht zur Erlangung einer begrenzten Prüfsicherheit abzugeben. Einschränkungen des Prüfauftrages ► Vorjahreszahlen wurden von uns grundsätzlich keiner Wir haben unseren Prüfauftrag unter Beachtung des prüferischen Durchsicht unterzogen, es sei denn, dies „International Federation of Accountants’ ISAE3000“4 war für Plausibilitätsverprobungen erforderlich. Standards sowie des von der „International Federation of Accountants“ (IFAC) herausgegebenen „Code of Ethics for ► Informationen ausländischer sowie inländischer Professional Accountants“ worin Regelungen zu unserer Tochtergesellschaften der Österreichischen Post Unabhängigkeit enthalten sind geplant und durchgeführt. Aktiengesellschaft sind nicht Gegenstand des Berichts sowie der prüferischen Durchsicht. Wir haben alle erforderlichen Prüfungshandlungen durchgeführt, um eine ausreichende und geeignete Basis für ► Allgemeine Informationen welche im Rahmen des unser Urteil sicherzustellen. Wesentliche PrüfungsGeschäftsberichts 2010 der Österreichischen Post handlungen von uns waren: Aktiengesellschaft angeführt wurden (insbesondere Angaben unter „2 Organisationsprofil“ und „Aspekt: ► Beurteilung der Angemessenheit der Kriterien für Mittelbare Wirtschaftliche Auswirkungen EC9“), Zwecke unseres Auftrages; wurden von uns keiner prüferischen Durchsicht ► Gesamtüberblick zur Unternehmenstätigkeit sowie zur unterzogen. Wir überprüften lediglich die korrekte Aufbauund Ablauforganisation des Unternehmens; Übernahme der Daten oder Inhalte in den Bericht. ► Die unter „Aspekt: Wirtschaftliche Leistung“ ► Prüferische Durchsicht des Nachhaltigkeitsangeführten Informationen (EC1) sind dem Managements einschließlich der Reporting-Systeme und Einzeljahresabschlusses nach österreichischem UGB -Prozesse, welche die Erhebung der Informationen für der Österreichischen Post Aktiengesellschaft den Bericht unterstützen; entnommen (welcher beim Firmenbuch hinterlegt wurde) und wurden von uns keiner weiteren prüferischen Durchsicht unterzogen. Wir überprüften lediglich die korrekte Übernahme der Daten oder Inhalte in den Bericht. 2 http://www.globalreporting.org/ReportingFramework/G3Online/ 3 http://www.sustainablepost.eu/fileadmin/GHG_CONTENT/pdf/GHG_I nventory_Standard_for_the_Postal_Sector.pdf 4 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or reviews of Historical 1 http://www.kwt.or.at/de/PortalData/2/Resources/downloads/dow Financial Information (ISAE3000) nloadcenter/AAB_2011_de.pdf ► Stichprobenweise Überprüfung der Anwendung der Unsere Beurteilung Kriterien zur Berichterstattung von Nachhaltigkeitsinformationen; Auf Grundlage unserer prüferischen Durchsicht mit dem Ziel der Erlangung einer begrenzten Prüfsicherheit, sind ► Prüferische Durchsicht der wesentlichen Schätzungen uns keine Sachverhalte bekannt, die uns zu der Annahme und Berechnungen, welche für die Erstellung des veranlassen, dass die Informationen im Bericht in allen Berichtes eingesetzt wurden; wesentlichen Belangen eine verlässliche und ausreichende ► Überprüfung einzelner, relevanter Informationen auf Darstellung der Richtlinien, Geschäftstätigkeit, Ereignisse Plausibilität; und Leistungen im Bereich der Nachhaltigkeit während des Berichtszeitraums 2010 nicht in Übereinstimmung mit den ► Identifizierung inhärenter Risiken, welche Einfluss auf G3.0 Richtlinien der Global Reporting Initiative sowie dem die Zuverlässigkeit der Informationen haben, und GHG INVENTORY STANDARD FOR THE POSTAL SECTOR, gegebenenfalls Erhebungen, in welchem Umfang Version for 2010 (UPC, IPC, PostEurop) sind. solche Risiken durch interne Kontrollen abgedeckt sind; Anmerkung ► Durchführung analytischer Prüfungshandlungen auf Unternehmensebene; Unsere Feststellungen und Empfehlungen zur Verbesserung des Berichtserstellungsprozesses werden in einem ► Durchführung von Interviews mit UnternehmensFeedback-Bericht an das Management der Österreichischen verantwortlichen der Österreichischen Post Post Aktiengesellschaft dargelegt. Aktiengesellschaft, um die Implementierung der im Bericht beschriebenen Grundsätze und Maßnahmen zu verifizieren; Wien, 14. September 2011 ► Beurteilung des zutreffenden Gesamteindrucks der im Bericht dargestellten Informationen. ERNST & YOUNG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft m.b.H. Brigitte Frey e.h. i. V. Georg Rogl e.h. CONTACT & IMPRINT Media owner and publisher Österreichische Post AG Postgasse 8, 1010 Vienna, Austria T: +43 (0) 57767-0, E: info@post.at, I: www.post.at FN: 180219d, Commercial Court of Vienna Organisation/Coordination & contact in case of inquiries Julia Kollouch, Österreichische Post AG Sustainability (CSR) Tel. in Austria: 057767-21860 Tel. international: +43 57767-21860 (Fax 30409) E-mail: julia.kollouch@post.at Anna Niederhofer, Österreichische Post AG Investor Relations & CSR Manager Tel. in Austria: 057767-30402 Tel. international: +43 57767-30402 (Fax 30409) E-mail: anna.niederhofer@post.at Consulting Harald Reisinger, plenum gesellschaft für ganzheitlich nachhaltige entwicklung GmbH We have prepared this report and checked the figures with the greatest possible care. Nevertheless, rounding, typographical and printing errors cannot be excluded. The aggregation of rounded amounts and percentages may result in rounding differences due to the use of automated computational aids. This report also contains forward-looking statements based on the information currently available to us. These are usually indicated by expressions such “expect“, “anticipate“, “estimate“, “plan“ or “calculate“. We wish to note that a wide variety of factors could cause actual circumstances – and hence actual results – to deviate from the forecasts contained in this report. Statements referring to people are valid for both men and women. This Sustainability Report is also available in German. In case of doubt, the German version takes precedence. Editorial deadline: September 14, 2011 GRI SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 OF AUSTRIAN POST Page 64
