SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 As Akbank, we are proud to issue our second Sustainability Report, the first of which had been presented last year as the first of its kind among deposit banks of Turkey. This year’s report also covers our achievements realized within the framework of our environmental, social and economic performance and our sustainability vision. Based upon our principle of ethical and reliable banking, our sustainability vision is to be a bank with strong financial foundations having respect for the environment, keeping community investment at high levels and attaching importance to stakeholder relations and transparency. This vision guides our Bank in our sustainability strategies and practices. CONTENTS AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Message from the Chairman 5 Message from the CEO 7 Akbank and Sustainability – A Timeline 9 01. ABOUT AKBANK Akbank in Brief 12 Our Corporate Vision, Mission and Objectives, Our Strong Foundations 13 Akbank in Figures 14 Our Financial Performance 16 Organization and Management of the Bank 18 Awards and Achievements 20 02. ABOUT THE REPORT Our Approach to Reporting 22 Setting out the Content of the Report 23 03. OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Vision, Strategy, Policy and Commitments 29 Sustainability Management at Akbank 30 Our Climate Change Strategy 33 Sustainability in the Supply Chain 34 04. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK Corporate Governance at Akbank 35 Risk Management, Internal Control and Audit Systems 39 Ethical Banking 43 Compliance with the Laws and Public Policies 43 05. VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS Core Banking Services Offered to Our Consumers 45 Responsible Practices in Corporate and SME Loans 48 Our Services and Products to Support SMEs 50 Responsible Practices in Consumer Banking 55 Responsible Practices in Debit and Credit Cards 60 Contribution to the Economy and Environment with Widespread Branches and ATMs 61 “Freedom Banking” for Easy Access to Services 61 Innovative Practices at Akbank 63 Secure Banking 64 Marketing Communication and Legal Compliance 65 Customer Satisfaction 66 CONTENTS AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 06. OUR EMPLOYEES Our Human Resources Policy 68 Our Employee Profile 69 Performance Management System (PMS) 71 Benefits to Employees 72 Employee Health and Safety 73 The Bank of Learners and Teachers: Career Development and Trainings at Akbank 73 Internal Communication and Activities at Akbank 79 Employee Satisfaction 81 07. OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Our Environmental Policy 82 Energy Consumption and Savings 82 Carbon Emissions and Reductions 84 Paper Use and Savings 86 Water Use and Savings 87 Environment-Friendly Technologies 88 Waste Management 88 08. OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Culture and Arts 90 Akbank Art Center 90 Education and Youth 93 Entrepreneurship and Innovativeness 94 Environment 95 Donations 95 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 97 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Index 104 Contacts and Credits 105 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Dear Stakeholders, We, as Akbank, are proud to issue our second Sustainability Report, the first of which had been presented last year as the first of its kind among deposit banks of Turkey. This year’s report also covers our achievements realized within the framework of our environmental, social and economic performance and our sustainability vision. Based upon our principle of ethical and reliable banking, our sustainability vision is to be a bank with strong financial foundations having respect for the environment, keeping community investment at high levels and attaching importance to stakeholder relations and transparency. This vision guides our Bank in our sustainability strategies and practices. We believe that environmental and social sustainability is as important as profitability in our operations. Thus, since 2007 we have been reemphasizing our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). During the reporting period, in other words throughout 2010, we continued to support four areas of UNGC (labour, human rights, environment, and anticorruption) as well as the related ten principles with Occupying an important part in the agendas of numerous our various policies and practices within the framework private sector companies, financial institutions, of our operations. governments, and non-governmental organizations, the increase in greenhouse gas emissions is also among the priorities of us in Akbank. Especially since 2005, we During 2010, which has been a year of have been implementing various activities and practices recovery due to efforts to overcome the on this end. Among these are activities and practices to support increasing environmental awareness in our global economic crisis, environmental country, to reduce environmental effects resulting from issues have again been one of the our operations, and to minimize effects caused by climate most important items in the global change. In addition, since requirements regarding this agenda. 2010 has been a year in which issue also bring economic benefits alongside, we offer loan opportunities for energy efficiency and renewable environmental awareness increased energy financing to our customers. throughout the world and necessity to take actions against climate change We closely follow all international developments that was felt more deeply. contribute to solutions regarding climate change and 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN we take active part in solution processes. In line with On the other hand, in order to benefit from the this approach, we took pioneering steps both locally and innovative and creative potential in our country, Akbank internationally in 2010. Carbon Disclosure Project, which offers some suitable platforms to the youth. “Thinking is considered to be among the most globally recognized Club” activities initiated with such an approach at and prestigious projects today, has been one of the most various universities grow with the participation of new concrete and awareness-raising initiatives in 2010 both students and projects every year. in terms of its influence area and results. This project is also one of the most important indicators of Akbank’s We, as Akbank, also aim to contribute to processes of declaration of and commitment to its responsibilities in policy-making that will accelerate the development sustainable environment. of Turkey. ‹stanbul meeting of the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House) in 2010, Cancun Communiqué, drafted prior to the United High-Impact Entrepreneurship support organization Nations Climate Change Summit held towards the end Endeavor’s meetings, Opportunities in Exports of 2010 in Cancun, Mexico and also signed by Akbank, Seminars of the Foreign Economic Relations Board makes a call for cooperation of governments against (DE‹K), ‹stanbul Trade and Export Finance Conference, climate change. As a pioneer of the struggle against Euromoney Turkey Conference are only some of the climate change in the Turkish finance industry, our events we supported in 2010. Bank has been one of the 384 companies and the only bank in Turkey to sign the Cancun Communiqué. By Numerous art events that our Bank has been signing the Communiqué presented to government supporting for a long time via Akbank Art Center play representatives, Akbank made a call to governments an important role in enriching the arts and culture in to achieve global consensus on measures to be taken our country and create social values. against climate change and to bring the low-carbon economy to life at local, national and regional levels. While carrying out operations that have its signature under positive developments in environmental, social Another effort that we believe will make significant and economic sustainability, Akbank will certainly contribution to the socioeconomic development of continue to pioneer changes in the industry and in Turkey is our services provided to support SMEs that our country and to build cooperation with the aim of are vital to the economy. SMEs -accounting for over creating common benefits. 99 percent of all enterprises in our countryrepresent a strategic potential in terms of sustainable growth. Suzan Sabancı Dinçer Similarly, entrepreneurship and youth are the other Chairman, Board of Directors elements of power that has not been revealed yet. Believing that these three elements must be supported through various tools, we have developed a variety of products, projects, information and communication channels, and campaigns. Two examples of such successful projects are “Special Loans for Endeavor Entrepreneurs” initiated by Akbank and the Endeavor Foundation and the “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program implemented in cooperation with the Sabanc› University. 6 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Dear Stakeholders, In 2010, we left behind a period of time in which the traces of the recent economic turmoil were cleared and main focus stood on growth strategies. In this difficult period, we, as Akbank, maintained the same momentum for creating lasting values for all of our stakeholders. We are proud to share our second Sustainability Report, which is one of the most important indicators of our long-term perspective and commitment. Akbank steers its operations not only towards its corporate targets, but also with a direction of growth that meets expectations of its significant stakeholders including Shareholders, Employees, Customers, Investors, International Financial Institutions, Society, Legislators, Business Partners, Suppliers, Youth, Media, and Non-Governmental Organizations. Dialogues on important and material issues with our stakeholders via various platforms contribute to improving our business processes and performance. Since 2009, we have been communicating our practices and performance related Corporate governance, transparency and loyalty to to our environmental, social and ethical values have always been a priority of Akbank. governance responsibilities to our We are aware of the fact that a transparent and sincere stakeholders with our Sustainability communication is what brings value to Akbank from the perspective of existing stakeholders and potential Report. Our 2010 Sustainability Report investors. Akbank management team meticulously covers six main subject areas; namely, implements the principle of sharing financial results Our Approach to Sustainability, Corporate of its operations with all related parties in a complete, Governance and Risk Management, Value fair, accurate, timely and understandable manner within the framework of generally accepted accounting Added to Customers, Our Employees, principles and legislation provisions. In terms of Our Operations and the Environment, informing the public, our practices are based upon the and Our Community Investment. We regulations of the Capital Markets Board of Turkey and the ‹stanbul Stock Exchange Market. believe our Report documents our ever-increasing commitment and Global and local operations that we perform for the performance in the area. sake of sustainable environment accelerated in 2010. 7 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Akbank continued its sponsorship to the Carbon We collected all of our efforts to create customer Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2010 and therefore and employee satisfaction so far under a “For You” contributed considerably to the implementation of philosophy in 2010. With this “For You” philosophy that this project in Turkey. CDP is a voluntary initiative bears signatures of all Akbank employees, we improve carried out in approximately 60 countries worldwide, our customer and stakeholder satisfaction-based with the aim of measuring environmental footprints of banking approach even further. Going beyond being companies and ensuring that they implement carbon simply the bank of our customers and stakeholders, management and assess the issue strategically. we are their power supplies and supporters. Building closer relations with our customers and stakeholders, As one of the pioneers in making an internationally we closely monitor their needs, expectations, and standard greenhouse gas reporting commitment in questions. With accordingly-devised innovative Turkey, we, as Akbank, also received scores that carry products and services, practices and projects, we offer us to the world leaders category in our sector with our solutions that improve their quality of life and that CDP 2010 Global 500 reporting. Furthermore, we have create sustainable values. been the first and only Turkish institution to take place in the global report. In addition to these, our bank Having completed 2010 in line with its targets, also presents as a “signatory member” in the report, our Bank will continue to operate with a customer together with the world’s most prestigious institutions. satisfaction-based approach, to support the national economy and the real sector, to create everlasting As one of the largest companies in Turkey, we values together with all our stakeholders, and to carry are aware that we need to assess and audit our out national and international efforts for a sustainable environmental impacts. Our Head Office building and environment. I would like to take the opportunity 20 Regional Management buildings, 912 branches, to extend my gratitude to all our stakeholders who over 15,300 employees mean not only a huge physical encourage us to perform better with their feedbacks, asset, but also a huge power that believes in change. opinions, and support while we are continuing to invest The dimensions of our responsibility become evident in the future of our country and the world. when more than 500 suppliers and elements within our delivery network that offers countrywide services are Ziya Akkurt also included. In full awareness of this responsibility, CEO we continue to develop various environmental projects and programs. We accelerate our efforts to create programs that raise employee awareness in areas such as energy conservation, reducing carbon emissions, and paper conservation. As we have been doing since the day our Bank was established, we continue to contribute to social developments via projects we implement and support in various areas, including culture and arts, education, youth, entrepreneurship, and environment. 8 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Continuous Development of Akbank January 1948 Established in the city of Adana to finance cotton producers in the region. 1950 First branch in ‹stanbul opened in Sirkeci. 1954 Akbank Head Office moved to ‹stanbul. 1963 Automation of all banking operations. 1964 First representative office opened in Frankfurt, Germany for bank transfers of Turkish workers. 1981 All banking operations computerized and online transactions started. 1990 Akbank shares offered to public. 1996 AkSecurities established. 1996 Investor Relations Group established to manage relations with shareholders. 1998 With a secondary public offering, Akbank shares started trading in international markets as an American Depository Receipt (ADR). 1998 Akbank Representative Office in Frankfurt transformed into a branch. 1998 AkInvestment established. 1999 Akbank Internet Banking started. 2000 Ak Portfolio Management and Private Banking Department established. 2000 Akbank Malta branch opened. 2001 Akbank International N.V. –completely owned by Akbankestablished in the Netherlands. 2001 Opportunity to make banking transactions via Pocket Computer Banking offered to Akbank customers. 2001 Akbank Call Center started operations. 2002 Akbank Operations Center established. 2005 Akbank became the first bank to repurchase its founders shares. 2005 AkLease incorporated. 2009 Akbank International Advisory Board established. 2009 Co-branded fund for investments in BRIC countries offered to customers. 2009 Akbank videophone branch opened. 2009 Akbank (Dubai) Limited as the first Turkish bank established in Dubai International Finance Center. 2010 Akbank Banking Center started operations with a capacity of approximately 5,000 people. 9 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE Akbank and Sustainability 2003 Became the first bank to publicly declare its dividend policy. 2003 Became the first bank to announce Corporate Governance Principles in the annual report. 2004 Became the first bank to publish Corporate Governance Principles in its website. 2005 Became the sponsor of “Make a Wish” foundation, established to fulfill the wishes of children aged 3-18, fighting life-threatening diseases. 2007 Became the first Turkish bank to sign the UN Global Compact. 2007 Started cooperation with Endeavor – an international non-governmental organization aimed to contribute to economic development by supporting active entrepreneurs in developing countries. 2007 Akbank Customer Complaint Management System obtained ISO 10002 Quality Certificate. 2007 Supported entrepreneurs with its “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” program. 2008 Established “Akbank Thinking Club” with the aim of thinking together with the young and cocreating values for the future of Turkey. 2009 “The Power of Thinking” to support the education system initiated. Thanks to Akbank’s “Power of Thinking” project, hundreds of thousands of students were reached through thousands of teachers. 2009 Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee (CGSRC) established under the Board of Directors. 2009 Women’s Development Center “B‹Z”, established by KAG‹DER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) with the aim of helping women improve their individual productivities, opened with Akbank as the main sponsor. 2010 Mentorship program in which experienced managers guide management trainees at Akbank put into effect. 2010 Became the first Turkish bank to publish UN Global Compact Communication on Progress report. 2010 Drew attention to environmental transparency by supporting the implementation of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) one of the world’s most comprehensive and prestigious environmental initiativesin Turkey. 2010 Became the first Turkish deposit bank to publish a Sustainability Report in accordance with the GRI standards. 2010 Became the first and only Turkish institution to take place in the CDP 2010 Global 500 reporting and received scores that carry the Bank to the “world sector leaders” category. 2010 “Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan” put into effect. 2010 A loan pool of TL 20 million and on easy terms opened for entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor Turkey. 2010 Signed the Cancun Communiqué prepared prior to the United Nations 2010 Climate Change Summit. 2010 Supported the “Before They Disappear” Project implemented in Turkey in coordination with the Regional Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing attention to regions at risk due to climate change. 10 AKBANK AND SUSTAINABILITY – A TIMELINE Akbank and Arts 1972 Akbank Children’s Theatre started performances. 1974 Akbank Karagöz (shadow theatre) and Puppet Theatres started performances to bring Karagöz’s various adventures to audiences in many places of Turkey, starting with ‹stanbul. 1991 Akbank Jazz Festival started with the aim of creating a well-established musical culture in Turkey, by bringing world’s most famous jazz performers to large audiences. 1991 As the first example of a private sector company supporting musical performances in Turkey, Akbank Chamber Orchestra established. 1993 Akbank Art Center established. 1998 2000 Ottoman Calligraphy Exhibition “Golden Letters”, containing numerous valuable works, exhibited in New York Metropolitan, Los Angeles County Museum of Art, and Paris Louvre with the sponsorship of Akbank. 2003 Akbank Art Center restructured itself towards modern arts and accelerated artistic dynamics of our country by drawing attention to the local and international qualities of globalizing tendency of arts with its exhibitions. 2003-2007 Our Bank became the sponsor of Rock’n Coke Festival that brings world-famous rock stars to the youth. 2004 Akbank Short Film Festival was initiated. 2004 Akbank started to support the International ‹stanbul Film Festival and later became the main supporter. 2006 Rodin’s works were exhibited at Sak›p Sabanc› Museum with support from Akbank. 2007 Sponsoring the modern and contemporary arts event “Contemporary ‹stanbul”, Akbank contributed to the realization of Turkey's most important contemporary arts fair. 2008 With the sponsorship of Akbank, art fans had the opportunity to see the works of Salvador Dali -one of the most important artists of the surrealistic movementat the Sak›p Sabanc› Museum. With 385 works, the exhibition has been the largest Salvador Dali exhibition outside Spain. 2008 Akbank Children’s Theatre got on Hürriyet Newspaper’s “Human Rights Train” to once again carry the excitement, gloom, and beauties of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. 2008 Rock legend Metallica came to Turkey with the sponsorship of Akbank and 37,000 fans had the opportunity to watch the band live on stage. 2009 Latin Rock legend Carlos Santana gave a concert in ‹stanbul with the sponsorship of Akbank Wings Credit Card. 2010 Around 75,000 people participated in the Sonisphere Festival that brought world-famous heavy metal bands with the sponsorship of our exi26 brand. 11 01 ABOUT AKBANK AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Akbank in Brief The main scope of Akbank’s operations covers banking As of the end of 2010, the Bank’s consolidated net activities including SME banking, consumer banking, profit is TL 3 billion (approximately USD 2 billion) corporate banking, private banking, foreign exchange, and total consolidated current assets are TL 120 money markets and securities (Treasury Transactions), billion (approximately USD 78 billion). The Bank’s and international banking services. Such needs of consolidated capital adequacy ratio is 19.9% one of individuals and institutions are also supported via the highest in the Turkish banking sector. the Bank’s financial subsidiaries. Non-bank financial services as well as capital markets and investment Akbank stocks are traded at ‹stanbul Stock Exchange services are provided by Akbank's subsidiaries. Market (ISE) with a free float rate of 28.8%. Given the markets abroad, the Bank’s Level 1 American As the most valuable company in Turkey as of 2010 Depository Receipts are traded at the OTC market in year-end, Akbank continues performing its role as the the USA. With a market value of USD 22.3 billion as of leader of the Turkish banking sector with its robust December 31st, 2010, Akbank is the company with the capital, consistent deposit structure, opportunities of highest market value in ISE. cost-efficient foreign exchange funding, and strong asset structure. Carrying the responsibility of being a prestigious brand throughout its well-rooted history since 1948, Akbank Benefiting from a strong and widespread domestic adopted finding rapid and long-standing solutions delivery network with a total of 9121 branches, over to ever-changing needs together with continuous 15,300 employees and more than 500 suppliers, transformation as its corporate culture since these Akbank performs operations via its Head Office in are indispensable prerequisites of such a success. The ‹stanbul and 20 regional directorates throughout fact that Akbank is one of the strongest, biggest, and Turkey. In addition to branches that form the traditional most valuable brands in Turkey is a consequence of delivery channel, we also offer banking services to its enthusiasm to create new and sustainable value for customers via the Internet and telephone branches, employees, customers, our country, and itself, as well 3,127 ATMs, over 267,000 POS terminals, and other as of its stable and consistent working principles. high-tech channels. 1 Number of our branches reach 913 when Malta branch is included. Number of Employees* Number of ATMs 15,330 Number of Credit Cards 3,127 4,910,718 Number of Branches* 912 Number of POS Number of Debit Cards 267,108 5,206,775 * Excluding the Malta branch. 12 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Main Brands Our Corporate Vision, Mission and Objectives, Our Strong Foundations Vision Our Strong Foundations To become the most admired Turkish company, with • Turkey’s most valuable company* the best people, constantly delivering outstanding • Long-term strategic management with successful results. practices • 912 branches and high-tech delivery channels Mision throughout Turkey To provide the best banking experience in Turkey, offering outstanding value for its stakeholders. • Turkey’s innovative force with countless “firsts” in the sector Strategic Goals • A stable and extensive funding base • To achieve a long-term sustainable return on • Sustainable profitability as well as high return on equity of at least 18% equity and assets • To be the leading bank in Turkey in terms of • A robust capital structure with 19.9% capital critical market shares adequacy ratio • To be the best bank in Turkey in terms of • A superior asset quality with a low non-performing customer experience and satisfaction loans ratio of 2.2% • To be Turkey’s most valuable bank • High level of efficiency with an operational expenses/assets ratio of 2.2% • Advantage of high loan growth thanks to low loans/deposits and leverage ratios • The highest Individual and Financial strength ratings to be assigned in Turkey *As of 31.12.2010. 13 01 ABOUT AKBANK Akbank in Figures Our Extensive Network of Branches We increased the number of domestic branches from 877 in 2009 to 912 in 2010 and thus improved and enhanced our economic area of influence. nu Sinop Kırklare li Kastamo Artvin 1 4 5 3 3 B artın 1 n Ardahan Ed irn e Sam su 5 6 Tekirdağ İstanbul 291 Karabük 10 9 Rize ca eli 5 1 Ordu n Trabzon Kars 15 K o u ldak ire su 21 Zong Çankırı Amasya 5 G 2 1 Sakar ya 5 e 2 11 Bolu 1 Çorum 3 G ümüşhan 1 Erz urum Iğdır 1 4 Tokat urt 4 Yalova 4 6 Bay b Ağ rı Bilecik 3 e Bursa 3 Erzincan Çanakkal 41 An kara Kırık kale 1 5 83 2 Yozgat Sivas Bingöl Balıkesir Eskişehir 2 3 1 Muş 16 7 Kırşe hir 1 Kütahya 1 Van 6 Malatya Bitlis 1 Ela zığ 1 Manisa ar evş ehir 3 ah is N Kayse ri 3 13 Afyonkar 3 ır Siirt Uşak 6 13 Diyarbak 1 1 Aksaray 5 Batman İzmir 1 araş 1 Ş ırnak m 78 Konya Niğde Kahraman Adıyaman 1 Denizli Isparta 17 2 3 M ardin Aydın 4 1 8 lıu rfa 2 Adana Osmaniye Şan 10 Burdur p 2 28 Gaziante 5 Muğla Karaman 2 4 15 Antalya 1 Kilis 1 33 1 Mersin 18 Hatay 10 14 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Customers Our Bank’s segment-based structure of four core units consists of corporate banking, SME banking, consumer banking, and private banking business units. Number of our customers increased in 2010 compared to the previous year. RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SME CONSUMER PRIVATE BANKING UNIT BANKING UNIT BANKING UNIT BANKING UNIT CORPORATE SME & CONSUMER BANKING PRIVATE BANKING CENTER / CENTERS BRANCHES CENTERS 9 894 9 BRANCH NUMBER OF 2,600 134,000 8,073,000 6,100 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER SMALL CORPORATE COMMERCIAL MICRO CONSUMER PRIVATE BUSINESS SEGMENT 15 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Financial Performance Key Financial Indicators Key consolidated financial indicators of Akbank are presented in the table below, covering data from the last three years. Key Consolidated Financial Indicators (TL millions) 2010 2009 2008 Total Assets 120,070 102,833 93,093 Loans 57,733 44,604 49,054 Deposits 71,708 60,954 57,575 Loans Borrowed 11,497 9,209 12,311 Shareholders Equity 17,948 14,447 11,331 Net Profit 3,010 2,723 1,783 Return on Equity (ROE) %18.90 %21.50 %16.40 Capital Adequacy Ratio (BIS) %19.90 %21.00 %17.00 Market Capitalization (USD millions) 22,320 19,061 9,423 Loans The sum of loans provided by Akbank to its customers is listed in the table below Loans (TL millions / USD millions) 2010 2009 TL Corporate 3,619 2,881 FX Corporate (USD millions) 11,189 9,169 TL SME 7,953 5,676 FX SME (USD millions) 5,711 4,759 Consumer 13,130 9,245 Credit Cards 6,784 5,832 16 01 ABOUT AKBANK International Ratings Thanks to our efficient risk management policies and successful performance, we, as Akbank, have been awarded the highest financial strength and baseline credit assessments in the Turkish Banking sector by international rating agency Moody’s and the highest national and individual ratings of the sector by Fitch Ratings. Detailed information on our ratings can be seen at http://www.akbank.com/ratings-1528.aspx Economic Value Generated and Distributed We, as Akbank, generate economic value for our stakeholders of all segments while offering banking services. Annual economic value that we generate and distribute is given in detail in the table below. Economic Value Generated and Distributed (TL millions) December’10 December’09 December’08 Direct Economic Value Generated 10,995 11,349 12,167 a) Revenues 10,995 11,349 12,167 Economic Value Distributed 8,465 8,292 10,152 b) Operating costs 1,451 1,337 1,265 c) Employee wages and other benefits 917 857 878 d) Payments to providers of capital 5,318 5,393 7,451 e) Payments to the government 769 696 546 f) Community investment 11 9 13 Economic Value Retained 2,529 3,056 2,015 a) Gross revenue in the Bank’s income statement is taken into consideration. (Interest income, received fees and commissions, dividend income, commercial profit-loss and other income) b) Covers all operating costs of the Bank, excluding employee expenses. c) Covers employee wages, bonuses, and all withholding tax paid to the government on behalf of employees. d) Covers dividends distributed to investors and all interest expenses of the Bank in the given year. e) Covers all taxes paid to the government. f) Covers donations to charities and expenses for various culture-arts events. Provisions for non-performing loans are not included in the calculations of the Economic Value Retained. Note: This table is based upon Akbank’s consolidated financial statements. Therefore, these figures cover subsidiaries within the framework of consolidation. Total consolidated number of employees is 15,500. Contributing to our country’s development through the loans we get from International Financial Institutions is one of our most important goals. The sum of sustainability-focused multilateral loans from International Financial Institutions is approximately EUR 422 million and USD 1 billion (this figure covers the loans that we have used so far and that are currently shown in our Bank’s balance sheet). 17 01 ABOUT AKBANK Organization and Management of the Bank Akbank was established as a commercial bank to perform all kinds of bank transactions and to undertake enterprises and operations in all kinds of economic, financial, and commercial areas that are not prohibited by the Turkish laws; our Bank started operations on January 30th, 1948. The Bank’s status has not changed since its establishment. Capital and Shareholder Structure Our issued capital was increased from TL 3,000,000,000 to TL 4,000,000,000 on April 16th, 2010. Our shareholder structure as of December 31st, 2010 is presented below. Shareholders Share Hac› Ömer Sabanc› Holding A.ﬁ. and Affiliates 44.45% Citibank Overseas Investment Corporation 20.00% Sabanc› Family 6.71% Free Float 28.84% Detailed financial information on our operations, products, and services can be obtained in our 2010 Annual Report at http://www.akbank.com/annual-report-1522.aspx Our Subsidiaries Our direct and indirect subsidiaries and our shares as of December 31st, 2010 are presented below. Our Direct and Indirect Area of Operations Share Country of Subsidiaries (%) Operations Akbank N.V. Banking 100.00 The Netherlands Akbank AG Banking 100.00 Germany Akbank (Dubai) Limited Banking 100.00 UAE AkLease Financial Leasing 99.99 Turkey AkSecurities Stock Exchange Brokerage Services 99.80 Turkey AkAsset Management Portfolio Management 99.99 Turkey Ak B-Type Investment Trust Investment Partnership 70.04 Turkey (Former AkInvestment) Ak Global Funding B.V. Fund Management 100.00 The Netherlands 18 01 ABOUT AKBANK Our Organization Chart Organization chart of our Bank as of December 31st, 2010 is presented below. Within our organization, fifteen Executive Vice Presidents report to our CEO. Board of Internal Auditors, Internal Control Center, Risk Management Department, and Compliance Unit directly report to the Board of Directors. Honorary Chairman and Chairman and Consultant to the Board Executive Board Member Executive Board Member Board Member EROL SABANCI SUZAN SABANCI DİNÇER BÜLENT ADANIR Risk Management Internal Audit EYÜP ENGİN Vice Chairman and Executive Board Member Internal Control HAYRİ ÇULHACI YAŞAR BOZYÜRÜK Board Member and CEO ZİYA AKKURT Deputy CEO Chief Consumer Banking Officer HAKAN BİNBAŞGİL Consumer Payment Private Corporate SME International Human Loan Follow-Up Financial Banking Systems Banking Banking Banking Treasury Banking Resources Loans and Support Coordination GALİP MEHMET FİKRET CEM FERDA KERİM HÜLYA BADE AHMET ZEKİ K. ATIL ÖNDER MENGİ BESLİ ROTA KEFELİ SİPAHİOĞLU FUAT TUNÇAY ÖZUS TÖZGE SİNDEL IŞIK AYLA Consumer Debit and Private Corporate Commercial Asset-Liability International Personnel and Corporate and Legal Financial Banking Credit Cards Banking Banking Banking and Fixed Banking Internal Commercial Advisory Coordination and Sales Department Department Department Marketing Income Department Services Loans International Management and Sales Securities Department Approval Non-performing Reporting Department Merchants Private Banking Department A Management Department Loans Department Department Strategy and Department Office of Follow-up Consumer Investment Commercial Board of SME Loans Department Budgeting and Banking Management Banking Treasury Directors Approval Purchasing Management Marketing Department Marketing Marketing Department A Department Reporting Department and Sales Department Department Department B SME Loans Architectural Alternative Liquidity Approval Works Investor Relations Delivery Small Management Department B Office Department Channels Corporate Business Department Department Communications Banking SME Loans Department Marketing Derivative Approval Information Department Products Department C Technologies Strategy Operations Department Small TUNÇ Individual SEVİLAY ALPASLAN Business Trading AKYURT Loans and ÖZSÖZ ÖZLÜ Banking Sales Department Credit Cards Management Approval Department Capital Markets Department Transactions Transaction Department Individual Branch Operations IT Project Strategy Department Management Banking Loans Department Department Follow-up Department Call Center Product & Department IT Application Channel Development Development Treasury and Department Department Capital Market Operations IT Operations and CRM Department Technical Department Support Card Operation Department Department IT Hardware Quality and Process Maintenance Management Department Department 01 ABOUT AKBANK Awards and Achievements Akbank Private Banking as “Overall Best Private Bank of Turkey” for the fourth time. Akbank was deemed A number of strategies and practices that we devised worthy of this award thanks to its managed assets, to add value to our Bank and to parties including profitability, number of branches, extensive product our stakeholders received more than 40 awards in portfolio for customer investments, and service quality. Turkey and abroad in 2010. Some of our awards and achievements are presented below. In the global, regional, and national categories of the survey, around 400 banks were evaluated globally. Global Finance With this survey, Euromoney aims to indicate the best Akbank was once again selected the “Best Bank in services in private banking to guide world-famous Turkey” in globally prestigious finance magazine investors. Turkey is included in the survey for the last 6 Global Finance’s “The World’s Best Emerging years and Akbank has won this award for the 4th time. Market Banks in Central and Eastern Europe 2010” questionnaire held in 22 countries. Akbank was recognized as “Turkey’s Best Bank” in Global Finance’s EMEA Finance evaluation for six years in succession. In 2010, EMEA Finance Magazine, considered as a significant source of information for Europe, Middle As a result of the evaluation by Global Finance editors East and Africa (EMEA) which is the world’s most with contribution from sector analysts, consultants, dynamic and developing region, selected Akbank for and corporate executives, Akbank was deemed worthy “The Best Bank in Turkey” award given to institutions of award in this 17th year of the evaluation with its distinguished from competitors and leading local successful performance in the given criteria. markets. Reporting financial activities either initiated or influenced by international finance sector, the In addition to this award, Akbank also received “The magazine also deemed Akbank worthy of “The Best Best Trade Finance Provider in Turkey”, “The Best Loan Transaction” and “The Best Privatization Loan” Online Deposits Acquisition in Turkey” and “The Best awards in EMEA. Foreign Exchange Provider in Turkey” awards of the Global Finance. Financial World Innovation Awards Established in 1879 and considered as a prestigious At “The World’s Best Foreign Exchange Providers institution of the finance world, UK-based “ifs School of 2010” questionnaire held in 86 countries, Akbank Finance” has been giving “Financial World Innovation was selected “Turkey’s Best Foreign Exchange Awards” since 1998; these awards are accepted as Transactions Bank” for the seventh time in a row. one of the most reputable organizations in the global Criteria for this survey of the Global Finance Magazine finance sector. included success in transaction volumes, market shares, competitive pricing, scope of operational In 2010, our “Immediate Limit Increase at the Point of coverage, innovative technologies, and customer Sale” practice via 444 25 25 Akbank Telephone Branch services. was awarded in the “Banking Services: Innovation in Financial Product Offerings” category. In addition, In Global Finance’s contest to find the banks that offer our Bank was a finalist in five different categories Europe’s best Internet banking services, similar to the to become one of the institutions with the greatest contest in 2009, Akbank was once again given “The number of nominations. Some of our projects that Best Online Deposits Acquisition” award in 2010 with took us to the finals are: “Power of Thinking Project” its online deposit account practice that is a channelin “Social Responsibility and Social Banking” category; specific advantageous product. “The Ideas Paving the Way to Business Project” in “Entrepreneurship and Innovation” category; EUROMONEY “Sustainable Environmental Projects” in “Innovations In its annual private banking survey, UK-based That Contribute to Development of Environmentinternational finance magazine Euromoney selected Friendly Policies and Actions” category. 20 01 ABOUT AKBANK IMI Conferences – Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Reporting ‹stanbul Call Center Awards 2010 Akbank succeeded in entering the CDP 2010 Global 500 In “‹stanbul Call Center Awards 2010” organized by report prepared within the scope of Carbon Disclosure IMI Conferences, Akbank Call Center received awards Project implemented in more than 60 countries. in two categories. At the 5th year of the contest 22 Call Although evaluated for the first time in 2010, Akbank Centers from different sectors were evaluated in 11 received a score of 81 points after detailed evaluations categories and Akbank Call Center was awarded as to outdistance many prestigious institutions. “The Best Call Center with More Than 200 Seats” and “The Best Customer Representative of the Year”. Genesys Customer Innovation Awards 2010 Genesys Customer Innovation Awards organized Superbrands 2010 by Genesys that offers software and consultancy services for customer services solutions via Call At the questionnaire held by international market Centers gave Akbank Call Center 4 stars -the highest research institution Nielsen with 1635 consumers scoreamong over 200 applicants throughout the and with contribution from the jury of Superbrands world. Akbank’s customer-oriented approach and that operates in 85 countries, Akbank has become sector-leader innovative practices played an important one of the 117 “Superbrands” in Turkey. Brands that role in winning this award. consumers either consciously or subconsciously desire, recognize and wish to own by paying the price and those that offer considerably more emotional or physical advantages than other brands are selected as “Superbrands”. Large Taxpayers Office Akbank received recognition from the Large Taxpayers Office as the second largest taxpayer in Turkey in the 2009 corporate tax return. The mentioned recognition should be considered as a consequence of our contribution to the national economy and our transparent operation principles. STEVIE Awards Akbank was deemed worthy of jury’s special awards in five categories of the 2010 Stevie Awards which is considered as one of the most prestigious award organizations in the world. Akbank achieved jury’s special awards in The Best Ad/Marketing Campaign category with its Run to the Red, Wings Card, Axess Card New Year Campaign and 29th International ‹stanbul Film Festival works and in The Best Online Annual Report category with its 2009 Annual Report. Held since 2002, this international organization rewards excellence in numerous categories from websites to annual reports, corporate communications, investor relations, customer services, and product management. 21 02 ABOUT THE REPORT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our Approach to Reporting Although the main sections of this year’s report are Our first sustainability report, published in 2010 and the same as our first report, subtitles and therefore containing data and information of the year 2009, issues handled under each section have partly has been the first example of its kind among deposit changed. In Our Approach to Sustainability section banks in Turkey. Following our first report which we provided more details on the sustainability we prepared absolutely voluntarily in accordance management in our Bank and we also spared a with the Sustainability Reporting Principles of the special part for our Climate Change strategy due to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and in line with the materiality of the issue to our Bank. We enhanced our stakeholders’ expectations regarding our the contents of Corporate Governance and Risk social, environmental, and widespread economic Management section in a way that covers “corporate responsibilities, we have completed our second profile” indicators more comprehensively in line with sustainability report covering the year 2010. GRI's expectations. Most of the information under the “Our Product Responsibility” section of the last Our Bank’s vision, belief, and efforts regarding year’s report is now placed under the title “Value sustainability are some of the most concrete Added to Customers”. This section was redeveloped examples of our notion of transparent banking. We and restructured with a focus on sustainability, believe that this informative material contributes instead of using last year’s texts containing practices to the development of sustainability and corporate of our Bank’s Business Units. In the section about responsibility management initiatives of the private Our Employees, related issues were gathered under sector in our country. the same subtitles; information and data in line with the GRI Indicators were presented in a more This second sustainability report that we prepared comprehensive way. In Our Operations and the using this approach contains the active role we play in Environment section, we focused on environmental the economic growth of our country, the value we add impacts of our Bank’s own activities and operations. to our customers with our products and services, the Last but not least, we reorganized Our Community benefits we provide for our employees, our cooperation Investment section in accordance with our with stakeholders to improve social welfare, and our fundamental policy of community investment. activities to protect the natural environment. We are committed to continuously improving our performance The Scope and Framework of the Report and reporting processes in these areas. Covering our social, environmental and economic performance and practices between January 1st, We would like to take the opportunity to summarize 2010 and December 31st, 2010, this report has been the basic steps we took in our second report with written with the aim of informing our stakeholders the aim of improving the quality and contents of our and is based upon GRI G3 Guidelines for Sustainability Sustainability Report. We made some significant Reporting, which is a globally recognized international changes in the structure, content and design of our reporting standard. The content of the report has been report. In order to improve the quality and readability developed in a way that meets the requirements of GRI of our report, we performed some improvements in the Application Level C and a GRI Index has been placed at light of guidelines and principles of GRI, concerning the end of the report in order to ensure easy access to contents and quality of report. Throughout the report the information declared accordingly. The statement we paid attention to bringing related themes and from GRI about Akbank’s fulfillment of the requirement elements together under the same title so that readers of Application Level C is presented at the page 104 of may easily find what they are looking for. In addition, this report. we showed ultimate care in explaining the information and data collected on the basis of GRI Indicators in GRI Guidelines not only allow comparing our a comprehensive way that meets our stakeholders’ sustainability performance to that of local and expectations. international peers but also create a reference guide for our stakeholders and guide continuous development of 22 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Akbank’s sustainability initiatives. Turkish translation of our Sustainability Task Force and expert consultants GRI Guidelines for Sustainability Reporting can be found evaluated these expectations and needs. at http://www.globalreporting.org For the data in 2010, data and information collection While determining the scope of our report, in addition methods used during the development of 2009 report to the GRI Guidelines, requirements of the United were employed. Methods different from those used in Nations Global Compact (UNGC) of which we are a 2009 are explained in related sections of the report. signatory have also been taken into consideration. Our Bank continued to support this global voluntary corporate initiative in the reporting period of 2010. Four Prepared with contribution from almost all units of our areas of UNGC (labor, human rights, environment, and Bank, this Report was published after being approved anti-corruption) and the related ten principles have by the Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility been implemented with various policies within the Committee and Board of Directors. framework of our operations. Our sustainability report is a Global Compact Communication on Progress report that also includes the activities and practices we performed within the scope of our commitment to UNGC. Boundary of the Report Unless mentioned otherwise, all data and information in our report covers the banking activities and operation areas of Akbank T.A.ﬁ. in Turkey. Impacts of our activities, our joint ventures or our suppliers in other countries are not within the scope of this report. In the “Our Employees” part of our report, employees of Malta branch are also included in the total number of employees. Financial statements and distributed economic value tables reflect consolidated figures. Data in “Our Operations and The Environment” section cover activities of Akbank T.A.ﬁ. in Turkey. In this report, the words “Akbank T.A.ﬁ.”, “our Bank”, “the Bank”, “We/Us” all mean Akbank T.A.ﬁ. unless mentioned otherwise. Setting out the Content of the Report Sustainability Reporting Process The content of this report has been created based upon the “AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard” devised by AccountAbility which is a UKbased independent institution globally recognized in developing, managing and implementing stakeholder engagement strategies. During the preparation process, in order to identify significant and material issues for our major stakeholders and corporate strategies, a number of expectations and needs of stakeholders were collected via various channels and 23 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Our Material Issues In accordance with the AA1000 standard and GRI G3 Guidelines, this report includes our significant and material issues in sustainability. These issues have been identified by considering the expectations and opinions of stakeholders and in relation to the Bank’s policies and practices. Significant and material issues in our report are listed below. In order to facilitate tracking these issues, they have been demonstrated in the table in a way that corresponds to the main section titles of the report. Financial Corporate Value Added to Our Employees Our Operations Our Community Performance Governance Risk Customers and the investment Management Environment Sustainable Transparent Customer Employee Carbon Culture and arts profitability and corporate satisfaction satisfaction emissions growth governance Productive Ethical EnvironmentCareer Technologic Youth business banking focused product development wastes processes and services and training Efficient risk Financial Equal career Education management and literacy opportunities internal control Legal Access to Entrepreneurship compliance financial services Climate change Secure banking Innovativeness, new product development 24 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Our Stakeholders and Stakeholder Engagement All institutions and corporations that are affected by our Bank’s activities or that directly or indirectly affect our Bank’s performance are our “key” stakeholders. In full awareness of the fact that stakeholder engagement is the basic principle in corporate responsibility, we consider expectations and opinions of our key stakeholders while developing and implementing our sustainability policy and we pay ultimate attention to creating a regular, continuous, and trust-based communication with them. One of the main reasons for us in developing and publishing this Sustainability Report is to create a dialogue platform to share our practices that are in line with our stakeholders’ expectations and opinions. Our key stakeholders and examples of our dialogue and cooperation with them are presented below. Stakeholder Group-based General Practices and Examples Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Shareholders, Investors, Analysts Public Disclosure Platform As Akbank, we aim to establish a transparent and close communication Akbank Website with our shareholders, as well as with our existing and potential Annual Reports investors. Therefore it is our principle to implement strategic plans Capital Markets Board of Turkey (CMB) and to share the results within the framework of generally accepted Corporate Governance Principles accounting principles and related legislation provisions, in a complete, fair, accurate, timely and comprehensible manner with all shareholders, Compliance Report investors, and capital market experts alike. Taking the principle of General Assembly Meetings and equality into consideration, we answer all questions that are not related Minutes to commercial secrets and we ensure that the management and Press Releases shareholders are in continuous communication. Our dialogues with this Investor Relations Department group of stakeholders are based upon transparency, accountability, and Meetings and Teleconferences regular briefings. Through the Corporate Social Responsibility SubNational and International Conferences group within the Investor Relations Department, we inform investors on E-Mail Presentations and Briefings sustainability issues of environmental, social and economic dimensions. Employees Employee Satisfaction Survey We are aware that high motivation and satisfaction levels among our Corporate Portal employees are determinant in ensuring long-standing business perSuggestion System formance in the long-term. We support that our employees proceed Ethics Line towards the same goals by adopting our common strategies rather Corporate Performance System than adapting to a centralized management and by using effective Regional Directorates Briefings communication tools. We regularly collect our employees’ opinions Regional Performance Meetings and expectations via various platforms and we try to bring those Annual Managers Meeting to life. In addition, we organize trainings and briefings to increase BANKS‹S (Union of Bank and Insurance awareness of our employees on various sustainability issues. For Employees) instance, e-training for our Ethical Principles has been offered to use Akbank Retirement Fund by all employees with the aim of ensuring that our employees interVarious Activities and Training nalize and adopt Akbank Ethical Principles which are updated with Programs for Our Employees social and environmental factors. E-Bulletins 25 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Stakeholder Group-based General Practices and Examples Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Customers Customer Satisfaction Surveys Customer satisfaction is the most material issue to us. Opinions and Akbank Branches expectations of our customers inspire us in developing products Akbank Call Center and services. In order to ensure and retain customer satisfaction, Akbank Website we implement numerous practices, from information security to Business Development Meetings for responsible marketing communication, innovative and environmentCustomers friendly products, and supporting customers in business development. E-mail Briefings For instance, at the end of trainings given to SME customers to help Media them with business development, we hold surveys to learn about our Activities We Organize and Participate customers’ degree of satisfaction and to get their opinion on other Local Projects issues they request or need to be handled in future events. Akbank Art Center Activities Advertising and Promotion Campaigns International Financial Institutions 1-to-1 Meetings Advantageous loans that we obtain from international financial Joint Meetings institutions such as IFC, EBRD, and EIB are mostly climate-friendly Teleconferences loans that support development. With the aim of building management Reports systems to monitor environmental and social performances of our Negotiations customers in accordance with the loans obtained, we establish dialogues with these institutions on various platforms. Legislators and Regulatory Bodies Meetings We thoroughly comply with all related laws and regulations to Forums and Conferences ensure the safety of our customers’ investments. With the aim of Various Task Forces closely following the agenda, identifying trends, timely developing Oral and Written Notifications and adapting our products and services in line with expectations of Declarations customers and legislators, we follow forums, conferences, task forces, Press News and press news carefully and we organize meetings. We present our Akbank Website opinions on legislation amendments influencing the banking sector to Reports related authorities. For instance, we work in intense communication with the Financial Crimes Investigation Board (MASAK) which operates to prevent laundering proceeds of crime and financing of terrorism with the aim of ensuring compliance with legal liabilities as well as with other public institutions. 26 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Stakeholder Group-based General Practices and Examples Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Local Community Activities We Organize and Participate We operate in full awareness of the importance of the finance sector Our Arts and Culture Activities in sustainable development and we contribute to the development of Sponsorships local economy with our widespread branch, ATM and POS network Our Widespread Branch, ATM and throughout Turkey. By supporting culture & arts and other activities POS Network that offer benefits to the society, we aim to reach local communities. Akbank Website Press News Akbank Call Center Local Meetings Business Partners Meetings Our business partners are the bests of their own sectors and Akbank Ethical Principles are among the most important factors in keeping our business Press News sustainable. We operate responsibly together with our business Akbank Website partners and create added value based upon a mutually satisfactory relation. Among our business partners are other banks we cooperate with in syndication loans and our service-providing suppliers (printing houses, agencies, transport and organization companies). Suppliers Akbank Ethical Principles We expect our cooperating suppliers to act in accordance with Akbank Website Akbank’s principles and values; we also support their development Meetings through continuous information transfer. University Students Youth Banking We consider university students to be our strategic stakeholders Brochures and Promotion Campaigns and pay attention to their requests, opinions, and expectations. We Briefings continuously improve our educational and developmental investments Akbank Website related to the youth as our customers and business partners. For Campus Branches instance, with the Akbank Thinking Club that we created to establish a long-term relationship with the youth, we aim to connect successful Cultural Activities We Organize and university students –future leaders of the countryunder the umbrella Support (Jazz at Campus, Short Film of a club, with a high level of loyalty and value-creation. Festival) 27 02 ABOUT THE REPORT Stakeholder Group-based General Practices and Examples Engagement and Dialogue Platforms Media Press Conferences The process of providing our stakeholders with accurate information Press Releases on our Bank is realized via the media, which is the most important Akbank Website actor in our communication cycle. Therefore, we believe in the Daily Economic Bulletins significance of continuous dialogue with national and international media and we aim to inform the media timely and accurately with our press releases and share opinions with opinion leaders at press conferences. Non-Governmental Organizations Cooperation in Social Engagement Improving cooperation with non-governmental organizations within Practices the scope of our environmental, social, economic, and ethical Sponsorships responsibilities that are also important to key stakeholders; being Meetings continuous communication with NGOs; paying attention to their opinions and expectations are material issues to us. Akbank Website Conferences 28 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our Approach to Sustainability Our Sustainability Strategy The concept of sustainability forms a fundamental part In modern economy, the concept of sustainability of Akbank’s business practices. We aim to establish has gained considerably more importance than dialogues with a greater number of stakeholders financial profitability. Corporate sustainability means by enhancing the influence area of our social a continuous development process to Akbank. responsibility performance. With our reports, we This process covers our entire social and physical intend to communicate the results of this dialogue to environment. Our targets, as Akbank, have been our stakeholders. Through the dialogues established set in order to achieve a better understanding with stakeholders via various platforms, we receive and management of our influence areas form the feedback on issues that are important to them and foundations of our sustainability strategy. continuously improve our business processes and performance accordingly. Working to improve environmental, social and economic welfare of not only today’s people, but also of We implement our Bank’s sustainability policies future generations, Akbank also has corporate values and processes both in our operations and customer and a vision that supports its sustainability strategy. relations, while monitoring our own performance. With our Sustainability Report published every year, Our strategies regarding Climate Change, which we we communicate our practices and performance see as a material issue in sustainability, are mentioned regarding our social, environmental and widespread in a separate section below. economic responsibilities in parallel with the expectations of our stakeholders from Akbank. Our Sustainability Policy Our Sustainability Vision, Strategy, Policy and Akbank supports Sustainable Development by; Commitments • Pioneering environmental awareness and accountability, Our Sustainability Vision Our sustainability vision below guides Akbank in all • Supporting policies based upon dialogue with sustainability strategies. stakeholders and transparency, • Meeting competitive expectations with Strong Financial Performance: A strong long-term advanced technology products and services, financial performance that creates benefits for all our stakeholders and lays the foundations of sustainability • Following international customer safety is our indispensable target. standards and performing better than expectations, Dialogue with Stakeholders: Our stakeholders’ priorities are our priorities. This perspective is the • Encouraging educational, artistic, and foundation of Akbank’s success and a constant cultural initiatives aimed at social welfare and principle of our sustainability vision. development, • Based upon sound financial grounds in terms Compliance with Laws & Regulations and of sustainable banking, continuously improving Transparency: Compliance with the laws and the target of being a pioneer and a role model regulations governing our sector is a major component in Turkey. of Akbank’s culture and values. Ethical and Reliable Banking: As Akbank, we target the best performance, relying upon our high ethical values and approach focused on our stakeholders’ trust. 29 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our Sustainability Commitments One indicator of the importance we, as Akbank, attach to sustainability is our short-, mediumand long-term commitments. These include: • To continue to put satisfaction-enhancing practices prominent suppliers in the short term into effect by regularly measuring customer • To continue to closely follow innovations and satisfaction level via questionnaires developments in information security and to make • To increase “energy conservation and renewable the maximum endeavor to take necessary measures energy” loans offered to customers in the short and • To measure employee satisfaction via annual medium-term questionnaires with the aim of improving our • To apply Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies institution continuously and to set targets that on project financing loans with sums exceeding USD at least maintain previous year’s satisfaction 50 million and those with terms of over five years measurement results • To continue to support internationally prestigious • To focus on training and development programs that environmental initiatives such as the Carbon support employee satisfaction Disclosure Project (CDP) • To continue to sponsor events that reinforce cultural • To put the sustainability criteria included in our and artistic insights of our society. purchasing processes into effect, starting with Sustainability Management at Akbank BOARD OF DIRECTORS INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STAKEHOLDERS NATIONAL INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATIONS OTHER RELATED INVESTOR RELATIONS UNITS OF OUR BANK INITIATIVES MEMBERSHIPS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SUB-GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY TEAM 30 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY In order to handle sustainability issues in a holistic In addition, there are various social elements handled manner at the senior management level, a Corporate by related units within the scope of our general Governance and Social Responsibility Committee business management. These cover issues such (CGSRC) that directly reports to the Board of Directors as employee performance management, employee was established at Akbank in 2009. Three members of satisfaction, customer satisfaction, and information the eight-member Committee are also members of the security. Although these elements are managed on Board. CGSRC meets at least twice a year; however, if the basis of related units, they are included in the needed, meetings may be held more frequently. sustainability report due to their influence on our sustainability performance. In addition to the CGSR Committee, Akbank International Advisory Board also adds value to By including environmental and social factors into its our Bank’s sustainability vision. Mr. Kemal Derviﬂ, “Occupational and Ethical Principles”, Akbank ensured former Vice President of the World Bank (1996-2001) that sustainability management becomes a procedure. and President of the United Nations Development Thus, all of our employees are expected to comply with Programme (UNDP) in 2005-2009, is the Chairman and adopt the mentioned principles. of the Advisory Board. Among the Advisory Board members is Lord Nicholas Stern, acknowledged for his Our Bank continues its communication and operations global climate change report entitled “Stern Review on with external stakeholders at various levels via the the Economics of Climate Change”. Since April 2008 management organs mentioned above. Within the Lord Stern is also the President of Grantham Research scope of this approach, our Bank plays an active role in Institute that does researches on climate change numerous national and international associations and and the environment. Members of the International initiatives. Advisory Board are listed in part 4 of this report. Akbank Corporate Governance and Social In our Bank, Investor Relations Department (IRD) Responsibility Committee is in charge of managing sustainability issues in coordination with internal and external stakeholders. “Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility In line with this purpose, a Corporate Social Committee” (CGSRC) that reports to the Akbank Responsibility Sub-group was established within the Board of Directors was established in 2009 to improve Department in 2010 and a manager was assigned. In our corporate performance in corporate social addition, a Sustainability Task Force of all business responsibility and sustainability, to integrate our areas units contributing to sustainability reporting operates of responsibility into our decision-making mechanisms, under the leadership of the Corporate Social to increase awareness of sustainability issues among Responsibility (CSR) Manager. our employees, and to be able to implement reporting that is identical to our transparency principle and Sustainability is handled both in a holistic and an in line with the international standards. CGSRC is issue-based (theme, subject) manner at our Bank. responsible for compliance with Akbank’s corporate Holistic management is implemented by IRD and management principles as well as for monitoring supervised by CGSRC. The holistic management covers and managing operations, risks and opportunities issues such as integrating environmental, social related to our social, environmental and economic and ethical sustainability issues into our products responsibilities. and services with a strategic view and developing sustainability policies. An example is that our banking Among the items in 2010 agenda were assessment of and purchasing units internalize sustainability by steps on sustainability to be taken by our Bank in the integrating environmental and social elements that future, climate change strategies and action plan, and are defined as material issues by the Bank into their social responsibility projects that contribute to the own processes and products. Environmental loans for society. corporate and SME customers and environmental and Organization and members of the Committee are social criteria applied to our suppliers are the results stated below. of our policies within this category. 31 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Members of the Corporate Governance and Social policies and practices that cover transparent corporate Responsibility Committee as of December 31st, 2010 management. We pledge to fulfill our duties in creating a more humanistic globalization. Hayri Çulhac› Chairman (Vice Chairman and Executive Board Internal Communication and Awareness Member) A CSR portal was opened in our intranet system Suzan Sabanc› Dinçer with the purpose of increasing awareness and Member (Chairman and Executive Board Member) information on sustainability among Akbank Ziya Akkurt employees; presentations containing related supporting Member (Board Member and CEO) publications, various information and sample studies started to be published on this portal at the end of 2009. Hakan Binbaﬂgil Member (Deputy CEO – Private Banking) Akbank’s Memberships in Associations and At›l Özus Unions; Signed Initiatives Member (Executive Vice President – Financial Coordination) As Akbank, we are members to various associations and unions in order to closely follow developments in Bade Sipahio€lu Iﬂ›k sustainability and contribute to such developments Member (Executive Vice President – Human within the limits of our interests and authority. Resources) In addition, by participating in globally influential Cenk Göksan international initiatives as a signatory, we aim to Member (Department Head – Investor Relations declare our commitment to sustainability to all of our Department) stakeholders in a transparent way. Derya Bigal› Member (Director Akbank Art Center) Our memberships in associations and unions, as well as the initiatives we signed within the framework of CGSRC has guided us in implementing and auditing sustainability are as follows: our sustainability perspective throughout the Bank. It has ensured that our “Ethical and Occupational • The Banks Association of Turkey Principles” which aim to regulate attitudes of all • ‹stanbul Chamber of Industry (ISO) Bank employees at every level and their relations • Foreign Economic Relations Board (DE‹K) with individuals and institutions either inside or • Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s outside the Bank are updated with environmental and Association (TÜS‹AD) social elements and are applied within the Bank. In addition, Ethics Line to be used if any violation of these • Turkish Enterprise and Business Confederation principles is observed is among procedures to support (TÜRKONFED) sustainability management within the Bank. • Interbank Card Center (BKM) • Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) Akbank and United Nations Global Compact • Ethics and Reputation Society The biggest evidence of Akbank’s commitment to • ‹stanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability Index (ISESI) universal principles regarding human rights, working Project conditions, environment, and a cleaner society is its • Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s signature under the United Nations Global Compact Association (TÜS‹AD) Sustainable Development Task – one of the important worldwide corporate social Force responsibility initiatives. With this signature, we, as • United Nations Global Compact Initiative (UNGC) Akbank take responsibilities such as respect for human rights, providing a safe and healthy work environment, • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) protecting the nature, offering sustainable values and • The Banks Association of Turkey (Project Team for benefits to employees and the society by means of Creating Environmental Awareness) 32 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY • Cancun Communiqué drawn prior to United Nations efficiency and renewable energy and to comply with COP 16 2010 Climate Change Summit these regulations. In addition, we have started to offer • The Prince of Wales's Corporate Leaders Group on products and services on relatively favourable terms in Climate Change (CLG) order to encourage our corporate customers to benefit from opportunities in energy efficiency and renewable • Visa Colourful Horizons energy. On the other hand, certain measures have • Association of Corporate Communicators started to be taken within the Bank to measure and • Association of Advertisers reduce carbon emissions resulting from our operations • ‹stanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts and business travels. Carbon Management in Our Operations Our Climate Change Strategy Following our Bank’s participation in Carbon Increase in greenhouse emissions and resulting Climate Disclosure Project in 2009, the importance of Change issues which have become an important item in measuring greenhouse gas emissions of our the agendas of numerous private companies, financial operations and mitigation activities has increased. institutions, governments and non-governmental With the aim of measuring, calculating, reducing, and organizations are also among priority issues for us at monitoring greenhouse gas emissions resulting from Akbank. Especially since 2009, our Bank has been putting electricity and fuel use in our buildings and from fuels various activities and practices into effect. used in our employees’ business and training travels, our Bank has initiated certain internal practices. Data Among the first important initiatives are our sponsorship of greenhouse gas emissions measured and calculated for application of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in accordingly are given in detail in “Our Operations and Turkey and the steps our Bank took within the framework the Environment” section of this Report. of CDP. As a pioneering private sector corporation that is committed to reporting greenhouse gas emissions Our Carbon-Focused Products and Services in accordance with the international standards, Akbank aims to ensure that awareness of other institutions and In addition to efforts to reduce greenhouse gas corporations in our country on climate change increases emissions resulting from our Bank’s operations, we offer various products and services with the aim of and positive changes are made to reduce emissions while encouraging the customers that we provide loans public awareness is improved. to make energy savings and thus to reduce their Climate Change Management greenhouse gas emissions. Despite the fact that such products and services of our Bank are given in detail Climate Change issue is handled in the Bank in section “Value We Add to Our Customers” of this within the scope of sustainability. Therefore, our Report, we can also give as examples here the Akbank sustainability management approach described above Energy-Friendly Loans and the “Carbon Footprint is implemented in the same direction while also Project” that was put into effect in early 2011 to raise developing climate change strategies, policies and awareness of our customers. actions. In 2010, we, as Akbank, put Akbank Energy-Friendly Risk and Opportunity Management Loans in order to provide financing for construction Human-induced greenhouse gas emissions and risks efforts of our customers to save energy. Companies caused by Climate Change (which is the result of may use this loan for renewal of their heating, such emissions) are discussed at various platforms. cooling, electric engines, and lighting systems of Our Bank is taking all necessary actions to manage commercial real estates such as their workplaces and these risks that it foresaw on time in the best way factories; for exterior insulation; and for transition and to transform them from threats to opportunities. to environment-friendly energy resources, all with We are doing the necessary groundwork in order to the aim of increasing energy efficiency and reducing follow recently updated legal regulations on energy energy costs. 33 03 OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Our 2010 Initiatives the Communiqué that was presented to government representatives in Cancun, Akbank has been the only Our 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report Turkish bank to sign the Cancun Communiqué. Akbank’s first CDP report presented to the CDP Global Secretariat in the United Kingdom in 2010 received a Sustainability in the Supply Chain score of 81 in the 2010 Global 500 report that assesses In order to ensure that suppliers of the products and reports of 500 companies worldwide. In the “Global services we purchase take various environmental and Leaders of the Finance Sector Index” by CDP that social standards into consideration, we, as Akbank, considers companies with more than 80 points as started to work on revising our “Supplier Management” leading institutions in carbon disclosure rating, the policies in 2010. In the light of works done within this highest scores in the finance sector varied between 86 scope, the following elements have been added to our and 93. “Ethical Principles” and “Purchasing Regulations”. Akbank; • Pays necessary attention to ensuring that its Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) suppliers implement all aspects of the United Carbon Disclosure Project is a global initiative Nations Global Compact principles that the Bank that was started in the year 2000 with the has internalized and that it creates required internal purpose of gathering and sharing information to systems to achieve this goal. allow companies, investors, and governments • Considers the supplier processes that monitor their to take measures against the threat of climate social and environmental risks. change. Within the scope of CDP, which aims • Provides opportunities to suppliers that operate to create transparency in greenhouse gas using systems which are more sensitive to the emissions and to increase public awareness society and the environment during procurement of and consciousness, every year institutions and services and products. corporations report the strategies and policies they applied in their struggle against climate With the aim of putting these into effect, we shall change, amount of greenhouse gases they inform our entire supplier portfolio –starting with emitted, their targets to reduce these emissions the largest oneson Akbank’s Ethical Principles and to the public and investors. These data and Corporate Social Responsibility Policies. We plan to information are shared with a large audience, obtain declarations of commitment from suppliers, including corporate investors, companies, stating that they shall comply with Akbank’s principles public policy leaders, public institutions, and policies. and academicians. As the only independent international institution to globally report the In our current Purchasing Regulations there are way climate change-induced risks are managed criteria for issues including corporate organizational by companies, CDP operates on behalf of 534 structures of suppliers, their fulfillment of public corporate investors that manage global assets of liabilities such as taxes and social payments. In USD 64 trillion. addition, companies are asked to confirm that they do not employ child labor and perform such practices. Signatory to Cancun Communiqué The Cancun Communiqué, drawn prior to the United Nations Climate Change Summit held towards the end of 2010 in Cancun, Mexico makes a call to governments for global cooperation and urgent actions against Climate Change. While a total of 384 companies from 35 countries and different industries signed 34 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Corporate Governance at Akbank In selection of members to the Board, minimum Transparent corporate governance and adherence to qualifications are in line with those stated in articles ethical values have always been a priority for Akbank. 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.5 of Section IV in CMB Corporate Akbank management aims to have a transparent and Governance Principles and related principles are close communication with its shareholders. The main included in the Bank’s Articles of Association. Board goal is to make Akbank shares attractive to existing of Directors is composed of members with the shareholders and potential investors as well as to competence and expertise to steer Akbank’s economic, ensure that these shares are predictable investment environmental, and social strategies; these members tools. Akbank management team’s principle is to are selected by taking both their experiences and implement strategic plans to reach this goal and educational backgrounds into consideration. to disclose the results equally with shareholders, investors, capital market experts, and participants in There is a secretariat for informing and communicating a complete, fair, accurate, timely and understandable with the Members of the Board of Akbank. The Board manner within the framework of generally accepted meets at least twelve times a year. The agenda is accounting principles and legislation provisions. In defined based upon the Board’s evaluation of the terms of informing the public, Akbank complies with proposals made by the CEO and the Bank’s results. the regulations of the Capital Markets Board (CMB) The agenda is communicated to the Members of the and ‹stanbul Stock Exchange (ISE); it pays ultimate Board prior to the meeting. Attendance in person by attention to realizing principles stated in CMB the Board Members is required for the Board meetings Corporate Governance Principles. on the issues stated in Article 2.17.4 of Section IV in CMB Corporate Governance Principles. Akbank, • is the first bank to publicly announce its dividend In order for the Board of Directors to make a resolution, policy in Turkey (2003) one more than half of its members must attend the meeting. Resolutions are made with the majority of • is the first bank to announce its Corporate members attending the meeting. Negotiations of the Governance Principles in its annual report (2003) Board are routinely recorded by a secretary selected • is the first bank to announce its Corporate amongst the members or by someone hired outside the Governance Principles in its website (2004) Bank. Minutes must be signed by attendees and if there • is the first bank to repurchase its founders’ shares are opponent members, the reason of opposition to the (2005) resolution must be stated in the minutes which must be signed by the voter. Validity of resolutions is based • is the first Turkish bank to sign the United Nations upon having them written and signed. Board Members Global Compact (2007) are not entitled to have weighted votes and/or to veto • is the first bank to publish its Global Compact resolutions. Communication on Progress (2010) • is the first deposit bank to publish a sustainability Roles and Responsibilities of the Board report that is based upon GRI Guidelines (2010) Roles, authorities and responsibilities of the Board are subject to principles identified in related provisions of Akbank Board of Directors the Turkish Commercial Code and the Banking Code as well as to the provisions of the Articles of Association. Structure of the Board The Board is granted the authority to take decisions As of 2010 there are five executive and four nonon issues that are not to be resolved by the General executive members in the Board of Directors. Assembly; to make absolute use of its conciliation, Chairman of the Board is also an Executive Member release of debt, arbitration, and disclaimer powers; to with responsibility in all issues. Pursuant to the Capital make resolutions on issues that are not included in Market Board Corporate Governance Principles, there or expressly excluded from the authority of the Credit is one independent member in the Board of Akbank. Committee and CEO or person performing such duties. 35 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK The Board may either perform these tasks itself or Committees within the Board of Directors assign the Credit Committee, the board executive Akbank’s Executive Management Committee member, or assign committees or commissions that evaluates required modifications related to the Bank’s are authorized to be established within the scope of financial data, profitability of business units, position the Articles of Association, or the CEO to perform all or in the sector, new business developments, and risk some parts of such tasks based on their feasibility and parameters. Frequency and contents of committee suitability. meetings are determined annually. The Board of Directors is responsible for identifying There is also an Audit Committee formed by two Board the basic approach to risks, risk policies and members; this committee acts in accordance with the principles, strategies and risk-taking levels as well as related legislations. Responsible for the performance for regularly assessing these to perform necessary of supervision and surveillance activities of the Board, modifications. Executive Risk Committee established the Committee is in charge of monitoring the operation as a committee of the Board identifies policies and and competence of internal systems as well as procedures regarding identification, measurement, accounting and reporting systems. monitoring, reporting, and control of risks. The CEO is responsible for ensuring that Bank units operate Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility in line with the identified policies and strategies. Committee (CGSRC) was established in 2009 At the meetings of the Asset-Liability Committee, with the aim of monitoring compliance with latest developments in the economy and markets are corporate governance principles and observing the evaluated and required actions are identified. Internal implementation of corporate social responsibility control practices and regular audits provide the control activities. The Committee meets at least twice a year. process required for ensuring compliance with policies Detailed information on the Committee is provided and strategies. in the previous section entitled “Our Approach to Sustainability”. Akbank’s annual budget and strategic plan are subject to the approval of the Board. The Board of Directors In line with legal practices, Akbank’s lending process closely monitors actual comparisons with the budget, includes a Credit Committee consisting of three receives information on deviations, and reviews the Board Members and the CEO. The Credit Committee resolutions made. If there are any significant deviations is a loan assignment resolution center that examines in macroeconomic conditions compared to the budget loan offers which have passed loan processes of the estimates, the budget is revised and resubmitted to the General Directorate in terms of compliance with legal Board of Directors for approval. The Board monitors regulations, banking principles, the Bank’s goals and strategic goals, budget targets and actual figures on a loan policies. daily, weekly or monthly basis, depending on the nature of the issue. Executive Risk Committee (ERC) is responsible for creating risk policies, identifying methods to measure and In addition to using the printed reports, the Board manage risks, setting and monitoring suitable risk limits. of Directors also has access to Akbank’s financial All risk policies are put down in writing and integrated statements and various financial and non-financial into the long-term overall strategy of the Bank. indicators on a customer, branch, business unit, and Bank basis via the Management Information There is also an Asset-Liability Committee (ALC) at System. Dashboard screens developed for the Board Akbank. Responsible for the daily liquidity and cash of Directors and the Reports Library containing all management, ALC meets everyday to discuss the management reports produced in our Bank are other latest developments in the economy and the markets. information management systems that the Board Devising investment, pricing, and funding strategies Members benefit from. are also among the responsibilities of ALC. 36 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK In addition to these committees, Board of Internal The Investor Relations Department creates Auditors, Internal Control Center, Risk Management presentations that promote the Bank with the aim of Department and the Compliance Unit which operates increasing the recognition and preferability of Akbank to prevent laundering proceeds of crimes directly in the field of international investment; highlighting report to the Board of Directors. the Bank’s advantages compared to its peers; and ensuring that Akbank is preferable to other companies Rights of the Board Members in view of corporations investing in developing markets. The department publishes these presentations and According to Article 37 of the Akbank Articles of other developments and news regarding the Bank on Association, “A monthly fee or remuneration is fixed for its website and participates in national or international the Members of the Board of Directors by the General investor meetings and conferences to give information Assembly, subject to the provisions of these articles of on the Bank. In addition, the “Corporate Social incorporation.” In addition, the portion of the Bank’s Responsibility Sub-Group” within the Investor Relations cash dividend to be paid to the Chairman and Board Department informs investors on environmental, Members within the scope of the Ordinary General social, and economic dimensions of sustainability. Assembly Meeting resolutions is stated. Executive Ensuring communication between the Board of members are also paid 12 salaries and four bonuses Directors and shareholders is another responsibility annually. These payments are determined annually of the Investor Relations Department; the Department by the Board of Directors. Article 50 of the Banking uses various means including teleconference, webLaw limits loans to be granted by Akbank to the Board cast, e-mails, fax, announcements/declarations to Members. Board Members are not granted any loans communicate with investors. All requests for meetings against this mandate. from corporate investors are accepted and meetings at the most senior level possible are arranged. Pursuant to Article 32 of the Articles of Association of Akbank, members of the Board of Directors cannot In 2010, the Investor Relations Department attended undertake commercial transactions that are within the a total of 20 domestic and foreign investor meetings area of operation of our Bank either on their own or on together with executive management of the Bank and others’ behalf and in person or by proxy. The provisions had meetings with approximately 350 international of Article 335 of the Turkish Commercial Code investment funds and 3 rating institutions. Also, pertaining to non-competition and the provisions of the hundreds of questions posed by investors and analysts Banking Law are reserved. Akbank Board Members did via telephone and e-mails were answered via phone not engage in any business transactions with the Bank calls and e-mails. in 2010. Shareholders can also use their query rights at the Relations with Our Shareholders and Investors Akbank General Assembly and all questions are In order to manage and improve relations with both answered. Prior to General Assembly Meetings, the existing and potential shareholders, an Investor meeting date, venue and agenda are announced Relations Group was established within Akbank in in the Turkish Trade Registry Gazette, in national 1996. The “Shareholder Transactions Sub-group” and newspapers, on our Bank’s website and at the Public “Investor Relations Department” within the “Financial Disclosure Platform (www.kap.gov.tr). Two weeks Coordination Business Unit” are responsible for before the General Assembly, the Annual Report is using shareholder decrees or other mechanisms, submitted to the shareholders through our Bank’s answering investor queries in the most efficient website, at the Shareholder Transactions Subdivision, manner and performing works aimed at increasing the as well as at the Ankara, Adana and ‹zmir Commercial company value. All questions that are not related to Branches. According to Article 64 (a) of the Akbank commercial secrets are answered, taking the principle Articles of Association, shareholders may exercise of equality into consideration, and it is ensured that their right to vote either in person as well as through the management and shareholders are in continuous another shareholder at General Assemblies. General communication. Assembly Meeting resolutions are kept available to 37 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK shareholders at the Public Disclosure Platform and on global economy in the Brookings Institute and Member the Akbank Website. of the International Board of Overseers of Sabanc› University, is the Chairman of the Akbank International Our Public Disclosure Policy Advisory Board. Akbank abides by the regulations of the Capital Market Board (CMB) and ‹stanbul Stock Exchange (ISE) in Other Advisory Board members are Lord Nicholas terms of public disclosure. The Bank pays ultimate Stern, author of the famous global climate change attention to fulfillment of principles stated in the CMB report entitled “Stern Review on the Economics of Corporate Governance Principles. Climate Change”, former Vice President and Chief Economist of the World Bank, and currently professor CMB Corporate Governance Principles that consist of economy at London School of Economics; Sir Win of four core sections are implemented in general Bischoff, former Chairman and Member of the Board terms within Akbank and non-implemented elements of Directors of Citigroup; Lubna Olayan, CEO of the Olayan Financing Company; Rodrigo de Hato, former are disclosed in detail and together with their IMF President and currently Chairman of the Board at justifications within the framework of ongoing articles. Caja Madrid; Jean Pisani-Ferry, Director at Brussels Our Corporate Governance Compliance Report is European and Global Economic Laboratory (BRUEGEL) published at our website. For a detailed review of our and professor of economy at Paris Dauphine report, please visit http://www.akbank.com/corporateUniversity; Bülent Eczac›baﬂ›, Chairman of the Board governance-compliance-report.aspx. of Directors of the Eczac›baﬂ› Holding; Suzan Sabanc› Dinçer, Chairman of the Board of Directors and Akbank’s Disclosure Policy has been formed by the Executive Member of the Akbank Board of Directors; Akbank Board of Directors within the framework of Erol Sabanc›, Member and Consultant to the Board of the CMB Corporate Governance Principles, and then Directors and Honorary Chairman of Akbank; Hayri approved and announced to the public on Akbank’s Çulhac›, Vice-Chairman and Executive Member of the Website. The Board of Directors is authorized and Akbank Board of Directors; Bülent Adan›r, Akbank responsible for informing the public, as well as for Executive Member of the Board; and Ziya Akkurt, monitoring, supervising, and improving the public Akbank CEO and Member of the Board of Directors. disclosure policy. The Board has met twice in 2010. The Shareholder Transactions Sub-group and Investor We, as Akbank, believe that the profound knowledge Relations Department within the Financial and experience of the International Advisory Board Coordination Business Unit and the Corporate contributes significantly to achieving our goals. Communications Department within the Consumer Banking and Corporate Communication Business Unit are both assigned to supervise and monitor all issues regarding public disclosures. Our Values Integrity: In all operations, activities and Akbank’s Disclosure Policy is available at relationships with customers, employees, http://www.akbank.com/2481.aspx. shareholders, legal authorities, and other institutions and organizations, we remain Akbank International Advisory Board committed to the principle of integrity. The “Akbank International Advisory Board’ was Reliability: In full awareness of the fact that established with the aim of discussing and evaluating confidence lies at the heart of banking, we global and local economic developments and their provide customers, shareholders, employees, strategic inferences for Akbank. Mr. Kemal Derviﬂ, and legal authorities with clear, comprehensible former President of the United Nations Development and accurate information and offer timely and Programme (UNDP) and former Minister for Economic excellent services in line with our commitments. Affairs in Turkey, and currently Vice President for 38 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK performs necessary actions to ensure that the Bank’s Non-Discrimination: We refrain from prejudices basic approach to risks, risk policies, risk-taking levels against customers, suppliers, employees, and are decided and updated, as well as to make sure that shareholders based on gender, behavior, opinion risk measurement, monitoring and reporting systems or ethnic origin and we do not discriminate against are created. anyone under any condition or circumstance. Compliance: We abide by all laws, regulations Audit Committee and Executive Risk Committee and standards. established within the Board of Directors assist in fulfilling and monitoring responsibilities. Confidentiality: We do not share any information or details of transactions concerning Risk Management, Internal Control and Internal Audit shareholders, employees, suppliers and units that report directly to the Board are responsible business partners, and above all personal for coordination and assessment in achieving the information regarding customers with any person expected efficiency. or institution, except with those authorities with which the sharing of such information is Besides, all units of the Bank are responsible for permitted by law. compliance with policies and strategies drawn by the Transparency: Except for information that is Board, identification of risks related to their own areas deemed a commercial secret and not yet disclosed of operation, management of such risks, and taking to the public, we disclose financial and nonnecessary actions to keep the risks at the minimum level. financial information on our Bank to the public in a timely, accurate, complete, comprehensible, Basic Approach interpretable, and accessible manner. Foreseeing risks and managing them with a Sustainability: Our Bank aims to contribute to the professional proficiency have been one of the most economic, social, and environmental development prominent superiorities in Akbank’s corporate culture of the society. In all efforts, practices and since the establishment of the bank. This prudent and investments of Akbank, we consider not only visionary approach towards risk-taking also complies our Bank’s image, benefits, and profitability, with our long-term banking strategies. but also social benefits, development of the banking sector, and continuance of the trust in The Bank’s overall risk strategy is to efficiently manage the sector; we abide by regulations related to the all risks within the bank’s risk profile by prioritizing environment, consumer and public health. them from the viewpoint of materiality. Risk is one of the material issues to be considered in decisions regarding capital allocation, portfolio/investment Risk Management, Internal Control and Audit preferences, positioning, performance rating, and new Systems product and activity decisions. Risk Management Risk Policies and Practices Basic Responsibilities The Bank’s risk policies are identified in relation to In order to be able to manage risk management our long-term strategies and targets as well as to processes in an effective and efficient way, it is the quality and volume of activities. Risk policies aim essential that risks are defined and delegations to analyze and monitor the risk within appropriate and responsibilities regarding the formation, limits and thus include efforts to identify, measure, implementation and monitoring processes of consolidate, and manage the risk. policies and strategies are drawn. In this sense, the Board of Directors is primarily responsible for Risk Categories the establishment and operation of an efficient risk Major risk categories that Akbank might be exposed to management system throughout Akbank. The Board while performing its activities and definitions of these 39 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK categories are prepared under the coordination of the Limitation method is used especially in the Risk Management unit and approved by the Board of management of market, interest rate, and liquidity Directors. Risk categories and definitions are regularly risks; on condition that the risk limitations approved evaluated in terms of competence and updated if by the Board are abided, risks are taken under control deemed necessary. by the Executive Risk, Asset and Liability committees; and bank’s positions are determined accordingly. Based upon these major risk categories, all Bank In addition, hedging strategies are devised against employees also evaluate the risks they may be exposed negative changes. to during their own activities and take all required actions or ensure that such actions are taken based In credit risks, such risks related to the Bank’s upon the results of these evaluations. products –from placements and commitments to customers to letters of creditare managed with Risk Measurement and Reporting assistance from cautious loan policies and procedures at Akbank. In all transactions, loan quality (credit Executive Risk Committee identifies models to be worthiness) of the other party is assessed via an used in measuring risks that can be expressed in internal rating system; sector, customer, loan type, figures (e.g. loans, interests, market, and liquidity) and provider segment-based limits are identified; and methods to be employed in evaluating risks that cannot compliance with these limits are monitored. be expressed in this way (e.g. reputation and strategy risks). In particular, “Expected loss”, “Unexpected In the management of operational risks, methods loss” and “Expected loss under stress” data related to such as control mechanisms, emergency planning, and risks that can be expressed in figures are calculated by insurance are employed in addition to the limitation the Risk Management department. mechanism. Risk Management department, Head of Internal Control, and Board of Internal Auditors These activities continued in 2010 and current cooperate for risk management. practices were improved by monitoring financial and economic developments in world markets as well as Reputation risk is handled as a significant risk in developments in Basel III principles, other international terms of sustainability and all Bank employees, regulations in the field of risk management. In notably the Board of Directors are held responsible addition, analyses, simulations, scenarios, stress tests, for the management of this risk. Within the scope of and other activities play a role in strategic decisions the management of this risk, policies and practices of the Board of Directors and senior management and to be applied throughout the Bank were identified support the decision-making mechanism. (including areas such as full compliance with legal regulations, establishing and exercising a relationship With its qualified and well-equipped staff, the Risk of confidence with stakeholders, efficient and fast Management department follows internationally solutions to customer complaints) and these have accepted practices, regulations, and changes in been put down in writing. Our Bank’s “Ethical and models to contribute to developing the system. Professional Principles” is used as a reference. Strategy and business risks are managed by the Board Risk Limitations and Management and Asset-Liability Committee. In order for risks to be managed efficiently, limitation is used as a risk and control tool. Risk limitations are In addition to risks identified for existing products and identified depending on the type and scope of risks and activities, risks that may arise from development of based upon employee, unit, bank or group and they are new products and services and that may affect the approved by the Board of Directors. Actuality of risk Bank’s overall processes are also evaluated. Probable limitations are examined in line with scenario analyses, risks of newly-developed products or services (loans, stress tests, and evaluations of related units; updates operational, legal, reputation, etc.), methods to be are performed when deemed necessary. used in measuring and managing these risks, control mechanisms to be established are determined with 40 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK contribution from related departments and these compliance with the volume and quality of the Bank’s evaluations are documented. After new developments activities are submitted together with a comprehensive risk • Establishing efficient and comprehensive assessment and approved by the Board of Directors, communication channels, hearing suggestions necessary actions are taken for risk management. of employees on process and activity issues, and implementing such suggestions Monitoring and Reporting Risks • Opening an Ethics Line for notification of suspicious Reporting is made to the Board of Directors and transactions. Committees within the framework of methods identified by the Risk Management department and In addition, the Head of Internal Control that reports other related units on the basis of risk category. directly to the Board of Directors cooperates with units in performing the required renewals and Internal Control System revisions in control systems and designing new Main objective of Akbank’s internal control system is control mechanisms; the Head also coordinates and to ensure that the Bank’s assets are protected, the performs such efforts. The Head of Internal Control Bank’s operations are performed effectively and in plays an active role especially in redesigning business compliance with legal regulations, and a reliable and processes and identifying checkpoints to be added to integrated accounting and financial reporting system is the processes. By means of controls it performs, it also established. evaluates efficient performance of checkpoints within the processes and closely monitors actions taken All Bank employees, notably the Board of Directors are regarding findings of controls. held responsible for the establishment and execution of an efficient internal control system in the Bank. The The Head of Internal Control operates together with Audit Committee assists the Board of Directors in such competent employees that have their own expertise activities. in related areas and experience in banking; it also provides trainings to support professional and personal Control environment within the Bank, which is one of development of its employees. the most important components of an efficient internal control system is maintained by well-disciplined, Internal Audit System positive and supportive manners. To achieve this goal, The Board of Internal Auditors performs audits and arrangements on major elements such as organization evaluations in order to ensure that the Bank’s activities chart, Ethical Principles, distribution of authority are in accordance with legal regulations and strategies and responsibility are also performed. All employees and policies identified by the Board of Directors; are encouraged to identify and evaluate risks that productivity is improved; service quality is enhanced; may prevent the Bank from possible risks and the efficiency and competency of the Bank’s internal importance of control activities in managing such risks control and risk management systems as well as are continuously emphasized. To achieve this goal, corporate governance processes are retained. efficiency of the internal control system is continuously improved via following some mechanisms, including The Board of Internal Auditors plans and conducts its • Identification of functional differences, separation of operations with a risk-oriented point of view. Thus, it the functions of marketing and operations evaluates possible risks in the branches, affiliates, subsidiaries, Head Office units and all bank processes. • Documentation of job definitions and specific It also reviews mechanisms and risk systems designed responsibilities in the control system of each to manage such risks. In addition, it investigates employee of every level the reliability and integrity of the Bank’s information • Documentation of all workflows and checkpoints systems and checks whether information is accessed throughout the Bank on time; it performs information security audits based • Establishing information systems that are in upon international standards. 41 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK There are also efforts to identify errors and to improve Business Continuity Management in line irregularities within the Bank and to mitigate existing with their own areas of expertise. All teams review or probable risks. Both outcomes of special software their plans in applied drills held annually. used by the Board of Internal Auditors to identify the irregularities and notifications by legal authorities, Roles and responsibilities of the Disaster Recovery other units of the Bank and customers are examined in Committee may be summarized as follows: detail and solutions are sought. Operation Team: There are Business Continuity plans to ensure that all Operational departments continue to As a result of audits, not only findings are identified, perform their activities. but also suggestions to develop the processes, Purchasing Team: Responsible for performing increase efficiency and strengthen internal systems purchasing activities. are made. Furthermore, actions taken accordingly are actively monitored. Architectural Works Team: Responsible for taking required actions in case buildings are damaged. Operating with a risk-oriented approach, qualified Personnel Team: Responsible for Personnel Backup and experienced staff and intense use of technology, and management of alternative locations. the Board of Internal Auditors also provides Corporate Communications Team: Responsible for certification and training opportunities for professional internal and external communications. development of its employees. IT Team: Responsible for ensuring continuity of systems operations in a backup location in case of Business Continuity Management disasters. A “Disaster Recovery Committee” (DRC) has been Audit Team: Responsible for auditing. established within our Bank for ensuring Business Continuity in case of Disasters. IT Measures for Disaster Recovery Our Bank has designed variety of procedures and Disaster is defined as a situation with a known established a Center to ensure continuation of banking (fire, natural disaster, collective poisoning, virus, services via the IT Center in case of any disasters terrorist action, etc.) or unknown reason, in which (natural disasters such as earthquake, flood, etc. and branches that perform Akbank’s banking activities, terrorist actions). The Disaster Recovery Center of as well as the Head Office and units that perform Akbank was moved from ‹stanbul to ‹zmir in 2010 and operational, control, execution, and support activities checkouts were completed successfully. face intolerably long-term problems which hinder operations of more than one branch or unit in terms of Akbank’s Disaster Recovery strategy for IT aims to one or more of the technical, personnel, and location ensure that mainframe computers, open systems, aspects. and networks services are restarted within a predetermined period of time and with acceptable DRC is chaired by the Executive Vice President risks so that security and efficiency are maintained at of Operations and consists of the Executive Vice the maximum and losses are at the minimum levels Presidents of Information Technologies, Human in case of a disaster that may cause the IT Center to Resources, Loan Follow-up and Support, as well become completely inoperable. as the Executive Vice President of Consumer Banking Business Unit that also includes Corporate In accordance with this aim, organization chart of Communications Department and the Head of Internal a disaster, information on personnel to take part in Audit as members. such efforts, methods and principles for emergency interventions, repair, and return activities, and The committee meets quarterly. The teams listed technical action plans have been made. below directly report to committee members and work 42 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK Ethical Banking 4. Our responsibilities towards our Bank (Ethics To be able to continue our operations and to maintain Line, Use and Protection of Bank Resources, our high ethical standards we, as Akbank, have Confidentiality, Rules for Gifts and Hospitality, expectations from our employees and our stakeholders Political Activities and Financial Contributions, with whom we cooperate. It is a priority for us to Conflicts of Interests Among Employees, etc.) announce these expectations to every related person Ethical Principles may be accessed at and to monitor compliance. http://www.akbank.com/ethical-principles.aspx Ethical and Professional Principles Ethics Line The “Ethical and Professional Principles” regulating the attitude and conduct of Bank employees of all The Ethics Line is a channel provided for Bank levels, as well as their relations with persons and employees as a supportive mechanism to apply when institutions within or outside the Bank are important they believe there are practices that contradict to tools in ensuring management and operations of our the “Ethical and Professional Principles” in their Bank in conformity with high ethical standards. Ethics departments, but they refrain from taking actions Line is a channel established in 2008 with the same in the same department to solve the problem. The scope and employees may apply to this line if they existence of the Ethics Line, areas of application, witness an unethical case. means to reach the line are announced to all employees via regular e-mails. Put into effect in 2003 upon the resolution of the Board of Directors, “Ethical and Professional Principles” Employees may have access to the Ethics Line any were updated in 2009 based upon current conditions of time of the day via telephone and e-mail. Notifications business world, and social trends. In parallel with this are evaluated by the auditor in charge of the line update, e-learning training for Ethical Principles was and transferred to the Board of Internal Auditors if also updated and all employees of the Bank received necessary. Only the Executive Vice President (EVP) of this revised training. This e-learning is obligatory the related business unit is informed to take necessary for each employee starting work at Akbank. Detailed actions. In either case, identity of the notifying person information on Ethical Principles Training is given in is kept confidential (it is not required to declare identity “Our Employees” section of this report. Completion during notifications). level of the mentioned training is closely monitored via controls performed by our Internal Control Unit. Compliance with the Laws and Public Policies Pursuant to our disciplinary regulations, employees It is Akbank’s priority to work in full compliance who do not comply with Ethical Principles may face with legal regulations. A variety of units of our Bank disciplinary cases varying from official warnings to is responsible for following legal regulations on discharge. banking and ensuring compliance. Specifically, laws and regulations on laundering proceeds of crime Our “Ethical and Professional Principles” are grouped and financing of terrorism are managed by the under four major sections and examples to each Compliance Unit of our Bank. In addition, every unit section are presented below. and department that has connections to customers, 1. Our social and environmental responsibilities including the Corporate Communications Department, (Human Rights, Working Conditions, Environment, is responsible for operations that comply with laws and Decent Society) regulations on marketing communication. Marketing 2. Our relations with customers and related communication is handled in detail in the “Value Added responsibilities (Confidentiality of Customer Data, to Customers” section of this report. Customer Complaints, etc.) 3. Our internal relations and mutual responsibilities Compliance with Regulations (Workplace Safety, Working Area and Environment, With the aim of ensuring that legal regulations Discrimination and Harassment, etc.) regarding banking activities are followed daily and 43 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT AT AKBANK legal liabilities are fulfilled completely and timely, communications. Ms. Suzan Sabanc› Dinçer, Chairman Regulations & Implementation and Loan Deposits units of the Board of our Bank, is a member of the Chatham operate under the Operations Business Unit In addition House Board of Trustees within “Chatham House to providing assistance to internal and external Independent Thinking on International Affairs”, which customers in legal issues, these units play an active is one of the world’s leading think-tanks. Ms. Dinçer role in ensuring compliance of our Bank’s systemic shares her personal experiences and opinions on infrastructure, business processes, and internal rules issues such as Turkey’s economic and strategic role, and limitations to legal regulations. Regulations units economy and globalization with other members of the attend in-house trainings for this purpose and work to Board of Trustees. keep legal risks of our Bank under control. Regulations units also contribute to the development of the sector In addition, our Bank closely follows forums, by cooperating with representatives of other banks. conferences, work groups, and press news in order to be able to meet our stakeholders (especially customers, legislators, investors, etc.), to follow the Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime agenda, to identify trends, to timely develop and adapt and Financing of Terrorism our products and services in line with stakeholders’ Our Bank’s compliance with national and international expectations. Our Bank also supports a variety of regulations regarding prevention of laundering meetings held with this purpose. Examples of such proceeds of crime and financing of terrorism are events that we supported and attended in 2010 are ensured by the Compliance Unit that directly reports presented below. to the Board of Directors. Our Bank evaluates its customers, customer transactions, products, and • Euromoney Turkey Conference (Sponsorship) services with a risk-based approach within the scope of • Forum ‹stanbul (Sponsorship and speaker) the Law on the Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of • Support for ‹stanbul Chamber of Industry (ICI) Crime no. 5549 and the related regulations. Congress and ICI Environment Awards (preparations for the 2011 event) (Sponsorship) Pursuant to the Regulations on Compliance Program for Liabilities Regarding Prevention of Laundering • DE‹K “Opportunities of Exports Seminars” Proceeds of Crime, risk is defined as “using services (Sponsorship) provided by our Bank with the aim of laundering • A variety of meetings held in cooperation with our proceeds of crime or financing of terrorism; failing Endeavor Project to achieve full compliance with our Bank’s liabilities • Trade and Export Finance Conference (Sponsorship) pursuant to the Law on the Prevention of Laundering • Chatham House Independent Thinking on Proceeds of Crime no. 5549 and the related International Affairs ‹stanbul meeting regulations; or probability of financial or reputational damage that our Bank and employees might be • Marketing Seminars in ‹stanbul and Anatolia in exposed to”. In this context, implementation details cooperation with the Sabanc› University of precautions and principles aimed to identify, rate, monitor, evaluate, and prevent probable risks against On the other hand, participants to some conferences our Bank is fulfilled by taking liabilities of knowing the that we sponsor in Turkey include representatives customer into consideration. of certain local and foreign institutions such as the Government, the Central Bank of Turkey, United Contribution to Development of Public Policy Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and Our Bank’s contacts with local and foreign public International Monetary Fund (IMF). Such events that institutions for development of public policies are we support are focused on finance and banking or within certain limits. For instance, Akbank senior on economic and social development issues such as management may hold negotiations on issues such education, youth, and entrepreneurship. as economy and finance at the level of Presidency and Prime Ministry within the scope of leader 44 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Value Added to Customers products”. With the newly-established “New Product It is among Akbank’s priorities to understand and look Development Group”, our Bank aims to offer innovative solutions that meets ever-changing product and after our customers’ needs and to develop banking service needs of customers from every segment and products and services that directly influence their thus, to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty to life qualities. With this purpose in mind, in 2010 we our Bank. initiated the “For You” campaign which expresses all of our customer-oriented activities. First and foremost, In addition, for developing and offering products and “For You” means listening to our customers and services, requirements of a responsible marketing comprehending their needs and expectations correctly. communication are paid regard to; and issues such as information security and confidentiality of customers’ The “For You” campaign is considered as a critical step personal information are taken into consideration. It is, in the process of improving communication channels again, our priority to achieve customer satisfaction. to understand our customers better and creating a new product development system. In an era where banking has become a service to improve users’ life qualities, Core Banking Services Offered to Customers we are aware that we should not only understand our Among Akbank’s core banking services are Consumer customers correctly, but also offer a variety of products Banking, SME Banking, Corporate Banking, and services to meet their diversified expectations. International Banking, and Private Banking. Credit cards that we offer to customers for every segment are This approach covers not only banking products that also an important part of our services. In addition to contribute to individuals’ lives but also large-scale these, as expressed in our motto “Freedom Banking”, activities that invest in the future from culture and we attach importance to offering our customers arts activities which contribute to social development numerous new technologies that facilitate access (such as jazz, theater, modern arts, etc.) to projects to banking services any time, anywhere. Financial that aim to reduce the impact on the environment services that are out of the scope of banking –such (such as the Carbon Disclosure Project). as insuranceand capital markets, leasing, and investment services are provided by Akbank’s affiliates. From the smallest branch to the Head Office, Akbank shall continue to consider the lifestyles of its Consumer Banking customers and the future of the country and to employ Extending its customer base every year, Akbank has its know-how for the aim of supporting a better life 8,800 well-trained and experienced branch personnel quality. serving more than 8 million customers. Akbank’s consumer-oriented products and services include not While developing and offering services that add value to only banking services such as deposits and payments, our customers in every segment, we, as Akbank, also but also consumer loans and credit cards. In addition, take sustainability issues into consideration. Among investment, insurance and private pension services and current examples of such services and approaches are products are offered to customers via Akbank’s joint environment-focused project finance and loans offered ventures. to our customers; advantageous SME loans provided to facilitate access to financial services; “Freedom Akbank knows its customers intimately through Banking” services that we offer via our widespread continuous monitoring and observation, and develops network of branches and ATMs; business development its products in accordance with their needs. The meetings for SMEs; consumer banking practices to management of our relations with our customers, improve financial literacy; and Akbank Environmental based on loyalty and trust, is entrusted to our and Social Policies applied to project finance loans. Consumer Banking Customer Relations Managers (CRM). In this service model, sales and marketing Ever-changing and diversifying needs and expectations needs -including deposits, loans, investment, payment of our customers cause a continuous demand for “new systems, insurance productsof all individuals whose 45 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS financial relations with Akbank are up to a certain letters of guarantee, letters of credit, financing for amount, are addressed through solutions offered by domestic receivables, supplier financing, forward and our CRM staff in our branches. swap transactions. Our Counter Services Employees working in our The Corporate Banking Department generates branches carry out the transactions that our synergies within the Bank as well as with other customers choose to perform at branches (drawing or Sabanc› Group companies. Always approaching depositing money, etc.). While completing transactions its customers as a “business partner”, it pioneers of each customer in less than 8 minutes, which is our developing solutions to their needs by referring their target, we also ensure that they easily obtain various cash management matters or process improvement financial products and services that they may need at requests to related departments. Thus, while the counters of our Bank. improving customer satisfaction, it also benefits from the opportunity to offer products of other Bank With the aim of offering more efficient services to units to customers. Furthermore, the Corporate micro-scale companies that form an important part Banking Department offers asset management of the SMEs in Turkey, micro-customers started to services to its customers via AKAssetManagement. receive customized services at Akbank Consumer With products such as repos, mutual funds, bills, Banking Business Unit in 2010. Our Bank’s service bonds and Eurobonds offered in collaboration with model was changed to offer faster and better services the Treasury Marketing Group, the Corporate Banking to our micro-customers and a more comprehensive team supports its customers in utilizing their idle funds model was designed. more effectively. Corporate Banking Corporate Loans and Project Finance Loans Akbank Corporate Banking Department serves our Thanks to the prudent loan policies it implemented, corporate customers, the number of which exceeds Akbank has one of the lowest non-performing loan 2,600 as of year-end 2010. Akbank continues its ratios in the sector. Establishing long-lasting business activities with the aim of being the “bank of choice” of relations based upon its customer-oriented services its customers, benefiting from its customer-oriented, and sustainable growth approach, Akbank achieves an innovative and value–creating approach. Carrying efficient credit-risk balance thanks to constant risk out customer relations in line with its vision to build monitoring and correct collateralization practices. solution partnerships while maintaining and enhancing its position as the customers’ main bank, Akbank In parallel with recent increase in “green-field” aims to meet mainly all banking, as well as strategic investments, privatizations and acquisitions, project and financial needs of its customers with a proactive finance loans market has grown significantly. Increasing approach and to achieve in-depth penetration into all of its market share and the number of active customers their operations. for project finance loans every year, Akbank Corporate Banking Department continued its market-maker role in Providing structured products and financial solutions this segment in 2010 without abandoning its effective risk tailored to the specific qualities of each sector and management and prudent lending policies. customer through its growing corporate branch network, Akbank Corporate Banking team plays Financing of numerous headline-grabbing a significant role in the financing of long-term privatizations, acquisitions, and investments in Turkey investment projects and acts as a major financier of has been performed by our Corporate Banking headline-grabbing projects in Turkey. It also offers Department. Rather than concentrating its project financing and risk management services to companies finance loans in a particular sector, Akbank balances in the corporate segment with a variety of products its lending among different sectors such as energy, such as export and import loans for foreign trade real estate, telecommunications, infrastructure, financing, working capital loans, investment loans, transport and petrochemicals. In addition, our Bank 46 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS has become a leading bank in the sector by achieving to information services, campaigns, and cooperation full integration with its financial advisory and activities. In addition to a number of products offered investment banking services. within the year and special packages designed for various segments and sectors, our Small Business Akbank is an active part of syndicated loans that have Banking also launched new and innovative products become increasingly prevalent since 2006; our Bank and services to meet the constantly changing and extended loans to many finance institutions in Turkey. evolving needs of SMEs. In addition to providing commercial investment loans, Akbank Corporate Banking Department also provides Our Commercial Banking Department contributes intermediation services for the provision of investment to the development and growth of its customers by loans under the guarantee/insurance schemes of offering products that meet the needs of medium-scale international export credit agencies or insurance businesses with a high-quality service approach and by companies. establishing cooperation. Assessing loan applications with customer-specific and multi-dimensional Closely monitoring privatization programs, our analyses, the Commercial Banking Department has Corporate Banking Department provides financing a healthy and high-quality loan customer portfolio. for large-scale projects such as direct asset sales, In its lending decisions, the Department considers transfer of companies’ rights of superficies, share macroeconomic and sector studies as well as each transfers, airport operation rights and hydroelectric company’s business volume, financial performance power generation (HEPP) projects. and existing relations with our Bank. SME Banking Akbank offers services to SMEs with its Small Business Private Banking Banking and Commercial Banking departments. While Akbank Private Banking has been offering banking and Small Business Banking focuses on offering products, advisory services with a specialized and experienced services, and solutions to small-scale business, team since 2001 at nine private branches, namely Commercial Banking does the same for medium-scale Etiler, Niﬂantaﬂ›, Suadiye, Western Istanbul, and businesses. As of year-end 2010, number of our SME Kozyata€› in the city of ‹stanbul, as well as in Ankara, customers is approximately 134 thousand. Izmir, Bursa, and Adana. Akbank undertook a restructuring initiative at the Offering exclusive services to individuals with assets beginning of 2010 and consolidated the Commercial exceeding TL 500,000, assisting them with their Banking and Small Business Banking Departments investment decisions, and providing tailor-made under a single roof, entitled the “SME Banking”. Under solutions when necessary, Akbank Private Banking the new organization, Akbank continues to serve via also serves its customers’ pension, insurance and 22 Commercial Branches while commercial banking leasing demands with a single-station and specialized services were expanded countrywide by appointing service in cooperation with the Group companies. Commercial Customer Relationship Managers (CRM) Providing its services in specially-designed, luxury to 143 Retail Branches by the end of 2010. CRMs branches, customer relationship managers at analyze the needs of their customers and provide them Akbank Private Banking constantly monitor their with the most appropriate products and services. In customers’ investment strategies and provide them other words, SME customers of Akbank benefit from with exclusive solutions, with support from experts at products and services designed by expert teams AKSecurities and AKAssetManagement. Guided by that are experienced in their areas and know their principles of mutual trust and confidentiality in their customers and their needs well. dealings, customer relationship managers also submit periodic reports to their customers on national and Our “Small Business Banking” department within the international markets as well as sector and product SME Banking Business Unit continued to support SMEs surveys. Customers can also execute their Istanbul with a comprehensive solution portfolio for small-scale Stock Exchange and TURKDEX transactions through business, from innovative products developed in 2010 resident dealers in the branches. 47 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS Responsible Practices in Corporate and infrastructure projects that have a high level of impact SME Loans on the environment, such as hydroelectric power plants (HEPPs). Loans that we, as Akbank, provide are allocated for the financing of projects by our corporate or SME If EIA reports and approval mechanisms are (commercial or small business) customers. Since implemented on all HEPP projects by the state, 2010, Akbank Environmental and Social Policies are independent of the project’s capacity or installed implemented for project finance loans exceeding USD capacity, our Bank can use this report as a prerequisite 50 million and with a term of over five years. In addition for loans. During project examinations performed by to these Policies, compliance with a variety of social the engineers’ team of our Loans Business Unit, HEPP and environmental performance criteria are sought projects that are exempt from EIA pursuant to the for finance obtained from international financial former regulations, but are strongly opposed by local institutions, depending on the source of the loan. communities due to probable threat to the nature are evaluated taking these factors into account and finance Akbank's Environmental and Social Policies, requests of some projects are rejected. Processes and Risk Management Applied to Loans On the other hand, if any risks become clear in projects Akbank’s Environmental and Social Policies where negative environmental impacts cannot be For managing probable environmental and social risks foreseen, our Bank can provide support for our loan and opportunities that can be experienced in projects customer in making improvements. of our customers which exceed USD 50 million and with a term of over five years, “Akbank Environmental Also in some project finance loans, in-situ checks are and Social Policies” were developed and put into effect conducted in the construction phase and compliance in 2010. Despite the fact that project finance loans with occupational health and safety standards are are provided for financing projects of customers in monitored via accident and death statistics. In addition, the corporate and SME segment in principle, most “Construction All Risks Insurance” is requested as a loans are provided for customers in the corporate prerequisite for loans in all HEPP projects and it is and commercial segments since these projects are mandatory that accident and death compensations are generally large-scale and have a long term. paid with this insurance. The mentioned policies and practices can be Our policies have been developed in a manner that not summarized as below. only prevents social and environmental risks, but also Pursuant to Akbank’s Environmental and Social covers environmental opportunities. Our Bank gives Policies, we pay due attention that all elements stated priority to providing loans for projects that improve in the United Nations Global Compact are implemented environmental conditions, such as renewable energy by the customers that we grant loans. For instance, investments, waste recycling investments or those which businesses that are proved to employ child labor are reduce carbon emissions or improve energy efficiency. not granted any loans. In accordance with our Policies, considering that a project may cause severe and Environmental and Social Risk Management of Loans important impacts on the environment, we request Our Bank’s Environmental and Social Policies applied submission of Environmental Impact Assessment to project finance loans are adopted by all employees (EIA) reports or proof of exemption from EIA in of the department who play a role in loan decisions. financing projects in sectors within the scope of the Our Branches and Pre-Credit Committee of the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations. General Directorate are responsible for evaluating compliance with the policies and developing required Pursuant to our policies, loans are not granted for action plans. projects that are proven to have severe and negative impacts. For instance, EIA approval certificate is When our Branches make offerings for projects a prerequisite for granting loans for long-term exceeding USD 50 million and with a term of over five 48 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS years, we define environmental and social risks of the Management System” (SEMS). This System is project -if anyand confirm compliance of the project developed for identifying, evaluating, and managing to our policies. While evaluating the loan offer and social and environmental risks of transactions in SME the project, the Pre-Credit Committee of the General and corporate segments and is based upon IFC’s Directorate examines the issues stated in the offer. If internationally recognized performance standards. actions to prevent the defined risks are not to be taken by the customer, the Committee rejects the loan offer. Within the framework of such operations, there are If a current loan in our portfolio is against our Policies, plans to assign a coordinator and a committee to Pre-Credit Committee informs the Credits Committee, manage the SEMS in our Bank. The SEMS coordinator which is the supreme committee, and necessary and committee members will be selected among evaluations are made. representatives of various business units (loans, marketing and sales management, international Environmental and Social Risk Management banking, corporate social responsibility business Processes unit). As job definitions of committee members and the SEMS process vary depending on the funding • The company applying to our branch for project International Financial Institution, criteria will be finance loan is requested to submit an EIA approval defined and implemented according to the related or exemption certificate. institution. • If EIA documents are not submitted to our branch during application, submittal of the related In addition to IFC, for loans that we obtain from documents are included in the loan contract as a European Investment Bank (EIB) and European prerequisite for providing loans. Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), • After the loan application file is approved by the compliance with a variety of social and environmental branch and related Business Unit, the EIA report factors are expected from both our Bank and our is examined in detail by the Technical Team of the customers using the loans. Our customers undertake Loans Business Unit. to perform and manage projects financed via EIB • While visiting the field, the Loans Business Unit team in accordance with the Turkish Environmental also inspects issues related to the EIA report and Regulations. In case the Turkish Environmental unless there are discrepancies, the loan is approved Regulations do not meet the EU Law thoroughly or the on condition that other aspects are also suitable for Court of Justice of the European Communities reaches loans. such a resolution, our customer undertakes to comply with the EU Environmental Law that covers measures • Projects that are exempt from EIA are also examined to be taken for protection of the vegetation, air, soil by the engineers team of the Loans Business Unit. structure, soil, water, cultural heritage, and physical Before approval of such projects, location of the environment. Similarly, in projects that we finance via project, the project’s impact on local communities, loans from EBRD, compliance with criteria brought and opinions of not only the central administration, together under 10 main titles including Environmental but also local administration and courts of law are and Social Evaluation and Management, Labor Force inspected. and Working Conditions, Prevention and Mitigation of Pollution, Public Health, Safety and Security is Criteria Applied to Loans Pursuant to sought. While fulfilling these criteria, methods such International Financial Institutions as field visits, communication with local communities Depending on the source of the loan, our customers regarding projects, examining the EIA report are are expected to abide by various social and employed. environmental performance criteria for financing provided by international financial institutions. For Environment-Focused Project Finance Loans instance, our customers that we provide loans via International Finance Corporation (IFC) should In terms of environment-focused project financing, comply with “Akbank Social & Environmental our Bank attaches priority to providing loans for 49 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS projects that improve environmental conditions, such Within the framework of the same goals, our Bank as renewable energy investments, waste recycling obtained loans amounting to USD 135 million from investments or those which reduce carbon emissions IFC and EBRD in 2010. Loans obtained from IFC are or improve efficiency. planned to be employed in supporting energy efficiency and renewable energy financing for SMEs. Energy-Friendly Loans Developing financial products and services that Sustainable Energy Finance Loan (Sustainable Energy support initiatives to reduce the pressure of production Financing Facility -TurSEFFProgram) obtained and consumption on the natural environment is an from EBRD aims to support businesses in reducing issue that our Bank attaches importance to. Akbank energy costs, use of fossil fuels, and greenhouse obtains loans from both its own resources and gas emissions. Within the scope of the TurSEFF international financial institutions for the financing of Program, loans with a maximum term of seven years energy efficiency and renewable energy and offers a are provided for the financing of industrial energy variety of loan opportunities for its customers. efficiency, thermal rehabilitation of buildings, and renewable energy investments, including geothermal, Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan is used generally as solar, biomass, and biogas. As a requirement of this an investment and operation capital loan for the program, companies that would like to invest in energy financing of heating, cooling, renewal of lighting efficiency or renewable energy projects are expected systems, insulation of facades and conversion to to meet certain performance criteria such as over 20% environment-friendly energy sources of commercial energy savings in projects regarding energy efficiency real estates such as factories. Available especially in industrial and commercial operations or over 30% for shopping malls, hospitals, hotels, cold storage savings in projects regarding energy efficiency in the houses, laundries, restaurants, and bakeries, this type construction sector. of loan is a significant support in ensuring businesses to achieve progress in protecting and recovering the Our Products and Services to Support SMEs environment, using non-fossil renewable energy Importance of SMEs is evident in the economic sources, and improving energy efficiency. indicators of Turkey. Currently, over 99% of businesses are SMEs. A significant portion of total employment As Akbank, we continued to contribute to the and exports is created by SMEs. Therefore, we consider development of the energy sector in Turkey; to SMEs to be vital for the economy and act accordingly. encourage businesses to consider environmental As Akbank, our aim is to create value for our SMEs protection during activities; and to finance especially by developing innovative products and services, renewable energy generation projects in 2010. In holding briefings, and establishing cooperation. With this context, Wind Energy Power Plant (WEPP) and all relevant activities that we perform, we make a Hydroelectric Power Plant (HEPP) projects constitute call to SMEs: “All SMEs That Seek Growth! Akbank’s an important part of our loan portfolio. In 2010, USD 2.3 Expertise Is There For You...” billion financing was provided for such projects of our customers. Special Funds for SMEs With the aim of meeting financing needs of SMEs, An Example of Energy-Friendly Loans cooperation was made with a variety of institutions Investment of ﬁah Wind Energy Power Plant by and funds were obtained from low-cost sources; thus, A€ao€lu Energy Group was financed within the scope new, affordable and long-term funds were developed. of our Energy-Friendly Loans. Financed with a loan Examples of such funds (KOSGEB, Undersecretariat of amounting to EUR 62.7 million and having a total term Treasury, European Investment Bank) provided in 2010 of 8 years, this project will contribute approximately are given below. 10% to the nationwide installed wind energy power of around 1,000 MW at 33 existing projects. 50 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS Cooperation with KOSGEB significant competitive advantage by reducing their In an effort to support the investments of SMEs, investment costs. With the campaign initiated in increase their exports and help them grow, “Scale October 2010 within the scope of this program, 25 Indexed Growth Support Credit Program” and “Export SMEs were supported until December 31st, 2010. Support Credit Program” were provided for SMEs. “Scale Indexed Growth Support Credit Program” Easy Loans for the Growing Anatolia prepared as a six-month non-refundable commercial Within the scope of the Easy Loans for the Growing loan with the remnant to be paid in equal installments Anatolia project by the European Investment Bank or as a periodic payment with a 18-month term and the and European Investment Fund and with the aim of “Export Support Credit Program” prepared as a sixreducing regional differences in development levels, month-term spot exports loan provided a significant special loans are provided to micro-businesses and interest advantage for SMEs. In these loan programs SMEs in underdeveloped regions for helping them in 75% of the interest sum is paid by KOSGEB (Small and reaching the financing they need. The EUR 50 millionMedium Industry Development Organization) and the value project will be implemented in 43 cities (e.g. remaining 25% is paid by the companies. Malatya, Tunceli, ﬁ›rnak, Yozgat, Rize) that are located in regions with 75% less income per person than the Cooperation with the Turkish Prime Ministry average rate in Turkey. In addition, SMEs in these Undersecretariat of Treasury for Provinces with cities amount to 25 percent of all SMEs nationwide. Priority in Development However, only 10 percent of SME loans provided in Turkey are granted to the SMEs in these cities. With Akbank offers Loans with Interest Support from the this program, our SMEs in these cities will have easier Treasury to SMEs for their investments within the access to financing sources and thus their growth will priority development in provinces III and IV and also be supported. for their R&D and environmental investments. SMEs can reduce their loan finance costs by using interest support from the Treasury for such investments. The New Solutions for SMEs Undersecretariat of Treasury pays 3% of TL loans and We, as Akbank, support our SME customers with new 1% of foreign currency loans in province III; 5% of TL and innovative products and services that meet their loans and 2% of foreign currency loans for investments ever-changing and developing needs. Some of the new in province IV and for all R&D and environmental solutions we created for SMEs in 2010 are listed below. investments regardless of the province. “What’s New” for SMEs Development Loan for SMEs with Support from In an attempt to help SMEs penetrate into international EIB and EU Commission markets or support the development of their exports In 2010, Akbank was the only privately owned bank activities, we provided Export Document Delivery to be accepted into the SME Development Credit convenience. As part of the practice, between October program prepared by the European Investment Bank 15th and December 31st of 2010, companies performed (EIB) and the EU Commission. The SME Development advantageous Export Document delivery with the Credit, which provided an important advantage to payment to be made by Akbank. Thus, companies our customers in issues such as loan terms, interest conducting business in international markets achieved rates, and repayments, is available to SMEs for a wide cost savings and increased their competitive powers. variety of activities including raw material purchases, machinery purchases, energy efficiency, production In 2010, Akbank launched Axess Business, which efficiency, modernization or expansion of existing combines the features of a credit card, a supply card and facilities. With a minimum 4-year term, the loan is a debit card. With this card, a variety of opportunities are offered with a 0% interest rate for its 20% part and provided for SMEs. These opportunities spread out from low-interest rate for the 80%. Thanks to this loan with installments to free chip-money from purchases, cash a long term and affordable price, SMEs achieved a advance and installment cash advance, automatic bill 51 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS payment, account access at ATMs, supply card feature, rates. Supporting Endeavor Turkey since the day it and fraud insurance. SMEs can use Axess Business to was established, Akbank thus provided significant meet all other needs including fuel purchases, business resources for entrepreneurs that create innovation and trips, accommodation, office supplies and wholesale make a difference. product purchases. The Welcome Package that offers many advantages An Example to the Endeavor Project: AirTies and discounts was rolled out for new clients. The Established in 2004, AirTies is a technology package contains financial solutions such as loans and company and one of the corporations that cash management as well as non-financial solutions benefited from the “Special Loans for Endeavor for new customers. Entrepreneurs” product. The company operates in the area of developing and marketing products New Campaigns that wirelessly connect electronic devices to each other, to the internet and to the people. Upon fulfilling certain conditions, SMEs benefited Among AirTies products are fast internet access/ from commercial installment loans with maturities of ADSL/FTTx, wireless LAN, IP telephony/VoIP and up to 36 months and 0.75% monthly interest rate and television/IPTV. 1% commission. In addition, some advantages were also offered to companies that could not benefit from “The financing we obtained by using the special this campaign due to their involvement with KOSGEB loan packages offered by the cooperation of Scale Indexed Growth Support Credit Program. Upon Akbank and Endeavor added value to us in a meeting certain requirements, such SMEs benefited variety of ways. AirTies is a company that presents from commercial installment loans of up to 18 months an R&D-focused approach while growing in with non-refundable 6 months. In practices until steady steps. Using the financing we obtained, the year-end, SMEs were provided with affordable we accelerated our R&D investments. We also financing opportunities including discounts in interest established another call center in Erzincan during rates, non-refundable terms and maturity advantages. the financing period and thus had the opportunity to make a new investment in customer relations. Support for Entrepreneurs In this way, we contributed both to the growth of In an effort to raise awareness on entrepreneurialism AirTies and to the employment in the region.” within the society, to remove the barriers against Bülent Çelebi – CEO, AirTies entrepreneurs and to create resources and opportunities with the aim of producing innovations that will bring added value to our country and Akbank’s “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” contributing to an increase in employment rates, two Program significant cooperation projects were realized. One Entrepreneurs were given training on business design, is the “Special Loans for Endeavor Entrepreneurs”, practice and management at the Akbank’s “Ideas held in cooperation with Endeavor Turkey and the other Paving the Way to Business” program that was created is the “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” with the within the framework of the Entrepreneur Development Sabanc› University. Programme (EDP) performed by the Sabanc› University for many years. Endeavor, Inovent and Women Special Loans for Endeavor Entrepreneurs Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGIDER) Akbank and Endeavor Turkey launched an supported the program, the second term of which unprecedented project, in which Akbank initially was realized with the aim of helping entrepreneurial provides entrepreneurs selected by Endeavor with a individuals and companies through counseling, project TL 20 million loan pool. Only entrepreneurs selected development and training. by Endeavor benefit from this loan pool containing advantages such as more favorable collateral Using the motto “If you have an idea, come and realize requirements, longer terms and lower interest it”, the program trains entrepreneurs who have a new 52 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS idea, who want to convert that idea into business and succeeded in reaching SMEs that do not make or have grow their business; it also guides entrepreneurs just started making exports and in informing managers in designing, implementing, and managing the of these SMEs on new markets, business opportunities, business they wish to establish. In the first part of government incentives for exports, facilitators for the two-part program, courses on subjects such practical exports practices. Within the scope of the as entrepreneurship, leadership, marketing, cost program, “Export Opportunities: New Sectors, Markets, accounting, finance, law and taxation were taught, Business Models and Incentives” meetings were held and applied group works were organized. In the in Bursa, ‹zmir, Eskiﬂehir, Kahramanmaraﬂ, Gaziantep, second part, the most successful participants chosen and Trabzon. from among the project groups were provided with counseling services. SME Web Portal www.kobilersizinicin.com Business Development in SMEs www.kobilersizinicin.com portal, preparations of which In addition to offering banking services to SMEs, via a started in 2010 with the aim of creating a solution variety of programs, Akbank Small Business Banking partner platform that improves competitive powers of also aims to support them in creating a new vision, SMEs, was launched in early 2011. Offering numerous finding new markets for their products and services, opportunities such as information on economic, upand creating demands. Business development to-date and sector issues; e-trainings on specific programs specially devised for SMEs, examples of areas; developing business relations between SMEs; which are presented below, help SMEs draw their own helping employees reach experts in issues they would roadmaps by providing them with information. like to ask, the portal is aimed to become a new communication channel for all SMEs in our country. Marketing Strategies that Grow Companies and (The website is available only in Turkish.) Their Profitability The meetings organized jointly with the TÜS‹AD (Turkish “Macroeconomic Outlook and Expectations” Industrialists' and Businessmen's Association)and “Carry Your Power to the New Generation” Sabanc› University Competition Forum under the theme Meetings of “Marketing Strategies that Grow Companies and Believing that our responsibilities are not limited to Their Profitability” were held in ‹stanbul, Ankara, ‹zmir, providing classic banking services, we, as Akbank, Bursa, Adana, Gaziantep, Kayseri, Eskiﬂehir, Konya, take part in various events and programs to inform Bal›kesir, Çorlu, Antalya, Denizli, Adapazar›, ‹zmit, and and train our customers. In this scope, in 2010 Samsun. Participants were informed on the following the Bank organized the “Macroeconomic Outlook issues: How companies that know their customers and Expectations” for companies and the “Carry the best and devise marketing strategies to create Your Power to the New Generation” programs in value for customers succeed; how a value created for which Deloitte Turkey shared its research and customers can be independent from the product’s recommendations with regard to ensuring the price; effects of marketing strategies on profitability; continuation of businesses. market segmentation; selection and positioning of target audience. Tourism Report for the Tourism Sector Another example of such programs is the quarterly SME Export School First Step in Exports “Tourism Report” on developments in the tourism Exports play a very important role in the development sector, published by the Turkish Hotels Federation and sustainable growth of our national economy. With (Türofed) with contribution from Akbank. The Report this knowledge in mind, the “SME Export School First presents the latest data and sector-specific studies, Step in Exports” project was launched jointly with the providing guidance to companies in terms of making Foreign Economic Relations Board (DE‹K) for SMEs future plans and projections. that want to expand into overseas markets. This project 53 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS Events Organized in Cooperation with Türkonfed transit trade and other transactions via the Akbank and ‹stanbul Chamber of Industry (ICI) Corporate Internet Branch. In addition, our customers can reach general information on foreign trade In meetings organized in 2010 with the cooperation transactions, alternative financing techniques and of Akbank and the Turkish Enterprise and Business foreign trade regulations, as well as answers to Confederation (Türkonfed) -one of the largest nonother frequently asked questions about foreign trade governmental organizations in Turkey’s business transactions via the www.akbankmevzuat.com (This community that work to develop economic policies website is available only in Turkish). to achieve national developmentcustomers were informed about various subjects such as economic Our Bank also rewards successful exports companies developments, sources of financing and development to encourage them for further success. In 2010, policies. In addition, Akbank sponsored the 9th Industry our Commercial Banking business unit once again Congress and Innovation Exhibition organized by the assumed the main sponsorship for the “Stars of Export Istanbul Chamber of Industry to enhance and sustain – Export Incentive Awards”, which was organized for the competitiveness of Turkish industry. the first time in 2002. Companies rewarded in this competition, organized to increase Turkey’s exports Akbank Supports and Promotes Foreign Trade and expand the share of exports in the Turkish 2010 was a year in which Akbank further improved economy, gain the opportunity to perform their export its current relationships with international financial transactions at Akbank with advantageous terms for institutions. The Bank’s International Banking one year. Department has long-standing relationships based on mutual trust with its correspondent banks in 116 Cooperation with Chambers of Industry and countries. We offer meticulous and quick support Commerce to customers with their foreign trade, payment transactions, and investment projects via various Another service we promote especially for regional financial tools, both locally and internationally. As in development is enabling SMEs to benefit from our previous years, in 2010 we provided low-cost, longloans and other banking services with advantageous term financing through the export credit agencies terms, in periodical cooperation with chambers of of various countries. In addition, we pioneered the industry and commerce in a variety of provinces and Turkish banking industry in syndication, bond, and regions. Within the scope of such contracts, we provide securitization markets via a variety of loan tools and chamber members with services such as Machinery/ achieved a reputation as the bank that defines foreign Equipment Loans, Raw Material Purchase Loans, borrowing terms of the market. Automotive Loans, Commercial Loans in Installments, Workplace Loans and Workplace Renovation Loans In an effort to support the success of firms that with affordable terms and payment conditions for conduct business in international markets, we investments and raw material finance. Here, the goal contribute to improving their competitive powers by is to support chamber members and local economies developing customized financial products. Companies via our products and services. are provided with numerous solutions such as CountrySpecific Loans, GSM Loans, Cash for Goods Export Credit, Installment Export Credit, Eximbank Loans, Export Credit Against Letter of Credit, Discounted Export Letters of Credit and Export Factoring, advance payments against L/C, derivatives that protect companies from foreign exchange, interest rate and commodity price fluctuation risks. On the other hand, companies can easily access information on their import, export, invisible items, 54 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS While offering attractive deposit rates with deposit Example: ICI “Environment-Friendly campaigns tailored for a variety of occupational groups, Akbank works incessantly to enable use of foreignProducts and Practices Awards” origin savings within our country with advantages Akbank supported the “Environment-Friendly offered to Turkish workers in foreign countries. Products and Practices Awards” program organized by ‹stanbul Chamber of Industry By gaining access through every channel, Akbank (ICI) in January 2011. In this program, efficient continues to provide customers from every corner of use of raw materials and energy by ICI Turkey with the opportunity to use their savings for members, environmental management, waste good. reduction, waste recycling and reuse, improving environmental awareness and environmental Promoting Saving through Deposit Accounts trainings, efforts that set examples for other With the Accumulated Fund Account renewed in companies and institutions are awarded. 2010 and the Deposits Savings Account offered in Our Bank offers the awarded companies the last quarter of 2010, Akbank put products that advantageous interest rates, expenses and promote savings into use. In countries like Turkey, commissions if they choose to benefit from where the majority of investments are met by foreign our products such as commercial cash loans loans, products designed to create awareness on of Turkish Lira and Foreign Currency, bank investments, encourage investors to make savings transfer-EFT-check and bill collection and via flexible products, intersect long-term savings and foreign trade transactions, check books, Axess future plans are important in terms of penetration into Business Cards. capital and money markets such as investment funds and deposits. Our products enable customers to save even in small Responsible Practices in Consumer Banking amounts like TL 50; consequently, 50 thousand Akbank General banking services are developed based customers continue to save money every month, upon the requirements of the age and our social regardless of the amount. We expect this figure to responsibilities. Our product and service portfolio is increase to 200 thousand by the end of 2011. enhanced with practices such as deposit products that aim to encourage customers to make savings, Transparent Banking Services: aRife taRife price packages that allow customers to easily track With “aRife taRife”, a revolution in the banking commissions for payments. In addition, special services, Akbank initiated a groundbreaking practice in services we offer in parallel with our consumer the banking industry of Turkey. banking practices to micro-companies that have a significant role in the Turkish economy, our Offering a transparent and unrivaled service model in responsible practices in consumer loans, and which customers can perform banking transactions at insurance and investment services provided via considerably lower costs and encouraging customers affiliates to add value to our customers are examples to make well-informed choices with its slogans “So of our responsible approach to consumer banking. that everyone knows what to pay” and “The choice of the wise”, “aRife taRife” started a brand new period in Widespread Deposit Services the Turkish Banking sector. Akbank maintains its pioneering role in deposits with both its pricing policy and advantages offered to small Bundling the most frequently performed customer savers. With approximately 70% of deposits originating transactions such as money transfers, check from savings deposits, Akbank continues to offer collections, account statement and pass book printouts campaigns and pricings to encourage small savers to under various packages, aRife taRife offers customers contribute to the economy. the opportunity to make as any transactions as they 55 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS need in return for a single monthly payment. Thus, Under the One-to-One Banking service, 221 One-toAkbank customers can make as many transactions One Banking CRMs at 186 branches provided priority as they need for a fixed, much lower monthly fee by service to 160,000 customers in 2010. This direct subscribing to a bundle instead of paying separately for and privileged service model is complemented by each transaction within the bundle. a diversified product portfolio, special pricing, daily notifications of financial position and social activities. aRife taRife is designed uniquely for every customer profile with a total of six different tariffs for individuals Finding quick solutions to their financial needs at the and companies. Customers in these segments are One-to-One Banking platform, customers gain access given the opportunity to choose a package based to the most accurate information on their investments on their frequency of branch transactions; Internet through a dedicated Customer Relationship Manager banking customers are also provided with special as well as special informatory e-mail notifications tariffs from which to choose. for “Ideas for Investment”. Ideas for Investment contribute considerably to informing customers on Banking Services for the Youth: exi26 investment products with varying risks and revenues Youth banking transactions conducted under the and training them on long-term investments. “exi26” brand since 2005 constitute one of the basic pillars for building long-term banking relationships In addition, One-to-One Banking continued to organize for Akbank. Aiming to provide solutions for financial Investor Seminars in various cities where customers and non-financial needs of the youth, Akbank offers got together with prominent market commentators, dedicated services to young people between the ages world renowned fund managers and economists. of 16 and 26. Main products are youth portals, Axess The aim of this event is to have deeper relations exi26, Neo exi26, general-purpose loans and car with customers and create the basis for a long-term loans, as well as insurance products and services cooperation, as well as to help customers benefit from geared uniquely toward youth. exi26 credit card expert views and have better perspectives in making practices provide young people with credit cards that their investment decisions. have relatively smaller limits and thus help them in earning a discipline in savings and expenses. Striving Structuring of Credit Debts to be a part of young peoples’ daily life, exi26 actively Akbank provided a certain level of facility for customers participates in campus life with specially designed who had trouble in paying back personal loans and campus branches and by organizing and supporting credit card debts due to the influence of the economic cultural activities on campus. With the goal of taking fluctuation in 2009, by taking into consideration the its place by the youth in all large organizations in our limitations imposed by legal authorities. Requests of culture life, exi26 sponsored the Sonisphere Festival customers who demanded changes in payment plans in 2010 that featured the world’s most renowned rock or who are believed to recover defaults and make bands. regular payments with a new payment plan were evaluated. Some of such cardholders and loan users Creating Awareness Among Individual Investors via were offered the opportunity to pay their debt before One-to-One Banking legal proceedings are initiated. One-to-One Banking is a service model that is based upon providing privileged services and one-to-one Micro-Businesses: Dynamos of the Economy solutions for a limited number of customers. For high As the residents of the first layer of the commercial net-worth customers who expect specialized service cycle, micro-businesses are dynamos of growth. for investment products, One-to-One Banking CRMs With correct choices of investments, today’s microprovide a platform that they can easily reach while businesses will evolve into SMEs and those SMEs that offering them the most suitable products and providing grow with correct policies will become commercial and financial information support. corporate businesses of the future. The cycle always works in the same way in global markets; in Turkey, 56 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS the majority of existing businesses are in micro scale Akbank launched insurance policy sales at its ATMs and these form the basis of economy and employment. and products customized for customer needs were Our Bank plays a role in every stage of this cycle and developed in accordance with the profile of the delivery serves corporate, commercial, SME and micro banking channels. customers. Our micro-segment customers benefit from all products and services that our Bank offers to Akbank continued to provide Emergency Health SMEs. Coverage, Life Continues Insurance, Plan B Life and Unemployment Insurance, Body Card Protection Services by Affiliates Insurance, Credit Card Unemployment Insurance and Personal Accident Insurance products via its 24/7 Call Insurance Is a Necessity, Not a Luxury Center. In line with the growth of the bancassurance sector in 2010, Akbank continued to grow its insurance business Practices to Improve Financial Literacy of in 2010. Most notable accomplishments of 2010 include Individual Investors the total value of assets reached by AvivaSA Pension and Life thanks to Akbank’s potential particularly in It has become more critical for investors to direct their the private pension system, Ak Insurance registering savings to correct tools especially when interest rates the largest rate of growth in its sector in terms of fall. Limits of investments are removed and even the sales through the bank channel, and the expansion in most conservative investors started to turn to different the customer base of insurance products offered via instruments. With its diversified investment fund Akbank. portfolio and commercial intermediary services via various channels, Akbank continues to meet all needs Akbank’s major principle in bancassurance is of investors. convincing large masses that being insured is a necessity rather than a luxury and thus offering With a 12% market share, all of which is composed of products with affordable prices and coverage for all funds founded by Akbank itself, the Bank introduced segments, considering lifetime risks of customers. In new products to investors with the new funds it floated line with this principle, Akbank branches began selling to public in 2010 and encouraged investors seeking Life Continues Insurance, which makes payments new alternatives to invest in these new products. to policyholders in case of critical illnesses and Emergency Health Coverage that covers treatment With the aim of reaching the ideal of “minimum expenses in health emergencies. two Capital Protection funds every month”, Akbank exported 18 funds in 2010. Thanks to the diversity In addition, Akbank also began covering credit-related created in funds, the Bank offered all varieties of risks of the customers by launching the Credit Card underlying assets –from the stock market to foreign Unemployment Insurance, which provides payment exchange, from gold to silver, from bank interests to guarantee for credit card debt and the Credit Life commoditiesto customers in a comprehensible and Maximum Protection product that covers mortgage simple manner; thus, 20 thousand people joined the and general purpose loan repayments. POS Insurance world of investment for the first time in their lives. that was launched for the small business and micro segment customers protects merchant POS devices In addition, Akbank ventured into emerging markets against all kinds of breakdown or malfunction while jointly with Templeton Asset Management Ltd., a the liability insurance packages offered to protect leading global asset management company and business owners against risk that can arise from launched the Franklin Templeton BRIC Countries their responsibilities to employees or the environment Foreign Securities Mutual Fund in 2010. With the motto provide coverage against customer risks. “Invest in the world’s fastest developing markets with only 10 Turkish Liras”, even the smallest investor In an effort to provide market insurance products earned the opportunity to invest in countries on the for customers through every delivery channel, other side of the world. 57 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS among services offered to consumers. Sums of Example: For a Well-Informed TURKDEX consumer loans since 2008 are expressed in the table (Turkish Derivatives Exchange) Investor... below. While these figures did not change significantly in 2008 and 2009, consumer loans revealed a With the “Akbank TURKDEX School” platform it considerable increase in 2010. established for investors who would like to divert their investments from classical tools towards General-Purpose Loans different alternatives, Akbank enables investors to reach accurate information on the derivative General-purpose loans are provided directly with products exchange and to find answer to their terms up to 60 months for all kinds of needs of consumers, from education to health, vacation, and questions immediately. TURKDEX is the only home furniture. Unsecured loan applications are stock market where futures and option contracts assessed based upon the customer’s credibility. These are purchased and sold. Futures contracts are loans offer a convenient solution to all cash needs of contracts for purchasing or selling a certain customers. amount of commodities or financial tools in a future tie and with a certain price. With training As one of the leading banks in the consumer loans modules at 5 different levels (from basic to market, Akbank focused on the objectives of new advanced), participants to TURKDEX School customer acquisitions, profitable and healthy growth get basic information before performing any by broadening its customer base, further diversifying transactions and learn about the risks in this its client portfolio and increasing customer loyalty in ever-developing market. In order to help investors 2010; the Bank shaped its policies in accordance with in developing their practical abilities, a “Virtual these goals. Portfolio Competition” was held. The competition offered an opportunity for investors to test their In addition to offering consumers a rich product trading skills without incurring any financial risks. portfolio of consumer loans, Akbank focused on In addition, professional teams established in the effective campaign management throughout the “Akbank Investor Center” started tailor-made, year and supported all sorts of financial needs via fast, and quality services to investors performing competitive campaigns with price and term advantages. a high level of TURKDEX transactions. Energy-Friendly Loan from Akbank Similar to the recent global trend, public awareness Responsible Practices in Consumer Loans on energy savings and energy efficiency has started to Akbank’s consumer loans are composed of three core increase in our country as well. Using energy efficiently groups; namely, General-Purpose, Car, and Mortgage. by reducing fuel and electricity costs has become In addition, loans provided via credit cards are also an important issue for residents, housing estate and Sum of Consumer Loans (TL Million) 2010 2009 2008 Mortgage Loans 6,166 4,592 4,601 Car Loans 804 555 1,086 General-Purpose Loans 6,160 4,098 3,923 TOTAL (Consumer Loans) 13,130 9,245 9,610 Credit Cards 6,619 5,754 4,769 TOTAL (Consumer Loans and Credit Cards) 19,749 14,999 14,379 58 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS apartment building superintendents. In line with this Focusing on continuously developing new products or trend, Akbank Energy-Friendly Loan launched in 2010 services in mortgage in 2010, Akbank created a variety provides loans with affordable financing conditions of mortgage options based upon customers’ incomes for expenses of individuals and apartment building/ or expectations. housing estate superintendents aimed to save heat and fuel, such as insulation, jacketing, transition to In full awareness of the fact that the developments in solar energy, conversion to natural gas, etc. Thus, a alternative delivery channels save time and money for financing option that both reduces individuals’ energy both the Bank and its customers, Akbank established expenses and contributes to the environmental health a special call center for mortgage in 2010. With this has been offered for use. (The same loan is also service, Akbank customers can obtain all kinds of legal offered to SMEs.) and technical assistance from mortgage consultants and apply for mortgage. Loans of “From the Kitchen to Life” In addition to cooperating with large-scale construction In 2010, upon initiative of Endeavor Turkey, Akbank companies, Akbank also increases the number cooperated with the Culinary Arts Academy (MSA), of cooperation with the Housing Development a professional cooking and pastry-bread-making Administration of Turkey (TOK‹) and Emlak Real Estate academy which is the first and only private vocational Investment Trust, which are recognized as the biggest institution in its area that gives international diplomas actors in the public sector; our Bank focuses not to graduates with approval from the Ministry of only on the housing projects in metropolitan cities, National Education, with the aim of launching a brand but also those in Anatolia. Thus, our Bank supports new project to contribute significantly to vocational urban transformation activities in our country through education. Thanks to the cooperation with MSA, which earthquake-resistant, exclusive architectural projects aims to reach a greater number of people with their with strong infrastructures. professional trainings and enable everyone to benefit from this internationally-acknowledged education, In addition to our cooperation with large-scale project students who would like to be educated at MSA will not companies, we also pay attention to contributing to have to consider school fees and focus solely on the extending well-trained labor force and professional training with the loans of “From the Kitchen to Life” approaches throughout the sector in cooperation with package. This cooperation with Endeavor Turkey and real estate chains and chambers of real estate which MSA supports future chefs. play an important role in second-hand houses. Mortgage Loans Car Loans Customers who would like to own a house are provided In 2010, our Bank provided affordable financing to mortgage loans with up to 120-month terms and consumers in car loans thanks to special cooperation exemption from Banking and Insurance Transaction and financial partnerships with car dealers and Tax and Resource Utilization Support Fund. Loans distributors, joint loan campaigns, and loan express up to 75% of the house value are provided, with the online car loan applications system; we also offered house to be purchased considered as the guarantee. services that facilitate application when customers are Customers are supported in purchasing houses by in need of financing. offering high amount of loans with longer duration. Akbank has not refrained from using its leading role in Extra Money mortgage loans for the benefit of its customers and by Overdraft Account, which we call Extra Money, is a limit paying attention to always being one of the prominent that is defined in our customers’ drawing accounts banks to offer the most advantageous interest rates, and that can be used immediately. Once approved, it it helped over 200 thousand customers purchase their can be used continuously within the limit similar to an own houses since 2005 when the mortgage market active loan. Customers can track their limits anytime gained huge momentum. via channels such as ATM/BTM, internet branch, call 59 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS center, or our branches and can learn their running Axess exi26 is for university students and young debts at our call center and branches. With the professionals at the beginning of their business advantage of ease of use, emergency cash needs of careers. Axess exi26 has a communication style customers are met. tailored to a young and dynamic target group and offers year-long installment and discount campaigns. Responsible Practices in Debit and Credit Cards Neo; More Than A Debit Card! Today, the share and importance of debit cards in payment systems grow Akbank’s credit card portfolio of approximately 5 noticeably. With the aim of encouraging cash-users million cards used by customers in every segment to shop with Neo, Akbank conducted communication consists of the Axess, Axess Business, Wings, Wings initiatives and shopping campaigns geared toward Business, Fish, Carrefour Axess, and Axess exi26 target groups. Customers earn chip-money if they shop brands. We offer innovative services to meet our with Neo at Axess member merchants. In addition, use customers’ needs and expectations with a portfolio of of Neo for shopping has dramatically increased and a 4.9 million credit cards (consisting our 3 strong credit growth performance of 46% was achieved in 2010. card brands – Axess, Wings and Fish) and 5.2 million debit cards, a credit card lending of TL 6.8 billion, Insurance Services in Credit Cards and a network of 218 thousand member merchants (businesses that use our POS devices). Credit cardholders can experience loss, theft cases. Within the scope of our responsible and safe banking Axess is the flagship credit card of our Bank for the principles, we offer our customers a variety of last 10 years. It is a product that meets the needs of insurance products so as to protect them from such credit cardholders, that offers a variety of benefits, and risks. that we continuously develop in terms of new product qualities and financial solutions. For instance, Life Insurance service is offered to customers so that in case of death or disability, Wings is a credit card for the high-income group of card debt can be collected and heirs do not face any customers who are active and frequent flyers. Since financial liabilities. Ak Insurance has developed a 2007 Wings has been the choice of customers with Credit Card Unemployment Insurance in case the an active social life, a need for business or vacation cardholder loses his/her job. When the wallet of a travels, and priorities identified accordingly. customer or a family member is lost or stolen, if they are using the Bodycard Protection Insurance, Fish joined our credit card portfolio in 2008 and has all of their credit and debit cards at all banks are been creating closer bonds between our Bank and cancelled within a very short time upon their call to the retail market, while bringing attractive rewards to the Akbank Telephone Banking branch. This product cardholders. also includes a number of guarantees, transportation, communication, and cash support services to avoid The youngest member of our credit card portfolio, suffering of our customer. CarrefourSA Axess was launched in 2009. CarrefourSA Axess provides not only the benefits of Axess, but also Contribution to the Development of Trade in special offers at CarrefourSA supermarkets. Anatolia via Member Merchant Campaigns All business that have POS devices required to Axess Business and Wings Business are our card perform credit card transactions are called “member solutions for small, medium and large-scale merchants”. Akbank is among the four largest banks businesses. Both cards offer users the opportunity in the market in terms of member merchants and it to regularly track payments and to earn financial increased its market share in 2010. With the “Cityadvantages such as mile points and chip-money to based member merchant campaigns” specially their cardholders. designed for Anatolia since 2008, our Bank aims both to contribute to the improvement of trade in Anatolian 60 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS cities and to create a more lively and motivated social contributes to reviving the economy through its life in these cities during campaigns. Thanks to such operations and services. An example to this can be campaigns, our Bank earns a significant number of reintegrating the “under-the-mattress” savings into credit card customers and member merchants. the economy and taking the grey economy under control. Wings Carbon Footprint Information Initiative With the aim of creating awareness in our customers Branching and ATM Strategy on carbon emissions, preparations for a special While assessing service points in branch and ATM website started in 2010 and the site became online structuring, main arteries with mass transport options in early 2011. Among the new initiatives are carbon and/or locations with heavy traffic are given priority in footprint page on the Wings website. With titles terms of visibility and accessibility. By providing easy such as What is carbon footprint? How to calculate access to branches and ATMs for our customers, we carbon footprint? Carbon footprint calculator, Ways contribute to preventing fuel consumption and carbon to shrink our carbon footprint, Greenhouse gases, emissions resulting from transportation. global warming and consequences”, we aim to create awareness in our customers. “Freedom Banking” for Easy Access In addition, there is a “calculator that measures to Services carbon footprint” on this website. Communication “Freedom Banking” services or “Alternative Delivery works for the carbon emission calculator initiated in Channels” (ADC) as we call it within the Bank, which January 2011 with simple games on Facebook and aim to meet the financial needs of our customers form some announcements and the calculator was put every segment quickly and which are continuously into use in early February. In order to promote the renovated in parallel with technological developments, project efficiently via Facebook and to encourage also develop and diversify. Widespread channel our customers to use the interactive test and the portfolio and diverse functions of Akbank ensure that calculator, special gift campaigns are executed. more than five million customers receive banking services from ADCs annually. Contribution to the Economy and Environment with Widespread Branches and ATMs In addition to branches, which are traditional delivery channels, Akbank offers banking services to its A Widespread Network of Branches and ATMs customers via consumer and corporate internet With new branches opened in three cities in 2010, branches, Mobile Branch for mobile banking services Akbank has one of the most widespread ATM networks and 4425 SMS branches, Telephone Branch, over 3,000 in the country with 912 branches, 3,127 ATMs and ATMs, more than 267,000 POS terminals, and other BTMs that make instant money depositing possible in advanced-technology channels. 79 cities where 99.9% of the Turkish population lives. Akbank offers ADC users various advantages both Akbank moved up from fourth to second place in terms in pricing and in purchase. With this approach, the of ATM market share thanks to its fast-paced ATM Bank launched alternative loan channels such as installations undertaken as a result of its ATM network MobileLoan, WebLoan, smsLoan and ATMLoan and expansion policy that it focused on in 2010. A total of groundbreaking, pioneering practices in the sector 89% of all cash withdrawals and 61% of all cash deposit such as time deposit with special pricing and loans transactions at Akbank are performed using ATMs and with advantageous interest rates. BTMs. In addition, Akbank ATMs and BTMs are part of Turkey’s ATM sharing platform, so they provide services In 2010, Akbank was a finalist in the Best Use of Mobile to all credit or debit cardholders in Turkey. Marketing – Direct Response category at the Mobile Marketing Awards, a worldwide award organization, By creating employment in cities and districts where a with its “Big Red Line Win Big” application, which branch is opened for the first time, Akbank indirectly is a good example of product sales and marketing 61 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS initiatives conducted via ADCs. Within the scope of compared to the previous year; 40% of the Bank’s this marketing campaign, our Bank cooperated with overall insurance policy sales and 31% of its credit a GSM operator. In this application, those who call card sales were made via Call Center. subscribers of this GSM operator are channeled towards purchasing the product with ads they listen Video Phone Branch Services to on the phone. We won the mentioned award with Turkcell 3G subscribers who make video calls to mortgage channeling for the “Big Red House”. Thanks the Akbank Call Center can conduct their banking to the advantages they offer, many customers today transactions through the Akbank Video Phone Branch use the ADCs and two out of every three transactions both aurally and visually, in a faster and easier manner. at the Bank, are performed through Alternative The Akbank Call Center started another pioneering Delivery Channels. service by initiating both the video IVR (IVVR) and the video agent services simultaneously with Turkey’s GSM Akbank successfully completed its ADC positioning operators’ 3G launches. initiative in accordance with its ADC strategies that was one of the areas the Bank focused on in 2010 Mobile Banking: Banking Services for Everyone with with “Run to Red” integrated digital marketing a Mobile Phone communication. The “Run to Red” integrated digital Widespread use of mobile phones in every region of marketing campaigns carried out throughout the year Turkey enables us to perform some banking services won numerous awards in Turkey. via mobile phones. Akbank’s mobile banking, in which we render services through the smsBranch, Internet Banking MobileBranch, and wap.akbank.com platforms, is one Akbank Internet Banking serves 11% of active Internet of the fastest growing alternative delivery channels. banking users in Turkey. Handling 11% of the money The SMS Branch that serves over 1 million customers transfers in the sector, Akbank Internet Banking enables our customers to obtain information and also has a 1% market share for stock trading on the balance data regarding their accounts and credit cards Istanbul Stock Exchange. and to conduct other banking transactions in a fast and easy way, and therefore releases the operational Call Center and Telephone Banking burden that these transactions put on our conventional channels. While banking services are provided for both consumers and corporate customers via the Telephone With the MobileBranch that started operations in Branches at 444 25 25, Fish Call Center at 444 29 29 late 2008, our Bank aims to transfer the rich variety serves Fish cardholders. of its services on the internet platform to the mobile platform. All Consumer Internet Branch users can also As a communication center that offers maximum benefit from Akbank MobileBranch. Akbank makes benefits to customers with its efforts regarding continuous investments to enrich the functionality continuity of product usage, new customer gains, of the MobilePhone Branch, which provides most customer satisfaction, sales and collection-focused frequently performed services by customers such as practices and as one of the biggest call centers money transfers, information and balance inquiry, in the banking sector, Akbank Call Center served foreign exchange transactions, payment transactions approximately 5 million people in 2010 with its over and investment transactions. 1,000 employees. One of the channels Akbank adapted to the 3G Akbank Call Center answered more than 39 million infrastructure launched in 2009 is wap.akbank.com calls, made over 15 million outbound calls and which features Turkey’s first avatar application for performed 117 million transactions in 2010. 11.5% finance and the first location service with a map in of answered calls were converted into sales. By the mobile environment. With “The Closest Akbank” increasing the variety of insurance products in application, visitors can see Akbank ATM/BTMs and 2010, premium generation was increased 1.4 times branches on a map on their mobile. 62 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS Innovative Practices at Akbank month ‘the suggestion of the month’ is chosen and Our Bank performs a variety of innovative activities to the suggestion and its originator are recognized in a meet customers’ expectations and to increase their general announcement made throughout our Bank. level of satisfaction. Customer suggestions via Akbank Call Center and the social media are also regularly added to our Suggestion System and evaluated in the same way. Product Development Akbank Product Development Group was established In January December 2010, a total of 11,104 in 2010 within the Product and Channel Development suggestions, 9,504 of which originated from employees Department, with the purpose of creating opportunities and 1,600 from customers, entered into our Suggestion for development and innovations and thus played System. Examples of realized suggestions are given an important role in Akbank’s investments aimed below. for the future. While new global trends in banking are monitored, initiatives and practices to manage • Opportunity to increase credit card limits via the environmental and social impacts of banking products Interactive Voice Response System at the Akbank are also identified and products in line with these Call Center trends are developed. • “Energy-Friendly Loans” to support investments for energy savings and efficiency Innovative Ideas of Our Employees • Opportunity to pay invoices any time of the day via Innovation Envoys internet banking There are efforts throughout our Bank to develop innovative ideas and to evaluate and design these New Practices in Alternative Delivery ideas. There is a team of “Innovation Envoys”, made Channels up of 127 employees from the Head Office, Regional In parallel with the technological developments, Directorates and Branch employees. Innovation Envoys Akbank started to employ new mobile banking create new ideas identified in accordance with our channels in 2010. With this approach, the Bank initiated Bank’s strategy and needs of Business Departments pioneering practices in the sector for iPad and iPhone at the workshops they periodically hold, using their users, whether or not they are Akbank customers, via trainings on creative and innovative thinking techniques such applications as iPad Branch, Wings Traveler, iPad and internal innovation leadership. Investor, No Panic, Credit, iPhone Investor and Akbank Art Center. Akbank was deemed worthy of the firstIn an effort to create awareness in our employees on place award in Mobile Marketing Campaign category at innovation, “1,001 News”, a monthly bulletin, is issued. the Direct Marketing Awards, organized annually by the 1,001 News gives examples of innovative practices Direct Marketing Communicators Association, with its in both the banking and other sectors, while also iPhone-iPad Investor applications. containing articles on the issue and success stories from all around the world. Aiming to offer innovative and distinguished applications to its customers, in 2010 Akbank Call Suggestion System Center initiated specialized mortgage services Another system that we established with the aim of at a separate phone number and with customer continuously improving our services and business representatives experienced in mortgage experts. processes is the “1,001 Good Ideas” platform. All of our employees can make suggestions to the related Business Departments via the “1,001 Ideas and Technological Developments, New Media: Suggestions Evaluation System” application. After Twitter, Facebook a pre-evaluation, ideas that are considered to be In today's world where the internet and therefore applicable are selected, action plans are made, and communication methods are rapidly developing, the originator of the suggestion is informed. Every we continue to stand by our customers all the time. 63 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS With this purpose in mind, we created pages for our minimize and stop internal and external technologybrands on Facebook, which has 23 million users in based threats targeting our Bank. Turkey (facebook.com/akbank). In addition we opened accounts for a variety of our products and brands on The Security Committee offers various solutions to Twitter and thus, our customers can follow us on any foresee potential fraud threats and to remove current channel they wish (twitter.com/akbank). risks. Meeting at least once a month with a certain agenda and chaired by the Executive Vice President In the Social Media Akbank and its brands have – Information Technologies, this Committee offers separate pages and we share campaigns and solutions and draws informative or approval reports opportunities with our followers. We continue to meet for the supreme Committee when necessary. Supreme our customers on Akbank, Axess, Wings, Fish, exi26, Committee of Security monthly monitors suggestions Akbank Investor and Akbank Art pages. With games of the Security Committee to prevent potential fraud and contests aimed to build closer relations with out and if necessary, meets to discuss and resolve the users, our pages get huge numbers of hits. issues on the agenda. Supreme Committee of Security directly reports to the CEO. Committee members are Secure Banking Executive Vice Presidents. Security in banking products and services means “confidentiality and safety of customer information and Security Measures for Alternative Delivery forwarding problems experienced with regard to the Channels use of the products to the concerned departments in All Alternative Delivery Channels of Akbank are the most sound, most risk-free and quickest manner systemically protected with high-level security possible, and solving them”. Akbank’s responsibility measures to provide maximum financial security for in this regard begins as soon as the product is sold customers. In order to ensure that these security and continues for the entire life cycle of the product measures are taken at the required level, information or service. Any trouble experienced in any phase could to be paid attention to by our customers is published result in customer loss and affect the reputation of on the internet and a careful read is recommended. our Bank adversely. Therefore, it is our duty to ensure customer satisfaction on “secure use” at all phases. Mobile Password: A number of transactions including money transfers such as bank transfers and EFTs, Information Security Credit Card Transactions and Donations performed via Consumer and Corporate Internet Branches and The principle of secure banking is a cornerstone Consumer Telephone Branch is carried out via a especially in our credit card services as well as Mobile Password sent to the customer’s mobile phone internet and telephone banking. To ensure maximum through a Mobile Short Message. monetary security of our customers, these systems are protected with high-level security measures. Mobile Signature: Many transactions such as Money Regarding actions to be taken by our customers with Transfers, Credit Card Transactions and Donations the purpose of providing the required level of security, carried out through the Akbank Consumer Internet we strive to increase awareness of our customers and Branch and MobileBranch can be conducted through a announce things to consider on our website. Mobile Signature. http://www.akbank.com/guvenlik-uyarilari-2392.aspx (This website is available only in Turkish.) IP / ISP Restriction: Access to our Internet Branch can be limited to IP addresses specified by our customer In addition to these measures, our Bank established or via certain Internet Service Providers (ISPs) by using security committees in order to develop suggestions the ISP restriction function. and to make strategic decisions to the end of continuously monitoring technology-based threats in Date / Time Restriction: Our customers can limit their services offered to our customers through branches log-on to the Internet Branch only to dates and times and alternative delivery channels and to prevent, specified by them. 64 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS MobileBranch Security Measures: Our customers Encrypted Shopping (Chip&PIN): Through Chip&PIN, can log on to the MobileBranch only via mobile phones we, as Akbank encourage our customers to use registered with our Bank and with a mobile signature, PINs while shopping and especially emphasize this wap otp/sms link. The last date on which the customer in our communication channels. 92% of our credit logged-on to the MobileBranch is shown on the main card transactions are carried out with PINs and page. our customers are sent a warning SMS after each transaction carried out without the use of a PIN. smsBranch Security Measures: In order to be Through these measures, a significant decrease was able to transfer money over the 4425 smsWallet achieved in credit card fraud rates. application, which is a part of the 4425 smsBranch service, customers should have identified their secure Shopping with VirtualCard: In order to ensure that telephones. online shopping is more secure, we offer our customers the opportunity to have a credit card with zero (0) limit. Security Practices in the Call Center: At Akbank Call Thanks to this practice, our customers can create a Center, in order to ensure the security of our Bank limit in accordance with the expenditure just before and of our customers, there are various authorization the transaction is made. Thus, card limit will again be levels and security measures in all applications in zero after the shopping. In addition, since the card is not which the customer is contacted. All calls to our physically issued and car information is different from that Customer Representatives are recorded and when the of physical credit card, shopping becomes more secure. call is terminated, customer information becomes only Informing cardholders of suspicious transactions: Our partially visible in order to avoid any transactions beyond cardholders’ transactions are tracked on-line through the demand of the customer. Parameters used in special software and in cases considered suspicious, identity confirmation vary depending on the risk level of our customers are called and informed and, if transactions. Confidential information such as password necessary, their credit cards are blocked. etc. used in identity confirmation is never received orally by the customer representative and customers Confidentiality of Customer Information are transferred to the “Voice Response System” to Pursuant to our Ethical Principles, customer information enter their passwords. In addition, with the purpose that we have due to our position is strictly not used for of minimizing risks in monetary transactions, extra other purposes. In line with our responsibility in ensuring measures such as “transaction-based limits to sums” or the confidentiality of customer information, we keep “maximum number of transactions” are applied. such information secure and share it only with legal authorities. If any employee resigns from the Bank for Measures are implemented against fraud; such attempts any reason, he/she cannot take personal and financial are shared with the security units and all issues are information out of the Bank. monitored through call listening and evaluation methods. While all transactions are recorded and reported, Marketing Communication and Legal duplicating any information belonging to the customer Compliance is controlled and third parties are not provided with any information in any way. During our advertising, marketing communication, and sponsorship activities we show ultimate care to legal compliance so as not to cause any problems to our Security Measures for Credit Cards customers. Regarding commercials and ads, we abide Our Bank employs a variety of control and security by the following regulations: applications aimed at well-informed use of credit cards. These are summarized below. • Turkish Commercial Code (Provisions on Unfair Competition) Sector-based Expenditure in Business Cards: • Consumer Protection Law Business cards can be closed to expenditures in • Regulations on Principles and Practices of Commercials certain sectors by the user business. and Ads (The Ministry of Industry and Trade) 65 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS • Statutory Decree on Protection of Brands instance, card fees or changes in prices or interest • Law of Intellectual Property Rights rates to be applied to services are announced in bank • General Directorate of National Lottery, Regulations on statements in 12-font size one month in advance. In Non-Cash Lotteries and Draws (The Ministry of Finance) addition, such information is also announced on our • Regulations on Advertising on Commercial Vehicles (The website and all customers are provided with some time Ministry of Internal Affairs) before the price is reflected. Explanatory footnotes are • General Directorate of Youth and Sports, Regulations given in our TV commercials and the size of letters as well on Sponsorship (The Ministry of State and Vice Prime as the subtitle speed is considered to achieve readability. Ministry) • Radio and Television Supreme Council, Regulations Detailed information and practices on credit cards can on Principles of Copyright Payments and Methods and be obtained from Principles for Protecting the Rights of Producers (Radio http://www.axess.com.tr/faiz-ve-ucretler-.aspx and Television Supreme Council) http://www.wingscard.com.tr/wings-dunyasi/faiz-ve• Regulations on Methods and Principles of Campaign ucretler.html Sales (The Ministry of Industry and Trade) http://www.fishcard.com.tr/faiz_ve_ucretler.htm • Communiqué on Principles of Recording in the Council (These websites are available only in Turkish.) and Sale of Debt Instruments (Serial: II, No: 22) (Capital Market Board) In addition to our pricing policy, we are also sensitive about our communication with Akbank Credit • Communiqué on Principles of Recording in the Council and Exports of Debt Instruments and on Qualities of Cardholders. For customers who would like to get Debt Instruments information on our campaigns and innovations in other means than the website, customers are notified • Principles and Conditions Required from Member Banks with maximum three e-mails weekly and two SMSs. of the Banks Association of Turkey while Preparing Ads Messages are sent in rest periods and non-working and Commercials (The Banks Association of Turkey) hours to prevent communication pollution. Responsible Marketing Communication in Customer Satisfaction Consumer Banking In all of our services and in each moment of contact with All kinds of advertising and promotions towards our our customers, we aim to provide a maximum level of customers in the Consumer Banking segment are customer satisfaction. Our intense efforts to achieve this in compliance with the related laws and regulations, important goal can be summarized as follows: as well as with the requirements of the Association • Training and awareness of employees, of Advertisers. We as Akbank pay ultimate attention • Monitoring service quality levels offered by our to communicate with complete, accurate and branches and other delivery channels, comprehensible information while preparing • Ensuring satisfaction after customer’s contact with promotional materials. our Bank and use of reporting systems, Communication with Credit Cardholders • Taking actions to improve and develop areas that are suitable. All of our credit cards and related processes are in compliance with the laws, legislations, and regulations With the purpose of ensuring a perfect banking applied in Turkey. In addition, we thoroughly abide by all experience to our customers with our understanding rules of institutions that we are a member of, such as of customer-oriented service, we, as Akbank employ Interbank Card Center (ICC), The Banks Association of advanced measuring and evaluation systems. Turkey, Visa and MasterCard. Accordingly, we provide clear information and messages to our customers Business Process Management regarding all conditions and sanctions of credit cards. In order to achieve efficiency in delivery channels that Within the framework of our transparent pricing policy, are in contact with our customers and to increase we do not use figures that mislead the customers. For productivity in related operational processes, these 66 05 VALUE ADDED TO CUSTOMERS processes should be examined in detail. With this In addition to having fast-operating and easy-to-use purpose, Akbank adopted the Business Process programs employed in delivery channels that our Management (BPM) approach as a business process Customers make direct transactions, aspects including management methodology. With this approach, the comprehensible nature of forms and reports have thanks to all elements evaluated in a holistic manner significant influence on customer satisfaction. In (especially information technologies, data, organization order to provide ease of use during development of and product), customers’ needs are met more the mentioned services, needs of our customers and efficiently and fast. On the other hand, with the Process employees are identified via surveys. Restructuring Project implemented as an extension to this approach, required system development and Complaint Management infrastructure improvement works are performed. We always pay ultimate attention to satisfying our customers by offering perfect banking services; Customer Satisfaction Survey however, despite this effort, if a complaint is made, our Our customers can inform us on their expectations Bank tries to offer fast solutions within the methods from our services by calling Akbank Call Center or via of our Bank and we take necessary actions to avoid email or fax. In addition to these, our regular customer repetition of similar problems. satisfaction surveys also form an efficient customer feedback platform. Monthly and annual customer Our customers can inform our Bank on their satisfaction surveys are performed both to measure complaints, demands, thanks, and suggestions via our the expectations of customers of various segments and branches, telephone, our website, e-mail, fax, or mail. to identify our strengths and areas to be improved. All notifications of customers are managed through a central platform integrated into our Bank’s system. Results of the Customer Satisfaction Survey We aim to solve customer notifications at the first point of contact and to get back to the customer over In 2010, we held our Customer Satisfaction Surveys with the appropriate channel, in the soonest time possible. the participation of approximately 6,000 people selected Evaluated notifications are analyzed efficiently and in accordance with our active customer distribution in a used to improve and develop the quality of our products variety of cities and regions in Turkey. When compared and services. Our approach to Customer Complaint to 2009, we see that satisfaction levels in Consumer, Management is not limited to solving the problem Credit Card and Corporate segments are retained and of each customer, but includes examining the real a significant increase is witnessed in Corporate and reason of the complaint and suggesting long-standing Commercial segments. We believe that the performance solutions when necessary. increase results from the customer satisfaction-based approach of our Bank, importance attached to service Our Bank’s Customer Complaints Management quality, and active steps in these areas. practices and processes are in compliance with Complaints Management ISO 10002 Quality Standards with the certificate obtained from the British Standards Customer Satisfaction Rates Institution (BSI) in September 2007. Customer Segment 2009 2010 Consumer 80 82 Credit Card 72 71 SME 70 84 Commercial 79 88 Corporate 80 82 Akbank (Overall) 76 82 *Top score is 100. 67 06 OUR EMPLOYEES AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our Human Resources Policy neither the services we offer to our customers nor our practices and approaches vary depending on the Our fundamental human resources policy consists of location. However, we prefer to recruit candidates establishing human resources strategies compatible in regions close to our branches and to create with our Bank’s mission and goals, adopting business employment in such locations. Outside Turkey, we have units as our strategic business partners, and steering a branch in Malta where we prefer local employment corporate structure, mechanisms and human except for the senior management level. resources. Our human resources policies focus on Minimum Period of Notice for Significant • recruiting the best candidates for our Bank, Operational Changes • continuously developing the corporate culture and Periods of notice for significant operational changes the business conduct, vary depending on the employees’ seniority. Our Bank implements the periods of notice as stated in • making active and correct investments in human the Labor Code and Collective Bargaining Contract. resources in parallel with our targets and For employees with over three years of service, this strategies, period is eleven months for those within the scope of • participatory career planning, the collective bargaining contract and eight weeks for • transparent and fair performance management others. In case of transfers, employees are given three based on targets and capability and a reward system days for the new posts in the same city and fifteen days that encourages and supports high performance. for posts in other cities. Job Posting Our Recruitment Policy: Achieving Sustainable In line with our business performance and productivity, Success and Working with the Best vacant positions within our organization are first With our human resources practices, we aim to be the announced to our employees on a page specially leader among the most preferred employers where developed on purpose at our corporate portal. qualified and confident people who can create value choose to work and to become a company which Upon seeing these announcements including the employees are proud to be a part of. qualities required for the vacant position, our employees may apply via the portal and be evaluated for eligibility Akbank’s approach to employment is to have qualified to the job. If the applicant is found appropriate for the and well-educated people among its staff, without position as a result of the interviews held by the Human any discrimination, including their race, language, Resources Business Unit, he/she starts working in the religious belief, gender, and age. Within this approach, new post in the soonest possible time. our employment policy is to recruit candidates who are the most appropriate for open positions, using fair, Our Salary Policy objective, internationally accepted measurement and Our salary policy for the beginner level does not vary evaluation methods. Our policy is mainly focused on between branches, where most of our employees employing newly graduate candidates who do not have work, or in diversified locations. Salary policy at professional experience. Here, the aim is to train the Akbank is based on the minimum wage identified by leaders of the future with our dynamic and innovative the government and a fair and performance-based perspective and to offer them career opportunities system is implemented. Recruitment of employees within the banking sector. with no previous work experience is performed in three different titles: Private Security Staff, Assistant Our Bank aims to ensure that customers have the best and Management Trainee. The beginner’s salary experiences in our service locations and thus invests is equal to the minimum wage for Private Security in its human resources in line with this goal. All of Staff, 48% higher for Assistants, and 100% higher for our service points are equally important; therefore, Management Trainees. 68 06 OUR EMPLOYEES In addition, based upon our belief in the importance of necessity. Especially our Operations-Call Center, and improvement of individual skill sets and Consumer Banking, and Information Technologies competence, additional payment is made for those Business Units apply for outsource services. 1,575 speaking foreign languages and those who do not are and 3,882 people worked for our Bank within the encouraged to learn or improve their skills of a foreign outsourcing system in 2010 and 2009 respectively. language at a variety of educational institutions with special offers. Distribution of employees at Akbank in terms of location is presented in the table below. Our norm and Our Employee Profile actual staff was planned and enhanced depending on Our Bank’s most important service locations is our our needs since 2009. branches, which are points of one-to-one contact with our customers and our colleagues in branches account Number of Employees 2009 2010 for the largest number of employees. Head Office* 2,269 2,249 Number of Employees Akbank Banking Center 2,584 2,971 As of 31.12.2010, total number of our employees is Regional Directorates 398 434 15,339 with nine Board Members and 15,330 other Branches** 9,463 9,676 employees at different functions. Overall 14,714 15,330 There are no part-time employees in Akbank, with *Excluding the Board of Directors. the exception of a consultant. Including 1 to 3 months ** Including employees at Malta branch. internship period of university students who are among our most important stakeholders, all our employees are permanent and “full-time”. Benefits provided for Gender Distribution full-time employees may only vary depending on the Our Bank adopted a balanced and equal-opportunity person’s performance. distribution of staff, without any discrimination based upon gender or age. Percentage of women among our In addition to our permanent employees, we also senior and mid-level management staff is higher than benefit from the workforce outside the Bank in case that in a number of companies and banks outside Turkey. Gender Distribution 2009 2010 2010 (%) Total Number of Employees Staff Male Female Male Female Male Female Board of Directors 88.9 11.1 87.5 12.5 8 1 Senior Management 68.1 31.9 66.0 34.0 731 377 Mid-level Management 43.5 56.5 43.3 56.7 609 797 Auditors 70.9 29.1 72.1 27.9 191 74 Assistant Managers 42.1 57.9 42.3 57.7 4,764 6,504 Other* 73.1 26.9 73.4 26.6 130 47 Security 99.8 0.2 99.6 0.4 1.102 4 Overall 48.9 51.1 49.1 50.9 7,535 7,804 *Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support teams, and technicians. 69 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Age Distribution The average age of our employees is 32 and 92% of employees, excluding security personnel, are university graduates. Age Distribution (%) 2009 2010 Under Between Over Under Between Over Staff 30 30-50 50 30 30-50 50 Board of Directors 11.1 88.9 25.0 75.0 Senior Management 0.1 91.9 8.0 0.1 92.6 7.3 Mid-level Management 5.2 93.4 1.4 4.6 93.7 1.7 Auditors 69.1 30.9 0.0 65.7 34.3 0.0 Assistant Managers 56.2 43.6 0.2 51.3 48.5 0.2 Other* 28.0 68.7 3.3 23.7 72.9 3.4 Security 48.9 50.1 1.0 47.0 52.9 0.1 Overall 47.0 52.0 0.9 42.9 56.2 0.9 *Includes non-banking posts such as lawyers, architects, engineers, support teams, and technicians. There are no employees under the categories of Employee turnover rates depending on location are child labor (employees under 15 years of age, at given in the table below. Employee turnover rate at which compulsory education ends) or young labor Akbank presented some changes compared to the (over the minimum age for employment and under previous year, as a direct consequence of the positive 18) categories in Akbank. In accordance with out developments in workforce markets after the economic recruitment policy, only those of full legal age can work crisis. Current rates are still successful compared to at our Bank. It is inherent in our Human Resources sector averages. policy to support students and young workers with internship at Akbank. 4th grade high-school students Employee 2009 2010 and university students in their 2nd or 3rd years can Turnover Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number work as interns at our Bank. Since participation of interns in our staff is periodical, there are no interns Head Office 6.04 136 8.46 191 recruited as of 2010 year-end. Akbank Banking Center 6.08 157 9.58 266 Regional Directorates 2.61 11 4.33 18 We have no minority grouping policy in order not to let any kind of discrimination. Branches 5.75 556 6.49 621 Overall 5.74 860 7.31 1,096 Employee Turnover Rates & Numbers The total number of people who left (retired, resigned, dismissed, etc.) from our company in 2009 is 860 and 1,096 in 2010. Workforce turnover rates depending on the locations, age groups and genders of those who resigned are presented below. 70 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Employee turnover rates depending on the age group are given in the table below. As expected, majority of those who resigned form our Bank, including those who got retired, are over the age of 50. Employee Turnover Under 30 Between 30-50 Over 50 Depending on the Age Group 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Head Office 8.81 73 11.4 90 4.38 61 6.5 93 6.25 2 22.9 8 Akbank Banking 7.27 117 13.2 203 4.07 39 4.8 59 7.14 1 20.0 4 Center Regional Directorates 1.54 3 4.5 7 3.64 8 3.6 9 0.00 0 28.6 2 Branches 5.98 296 6.4 274 4.90 228 6.0 312 46.04 32 55.6 35 Overall 5.94 489 7.7 574 4.65 336 5.8 473 28.69 35 39.2 49 Employee turnover rates depending on the gender are given in the table below. As seen in the table, percentages of male and female workers who resigned are similar. Employee Turnover Male Female Depending on the Gender 2009 2010 2009 2010 Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Head Office 5.60 80 7.94 114 6.79 56 9.34 77 Akbank Banking 4.91 40 7.03 65 6.62 117 10.85 201 Center Regional Directorates 3.33 10 4.89 14 0.83 1 3.09 4 Branches 6.13 290 6.20 292 5.40 266 6.77 329 Overall 5.77 420 6.59 485 5.76 440 7.97 611 According to Akbank’s code of conduct, forced labor is development accordingly. For the sake of continuation out of its principles. In other words, employees are free to of our success and development, all our employees go resign in conformity with the terms on their work contract. through performance evaluation once a year. Performance Management System (PMS) As a result of this performance evaluation, areas of development are identified for our employees and Akbank uses a transparent and flexible performance various trainings are organized in these areas to system that keeps fair evaluation factors in the support their career development. These evaluations foreground, responding to changing needs and and trainings allow us to determine employees’ remaining receptive to developments. competence in a variety of roles and responsibilities. Our employees can also be recruited in business units Adopting a performance-based management other than their current functions in order to create approach, Akbank shapes its organizational business diversity. 71 06 OUR EMPLOYEES The targets of the PMS we have developed within our Benefits to Employees management approach that supports and encourages high-level performance are: Akbank Staff Retirement Fund Trust All of our working and retired personnel and their • To enable our employees realize their targets, to dependents are registered at the Akbank Staff increase corporate performance Retirement Fund Trust, independent of Turkey’s Social • To guide and develop our employees in order to meet Security Agency. Their pension funds are paid by this their changing and developing needs better Fund and health needs of both our working and retired personnel and their dependents are met in better • To align our Bank’s goals with personal goals of our conditions than those offered by the Social Security employees Agency. • To ensure that our employees know what is expected of them, they are involved with their jobs and they are Retirement motivated to attain their targets The Trust is a social security institution as a legal • To encourage continuous development via open person that provides social insurance support to communication and regular feedback and to improve members using the insurance premiums collected motivation from employees and employer, with the provided • To evaluate contributions and performances of rights not being inferior to those provided by the Social employees in a fair and objective manner and to Security Agency. shape their competence in line with the needs of Akbank Conditions for earning the right to benefit from • To make correct decisions on subjects regarding our insurance support are in parallel with legal employees, such as career planning, training and regulations; however, with additional rights inherent in other Human Resources processes to ensure their the Trust’s status, this support is improved. personal development. Premium revenues of the Trust are 33.5% of the The criteria of the Akbank Performance Management employee salary, on condition that it is within the System are ‘goals and competences’. The types of maximum monthly revenue identified by the law goals and competences in the performance forms, annually for insurance premiums (TL 4,943.40 for the their weights and numbers are determined through second half of 2010). 14% of this is deducted from the projects conducted jointly by Akbank Business Units employee’s salary and 19.5% is the contribution of and Human Resources Business Unit. The performance employer. In addition, premiums amounting to 2% of period covers a term of one year. The Operations and total revenues of employees in a year are deposited by Digital Scorecard measurements as part of PMS are the employer to the Trust’s account, again on condition conducted twice a year at 6 month intervals. that these are within the stated limits. Performance ratings of our Bank’s Senior The right to benefit from retirement is earned by Management is made by considering both our Bank’s employees, depending on a certain period of insurance, year-end performance and success criteria that number of days that premium is paid, and the age support long-term sustainable performance. With this of the employee all initiating on the first day of purpose, Balanced Scorecard is used in our Bank. employment. Employees who fulfill these three Performance of Senior Management is measured with conditions are provided with pension by the Trust upon Financial, Customer, Internal Processes, and Human their demand. Resources perspectives. Therefore, in the goals and success indicators of our Senior Management, social In calculating the pension, basic parameters are the performance criteria such as customer satisfaction, working period of the employee, revenues within employee satisfaction rates, employee turnover rates this period and age, as well as consumer price index are also used in addition to the financial criteria. change rates and development rates in our country. 72 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Due to such variable parameters, monthly pensions bargaining agreement covers some rights such as may differ for each employee. death benefits, natural disaster benefits, disability compensation, death and injury compensation, and Health Care Services emigration compensation for personnel moving to Since the day of establishment, our Bank offers its another city. In addition, employees expecting babies employees a safe working environment and a variety of are allowed sixteen weeks of paid leave – eight weeks opportunities to meet health care needs. before and eight weeks after the delivery. Fathers are also given three-day paid leave. Akbank Pension Fund Members of Retirement Fund Trust who reside in cities Trust meets child delivery costs of employees and where we have health centers can apply to the physicians provides a variety of support. in these centers to be treated. Members in other cities can get services from the physicians we employ; if Employee Health and Safety specialized treatment or operation is needed, they can With regards to our area of operations, occupational receive these services at the public or private health diseases or workplace accidents are not experienced institutions that have an agreement with our Trust. in our Bank. Yet, the total absenteeism (lost days) of 4,855 employees who got sick leaves with official Akbank Private Pension System with health reports in 2010 amount to 40,092 days (calendar Corporate Contribution day). Average sick leave per person, calculated by Akbank employees are also offered Private Pension finding the ratio of this figure to average number of System (PPS) Services with some corporate employees, is 2.61. In 2009, this ratio was recorded as contribution. Senior and mid-level managers and 2.72 days. auditors are also included in this PPS plan with corporate contribution. Our Bank contributes to Information on epidemics or other important diseases savings of employees by making additional payments to is regularly given at the “Health Column” published the PPS contracts of the above-mentioned employees on the Akbank Staff Pension Fund Trust (AKSand›k) in a certain ratio of their monthly gross salary. It webpage. In cases of emergency, information is spread is assumed that this contribution helps to improve via e-mail. (www.akteksan.net) First aid training is motivation and loyalty of our employees. given for the health and safety of Akbank employees. In-class training on this subject is given to the number Participation in the plan is voluntary. The aim of the of employees stipulated by law, and other employees plan is to ensure that employees continue with the are trained through e-learning. same life quality as today when they are retired. The ventilation systems in our branches are installed Employee loyalty and motivation is very important to to provide 100% fresh air and heat recovery. With Akbank. Therefore, we attach a special importance to these systems that undergo regular maintenance, our the PPS with corporate contribution. PPS programs employees are protected against diseases arising from are carefully monitored by our Human Resources allergic reactions. In this way not only our offices’ Business Unit and there are efforts to increase the air quality meets the stipulated values of respective number of employees participating in this plan. standards but also energy is saved by preventing uncontrolled air flow. Collective Bargaining Agreement In our Bank, all employees can become members of The Bank of Learners and Teachers: Career BANKS‹S (Union of Bank and Insurance Employees) Development and Trainings at Akbank on their own preferences and exercise their rights of Supporting the development of Akbank employees and collective bargaining agreement. creating motivation and job satisfaction are two of the main goals of our Bank. Through its well-developed 54% of our employees (8,209 people) are within the human resources applications, Akbank creates an scope of collective bargaining agreement. The collective environment in which employees can develop in 73 06 OUR EMPLOYEES line with their potentials and preferences; the Bank Office employees at the ‘assistant’ status who have just also plans different duties and responsibilities that started work and will be having their first experience in employees may undertake within the organization. the banking sector attend the “Management Trainee” In Akbank, where career paths are clearly defined, and “Basic Banking” programs. The aim of these employees are offered flexible and diversified applied and practice-oriented trainings is to build opportunities. corporate culture and loyalty among our employees from the first day. At the “Management Trainee” Supporting the development of all employees and program that lasts six months, in-class trainings increasing motivation and work satisfaction is targeted are supported by e-learning and the program is also through the training system, which has a strategic supported with branch and Head Office internships. importance in the Akbank Human Resources policy. In addition, Management Trainees follow a 1-year mentorship program and both mentors and mentees Akbank’s Training System are trained so as to get ready for this process. With full awareness of the fact that knowledge is Akbank employees may transmit their opinions, ideas an important asset for our employees and welland suggestions concerning the training they have equipped human resource is a strong competitive received, primarily through the online questionnaires advantage, Akbank performs trainings that contribute filled in at the end of the training. Our employees, who to employees’ personal and professional development. can also send their questions, requests, suggestions Trainings vary every year depending on Akbank’s and opinions with regard to all trainings through strategies, sector needs, and development areas of the e-mail address egitim@akbank.com, can share employees. their thoughts on e-learning programs using the send ‘message’ function on the training portal. All The training requirements of Akbank Branch and Head questionnaire results are carefully evaluated by the Office employees are determined in conformity with Training Department and necessary actions are taken. the related Business Units. During these consultations, not only overall goals and strategies of our Bank, but also goals and strategies of Business Units are Our Training Programs discussed and budgets are made. The annual training Akbank’s training programs include starting work, plan and budget are forwarded to the Akbank executive candidate pool, career, certificate programs, management for opinion and approval; the plan and restructuring trainings, project-based trainings budget can be updated within the year, in accordance and management skills development trainings. The with emerging needs. competence levels of employees are developed through remote learning (e-learning and video The training requests brought directly by Akbank conferencing) that supports personal and professional employees and executives before our Training development and on-the-job training methods as well Department in connection with their fields of as in-class lectures. development are also examined and answered. A total training of 993,004 hours was completed as The goal of the Akbank training system is to of December 31st, 2010 and average training per enable Akbank employees to perform their current employee was 9.46 work days. Total training time jobs successfully and to prepare them for the increased 7% compared to 2009. responsibilities required by more senior positions before they get there. Employees participate in career and certification trainings for their current duties, and are admitted to the specially designed ‘Candidate Pool’ for the duties for which they are candidate for. Additionally, Management Trainees, branch and Head 74 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Annual Average Training Time per Employee The total of trainings given to Akbank employees in 2009 and 2010 and annual average training time per employee are given below on an hour and day basis. Total training (hour and day) Function 2009 2010 Manager and higher levels 132,815 hours/ 18,974 days 90,733 hours/ 12,962 days Manager* 81,202 hours / 11,600 days 70,365 hours / 10,052 days Sub-Manager* 714,655 hours / 102,094 days 831,906 hours / 118,844 days Total 928,672 hours / 132,667.4 days 993,004 hours / 141,858 days Training per person (hour and day) Function 2009 2010 Manager and higher levels 133.08 hours/ 19.01 days 81.74 hours/ 11.68 days Manager* 59.62 hours / 8.52 days 50.05 hours / 7.15 days Sub-Manager* 57.85 hours / 8.26 days 66.64 hours / 9.52 days Total 63.11 hours / 9.02 days 66.20 hours / 9.46 days (*) Employees at the Manager and IT Manager functions are evaluated as “Managers”, all other functions are “Sub-Managers” (including supporting staff). Anti-Corruption Trainings using visual images and videos to distinguish between The banking sector is among the largest with its original and counterfeit money and to learn about clues number of employees, customer potential, and of pick pocketing. The training is provided for new assistants within the Basic Banking Training Program business volume. The scale of the sector and intensity and for new Cash Officers within their Career Training, of monetary transactions causes a number of risks. both for a full day. “Corruption” is the most important of these risks. In line with the fact that corruption can be prevented by control systems and training to a great extent, we hold Document Protection and Forgery Trainings a variety of trainings in which we train our employees With this mixed training, Assistant, Officer 4 and Cash on technical issues, create awareness on things Officer functions are trained about things to control to do and not to do, by using in-class trainings and on documents, clues about recognizing a forged e-learning. These include the following: document, social and economic dimensions of forgery and fraud. The training is provided for new assistants within the Basic Banking Training Program for a full Management for Cash in Hand – Fraud and Pick day and for new Cash Officers within their Career Pocketing Training Training again for a full day. Management for Cash in Hand is an in-class training for Assistant, Officer 4 and Cash Officer functions given 75 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Trainings for Detecting and Preventing Fraud Officers, risks that can occur in account openings, In this training designed as e-learning for all branch joint accounts, check transactions, transfer/EFT employees, information on ID theft (ID card, passport, transactions, powers of attorney, specimens of etc.), online fraud, credit card fraud, ATM fraud are signature are explained using sample cases and case given and things to consider and measures to take as analyses in-class. bank employees are emphasized. Trainings for Fighting Proceeds of Crime Ethical Principles e-learning “Training for Fighting Proceeds of Crime”, which It is the training in which Akbank’s Ethical Principles is held obligatory by MASAK (Financial Crimes governing relationships of bank employees with Investigation Board) for all banks, is given as customers and each other are taught. This training e-learning to all employees of our bank in different used to be given in-class for two hours in 2007-2008 as versions for branches and the Head Office. Completion a part of the Basic Banking and Management Trainee of the training and the success achieved in the exam programs. Converted into e-learning in September held after the training are monitored and reported. 2008, the training was made available for all bank In line with new regulations and rules issued by employees and became obligatory. In parallel with MASAK, this e-learning module is updated annually the updates made in the Ethical Principles in 2009, and the updated version is reopened for all employees e-learning was also updated and all bank employees regardless of previous completion of the training. On were required to retake the training. Each new the other hand, for new employees in various positions, employee at Akbank is automatically assigned this hree hours-one full day in-class training is given. e-learning. Disciplinary Regulations e-learning It is obligatory for each employee to take the “Disciplinary Regulations e-learning Module” prepared by the Board of Internal Auditors and assigned to all employees. Employees who do not complete this training are reported to their directors and to the executive management to have them complete it. In this training, ways of compliance of Akbank employees with work discipline and workplace order in relationships with colleagues and customers, attitudes to be avoided as disciplinary actions, and disciplinary cases are taught. Information Security e-learning “Information Security e-learning Module” that explains information and information security in banking, risks about information security, things to do and not to do regarding information security are in details is a training for teaching the rules, procedures, measures and prohibitions in this area. Operational Risk Trainings In the training given within Career Trainings for Operation Managers / Officers and Pay Desk 76 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Anti-Corruption Trainings Name/Content Target Audience 2009 2010 Percentage of the Training Type of Number of Type of Number of of Covarage Training Participants Training Participants (%) Management for Cash Officers and newly In-class 1,268 In-class 787 100 Cash in Hand – employed AssistantsFraud and Pick Officers 4 Pocketing Training Document Cash Officers and newly In-class 1,251 In-class 1,015 100 Protection and employed AssistantsForgery Trainings Officers 4 Trainings for All branch employees e-learning 7,983 e-learning 24 83* Detecting and Preventing Fraud Ethical Principles All employees e-learning 10,957 e-learning 7,352 100 Disciplinary All employees e-learning 13,832 e-learning 1,090 97* Regulations Information Security All employees e-learning 13,497 e-learning 2,105 100 In-class** 794 70* Operational Risk Operation Officers, Pay In-class 183 In-class 810 48* Desk Officers All branch employees e-learning 9,448 e-learning 1,695 100 Fighting Proceeds Newly employed In-class 991 In-class 1,740 100 of Crime AssistantsOfficers 4, Call Center officers, Assistant Inspectors, Management Trainees All employees e-learning 1,241 e-learning 11,762 85* In-class 3,693 In-class 5,146 Total: e-learning 56,958 e-learning 24,028 * All members of the target group is planned to be covered. ** In-class information security courses are developed in 2010 and the target group is newly employed AssistantsOfficers 4, Call Center officers, Management Trainees 77 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Certification System (Lifelong Learning) Akbank Development Center In the Certification System employees attend specified All employees can have access to the e-learning training programs and take exams before and after the assigned to them or in the form of free activities at program. In addition to these programs and exams, the Akbank Development Center and the employees in our employees prepare papers for certain certificate each task group have access to the “Training Catalogue programs. Participants succeeding in the certificate that shows the trainings they will receive during the programs receive the “Certificate of Success”, an year as well as the contents of those trainings. There important indicator in their professional and personal are also about 100 e-learning documents of Technical developments which they can use in any field. Trainings on subjects such as Debit and Credit Cards, Basic Law, Foreign Trade Legislation on the training This system aims to portal, which are freely accessible to all. • Assure that the success of the employees in the programs is certified, ensuring that they have a Up-to-date articles and publications on finance, proactive say in their personal career managements, banking, management and personal development can • Form a culture that “creates its own leaders” by be obtained periodically from the articles section. Our empowering employees who are professionally employees have access to the contact information of Intra-Bank Trainers specialized in their areas. and managerially well-equipped, competent and innovative leaders in their work. In short, Akbank Development Center continuously Success of our employees in the trainings is literally supports our employees’ development in a reflected on their quality of work as the certification regenerating way. programs and the assignments they complete at the end of these programs are directly related to their jobs. Support for Proficiency Exams Akbank supports employees in obtaining internationally As in previous years, e-learning was also widely valid certificates in their areas of specialization, used in Akbank in 2010. Part of the trainings given as although these are not offered as rewards. Fees e-learning consisted of in-class trainings that support for exams and preparatory trainings are covered by career trainings. Some of these trainings include: Loan Akbank pursuant to certain criteria. legislations, foreign trade, consumer and commercial loans, basic knowledge of law, basic knowledge of Some of the widely supported exams are listed below: accounting, debit and credit cards, etc. • Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) held by the CFA e-learning conducted in order to accelerate the Institute: Exam concerning treasury transactions employees’ adaptation to the newly launched • The CIA (Certified Internal Auditor) exam held by products and processes in 2010 include: CRM Screen the CIA Institute and CMA (Certified Management Trainings, Akrobat Screen Trainings, Business Objects Accountants) held by ICMA: Exam concerning Reporting Tool, Member Merchant Screens, Written internal audit Communication with Public Institutions, Effective • The Project Management Professional PMP exam e-mail Use, Operational Risk Notification System (Risk held by the Project Management Institute (PMI), Management). which awards the most widely accepted certificate on Project Management Trainings targeting personal development were mainly about meeting management, time planning, customer• The CDCS (Certified Documentary Credit Specialist) oriented relationship management, communication on exam held by the ICC National Committee of phone, presentation techniques, techniques of writing Turkey, which offers the opportunity of earning the reports, project management, stress management, internationally accepted title of Certified Letter of management capabilities, etc. Credit Specialist 78 06 OUR EMPLOYEES • CISM (Certified Information Security Manager) Internal Communication Information technologies security management exam The most frequently used internal communication held by ISACA. activities are the corporate portal, corporate TV, Half of the exam fee for participants who do not e-mailing and periodical directors meetings. With the succeed in the examination and the whole fee for the corporate TV that we also use to reach our customers, successful ones are reimbursed by Akbank. As of our employees are targeted outside the working hours. December 2010, 23 employees took the related exams. Special offers for Akbank employees can also be announced via e-mails. Opportunity of Master’s Degree for Employees Corporate Portal With the cooperation established with the Sabanc› University, every year a certain number of Akbank A Corporate Portal was established in order to employees are provided the opportunity to attend the facilitate access to information and increase internal Executive MBA program, the tuition fee for which is communication for all employees, including over paid by Akbank. Especially candidates for the senior 900 branch employees all around Turkey. With this management and those with a high-level performance portal, all announcements and information were are admitted to the program. In 2009 and 2010, 5 and 3 brought from printed media to the intranet system. employees benefited from this program respectively. Our employees have access to the information they seek, from different locations, immediately and Internal Trainer and Retired Trainer Practice with the use of keywords. Thus, not only employee satisfaction increases, but also time and labor losses Successful Akbank retirees who possess training are prevented. The Corporate Portal aims to provide skills are hired as “trainers” to put their business cost efficiency and fast communication, as well as experience and banking knowledge to use. These emphasizing our joint corporate culture. former colleagues are paid a trainer’s fee in return for their services and almost all of the basic banking training for new recruits is given by retired trainers. Via the Corporate Portal, contact information of New employees’ sense of loyalty and motivation are our employees, organization chart and changes enhanced through the knowledge and experience in this chart can be followed on a daily basis. In imparted by the retired trainers. addition, job definitions and business processes of employees are also given in the portal. Documents, Similarly, employees who are specialists in their announcements and e-learning modules that support fields and who possess the skill to train are chosen business processes and inform employees; our based upon certain criteria to take the trainer training Ethical Principles; related legal regulations; forms program; successful employees become internal and templates used inside the Bank; the Suggestion trainers. Also continuing to perform their present System are also accessible via the Corporate Portal. duties, internal trainers are paid a certain fee for each The Portal provides access to a variety of computer hour of training they give. applications used in the Bank as well. In the “Guest of the Month” section of the Corporate Portal, messages Internal Communication and Activities at of the senior management and Vice Presidents are shared every month. Akbank Akbank attaches importance to internal communication and activities that serve purposes such as facilitating Being a Part of the Akbank Family communication with and between employees through The “Being a Part of the Akbank Family” establishment of communication channels, improving communication platform on our corporate portal is employee motivation, and increasing loyalty. Thanks one of the most important tools we use to reinforce to such activities, our employees are updated on communication with our employees. This platform developments in the Bank and they participate in joint was launched in April 2009 in order to offer employees activities with all Bank employees to improve team spirit. exclusivities of being part of the Akbank family. Being 79 06 OUR EMPLOYEES a part of the Akbank family is something that brings Internal Activities the pleasure of achieving goals together, the positive Activities and sports events are organized to bring reflection of having fun, and the joy of being together employees together out of the office with the aim of to the quality of our work. Under titles such as special reinforcing team spirit. By ensuring participation of company campaigns for Akbank members and our employees to activities that our Bank sponsors, privileges, campaigns specially designed for Akbank we hope to serve the sense of loyalty. Our objective in employees are announced and the privilege of being a such activities is to establish efficient and productive part of Akbank is emphasized. relations among our employees. Some titles from Being Part of the Akbank Family: Some of the internal activities we held in 2010 are • Awards received by our Bank: Important awards are listed below. shared with our employees on the page “Being a Part of the Akbank Family”. • January 2010: At the 1. Akbank Children Festival, • Feedback from Customers: Positive feedback on our employees came together with their families. employees is shared under this title. • March 2010: Akbank members received Basic Art • Social Activities: Activities that Akbank employees Training in Photography. participate can be followed on this page. • April 2010: Akbank sailing team was established to • Board of Pride and Joy: Successful employees are teach sailing to employees form various departments introduced under this title. and then to support participation in races. • Special for the Akbank Family: Special advantages • May-June 2010: A Streetball Tournament was for Akbank members are shared with our employees organized for Akbank employees. under this title. • June 2010: With a draw, 25 fortunate Akbank • Akbank in the Press: Press news about our Bank is employees won the opportunity to see the Sonisphere shared with employees. Festival that we sponsored. • July 2010: Akbank employees donated blood within the scope of the Red Crescent’s Blood Donation Mechanisms for Employee Opinions and campaign. Suggestions • Summer of 2010: TEAMNETA sailing team which Feedback from employees to senior management was first established in 2007 within the Information is encouraged via meetings and several internal Technologies Business Unit today attends races with communication channels. For instance, employee its nine permanent and four substitute members. suggestions collected through the Suggestion Sponsored by Akbank in its first years, TEAMNETA System on the Corporate Portal are meticulously sail team won three trophies in 2010. evaluated and concluded. In addition, an “Ethics Line” has been established to enable employees to • September 2010: With a draw, 15 fortunate Akbank express issues they believe they cannot solve within employees won the opportunity to go to the U2 their departments or they somehow refrain from concert. sharing with their colleagues and managers in the • December 2010: With a draw, 10 fortunate Akbank department; to support employees in such cases; and employees won invitations to the Cirque du Soleil to provide consultancy when necessary. Our Employee show. Satisfaction Survey is another active feedback • December 2010: 40 Akbank employees won the right mechanism. With this survey, our employees enjoy the to attend Akbank Art’s Modern Dance Workshop. opportunity to share their expectations, opinions and • December 2010: LÖSEV (Foundation for Children with suggestions with the Bank’s management. Leukemia) and UNICEF opened a stand at Akbank. Our employees supported these institutions by purchasing their products. 80 06 OUR EMPLOYEES Employee Satisfaction Our employees’ happiness, their loyalty to our Bank, and maintaining a strong team spirit are important factors supporting us in achieving goals and maintaining permanent success. Our human resources policy based upon equal career opportunities, our fair and performance-based salary policy, our training system that attaches importance to employees’ career development and training, and our practices focused on an active internal communication and activities are all aimed to improve employee satisfaction. Measuring, monitoring, and improving the level of employee satisfaction are also material issues for Akbank. With this in mind, Akbank used to conduct Employee Satisfaction Survey for all employees once every two years, and as of 2010, this survey is held annually. In 2010, using the analyses made on the results of the Employee Satisfaction Survey which was performed by a completely independent company on a confidentiality basis and applied via a certain infrastructure, each Business Unit received the required feedback. Based upon the analyses of these feedbacks, action plans were made to retain successful elements and improve those that need to be developed. For instance, feedbacks regarding reinforcement of internal communication and increasing the number of social activities were received; “Being a Part of the Akbank Family” concept was created based upon such feedbacks. A number of social activities are performed within this concept and announced to employees via the “Being a Part of the Akbank Family” sub-portal on the Corporate Portal. In addition to Akbank Employee Satisfaction Survey, regular regional visits are conducted and our communication channels are kept open through collective and one-to-one interviews between Business Units, management teams and human resources specialists and employees. 81 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our Operations and the Environment Energy Consumption and Saving As a company operating in the service sector, Akbank’s The “Carbon Disclosure Project”, conducted by the impact on the environment is significantly limited Sabanc› University Corporate Management Forum with compared to that of the production sector. Yet there support from Akbank, is an indicator of the importance are certain environmental impacts resulting from Akbank attaches to greenhouse gas emissions and so activities of Akbank’s employees, the Bank’s branches to the Climate Change issue. Within the scope of this and operations. Among the environmental elements project, Akbank became one of the first companies that Akbank pays attention to are energy consumption in Turkey committed to reporting greenhouse gas and the related greenhouse gas emissions. Paper emissions in line with international standards. use and technological wastes are also important issues for our Bank and therefore they are monitored Energy Consumption among environmental indicators. Each environmental aspect is monitored by using appropriate quantitative Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption indicators and a variety of practices are performed A wide-scope study was conducted in 2010 with within the Bank to reduce these negative impacts. the aim of calculating the amount of electricity and natural gas consumed for heating purposes and of Our Environmental Policy establishing an energy management system. Within Akbank is pioneering the Turkish banking sector the scope of this study, consumption data from all by making a commitment to carry out projects to buildings, including branches, were gathered to create minimize the negative impact that its activities have on a basis. Consumption data in this year’s report are the physical environment. Our bank has adopted the based upon these data and were calculated using following methods as its environmental principles in heating, electricity, and water costs. In 2010, Akbank carrying out this policy: Banking Center (ABC) in Gebze was put into effect and • Working to achieve efficient use of natural resources thus, some of the buildings in ‹stanbul were moved and to minimize waste caused by our processes to Gebze. This moving period lasted for a certain time • Establishing international cooperation to support within the year and consumption data of both ABC transparency policies that will reduce the emission of and the buildings that moved to ABC were counted in greenhouse gases calculations and therefore some consumption figures • Supporting recycling and reuse activities for our seem to have increased. employees and all of our key stakeholders and making efforts to increase awareness on this subject The “Natural Gas Consumption” table, including our direct energy consumption data and the “Electricity • Initiating awareness activities in order to reduce the Consumption” table, including our indirect energy environmental impacts of our activities consumption data are presented below. Natural gas is • Ensuring full compliance with environmental used for heating purposes in our buildings. laws and regulations; encouraging awareness on this subject among our stakeholders by following developments in this field closely. Natural Gas Consumption (Gigajoule/year) 2008 2009 2010 Akbank Sabanc› Center 8,588 9,359 7,137 ABC and Other Centers* 13,217 16,936 Branches 47,274 48,652 TOTAL 8,588 69,850 72,725 * Other Centers: Maslak Operations Center and Zincirlikuyu, Gümüﬂsuyu, Ümraniye, and Silivri Service Buildings. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 82 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT A total of 4% increase is observed in the natural and the cooling systems for healthy operations of gas consumption of our Bank. It is believed that the servers increase electricity consumption. Measures increase in the number of branches have a role in this taken to reduce electricity consumption are explained increase. In addition, during the moving process from in the next part, under the title “Energy Savings at the some buildings to the ABC, which started to operate Data Center”. this year, services were provided concurrently, leading to an increase in consumption. Another issue is that the number of branches increased as a result of the growth experienced For heating purposes, fuels other than natural gas, in our Bank. Despite this fact, increase in branchsuch as diesel fuel, butane (LPG), coking coal, and originating electricity consumption is considerably fuel oil were also used in branches nationwide. It is lower compared to the increase in the number of our calculated that 32.926 GJ energy was consumed using branches. In addition, 2010 electricity consumption these fuels in 2010. values include ATM/BTM consumptions and the number of our Bank’s ATM/BTMs increased 24% this Electricity Consumption year. Therefore, this growth has triggered the need for electric power. Electricity consumption resulting from services offered to customers are presented below. Energy Saving Practices Total electricity consumption throughout our Bank Energy Savings in Buildings shows an increase compared to 2009. One of the Mechanical automation of the Heating, Ventilating and major reasons of this increase is moving to the Akbank Air Conditioning (HVAC) system in all branches was Banking Center in 2010 that has a capacity of 5,000 revised in a way to operate based on internal air quality people. During the preparation of ABC for operations, and this system was installed in 26 new branches electricity was consumed in both the existing buildings opened in the last quarter of 2010. With this system, and in the ABC and electricity was also used in approximately 30% and 14% annual savings will be efforts to complete preparations for the operation of achieved in electricity and natural gas respectively. the Center. Throughout this large-scale operation, This new system will continue to be installed in new consumption of natural resources such as natural gas branches in 2011. In addition, there are plans to revise and water as well as electricity, increased due to the the systems in 400 branches. process of moving. On the other hand, with the aim of maintaining and Operating since May 2010, the ABC in Gebze, improving the services offered to customers at our construction of which started in April 2009 and Head Office in the Sabanc› Center, new servers were completed in April 2010, uses heat recovery drum to added to the existing main servers. Both these servers collect the air within the building and transfer it to the Electricity Consumption (Gigajoule /year) 2008 2009 2010 Akbank Sabanc› Center 45,493 47,214 49,327 ABC and Other Centers* 47,236 75,855 Branches and ATM/BTMs** 221,156 224,362 TOTAL 45,493 315,606 349,544 * Other Centers: Maslak Operations Center and Zincirlikuyu, Gümüﬂsuyu, Ümraniye, and Silivri Service Buildings. ** In 2010 report, electricity consumed at ATM/BTMs is also included whereas such consumption was not included under the Branches item in the 2009 report. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 83 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT air conditioning system; thermal charge of this air is Comparison of the energy consumption in virtual used in maximum efficiency to reduce natural gas and environments and the expected consumption without electric consumption. This also leads to a reduction in virtualization (physical machines) is demonstrated carbon emissions. in the table below. As can be seen in the figures, transition to virtual environments had considerable Hood fumes in the cafeteria’s kitchen of Gebze ABC positive influence on Akbank’s cooling and electricity have the quality of heat recovery. With these devices, consumption. The table includes the GJ used by virtual approximately 8,611 m3 of natural gas savings was and physical servers in 2009 and 2010. achieved in 2010. This figure is calculated based upon the technical productivity value of the device. Energy-Saving Devices Our Bank employees have an intense use of computer Energy Savings at the Data Center screens. In order to reduce the amount of electricity Number of servers used in Akbank’s Data Center consumed by this item, LCD screens are purchased increases to meet the increasing demand. With the instead of CRT. aim of reducing energy consumption at the Data Center, virtualization technology started to be used as Carbon Emissions and Reductions of early 2007. With a principle adopted in 2007, each new server is created in the virtual environment if Carbon Emissions there are no technical drawbacks. Today, the ratio of Akbank calculates its carbon footprint and takes virtual server use approached 60% at Akbank. Existing necessary actions to perform a carbon management physical machines continue to be transferred to virtual program. With this aim, our Bank continues to sponsor environments with new investments. the Carbon Disclosure Project in our country and to continue its pioneering efforts. In 2010 Akbank Number of servers at Akbank increased approximately produced a report at the CDP Global 500 level and 50% in 2010. In parallel with this increase, amount of received a score similar to those of world leaders of its energy needed to operate these servers and to cool sector. the system rooms of these servers is expected to increase by 50% in minimum; however, thanks to the virtualization technology, energy need increased by 40%. Total annual Virtual servers Use of physical servers Amount electricity used corresponding to virtual saved consumption servers (GJ/year) December 2009 December 2010 December 2009 December 2010 December 2009 December 2010 TOTAL (Cooling+Electricity) 2,152 3,042 6,793 10,297 4,641 7,255 84 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Carbon Emissions Generated by Natural Gas Consumption Natural gas, a primary energy source, is the basic fuel used for heating in our Bank and carbon emissions generated by natural gas consumption are presented in the table below. Carbon Emissions Generated by 2008 2009 2010 Natural Gas Consumption (tonCO2-e) Akbank Sabanc› Center 558 608 464 ABC and Other Centers* 859 1,101 Branches 3,073 3,162 TOTAL 558 4,540 4,727 * Other Centers: Maslak Operations Center and Zincirlikuyu, Gümüﬂsuyu, Ümraniye, and Silivri Service Buildings. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. Carbon emissions generated by use of other fuels such as diesel fuel, butane (LPG), coking coal, and fuel oil in 2010 are around 2,966 ton CO2-e. Therefore, the carbon emission resulting from our Bank’s fuel consumption for heating purposes are approximately 7,693 ton CO2-e. Carbon Emissions Generated by Electricity Consumption Carbon emissions generated by electricity consumption at our Bank are presented in the table below. The 6% increase observed in the total carbon emissions of our Bank is mostly related to the increase in electricity consumption resulting from moving to the ABC. However, despite the 4% increase in the number of branches and 24% increase in the number of ATM/BTMs, emissions generated by “Branches and ATM/BTMs” remained almost stable. This is partly a result of the measures taken at our Bank as well as our decision to receive energy from a private autoproductor that generate energy with lower emissions with the aim of reducing carbon footprint. Carbon Emissions Generated by 2008 2009 2010 Electricity (ton CO2-e /year) Akbank Sabanc› Center 5,534 5,743 6,000 ABC and Other Centers* 6,563 9,227 Branches and ATM/BTMs** 37,796 37,880 TOTAL 5,534 50,102 53,107 *Other Centers: Maslak Operations Center and Zincirlikuyu, Gümüﬂsuyu, Ümraniye, and Silivri Service Buildings. ** In 2010 report, electricity consumed at ATM/BTMs is also included whereas such consumption was not included under the Branches item in the 2009 report. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 85 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Practices to Reduce Carbon Emissions Use of Alternative Delivery Channels (ADC) Number of customers using our alternative channels Emissions Generated by Business and Training such as internet banking and mobile banking increases Travels regularly. This increase not only reduces the number In 2010 a total distance of 8,269,344 km was travelled of customers directly visiting our branches for banking by the personnel transport buses used by two venues transactions, but also contributes to our efforts to of the Head Office and Operation units (Sabanc› Center reduce our carbon emissions. and Gebze ABC), personnel service buses used for mass transportation, and the vehicles appointed to Paper Use and Savings senior management. Use of the mentioned vehicles generated a carbon emission equivalent to 3,307,738 Paper Use kgCO2. Amount of paper used by Akbank was 1,320 tons in 2009 and this figure fell to 1,150 tons in 2010. Total Number of employees using service buses is given amount of paper includes the paper used in the Head below. Hence, as these figures also include outsource Office, Regional Directorates, and Akbank Banking employees, number of people using service buses at Center; A4 photocopy papers used in branches are not the ABC exceeds the actual number of our employees included in this calculation. Materials purchased by at ABC. the Corporate Communications Department, such as invitations, brochures, banners, flyers, envelopes, and From Sabanc› Center: 1,150 posters, are also excluded in the 2009 data. Reports From ABC: 3,500 and other print materials printed by suppliers are not included in this number either. 3,307,738 kg CO2-equivalent carbon emissions resulting from commuting by around 4,650 employees As one of the most widely used paper types, amount in our Bank would be much higher if service buses of A4 photocopy papers consumed at Akbank fell 7% were not used and employees used their own vehicles. in 2010 compared to the previous year. As a result of Therefore, with the service buses provided for our a variety of savings practices in the Bank, amount of employees, we believe that our Bank achieved a paper consumed per person fell from 90 kg to 75 kg significant saving in carbon emissions. in 2010, which indicates a major reduction. Increase in the number of employees in 2010 may also have a Videoconferences partial effect in this reduction. With the introduction of standard and advanced Videoconference devices to meeting rooms, business Paper use (kg) 2009 2010 travels between the Sabanc› Center in Levent, ‹stanbul and the Akbank Banking Center in Gebze have been Purchasing Department 1,320,099 1,143,647 limited. Thus, both greenhouse gas emissions and Corporate loss of working hours due to commuting have been Communications reduced. There are plans to increase the number of Department (0)* 6,479 such devices in 2011. TOTAL 1,320,099 1,150,126 Other Sources of Greenhouse Gas Emissions *It is not possible to get retrospective data for 2009. Protection of IT System Rooms Against the risk of a fire in system rooms full of IT Paper Savings hardware, these rooms are taken under protection. The new system room established in 2010 is equipped Branch Without Paper with the Novac1232 system instead of the one that The “Branch Without Paper” project -started in 2008is contains gases causing climate change. a collection of practices that enables transfer of paper86 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT based transactions to the electronic environment and fact that our customers would contribute to paper management of such electronic environment. The savings and thus to the protection of the environment aim of this project is to reduce the traffic of physical by abandoning printed extracts is emphasized in the documents, the use of photocopiers and fax machines communication works. Our campaign is occasionally between Akbank Head Office and the branches. supported with chip-money rewards as an incentive. Through this project, approximately 10% efficiency was Number of e-extract users among our customers achieved in operational transactions. In 2010, within increased to 1,211,167 in 2010 from 254,704 in 2008 the scope of Branch Without Paper project, 4,350,000 year-end. transactions were performed via confirmation/control of documents stored in the electronic system, where New Technologies paper waste caused by copying documents was In 2010, our Private Banking Business Unit initiated iPad avoided. use in customer visits and promotion activities. During the visits to customers, all details can be seen on iPads “End of Day Reports” without Paper instead of printed promotion materials, printed extracts The first phase of the project to transfer end of day and bank statements. This project achieved a significant reports, which had to be printed to perform end of reduction in paper use. day transactions, to electronic media was realized in October 2008 and the second phase was completed Water Use and Savings in February 2009. This project has enabled to reduce Water Use the number of paper consumed from 2 million sheets monthly in 2008 to 980,000 sheets monthly in 2009. Total water use at Akbank includes water used by the This provided a saving of TL 310 thousand in 2009. In employees and water used for cleaning purposes. 2010, monthly average paper consumption was 515 Compared to a production facility, Akbank’s total water withdrawal is limited and municipal water is thousand sheets, which means a saving of TL 400-420 used. Therefore, Akbank's water use does not have thousand annually. significant negative impact on a specific water source. Transition to e-extracts – The Give Life to With the effect of our ABC building, which was put into Trees Campaign use in 2010, and a wide scope moving operation from a Since August 2008 extracts indicating credit card use number of buildings to this Center, water consumption are produced in the electronic media, via e-mails or has increased. It is believed that water consumption SMSs. To encourage our customers to accept and use increased during the operations to prepare ABC for this extract which we call “e-extract”, we have been operations and concurrent services given both at ABC performing communication activities and guidance and buildings to be moved out of. with the motto “Give Life to Trees” since 2008. The Water Consumption (m3/year) 2008 2009 2010 Akbank Sabanc› Center 44,537 40,374 34,591 ABC and Other Centers* 39,654 54,176 Branches 290,196 284,012 TOTAL 44,537 370,224 372,779 * Other Centers: Maslak Operations Center and Zincirlikuyu, Gümüﬂsuyu, Ümraniye, and Silivri Service Buildings. Note: Data control processes were continuing during the reporting. 87 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT Water Savings Practices are sent to an electronic waste recovery institution for With the aim of achieving water savings, depressurizing recycling. The recovery company uses the recycled systems and aerators that mix water with air are used cartridges as fuel for energy generation. Within the 5 in the taps in the Akbank Head Office and the Akbank months time between August and December 2010 a Banking Center. In addition, photocell taps are used in total of 783 cartridges -490 from the Head Office and WCs where water is used in great amounts, in order to 293 from the Brancheswere sent to the recovery achieve water savings. company. This project achieved its goal to establish a continuous recovery system, therefore it will be ongoing during 2011. Wastewater Management An oil retainer is placed between the wastewater line of Recovery of Technological Wastes the kitchen in the Akbank Banking Center in Gebze and the city sewer line. Thanks to this system, within 2010, Of the electronic devices that are no longer appropriate when the building started to be used, 1,250 kg of oil for use according to our Bank’s standards, some are was sent to recycling stations. As the oil was separated given out as scrap, while some are sold to Turkish for wastewater, it was easier for the treatment plant to companies for second-hand use. Companies either purify the wastewater. utilize these devices as scrap or repair the problematic parts and sell as second-hand products. In addition, Environment-Friendly Technologies some of general-purpose devices such as computers, screens, laser printers are donated upon requests Environment-Friendly Maintenance of made to the Bank. Schools account for the 90% of such Electronic Devices donations. Maintenance of some devices (POS devices, laptops, computer screens, PCs, printers, scanners, etc.) is conducted at the IT Hardware Department. The solder used during maintenance works contain lead, which may be harmful for the environment and human health. Since 2008, the IT Hardware Department purchases lead-free (PB free) solders. Electronic components used in maintenance operations are also chosen among the lead-free ones. In addition, frontiering companies that produce these components (Intel, Infineon, National Semiconductor, Maxim, etc.) also avoid using lead in their products. Waste Management Akbank uses a great number and variety of electric and electronic devices due to its large scale and banking operations. Therefore, our Bank performs activities to ensure recovery of devices that have gone out of use within the economy or to reduce probable negative impacts on the environment. Recycling of Toner Cartridges Project preparations within the IT Business Unit to recycle the toner cartridges of the Bank’s printers were completed in August 2010. Since then, empty cartridges in the Head Office buildings and branches 88 07 OUR OPERATIONS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 2007 2008 2009 2010 Type of Technological Sold as Sold as Sold as Sold as Sold as Sold as Sold as Sold as Scrap SecondDonation SecondDonation SecondDonation SecondDonation Wastes Scrap Scrap Scrap hand hand hand hand Computer 1,692 153 3,666 177 5,962 197 964 433 Screen 1,401 153 2,079 177 3,471 188 2,195 436 Passbook 710 465 445 676 Printer Dot Matrix 91 50 23 1 130 Printer Laser Printer 349 3 413 7 342 13 404 24 POS Device 20,642 50,030 2.628 50,490 2 6,592 ATM Device 544 65 164 273 89 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our Community Investment in Turkey, introduces the country’s cultural and artistic life to the world. Akbank, as the sponsor of Pursuant to the understanding of sustainability embedded Contemporary Istanbul since 2007, is recognized by in its genes, Akbank not only operates to improve the life the international art community with its contribution to quality of individuals in the society it operates, but also one of the most important modern art events in Turkey. aims to create a better future for next generations. Contemporary Istanbul presents many side events and art projects throughout the year, from discussion In today’s world, it is very important for institutions and panels to exhibitions. corporations to create dialogue platforms in every area via community investment and to ensure finding solutions to current problems with a common sense and common Sonisphere Festival benefits. In full awareness of the fact that the path to exi26, Akbank’s banking segment that offers special sustainable development intersects with the principle opportunities for young people aged 16-26, enabled of community investment, modern societies prefer the holding the Sonisphere Festival –performed in 11 progress route based upon democracy and human countriesin the ‹stanbul ‹nönü Stadium on 25-27 rights. With our belief in change, we, as Akbank, perform June 2010. World’s most renowned rock and metal community investment practices in line with the needs bands addressing a variety of age groups, but mainly and demands of our physical and social environment. We the youngsters aged 16-26 came to Turkey for this establish transparent, open, and participatory relations festival. In this event, “The Big Four” (Metallica, Slayer, with our stakeholders. Megadeth, Anthrax) shared the same stage for the first time. exi26 users had the opportunity to buy discount In terms of our community investment, our priorities can tickets to the festival and 200 people among the ones be summarized under the titles Culture and Arts, Akbank who liked the application in Facebook and answered Art Center, Education and Youth, and Entrepreneurship. some questions correctly won free tickets. Those who In addition, our social awareness campaigns on applied prior to the event had the opportunity to work environmental issues and our donations –both by Akbank at the festival as well as to enjoy a meet and greet and our customersto a variety of foundations and activity. An open stage was established to encourage associations are stated in this section of the report as the young people to express themselves freely. With a indicators of our community investment. 3-day unique atmosphere and participation by 105,000 people, the Sonisphere Festival became one of the Culture and Arts most popular events in the summer of 2010. International ‹stanbul Film Festival (Permanent) Akbank Art Center Since 2004, Akbank has been the major supporter of Hosting culture and art, Akbank Art Center has been the International ‹stanbul Film Festival, which brings reaching art lovers since 1993 through a wide variety the most exclusive and original films of the cinema of activities from concerts to movies, exhibitions, world to cinemagoers and contributes to the formation workshops, dance, and theatre. The Center has of cinema culture through special activities held with introduced not only leading Turkish artists, but also the participation of movie stars and master directors. globally renowned foreign artists to the Turkish The festival attracts a wide audience of mostly young audience. Today, Akbank Art Center has become a people and opens up new horizons to viewers with reference venue that artists coming from abroad a variety of lives, different perspectives and its rich proudly add to their resumes. content. Akbank aims to maintain its support to this festival organized by ‹KSV (Istanbul Foundation for Akbank Art Center went through a restructuring in Culture and Arts) for many further years. 2003, focusing on modern art. Today, it organizes culture and art activities in various areas in accordance Contemporary Istanbul (Permanent) with its objective to be among the major supporters Contemporary Istanbul, the “modern and of modern art in Turkey and present visionary works contemporary art” event with the widest scope from every art form. Its exhibitions created momentum 90 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT by focusing on local and international qualities of is also one of the first representatives in interactive a globalizing art concept. With this breakthrough plays, in which audience becomes a part of the play. towards transferring the progress in art to all other Putting on shows for third generation audiences today, areas, Akbank Art Center continues its operations in the Akbank Children's Theatre is opening its curtains full awareness of the fact that supporting arts and for the children of the audience of 1972. artists is a social responsibility. Akbank Children’s Theatre is on Hürriyet’s Distinguished examples of contemporary art were Human Rights Train (2008-2009) presented to art lovers with personal and group Akbank Children’s Theatre once again got on the exhibitions of world famous artists at Akbank Art “Human Rights Train” of Hürriyet newspaper in the Gallery. Works of Turkish and foreign artists were summer of 2008, to bring the excitement and beauty exhibited to viewers. Six exhibitions organized in of theatre to 45 cities in Turkey. As the longest-lasting 2010 played an important role in lending impetus to children’s theatre in Turkey, Akbank Children’s the modern art in Turkey. Interactive participation Theatre completed its 35-city tour to celebrate its 35th was offered to art lovers via conferences, movies, year and then immediately set off again to meet ten workshops accompanying exhibitions. thousands of children from Kars to Edirne, Gaziantep, and Erzurum as a part of Hürriyet newspaper’s social Supporting theoretical and practical aspects of responsibility project with the motto “Freedom is Our contemporary art and creating an intellectual platform Right”. Akbank Children’s Theatre performed the play to debate modern art, the Contemporary Art Studio has “Fairytale within Fairytale”, written and directed by Iﬂ›l hosted workshops on cinema, photography, philosophy, Kasapo€lu, on its specially designed “wagon stage” art history, literature and contemporary art. In addition, for two months. In the play that builds connections design, music and painting workshops were organized with fairytales, themes such as “Living Free from for children. Violence”, “Putting an End to Discrimination”, “Right to Education” were covered. In some cities the play Continuously performing in Beyo€lu, a location with made second performances in the evenings upon high special importance in the culture and art life of demand from the public, with grown-ups as excited as ‹stanbul, Akbank Art Center organizes over 800 events the children. throughout the year, including exhibitions, interviews, conferences, movie screenings, and concerts. In Akbank Children’s Theatre ended its long journey on addition, artists are provided to print works of art in the Hürriyet Train on the Republic Day, October 29th, lithography and serigraphy ateliers. 2009, at the Haydarpaﬂa Train Station. Reaching ten thousands of children throughout the tour, the theatre Akbank Art Center holds activities such as Akbank covered a distance of 11,000 kilometers in 51 days and Children’s Theatre, Contemporary Art Map, Zeynep stopped at 42 train stations. Tanbay Dance Project, Akbank Jazz Festival, Akbank Short Film Festival, Akbank Chamber Orchestra, Akbank Jazz Festival (Permanent) New Generation Theatre, and Akbank Puppet and Akbank Jazz Festival, which is one of the longestTraditional Shadow Theatre. standing festivals in Turkey, bringing the world's most www.akbanksanat.com/en renowned jazz performers, legendary names, and Turkish jazz performers to large audiences as well Akbank Children's Theatre (Permanent) as providing young and successful jazz performers Founded in 1972, Akbank Children's Theatre has opportunities to exhibit their talents, celebrated its shared the excitement and joy of theatre with 20th anniversary with a 20-day program. Offering a thousands of children in Istanbul and other cities with rich program including a wide portfolio form Avanttours in Anatolia. The Theatre has paved a way on stage garde Jazz to Fusion-Jazz, ethnic jazz, classic jazz, many times. The first children's theatre to go on tours and Nu-Jazz preferred especially by the young people, in Anatolia and Europe, the Akbank Children's Theatre Akbank Jazz Festival is the first of its kind in Turkey. 91 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Presenting the world’s most renowned jazz artists to not only in tours in Turkey, but also on important the music enthusiasts, the Festival also brings jazz stages such as those in Tel-Aviv, Stuttgart, Sofia, and to university youth with its Jazz on Campus series. Shanghai. Performing under the roof of the Akbank Not only jazz lovers, but also all music enthusiasts Art Centre with support from Akbank, ZTDP filled an look forward to the festival to see the rich portfolio important gap in the field of modern dance in Turkey of concerts, movie screenings, workshops, and with its tours, performances and dance trainings. conferences. Described as a group worthy of coming into light in the international dance arena by Renata Klett, one of Akbank Chamber Orchestra (Permanent) Germany's leading dance critics, in the Süddeutsche One of the first examples of the private sector's Zeitung, ZTDP continues its local and international support of music, the Akbank Chamber Orchestra was performances in its 11th year. founded in 1991. The orchestra works with the most talented young professionals in our country to create Akbank Puppet and Traditional Shadow Theatre a consistent program content and concert quality. (Permanent) The Akbank Chamber Orchestra has always attached Since the day it was established in 1974, the Akbank special importance to program consistency while Puppet and Traditional Shadow Theatre has been planning its concerts. Thus, it has been an educating introducing a number of adventures of Karagöz to orchestra that opens new windows to its audience audiences in many Turkish cities. Performing not only in while hosting world famous soloists. Conducted by Turkey, but also in long-lasting Europe tours, the Akbank Cem Mansur, the Orchestra regularly gives concerts Puppet and Traditional Shadow Theatre has brought in both sides of ‹stanbul and also participated in tours brand new interpretations to the adventures of Karagöz in Anatolia and “Youth Concerts” at universities with and Hacivat, enriching their lives with new stories in the the aim of offering new horizons to listeners with the last 37 years. Directed by the master shadow play artist richness of polyphonic universal music as well as Tacettin Diker since the day of establishment, the theatre ensuring enjoyment, training, and making people think. has received numerous awards and played a major part in developing and continuation of the Traditional Shadow Akbank Short Film Festival (Permanent) Theatre in Turkey. Akbank Short Film Festival was established in 2004 to encourage short film production, to deliver such films New Generation Theatre (Permanent) to audiences, to support new generation filmmakers Staging recently-written plays that challenge theatre that may contribute to the cinema sector in our both stylistically and contextually, the New Generation country, to promote amateur and professional film Theatre was founded in 2004 by the director Mehmet makers from various cultures and countries, to provide Ergen and in the same year, opened the curtain with a platform where short films will be discussed, and Sam Shepard's play “Fool for Love”. Bringing in young to create a festival for cinema-lovers. Ever-expanding performers that proved themselves to its changing festival that fills the gap in this area creates a “festival team, the New Generation Theatre also aims to bring tradition” that cinema lovers will enjoy. The Festival in new playwrights and players to the Turkish theatre includes workshops besides movie screenings, which through the platform it built with young performers. give audiences a chance to benefit from the experience and knowledge of cinema experts and professionals. Akbank Map of Contemporary Art (Permanent) Award winning films are screened to the students of various universities in Anatolia with the Akbank Short The Akbank Art Center initiated the “Akbank Map of Film Festival in Universities organization. Contemporary Art” in September 2009 in order to form an up-to-date and fluent network by reinforcing the bonds between works carried out in the field of art Zeynep Tanbay Dance Project (Permanent) and contemporary art institutions, and to ensure that Reaching a large number of modern dance audiences, art institutions are known better among art lovers. the Zeynep Tanbay Dance Project (ZTDP) performs The Akbank Art Center became the first to issue print 92 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT and internet versions of an exhibition calendar of all Thus, the final aim is to train students so that they galleries and art centers with modern and contemporary will internalize the ability to question what they hear exhibitions in ‹stanbul. Aiming to reflect ‹stanbul’s and to form their own opinions. The training given ever-developing artistic environment in the best way, to the teachers consists of 6 subjects: qualities of this map is updated five times a year, distributed free active learning and the asking-questioning student, of charge at various city centers, and offered to Turkish teaching methods and techniques, course planning and and foreign art lovers on the internet. evaluation, methods for teaching in different disciplines and multidisciplinary teaching, and active self-learning. The Akbank Map of Contemporary Art plays an important role in setting the culture and arts agenda In the second phase of the project, the aim was to of the city with an approach that covers the first digital contribute to teachers’ using the model effectively and implementations among art websites and innovations to students’ reinforcing their thinking skills in class. such as Google Maps. Enabling users to all institutions Within the scope of the measuring and evaluating in ‹stanbul exhibiting modern art, from the biennial to process of the project, schools were visited on 16-25 galleries, museums, art institutions, and initiatives, the March 2010. Map continues to illuminate the social life of busy city www.dusunmegucu.org (This website is available only dwellers. in Turkish) www.akbanksanatharitasi.com The Akbank Thinking Club (2009-continuing) Education and Youth Akbank founded the “Akbank Thinking Club” in 2008 The importance we attach to the youth and education in order to think together with youth, who are among are evident in a number of programs we implement. the most important representatives of continuous development and innovation, in order to create a joint “The Power of Thinking” Akbank Supports the value for Turkey’s future. The Akbank Thinking Club Educational System (2008-2010) has opened the gates of a new formation where youth, In its 60th anniversary celebrated in 2008, Akbank as tomorrow’s innovative force, will have a say in initiated a social responsibility project that aimed to Turkey’s future, feel privileged and be able to develop provide an innovative route for the education system, themselves. with the target to reach hundreds of thousands of students via thousands of teachers with its “Power of The purpose of the Akbank Thinking Club is Thinking” project. In the first term of the project, using • To academically and socially unite successful young the motto “Supporting Teacher Training for an Asking people under the Akbank brand and Questioning Youth”, 4,250 teachers were trained in • To create a platform for the exchange of opinions eight cities to reach 141,270 students. between Akbank Senior Management and young people, “The Power of Thinking” project was initiated in the • To create a source of value and prestige for Turkey’s second term of the 2008-2009 academic year, in future by ensuring the continuity of this platform, cooperation with the Ministry of National Education and • To ensure that Club members deeply interested in Educational Reform Initiative (ERI). The skill of critical their country and their environment walk side by side thinking was selected as a “common basic skill” to be with the Akbank brand throughout their lives, given to students in accordance with the modification in the teaching program carried out by the Ministry • To support the development of youth, creating a of National Education in primary schools in 2004. In sense of loyalty and belonging, the first phase of the project ‹stanbul, Ankara, ‹zmir, • To contribute to the development of Turkey’s Kahramanmaraﬂ, Adana, Samsun, Kayseri, and Van innovative and creative potential. were chosen as pilot cities where teachers would be trained in “critical thinking”. Universities in which club activities are conducted: Sabanc› University, Middle East Technical University, 93 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Bilkent University, Bo€aziçi University, Istanbul Make-A-Wish® Turkey (Permanent) Technical University, Koç University, Bilgi University, The “Make a Wish Foundation” is a voluntary Çukurova University, 9 Eylül University, and organization to fulfill the wishes of children between Galatasaray University. In the third year of the platform the ages of 3 and 18, who are fighting life-threatening (2010-2011 academic year), Eskiﬂehir Anadolu diseases and the Foundation has been operating in University and Marmara University were also included Turkey since 2000. The goal of International Make-Ain the system, increasing the number of universities Wish® Foundation, which is active in more than 36 performing Club activities to 12. countries throughout the world and which has fulfilled the wishes of more than 1,600 children since the day Every year, the Club selects maximum 30 students with it was founded, is to reach more children from all over academic Grade Point Averages of 3 and above (out Turkey. Akbank has been one of the major supporters of 4) who are innovative, extrovert, analytical-minded, of the project, seeking to make these children’s wishes communicative, result-oriented, inclined to teamwork come true, with approval from their physicians. With and capable of multi-perspective thought. In the first this project, Akbank helps to make wishes of children year 22 students were accepted to the Club, with 28 who try to hold on to life come true. Our Bank tries more in the second year, and 19 new members in the to reinforce the feelings of hope, endurance and third year; thus, total number of members reached 69. joy, which it believes to play an important role in the development of society. Akbank employees play an The Akbank Thinking Club is not designed as a oneactive role in fulfilling these children’s wishes. time study where only workshops are held, but as a club that organizes activities targeting the development of its members, such as trainings, seminars, Book Campaign (2010) brainstorming with Akbank executives, workshops with With the campaign we organized in 2010, we collected academicians as well as social activities strengthening read or unused books of our employees and sent the club structure and supporting loyalty and them to a number of Anatolian schools that are in friendship are organized within the body of the club. need of books. Approximately 3,000 books were donated to schools in Ordu, Van, Konya, Kars, and The Club also has a yearly competition involving Eskiﬂehir. Employees of our branches in these cities intellectual study on a theme set by Akbank visited schools and helped with the distribution and Management. In the second year (2009-2010 academic placement. year) Club members worked on the theme “Trends That Affect Lives and Probable Financial Environments Beijing-Paris Rally and Contribution to Based upon Such Trends” in groups and they were Education (2010) evaluated by a special jury consisting of academicians Akbank supported the first Turkish Team competing and press members. The student group to prepare in the “Beijing-Paris 2010” with an Anadol brand car. the work earning the highest acclaim at the evaluation The “Beijing-Paris 2010” international classic car was rewarded with a Summer School Scholarship at endurance race, which started in Beijing and ended Harvard University. in Paris, was organized by the Community Volunteers between 10 September and 16 October 2010. The In our third year that encompasses the 2010-2011 revenues earned from financial supporters were used academic year, the theme chosen is “Akbank to provide scholarships for Community Volunteer in the Digital World; Existence, Winning, and university students. Communication”. In this new academic year, works will again be evaluated by a jury of academicians, press members, specialists and Akbank executives and www.akbankdusuncekulubu.com (This website is available only in Turkish) 94 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT Entrepreneurship and Innovativeness Environment “Ideas Paving the Way to Business” for SMEs and REC’s “Before They Disappear” (New) Endeavor Programs (Permanent) In 2010, “Before They Disappear” Project was Our SME Banking Unit attaches importance to efforts initiated in Turkey in coordination with the Regional aimed at removing the barriers against entrepreneurs Environment Center (REC) with the aim of drawing and raising awareness on entrepreneurialism within attention to regions at risk due to climate change. the society, as well as drawing the attention of SMEs REC continues taking photographs and making towards innovation and creativity issues that will interviews in 15 regions found to be in danger due to shape the future economy. Two examples to our 2010 Climate Change. The project reveals the rapid change project serving these purposes are our cooperation in the worlds of farmers in the Gediz Delta, glaciers with Endeavor, a New York-based non-governmental in Alada€, fishermen in Akyata€an and impacts of organization founded to contribute to economic Climate Change, including food safety, water scarcity, development in developing countries by supporting and loss of natural assets, are investigated. The aim active entrepreneurs, and “Ideas Paving the Way of the “Before They Disappear” project is to reveal our to Business” project we realize with the Sabanc› opportunities and emergencies in order to be able to University. Detailed information on the importance we fight the burden of such impacts. Within the scope of attach to entrepreneurship and innovation as well as this project, volunteering Akbank members in ‹stanbul on our various efforts can be seen in the Value Added and Anatolia will be trained on the environment and to Customers section of this report. climate change and they will meet elementary school students to transfer our hopes for the future to new KAGIDER (2009-2010) generations. The Development Centre for Women “BIZ”, founded Donations by KAGIDER and aiming at bringing women together in order to increase their individual productivity, was Corporate Donations opened under Akbank’s sponsorship on 26 May 2009. As Akbank, we make several donations in addition Through the BIZ project, which was formed in order to to our corporate social responsibility projects in increase the participation of women in economic life, education, youth, environment, culture, and arts. Two important opportunities for thinking and producing of the most prominent are the support we provide professional women, academicians, non-governmental for the “Make a Wish Foundation” aimed to fulfill the organizations for women and all individuals and wishes of children between the ages of 3 and 18 who corporations wishing to take advantage of the BIZ are fighting life-threatening diseases, in addition to infrastructure, are offered. the sponsorship we provide and the support we give to Turmepa (DenizTemiz Foundation) with the purpose of BIZ also aims to support the activities of nonmaking the protection of our coasts and seas a national governmental organizations focused on women priority and leaving a habitable country embraced by studies. The “Strengthening Women” workshops, clean seas to the future generations. “Leadership of Women” seminars and tailored mentoring and counseling services as well as the “I Am Establishing My Business” and “I Am Developing Platform for Donations with Credit Cards My Business” seminars shall be provided by successful Seeking to promote the public welfare with the aim of and specialized members of KAGIDER at BIZ, for facilitating philanthropic aids via our banking services, which Akbank will provide periodical financial we, as Akbank, formed a bridge for donations to counseling, planning, seminars in which the latest ten Associations and Foundations that are active in economic developments are evaluated, and investment Turkey. Akbank Credit Cardholders are able to donate counseling services. at the amounts they choose from their accumulated chip-money or from their credit card accounts by onetime or automatic payment orders. For placing an 95 08 OUR COMMUNITY INVESTMENT automatic donation order for a credit card or making • The Tohum Autism Foundation one-time donation, customers simply click on the • The Foundation to Support The Turkish Armed related link on the Individual Internet Branch or call Forces the Telephone Branch. • The Mehmetçik Foundation of The Turkish Armed Forces The platform was initiated after necessary permissions • The Turkish Red Crescent Society were obtained in accordance with the Turkish Law of • The Turkish Association for Children in Need of Associations. The 10 Associations and Foundations Protection to be included into this platform were carefully • The Multiple Sclerosis Association of Turkey investigated by our Bank to make sure that they • The Turkish Paraplegia Association pursue public interest. Between September 2009 and • The Turkish Aeronautical Association September 2010, customers’ donations amounting to • The Turkish Association for Cancer Research and TL 53,000 were forwarded to the following Associations Control and Foundations. • Make a Wish • Directorate of Darülaceze Institution • The Darüﬂﬂafaka Association • Lösev • The Tohum Autism Foundation • Community Volunteers Foundation • The Turkish Education Foundation • The Turkish Heart Foundation, • The Turkish Foundation for Supporting Modern Life • The Turkish Foundation for Spastic Children Platform for Donations from Deposit Accounts In addition, our customers can donate the amount they desire either by one-time or automatic payment orders (from their deposit accounts and/or in cash) to 18 Associations and Foundations. Automatic donation or one-time payment orders can be placed at our Branches, Consumer Internet Branch or Telephone Branch. In 2010, customers’ donations amounting to TL 4,363,107 were forwarded to the following Associations and Foundations. • Make a Wish • Kidney Foundation for Children • Directorate of Darülaceze Institution • The Darüﬂﬂafaka Association • Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey (KAGIDER) • Kimse Yok Mu Association • Lösev • The Foundation for the Disabled • The Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats (TEMA) 96 GRI INDEX AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 GRI Index – Sustainability Reporting Guidelines This report, in which we announce our social, environmental, and economic performance for the period between January 1st 2010 and December 31st 2010, is based upon the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an internationally recognized reporting standard. The report is qualified for GRI Application Level C with the statement presented at the page 104 of this report and the chart below has been prepared with the aim of facilitating access to information given within the framework of GRI Application Level C. STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations 1.1 Statement from the most senior Message from the Chairman Full 5-8 decision-maker of the organization, Message from the CEO regarding the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the strategy of the organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, About the Report Partial 24 and opportunities Our Approach to Sustainability 29-31, 33-34 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization About Akbank Full Akbank T.A.ﬁ. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or About Akbank Full 12-13 services 2.3 Operational structure of the About Akbank Full 15-18 organization 2.4 Location of organization's About Akbank Full Sabanc› Center, 4. Levent 34330 headquarters ‹stanbul TURKEY 2.5 Countries where the organization About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, the Netherlands, operates Dubai, and Malta 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About Akbank Full 18 2.7 Markets served About Akbank Full Turkey, Germany, the Netherlands, Dubai, and Malta. See page 15 for Segmentation of Clients. Akbank provides banking services in compliance with local laws and UN Security Council Regulations. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About Akbank Full 12, 15-16 2.9 Significant changes during the About Akbank Full 18 reporting period regarding size, Total number of branches in structure, or ownership Turkey increased from 877 to 912. Gebze Akbank Banking Center opened in 2010. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting About the Report Full 20-21 97 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations period 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About the Report Full 1 January 2010 31 December 2010 3.2 Date of most recent previous About the Report Full First report was published in 2010. report (if any) 3.3 Reporting cycle About the Report Full Sustainability Report is issued annually. Some data are updated on our website during the year. 3.4 Contact point for questions Credits and Contacts Full On the last page of the report. regarding the report or its contents Cenk Türker, PhD, Akbank Corporate Social Responsibility Manager, cenk.turker@akbank.com Scope and boundary of the Report 3.5 Process for defining report content About the Report Full 22-25 3.6 Boundary of the report About the Report Full Banking services of Akbank T.A.ﬁ. in Turkey 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or About the Report Full 23 boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures About the Report Full 23 and other related organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and About the Report Full the bases of calculations 23 3.10 Explanation of the effect and reasons About the Report Full of any re-statements of information 23 provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, About the Report Full boundary, or measurement 22-23 methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Indicators table GRI Index Full The mentioned table is this table given between pages 97 and 103. 3.13 External assurance Full External assurance was not obtained. 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the Corporate Governance and Risk Full 35-36 organization Management at Akbank 4.2 Whether the Chair of the highest Corporate Governance and Risk Full 35 governance body is also an Management at Akbank executive officer 4.3 Number of independent members Corporate Governance and Risk Full 35 of the highest governance body Management at Akbank 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Corporate Governance and Risk Full 37-38 and employees to provide Management at Akbank recommendations or direction to Our Employees 73, 80 the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Corporate Governance and Risk Full 37 members of the highest governance Management at Akbank body and the organization's performance Our Employees 72 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Corporate Governance and Risk governance body to ensure conflicts Management at Akbank Full 37 of interest are avoided 98 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations 4.7 Process for determining the Corporate Governance and Risk Partial 35 qualifications and expertise of the Management at Akbank members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements Our Approach to Sustainability Full 29, 31-32 of mission or values, codes of Corporate Governance and Risk conduct, and principles relevant Management at Akbank 38-39, 42-43 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Our Approach to Sustainability Full 31-32 body for overseeing the organization's Corporate Governance and Risk identification and management of Management at Akbank 35-36 economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Corporate Governance and Risk Partial 37 governance body's own performance, Management at Akbank particularly with respect to Our Employees 72 economic, environmental, and social performance External Commitments 4.11 The precautionary approach or Corporate Governance and Risk Full 39-40 principle Management at Akbank 4.12 Externally developed sustainability Our Approach to Sustainability Full 32-33 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations Our Approach to Sustainability Full 32-33 Stakeholder Participation 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged About the Report Full 25-28 by the organization 4.15 Identification and selection of About the Report Full 25 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement About the Report Full 25-28 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have About the Report Full 24-28 been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to them STANDARD DISCLOSURES: PART III Performance Indicators Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations Economic ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated About Akbank Full 17 and distributed EC2 Financial implications and other Our Approach to Sustainability Full 33 risks and opportunities for the organization due to climate change EC3 The organization's defined benefit Our Employees Partial 72-73 plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance Full No significant financial assistance was received from government. received from the government in 2010. 99 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry Our Employees Full 68 level wage compared to local minimum wage EC7 Procedures for local hiring and Our Employees Partial 68 proportion of senior management hired from the local community ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Infrastructure investments and Our Operations and the Environment Partial 88 services provided for public benefit Our Community Investment 90-96 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Indirect economic impacts Value Added to Customers Partial 61 Environmental ASPECT: MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Our Operations and the Environment Partial 86 ASPECT: ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by Our Operations and the Environment Full 82-83 primary energy source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Our Operations and the Environment Full 83. The official carbon emission primary source coefficient for Turkey (2010) does not exist. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Our Operations and the Environment Partial and efficiency improvements 83-84 EN6 Initiatives to provide energyValue Added to Customers Partial efficient or renewable energy 50, 59 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Our Operations and the Environment Partial consumption and reductions 86 achieved ASPECT: WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Our Operations and the Environment Full ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY 87 EN11 Protected areas and areas of high Full Akbank does not have operations biodiversity value on such areas. Since the Bank’s branches are located in settlements, their impact on biodiversity is almost zero. EN12 Significant impacts of activities, Value Added to Customers Partial 48-49 products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTES EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Our Operations and the Environment Full 85 gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Our Operations and the Environment Partial 86 emissions and reductions achieved EN22 Total weight of waste by type and Our Operations and the Environment Partial 88-89 disposal method 100 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Value Added to Customers Partial 48-50 environmental impacts of products and services ASPECT: COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Full There are not any significant fines and total number of non-monetary or sanctions for non-compliance sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and with environmental laws and regulations in 2010. regulations ASPECT: TRANSPORT EN29 Environmental impacts of Our Operations and the Environment Partial 86 transporting products and members of the workforce Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Our Employees Full 69 employment contract, and region LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age Our Employees Full 70-71 group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time Our Employees Full 69, 72-73 employees ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees Our Employees Full 73 covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Our Employees Full 68 regarding significant operational changes ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Our Employees Partial 73 lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities LA9 Health and safety topics covered Our Employees Partial 73 in formal agreements with trade unions ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per Our Employees Full 74-75 year per employee by employee category LA11 Programs for skills management Our Employees Full 74-75 and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Our Employees Full 71-72 regular performance and career development reviews ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance bodies Our Employees Full 69-70 and breakdown of employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership 101 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations Social: Human Rights ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of Value Added to Customers Partial 48 significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 34 suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of Our Employees Partial 68 discrimination and actions taken ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 The right to exercise freedom Our Employees Full 73 of association and collective bargaining ASPECT: CHILD LABOR HR6 Incidents of child labor, and Our Employees Full 70 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR HR7 Forced or compulsory labor Our Employees Full 71 ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 Incidents of violations involving Full There are not any incidents of rights of indigenous people and violations involving the tights to actions taken indigenous people in 2010. Social: Society ASPECT: COMMUNITY SO1 Programs and practices that Value Added to Customers Partial 61 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities ASPECT: CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of Corporate Governance and Risk Partial 40-41 business units analyzed for risks Management at Akbank related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained Corporate Governance and Risk Full 77, 75-76 in organization's anti-corruption Management at Akbank policies and procedures Our Employees SO4 Actions taken in response to Corporate Governance and Risk Full 42-44 incidents of corruption Management at Akbank ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and Our Approach to Sustainability Partial 44 participation in public policy development and lobbying SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions Full There are no financial and into political parties, politicians, and kind contributions to political related institutions parties, politicians, and related institutions in 2010. 102 Profile Description Reported in Scope of Reference pages/ Disclosure reporting Explanations ASPECT: COMPLIANCE SO8 Significant fines and total Full There are no significant number of non-monetary fines and total number of sanctions for non-compliance non-monetary sanctions for with laws and regulations non-compliance with laws and regulations in 2010. Social: Product Responsibility ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING PR3 Type of product and service Full We provide information on all information required by of our banking services and procedures, and percentage of products and these are subject to significant products and services a variety of laws and regulations. subject to such information On our website we provide easy requirements to access information on our products including fees, interest rates, taxes, terms. PR5 Practices related to customer Value Added to Customers Full 67 satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATION PR6 Programs for adherence to Value Added to Customers Partial 66-67 laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ASPECT: COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant Full There are no significant fines fines for non-compliance with for non-compliance with laws laws and regulations concerning and regulations concerning the the provision and use of products provision and use of products and and services services in 2010. 103 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL STATEMENT AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 104 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 UN Global Compact Index In 2007, Akbank became the first Turkish Bank to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Pursuant to requirements of being a signatory to UNGC, we included actions we take regarding these UNGC principles, our current implementations, and performance information in our sustainability report. Information declared in the report on each aspect can be found using the table below. UN Global Compact Principles Page of the Performance Information Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of 34, 44, 48, 68, 70-73 internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in 34, 44, 48, 68, 70-71, 73 human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 34, 44, 48, 68, 73 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 34, 44, 48, 71 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; 34, 44, 48, 70 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 34, 44, 48, 68, 69-71 and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 33, 44, 48, 50, 86 environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 48-50, 82-89 responsibility; Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 44, 50, 59, 83-84, 86 friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 40-44, 75-77 including extortion and bribery. 105 CONTACTS AND CREDITS AKBANK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 AKBANK T.A.ﬁ. HEAD OFFICE Sabanc› Center 34330 4. Levent – ‹stanbul / TURKEY Phone: +90 212 385 55 55 Fax: +90 212 269 77 87 +90 212 280 33 43 www.akbank.com For inquiries about the Akbank Sustainability Report, please contact: Cenk Göksan Cenk Türker, PhD Investor Relations Department Investor Relations Department cenk.goksan@akbank.com cenk.turker@akbank.com investor.relations@akbank.com Consultancy CSR Consulting Turkey info@csrconsulting.nl Akbank Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. Akbank© 2011 All rights reserved. 106
