Our Mission Our mission is to strive for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally and to contribute to the sustainability of the world, with products and brands of excellent value that are created from the consumer’s and customer’s perspective. This commitment is embraced by all members of the Kao Group as we work together with passion to share joy with consumers and customers in our core domains of cleanliness, beauty, health and chemicals. 1 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Editorial Policy CONTENTS ● Kao’ s CSR activities consist of “Strategic CSR” activities that Our Mission 1 enhance corporate value through its core business and “Basic Editorial Policy 2 CSR” activities on which its business activities are based. At Kao, Top Commitment 3 those activities are collectively called sustainability activities . Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 5 ● Some of the “Strategic CSR” activities are reported in the section of “Challenges to Yoki-Monozukuri*” according to Kao’ s three Kao’s Approach to Sustainability 7 priority themes (“global operation,” “ecology” and “human capital Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Global 9 development”) concerning global social challenges (environmental 1. Practice of Genba-ism based on the Consumer issues, aging of society, health, etc.). Driven principle * Yoki-Monozukuri: Our commitment as a manufacturer to provid2. Universal Design ing excellent products Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 Ecology 13 ● “Basic CSR” activities are described in detail in three separate Human capital categories; “CSR Management,” “Responsibilities to Stakeholders” Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 3 development 19 and “Environmental Activities.” Basic CSR 1 CSR Management 21 ● In deciding the items to be reported, we organize report themes on Corporate Governance/Compliance/Risk Management/ Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) Activities/ the two axes of “Kao’ s mediumand long-term tasks” and “stakeProduct Quality Management holders’ concerns,” and themes that are important for both axes ■ Column Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 1: Integrity are included in the Sustainability Report. We received opinions from external experts regarding important themes and introduce Basic CSR 2 Responsibilities to Stakeholders 33 them as stakeholders’ voices. For “Strategic CSR” activities and Responsibilities to Consumers/ Responsibilities to Corporate Customers/ other activities that we wish to highlight, we have separately pubResponsibilities to Employees/Responsibilities to Suppliers/ lished a booklet “Sustainability Report 2011—Summary—.” Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors/ For the Community * “Contents of the Booklet and Full PDF Version” are on page 69. ■ Column Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 2: Supporting work-life balance Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 3: Co-existence with local communities Basic CSR 3 Environmental Activities 52 Sustainability Product Life Cycle and Environmental Impact/ Report 2011 Global Warming Prevention/ Stakeholders’ concerns —Summary— Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances/ (booklet) Optimum Management of Waste Materials/ Other Environmental Commitments/Measures for Biodiversity/ Environmental Communication/Environmental Accounting Sustainability Report 2011 (this PDF) Recognition by Outside Organizations 66 Latest news and other detailed information (Kao website) Kao Group Overview 67 Contents of the Booklet and Full PDF Version 69 What Kao considers important for the mediumand long-term Independent Review 70 GRI Content Index 71 Scope of reporting Scope of reporting Period covered Issuing period In general, this repor t covers the activities of Per formance data pertains to fiscal 2010 (from Previous report issued in July 2010 the Kao Group (Kao Corporation, its subsidiaries April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011). Data on occupaNext report scheduled for issue in July 2012 and affiliates). tional safety and health, as well as on overseas As for environmental data, this report covers Kao Group companies, covers the calendar year Guidelines referenced the activities of the Kao Group in Japan. 2010 (from Januar y 1 to December 31, 2010). We have specified if the data is collected Some fiscal 2011 activities are also included. ● GRI 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines from outside the aforementioned scope. ● Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007) and In this report, “Kao” means the Kao Group. Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005) by We h ave s t ate d the n ame s of indi v idu al Independent review the Ministry of the Environment of Japan organizations covered if it is necessary to identify ● Env i r o n m e n t a l A c c o u n t i n g G u i d e l i n e s fo r Kao’ s CSR Reports have been subject to indepenthe scope. Chemical Companies (November 2003) by the dent review since 20 03. This repor t has been reviewed by the Responsible Care Verification Japan Chemical Industry Association Names of organizations covered Center of the Japan Chemical Industry Association. ● ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) We have listed them on pages 67–68. Activities covered This report covers CSR activities in relation to the business activities described in the section on Business Fields on Kao Corporation’s website. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 2 To p C o m m i t m e n t Kao is committed to people in societies around the world realizing better lives. Motoki Ozaki Representative Director President and CEO Kao Corporation Deep sympathy for people affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake I would like to express my heartfelt sympathy to the people damaged in the earthquake and subsequent tsunami, we experiaffected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, and by the subseenced a market shortage for some of our products. We sincerely quent accident at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused. caused by the earthquake and tsunami. I also would like to As for the Kao Group, unfor tunately, more than a few express my deepest gratitude to the people around the world employees and their families and friends suffered from this who have offered their warm support, prayers and encouragedisaster though to varying degrees, and some plants, distribument to Japan. We at the Kao Group hope that the affected tion centers and offices sustained damage. However, as a result areas will be restored as soon as possible. of all employees’ efforts, operations are now almost back to We believe that it is our mission, as a manufacturer of daily normal, and we are able to supply our products to our customers necessities, to provide a steady supply of goods useful in everyas normal. We will continue to take all possible measures to day life and we made significant efforts to restore our business ensure stable supplies of our products. operations as soon as possible after the earthquake, in line with This unprecedented major catastrophe is expected to have a this vision. profound impact on the Japanese economy and society over the However, with our earthquake-stricken plants forced to temmediumand long-term. All of us Kao members will continue to porarily suspend production and transportation networks in the work together to cope with the difficulties and hope to contribaffected areas severed because the distribution bases were ute to the recovery of the Japanese economy. Visit to Tochigi Plant after the earthquake New product launch event for Attack Instant Store visit in Vietnam Clean Liquid in China 3 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Top Commitment Contributing to society through Yoki-Monozukuri in order to better understand diverse lifestyles, I often find huge This year, Kao celebrates 121 years since the release of its very and refreshing differences in ways of thinking and local customs, first product, Kao Sekken (Kao Soap). We have continued to but I also believe that there is no difference in people’s desire for develop and manufacture products from a consumer’s perspeccleanliness, beauty and health and that there is always sometive, and this concept forms the essence of our business operathing we can offer. This perspective is deeply rooted among our tion. We have carefully observed people’s lifestyles over the ages employees as part of Kao’s corporate culture, and in implementand continue to strive for the enrichment of people’s lives by ing business globally, we visit the homes of local people to conresponding to consumer needs with technological development. duct research, striving to develop products based on their In the 21st century, a multitude of social issues have come lifestyle habits. to the surface. We are particularly focused on environmental concerns, the aging of society, and health as important themes Diversity and inclusion for our business operations. With the increasing pace of globalization, we need to increase To a d dr e s s e nv ir o nm e nt al c o n c e r ns, t h e K a o Gr o up the number of employees who will commit to Yoki-Monozukuri announced the Environmental Statement in June 2009, set for the benefit of consumers around the world. At present, 26% medium-term objectives towards the year 2020, and began work of Kao Group employees work outside Japan, and it is expected on the “eco together” initiative in cooperation with consumers, that this ratio will increase in the future. We will not only contribpar tners and society. Many of the daily necessities that we ute to promote local employment, but also see more and more provide can have a significant effect on the reduction of environstaff with diverse backgrounds work in different countries and mental impacts through not only their manufacturing process, regions. In this environment, we aspire to create a corporate from material procurement to production, distribution and sales, culture where employees with different backgrounds embrace but also, and more importantly, water and energy savings in the mutual differences and these differences spark the generation of usage of our products by customers. We will therefore continue synergies to fuel new creative processes. to make active efforts to raise awareness of the environment while advancing research and development of environmentally Continue to be a trusted company conscious products. With the opening of the Eco-Technology In 2005, Kao joined the United Nations Global Compact which Research Center in June 2011, where research and development prescribes 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor and of environmental technologies are concentrated, we will further the environment and expressed our commitment conducting fair promote the development of environmentally conscious prodbusiness operations based on the international standards. In ucts. We have also established the Kao Eco-Lab Museum within addition, we have shared Kao’s Business Conduct Guidelines the center to raise awareness of environmental issues. across the Group based on the Global Compact. In the meantime, the aging of society and the increasing Furthermore, as women make up more than half of Kao health consciousness of people, which are already evident in Group employees, K ao bec ame a signee to the Women’s advanced countries including Japan, will spread to Asian counEmpowerment Principles * 1 , an international guideline for tries in the near future. It is expected that there will be a growing women’s participation in society, in September 2010. need to deal with these issues. Using the knowledge and techAs our business expands and social conditions continue nologies that Kao has cultivated in the development and manuto change, we mus t maint ain our s trong c ommitment to facturing of products in Japan thus far, we will propose products Yoki-Monozukuri. It is our passion to continue providing useful and solutions in the global market to allow everyone to live comproducts so people around the world can live better and more fortably and in good health. comfortable lifestyles. *1 The Women’s Empowerment Principles were jointly formulated by the Putting Genba-ism into practice in the global age United Nations Global Compact and the UN Women (United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women). The Kao Group’ s understanding of globalization is not simply exporting products which have been successful in Japan to overseas markets. It is important for us to have a specific vision of target lifestyles and consumers in each country or region. To this end, it is essential to practice consumer-driven, Genba-ism. When I visit the homes of local people in countries outside Japan Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 4 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake (as of June 1, 2011) 1 Overview of damage incurred by the Kao Group ● Personal suffering In the Kao Group as a whole, one person died, and one person is missing. ● Property damage Plants & Research Laboratories Four plants and two research institutes of Kao Corporation located in the Tohoku and Kanto areas temporarily suspended operations due to the damage caused by the earthquake and tsunami. At present, however, all the affected plants and research institutes have resumed operations. ● Sakata Plant There was no damage to the equipment. The plant suspended operations due to unstable power supply. It commenced reduced production on March 16 and returned to normal production of all products on March 22. Kashima Plant suffered damage from liquefaction ● Tochigi Plant The plant shut down because the equipment and buildings were partially damaged. It commenced reduced production on March 19 and returned to full production of all products on April 10. ● Tochigi Research The lab suspended operations due to damage caused by the earthquake. Laboratories It commenced ordinary operations on April 1. ● Kashima Plant The plant shut down due to damage caused by the tsunami and liquefaction. It commenced production sequentially with temporary responses starting on April 4. No chemical substances were spilled. ● Kashima Research Operations were suspended due to the damage caused by the tsunami. Laboratories Operations commenced in stages from March 28. ● Kawasaki Plant The plant suspended operations due to damage, including the scattering of stored goods at the automated product warehouse. It commenced Logistics Center in Sendai damaged by the tsunami production on March 15. The automated product warehouse was restored on March 29. Logistics & Sales ● Kao Logistics Co., Ltd. Sendai Logistics Center (LC) shut down due to damage caused by the earthquake and tsunami. After March 16, alternative shipments commenced in stages from Niigata LC, Aomori LC, etc. Ordinary operations are expected to begin in late June. ● KC Logistics Inc. Sendai Minami LC shut down due to damage caused by earthquake. On March 24, alternative shipment from Ishikari LC and Sumida Kita LC commenced. Ordinary operations are expected to begin in early July. ● Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. Iwate, Sendai, Fukushima and Iwaki Ofﬁces sequentially commenced operations starting on March 22. ● Kanebo Cosmetics Sales Inc. Iwate, Miyagi, Fukushima and Ibaraki Ofﬁces sequentially resumed operations starting on March 14. 2 Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters Based on the standards of its disaster prevention system, Kao immediately set up the Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters headed by the President & CEO within the Head Office in Tokyo as an initial Kao’s Disaster Prevention System response after the earthquake, and immediately started to gather information. Under the leadership of the (Establishment standards chief of headquarters, we confirmed the safety of employees and related persons and the situation of in the case of earthquake) damage. We then grasped the internal and external situation including production, supply chains, and Level 3 Disaster logistics. Based on the Business Continuity Plans (BCPs), we endeavored to take alternative measures and (established in the case of Countermeasures make recovery efforts to fulfill our responsibility to supply products as a manufacturer of daily necessities. an earthquake registering Headquarters over lower 6 on the Disaster March 11 (Fri.), ● After the shaking stopped, we established the Disaster Countermeasures Japanese seismic scale) Countermeasures 2.50 p.m. Headquarters and the Disaster Countermeasures Secretariat to secure the Headquarters Secretariat communication system. Headquarters 3.15 p.m. ● We ﬁnished establishing Wide-area Countermeasures Ofﬁces. We began conﬁrming the damage of our plants and business bases by satellite phone, etc. Level 2 Wide-area ● Through the safety conﬁrmation system, we began conﬁrming the safety of (established in the case of Countermeasures employees and their immediate families, contract employees, part-time employan earthquake registering Office ees and families of expatriate employees living in Japan. over lower 5 on the For each function Japanese seismic scale) Night-time ● We provided emergency food, beverages, blankets, and sleeping bags to (5 offices) stranded employees who stayed at the workplace. March 12 (Sat.) ● We began conﬁrming the detailed situation of damage of the affected plants and Level 1 Local business bases by videoconference with each Wide-area Countermeasures Ofﬁce. (established in the case of Countermeasures ● We conﬁrmed the situation of supply chains and considered the provision of an earthquake registering Office over lower 4 on the For each plant, products according to the urgency. Japanese seismic scale) office and business After March 14 ● We held Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters meetings every day. base (46 offices) (Mon.) (President & CEO, Senior Executive Vice Presidents, Executive Vice Presidents, secretariat members, etc.) (Meetings were held every day in March and once a week from April) ● We considered internal and external support activities. 5 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake 3 Assistance to the areas affected by the quake and tsunami ● Provision of relief money and collection of donations from employees Kao provided a total of 130 million yen, including relief money from the Kao Group in Japan, donations from overseas Kao Group companies, and employees of domestic and overseas Kao Group companies. ● Emergency supplies To ensure efﬁcient and rapid delivery, we continue to provide daily necessities in accordance with local needs by cooperation with the administrative Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters in the local areas, NGOs, etc. (currently worth a total of 100 million yen) ● Disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, soaps, detergents, toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes, masks, disinfectant sheets, wet wipes for babies, hand disinfectants, hand cream, shampoos, hair conditioners, etc. Shipping to an NGO on March 24 ● Employees’ participation as volunteers Kao provided its products for relief packs distributed to individual households by Nippon Keidanren and the local disaster volunteer centers. Eleven employees participated in the packing work as volunteers. In addition, 22 employees participated in reconstruction assistance as volunteers, including the removal of mud and moving out furniture and household goods. ● Participation in the “Children’s Mini Libraries” project of the Japan Committee for UNICEF Kao’s employees throughout the country donated about 900 children’s books for the UNICEF project that delivers books to the evacuation centers. Reconstruction assistance activities conducted in Iwate on May 15 4 Responses to stakeholders Retailers of household products Customers for chemical products Consumers and cosmetics In the week following the ear thquake, Kao Since the Kashima Plant was damaged, and a Although there was a temporary state of confusion Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. and Kanebo supply suspension could not be avoided, the immediately after the earthquake, Kao’s Consumer Cosmetics Sales Inc. explained to their retailers Chemical Business Unit informed major Communication Center resumed ordinary operathroughout the country that, as part of their customers and sales distributors of the situations on March 15. The center received numerous response to the disaster, they were making it a tion on March 14 and took immediate action inquiries, including requests to deliver relief top priorit y to deliver their products to the toward resuming production. In addition, to supplies to the afflicted areas, concerns about areas affected by the quake and tsunami. At provide alternative products to customers, Kao Kao’s production and supply capabilities due to the same time, they visited individual stores of called for backup from the Wakayama Plant supply shortages at stores, and regarding anxiety their retailers in these areas to help put them in and overseas affiliates and procured alternative over radiation contamination. We informed order and allow them to reopen. products from other companies when it was consumers about the current situation at the time not possible to ensure supply of products from and Kao’s responses to it, and stressed that we within the Kao Group. were making efforts with the recognition that our mission was to provide daily necessities to consumers without delay. Thanks to these sincere communication efforts, the operations of the center returned to normal in early April. 5 Power saving initiatives ● Power saving at individual plants and ofﬁces Kao is saving electricity by thinning out lighting ﬁxtures, shortening the operating time of air conditioning systems, implementing temperature management system, and restricting the number of elevators in operation. To make further efforts to save energy, Kao urges employees to go home immediately after regular work hours, actively take the stairs instead of elevators, switch lights off during the lunch break and in places where they are not needed, and turn off their PCs and monitors when they leave their desks and leave the ofﬁce. ● Response to the restrictions on electricity use in summer To ensure stable supply of products, Kao will make its best efforts, including optimizing production plans and effectively utilizing private electric generators. ● Provision of information on household chores for saving energy Kao provides speciﬁc know-how and proposals to save more electricity and information to live comfortably while saving energy at stores and on its website. 6 Response to the radiation leaks Kao manufactures consumer products in the clean environment of indoor plants that are impervious to dust and dirt from outside and strictly manages them according to international quality management standards. In addition, Kao complies with necessary preventive measures taken by the Japanese government and local governments, and is continuously taking appropriate measures depending on the situation after confirming published monitoring data. These measures taken by Kao therefore ensure the safety and quality of its Calling for energy savings at stores and products. Kao will continue to make its utmost efforts to ensure the safety and high quality of its products. on the Kao website Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 6 Kao’s Approach to Sustainability Kao implements Yoki-Monozukuri and contributes to realizing a sustainable society. Kao’s CSR activities ■ Kao’s Strategic CSR and Basic CSR activities For Kao to be counted on by society, it is important to promote activities that contribute to solving social issues. Kao positions activities that contribute to realizing a sustainable society through its core business as “Strategic CSR” and the activities on which its business activities are based as “Basic CSR.” Strategic As for “Strategic CSR” activities, based on social issues on which CSR activities various stakeholders place emphasis and Kao’s mediumto long-term ● Global operation strategies, Kao has defined the following three prioritized themes that ● Ecology the Kao Group as a whole works on: “Global operation,” “Ecology” and “Human capital development.” ● Human capital As for “Basic CSR” activities, Kao asks external experts to anadevelopment lyze and examine the content of the activities based on the ISO 26000 (an international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility) that was issued in November 2010, and continues to improve Basic CSR activities these activities in fiscal 2011 and beyond in order to fulfill its social Corporate governance, internal control, risk responsibility. management, compliance, human rights, human capital development, occupational safety, employees’ health, CSR procurement, customer satisfaction, quality and product safety, contribution to society and communities Strategic CSR activities’ prioritized themes and progress Theme 1: Global operation Provide clean, beautiful and healthy everyday lifestyle through better understanding the lifestyles of people around the world ● Promoting universal design that increases the satisfaction level of people worldwide Theme 2: Ecology Further promote the Kao Environmental Statement ● Provide environmentally conscious products and help establish ecological lifestyles ● Promote the medium-term objective of reducing our environmental impact Theme 3: Human capital development Foster human resources ● Create organizations, systems and a corporate culture that allow practice of sustainable business. ■ “Objectives of the prioritized issues of Kao’s sustainability” (formulated in fiscal 2010) Fiscal 2010: Kao formulated action plans and established a promotion system towards 2015. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Global Improvement of accessibility and usability Product development from a universal design perspective operation Universal design Ecology CO 2 emissions Achieving a 35% reduction from 2005 (by 2020)* MediumWater consumption during Achieving a 30% reduction from 2005 (by 2020)* term product use objective Chemical substances Management in accordance with SAICAM Targets are set in the Kao Environmental Statement Biodiversity-friendly material procurement Biodiversity released in 2009 Provision of environmentally conscious products Environmental communication “Eco together” activities/cooperation with the administration, the distribution industry, and schools Human capital Internal education/formulation of measures and systems for human capital development at the global Kao development Diversity * The data on CO 2 emissions and water consumption during product use in the “Ecology” section target only the Kao Group in Japan. 7 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Kao’s Approach to Sustainability Promotion of activities for sustainability The Sustainability Committee chaired by the President & CEO of Kao Corporation has established the policies for Strategic CSR activities and the direction of Kao’s efforts up to 2015. In addition, the Eco-Strategy Committee, a subcommittee of the Sustainability Committee, promotes activities to achieve the objectives expressed in the Kao Environmental Statement that was released in 2009 and reports on their progress at the meetings of the Sustainability Committee (held three times a year). ■ Kao’s CSR promotion system (as of March 31, 2011) Management Committee Sustainability Committee Internal Control Committee Disclosure Committee/Compliance Committee Information Security Committee/Risk Management Committee Eco-Strategy Committee Committee for Responsible Care Promotion Quality Assurance Committee Business Units Functional Divisions (R&D, Production & Engineering, Corporate, etc.) Sustainability Department Communication Kao implements two-way communications with stakeholders. Specifically, through dialogue with stakeholders, Kao gains an understanding of society’s demands and formulates the direction of Strategic CSR activities. Consumers/Customers By first identifying the needs of general consumers and its corporate customers, Kao is able to offer products and brands of excellent value to give wholehearted satisfaction and joy to consumers and customers. Kao aims to develop products that are not merely functionally superior and emotionally appealing, but also low in environmental impact and safe for consumers to use with confidence. Moreover, Kao proactively discloses accurate information about its products. General Consumers Chemical and Professional-use Consumer and Cosmtic Product Customers Products Retailers ● Group interviews ● Opinion exchange meetings ● Product study meetings ● Home visits to consumer with sales distributors ● Discussions with leading monitors ● Chemicals exhibitions, C&S retailers ● Consumer communication fairs ● Collaboration fair service ● Relief-fureai call service ● Counseling at cosmetics retail Dialogue on ESG conducted on counters Dialogue on the environment ● Kao ECHO system August 4 conducted on August 2 Employees Suppliers Kao respects the human rights and individualit y of each Kao ensures fair and transparent transactions. We enhance employee, while valuing the diversity of the workforce. We supply chain management and address larger social issues such maintain a safe and comfor table work environment, and as those related to environmental protection and human rights evaluate each employee’ s performance fairly and help them jointly with suppliers. in their professional development by providing challenging work opportunities. ● Opinion exchange meetings ● Surveys on CSR procurement with suppliers ● Supplier satisfaction surveys ● Management-employee ● Mental health counseling ● Quality improvement meetings ● “Find” (employee opinion meetings, environmental ● Health and safety committees survey) surveys ● Compliance hotlines Kao Shareholders/Investors Local communities Kao strives to earn the support and trust of its shareholders by A s well as c omplying with lo c al l aws and re gul ations and raising its corporate value through profit able grow th. We meeting our local tax obligations, Kao actively promotes dialogue achieve this by building upon existing businesses, nurturing new with the local communities in which it operates. We also give full businesses and expanding overseas businesses. Moreover, we consideration to environmental conservation and community strengthen and enhance corporate governance while strictly issues, thereby contributing to their development as a member of managing Kao’s information and assets. the local communities. ● General shareholders meetings ● Meetings with local residents, joint events ● Financial results briefings ● Plant tours ● Investor visits ● Corporate citizenship activities and meetings with NPOs ● Kao Museum tours for shareholders Global environment Peer companies and related industries Kao promotes measures to prevent global warming and strives to create a ● Joint research with peer ● Government-sponsored recycling-based society. We put particular emphasis on the proper managecompanies, etc. committees ment of chemical substances, from raw materials through to disposal. ● Industry activities ● Joint research with academic ● Government/industry committees ● Environmental communication ● Media (newspapers, magazines societies and research institutes and TV) ● Recruiting activities, surveys ● Consumer communication service Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 8 Strategic CSR Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Global 1 Practice of Genba-ism based on the Consumer Driven principle Advanced technologies adopted to support cleanliness in everyday life for the diverse lifestyles of people around the world. Kao’s Attack series is marketed in nine countries throughout the world—China, Thailand, Australia, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan as well as in Japan. Kao is proud to provide specialized and highly developed products tailored to each country’s and region’s way of life. Japan China Thailand Indonesia Attack Instant Clean Liquid responds to people’s concerns regarding cleanliness in China In developing Attack Instant Clean Liquid, released in September 2010, Kao first visited people’s homes in China to see how the average Australia household handles laundry tasks and gain an understanding of what people in China expect in terms of cleanliness. Having surveyed 852 households in urban areas*, Kao found that in addition to machine-washing, Chinese people tend to hand-wash under-garments that directly touch their bare skin and children’s clothes and rinse them very carefully. This is because of the Chinese people’s concerns that insuf ficient rinsing is bad for their skin. According to Kao’s estimates, the amount of water used for laundering is about 30,000 liters per household per year, and about 80% of this is used for rinsing. Using the latest technologies, Kao worked to develop a laundry detergent that can remove stains quickly and is easily rinsed out, leaving minimum residue. This reduces the time and effort required for laundry. Through the development of Attack Instant Clean Liquid, Kao responded to the laundry needs of urban China and also contributing to Chinese society where people’s environmental consciousness is growing. * Briefing material: August 30, 2010 Consumer Research on Laundering in China: Part II (852 Households in Urban Areas) Specific Washing Behaviors http://www.kao.com/jp/corp_news/2010/20100830_001.html Conducting research on laundering in China 9 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Attack Neo responds to changes in habits of Japanese consumers Attack Neo, launched in August 2009, was developed with the driving dering requires only a single rinse, leading to a reduction in the water innovation in laundry habits in Japan as a next-generation liquid launrequired for laundering. With this detergent, the amount of time dry detergent, amid a trend toward washing machines with a larger required for laundering is reduced, and consumers can have more capacity and additional water and time saving functions. Additionally, spare time to relax; they can also take part in the eco-friendly activity Kao found that although consumers have become more environmenof saving water and electricity. Moreover, by making the formula tally conscious, eco-friendly activities do not become habituated more concentrated by reducing the water contained to the utmost unless they also provide an advantage to the user’s lifestyle, that launlimit compared with traditional detergents, Kao succeeded in making dry is done not only by housewives but also by working women and the container more compact. This not only reduces the burden of men and that the time of day people do their laundry is changing. carrying the product but also reduces the amount of resin used for Attack Neo works intensively on stains, and therefore just a small the container and the environmental impact. All of these have led amount provides superb cleaning performance. In addition, because Attack Neo to win the support of consumers. its new cleaning ingredients are less likely to remain in fabric, laun■ History of the Attack series The Attack series has developed over time, to respond to changes in society, including the increase in the ratio of working women and the spread of large-capacity washing machines. –1980 1980s 1990s 2000– 2009 Detergency Whiteness Whiteness, Whiteness, anti bacteria, fragrance, softness anti bacteria Realization of high detergency and compact-sized Global warming containers due to technological innovation Growing environmental Changes in consumers’ High Liquid awareness needs and the history detergency of products High Response Compactsolubility Ultrato environsized concentrated mental Easy rinsing conservation Placing emphasis on Pursuit of convenience Pursuit of added value social issues History of washing machines Two-tub Automatic With a dryer Drum-type Attack Easy—allowing people to wash clothes by hand more easily in Thailand and Indonesia In Thailand, many children wear white uniforms, which easily become hand-wash in many households. In addition, Kao provides convedirty especially due to the many unpaved roads. A survey that Kao conniently sized packages so that consumers can buy it easily, thereby ducted in Thailand showed that Thai people are accustomed to washing contributing to clean lives of more people. clothes after wearing them only once, so they end up washing between 20 and 50 items in each laundry session. Among middle-class families, the main method is hand washing. They generally rub a piece of laundry 50 to 200 times and spend 30 to 60 minutes doing their laundry. Attack Easy, released in 2006, not only boasts the basic features of high cleaning performance and a pleasant fragrance, but also focuses on ease of washing by hand, requiring less effort due to a new polymer technology that makes clothes slippery. Currently, Attack Easy has grown to become a hit product not only in Thailand but also in Indonesia where laundry is also done by Research on Thai laundry habits Biozet Attack liquid responds to Australian consumers’ growing environmental awareness In February 2011, Kao began selling Biozet Attack liquid in Australia, and the government has launched measures to encourage where there is also a growing need for a laundry detergent that has people to save water. Using the product design with less high cleaning performance with less environmental impact. Austraenvironmental impact that was developed in Japan, Kao lian consumers are also becoming more environmentally conscious contributes to the environmental issues Australia faces. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 10 Strategic CSR Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Global 2 Universal Design Better universal design with fine detailing enriches lives and responds to global society’s expectations. Kao’s Yoki-Monozukuri is based on the “Consumer Driven” principle, and we regard “usability for everyone” as a perspective of particular significance. History of universal design and Kao’s efforts The markings on the bottles that allow everyone to easily recognize ■ General trend ■ Example of Kao’s efforts the difference between a shampoo and a conditioner, which are in common 1950 ■ Normalization (Europe) use today, were devised from this principle. A “normal” society does not separate physically impaired people from able-bodied people. As Japan’s population ages and more men are participating in household 1970 ■ Barrier-free design (U.S.) chores and raising children and as more foreigners are living in Japan, there Removal of barriers Removed barriers to physically impaired people enjoying are increasing opportunities for a variety of people to use Kao products. a social life ■ Adopted a push-button cap As a wider range of people use our products, we must create products that can be opened with that are easy to use and understand. one hand in Merit (1970) I always think that pursuing products that are easy to use for everyone, in other words, universal design, will lead to consumers’ satisfaction. 1980 This perspective can be also an important key word when Kao imple■ Launched the world’s first compact laundry determents business globally. Creating products that are easy to use for everyone, gent Attack, which can be easily carried (1987) 1990 going beyond lifestyles that vary from country to country, will be a more ■ Universal design (U.S.) important task for us as a company that develops and manufactures products. Easy to use by everyone without modification The thoughtfulness, commitment to hospitality and other sensibilities ■ Common use design (Japan) Easily used by more people regardless of physical of Japanese people all contribute to a high level of universal design and characteristics and/or disabilities Higher usability Yoki-Monozukuri which is expected around the world. ■ Adopted markings that allow everyone Universal design is something Japan can be very proud of. to easily recognize the difference Kao will establish a clear policy of universal design to promote Yokibetween a shampoo Monozukuri and contribute to the cleanliness, beaut y and health of and a conditioner (1991) people’s lives globally. ■ Launched Quickle Wiper with which people can easily do the cleaning with a little strength without using a vacuum cleaner (1994) 2000 ■ Accessible design (Europe) Developed to create environments that are just as accessible for physically impaired people as for able-bodied people ■ Developed a new bottle for Curel that adopted a pull-ring mechanism that can be easily opened and reduced the use of plastic (2008) Hiroshi Kanda ■ Launched light and compact ultra-concentrated liquid detergent Attack Neo (2009) Representative Director Senior Executive Vice President Specialist Comment I have high hopes that Kao will make steady efforts and exercise global leadership. As shown by the ef for ts put into the markings on the shampoo I hope that Kao will continue to progress on their universal bottles, Kao sincerely listened to and applied the voice of a small design efforts without being influenced by trends of the times. I minority of people with visual disabilities to a function which can be further hope that Kao will exercise global leadership by continuously easily used by everyone, including children and elderly people. Kao’s making new proposals. company-wide approach in developing universal design is highly valued by society. This effort has been adopted not only by other domestic manufacturers of daily necessities, but also incorporated into international standards—the first time this has ever happened regarding an initiative by a Japanese manufacturer. In addition, Kao’s Yasuyuki Hoshikawa Representative Director effort has triggered a thorough review of packaging and containers Secretary General for food and other products across industrial borders. The Accessible Design Foundation of Japan 11 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Kao’s concept of universal design Educational activities to raise employees’ Kao has promoted the development/manufacturing of products that awareness of universal design not only satisfy their basic functions, but also give due consideration Kao conducts educational activities through internal seminars in to “Accessibility,” “Safety” and “Usability,” which are the most basic order to deepen its employees’ understanding of the universal elements of universal design. design concept and ensure it is reflected in product development and communications. In fiscal 2010, we held lectures on the latest Kao believes that these efforts will appeal to consumers’ sensitrends of universal design and bilities, making them feel happy and develop a sense of attachment seminars by lecturers who to the products when using them, while contributing to enriching have he aring dis abilities, in their minds. which a total of more than 300 employees par ticipated from various divisions. ■ Kao universal design index Universal design seminar held on January 20 Tip (medium) Tip (white) Brush Tip (large) Applications directions The category is easy The bottom is large, Safety stopper Easily opened with Easily opened and refilled can be easily understood. to understand. and the bottle one finger cannot fall over easily. Accessibility: Safety: Usability: ● Labeling that is easy to understand ● Not dangerous even if used ● Easy to use ● Easy to select (distinguishability) improperly ● Even people with low muscle ● Easy to get the necessary product ● Users’ skin and body are strength can use information not harmed ● Easy to operate ● Consideration of small children Enriching lives ● Comfortable and enjoyable use ● Becoming a part of daily life ● Appeals to consumers’ sensitivity Consumers’ Voices Kao received various comments and opinions from users of its products. Toilet Magiclean refill Attack Neo I am 70 years old and feel I am a 46-year-old housethat even simple t asks wife. I have used Attack Neo are, little by little, becomsince its launch. I go to the ing more difficult. I really supermarket by bicycle. appreciate the spout with Now that the container is side supports. I am thankSide support more compact, it is easier to ful to the people who inhooks over buy and carry home. I will the opening continue to use Attack Neo. vented this. of a bottle. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 12 Strategic CSR 2 Ecology Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri Promoting “eco together” with the aim of achieving 2020 Medium-term Objectives In June 2009, Kao announced the Kao Environmental Statement and set the 2020 Medium-term Objectives. Kao published three “eco together” slogans: “eco together with consumers/customers,” “eco together with business partners,” and “eco together with society” and clearly expressed its stance toward the environment. Kao believes it is important to develop and provide products that have minimum impact on the environment when used by consumers. We also place great focus on environmental educational activities. In addition, Kao positively acts in cooperation with business partners in material procurement, manufacturing, distribution and sales as well as society in the course of carrying out environmental activities, and works towards the further expansion of “eco together” efforts. In June 2011, Kao opened the Eco-Technology Research Center as a research and development center for next-generation environmental technologies. Eco-Technology Research Center 2020 Medium-term Objectives and the review of the actual results in fiscal 2010 As areas closely connected to Kao’s business operations, “CO 2,” “water,” “chemical substances,” and “biodiversity” have been established as priority themes and objectives set accordingly. Kao Environmental Statement: 2020 Medium-term Objectives 1 CO2 Consumer products: 35% reduction (across product life cycle, per unit sales in Japan, relative to fiscal 2005*) 2 Water Water consumption during product use: 30% reduction (per unit sales in Japan, relative to fiscal 2005*) 3 Chemical substances Active implementation of the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) to promote sound chemical management 4 Biodiversity Implementation of measures to protect biodiversity through responsible raw materials procurement and other measures * Figures for April 1, 2005–March 31, 2006 By lowering the environmental impact during the use of products and making containers more 1 CO 2 compact, Kao reduced CO2 emissions (per unit sales) by 17% in fiscal 2010 compared with fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2010, the Attack Neo and New Beads Neo laundering series, replacement options. which require only a single rinse cycle, and the Merit Shampoo, which Kao will continue to focus on the innovation of Yoki-Monozukuri has superior suds-dissolving ability, contributed to water and electricthrough the development of environmentally conscious products that ity savings and reduced CO 2 emissions. As for containers and packadopt new materials as well as new manufacturing methods. Kao will aging materials, Kao also reduced CO 2 emissions by concentrating also endeavor to thoroughly pursue energy savings and introduce the contents of liquid detergents, making their containers more comrenewable energy in the production and distribution processes and pact and increasing the number of items with special refill and at offices. 13 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 ■ Changes in CO2 emissions throughout the life cycle of products Basic unit index (million tons) per unit of sales 100 10 100 84 83 79 80 Target: 65 60 5 40 CO 2 emissions Basic unit index 20 * Under the basic unit index, the CO 2 emissions per unit of sales from April 1, 2005 to March 31, 2006 are defined as 100. * CO 2 emissions refer to emissions throughout the entire life cycle of Kao products except the use and disposal of products for the industry. * In fiscal 2010, we improved the precision of data through systematization 0 of data processing and also reviewed past data. 2005 2007 2009 2010 (FY) ■ Overall CO2 emissions* throughout the life cyce of Kao products (Fiscal 2010 in Japan) 1,690 430 90 3,300 1,080 thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons thousand tons Raw material Development/ procurement manufacturing Distribution Use Disposal * CO 2 emissions: Figures calculated by Kao (excluding the use and disposal of industrial products) Efforts of the Consumer Products Business towards the achievement of the medium-term objectives in terms of CO2 Towards the achievement of the Kao’s 2020 Medium-term Objectives, ing product development that takes into consideration a reduction of individual divisions act with an eye towards reducing CO 2 emissions CO 2 emissions and water consumption during use of products from a and water consumption in the usage of products. perspective of the entire product life cycle. We also attempt to reduce The Consumer Products Business is engaged in efforts to reduce the environmental impact throughout the entire life cycle of products, the environmental impacts of products based on the following policies. from material procurement and manufacturing, to distribution, sales, First, Kao is making efforts to reduce CO2 emissions for containers use and final disposal. and packaging by 10% through a reduction of materials and promoting In the future, we will bring into view not only the reduction of envireplacement of materials. (To be achieved by fiscal 2012, relative to ronmental impacts but also environmental changes surrounding confiscal 2008.) sumers and incorporate values that will lead to greater safety and At the same time, targeting major brand products, we are promotsecurity into product development. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 14 Strategic CSR 2 Ecology Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri Reduction of CO2 emissions for packaging Kao works on the development of packaging that is easy to use and ■ Changes in containers and packaging materials used (unit: tons) actively promotes the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) of materials and FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 the replacement of materials to lower its environmental impact. As for efforts to reduce CO 2 emissions derived from packaging Plastic 55,700 55,700 55,000 56,500 53,600 by 10% (please refer to the previous page), Kao achieved an approxiPaper 25,600 22,500 21,600 21,300 19,300 mately 3.9% reduction by fiscal 2010. Cardboard 67,700 73,700 71,700 70,600 70,500 Others 3,600 3,400 2,700 2,300 2,000 Total 152,600 155,300 151,000 150,700 145,400 Increase in the number of items with Reduction of individual plastic packaging refill options materials including clear sacks and blister packs Kao has spread refill products to relatively low-volume Kao is promoting a shift to packaging specifications that products including facial cleansers and cosmetics. use less plastic and the use of materials that emit less CO 2. Kao adopted refill containers for skin lotion products in its prestige cosmetics series “ORIENA.” Compared with the original glass bottles, we succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions by approximately Introducing the new 31%. So that the bottle can be packaging in which a refilled in a sanitar y manner thin film is used in place without spilling a drop, we have of a plastic cover, CO 2 added twists to both the original emissions for packaging bottles and the refill products. materials are reduced by approximately 80%. Improving usability and reducing environmental impacts simultaneously Kao has adopted a special container for hair dye that foams with one push of the bottle as seen with the Blauné foam hair color, etc. The improvement, which took place in Outer c ases that were spring 2011, included a redesigning of the part that makes traditionally plastic were the liquid foam; we also reviewed the bottle thickness and replaced by paper ones. We reduced CO 2 emisimproved the pump function. We reduced the amount of sions for outer cases by plastic used for containers and reduced CO 2 emissions by approximately 69%. approximately 32%. Topics Contributing to the development of the global metrics on packaging sustainability including refill products As a member of the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF), Kao contribhave much less impact on sustainability, because these products uted to the development of the Global Packaging Metrics* for the are still rarely found outside the Asian region. products in cooperation with major CPG manufacturers, retail* The standard metrics specifically designed for packaging materials. These ers, and suppliers of packaging materials. The CGF is a global metrics provide a basis for the comprehensive assessment of sustainability, including environmental assessments, social impact and safety assessments forum consisting of retailers and manufacturers from around the as well as an investigation into the labor environment throughout the entire world that aims to accomplish the Vision “Better Lives through life cycle of a product, from procurement of raw materials to production, transportation, sales, use, disposal and reuse. Better Business.” In the “GPP (Global Packaging Project)” of the CGF, Kao added the element of refill products, which currently 15 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 By developing water-saving products, Kao reduced water consumption (per unit sales) by 2 Water 19% in fiscal 2010 compared with 2005. Following the release of ultra-concentrated liquid detergent Attack Tips” on its website as an activity to raise people’ s awareness of Neo which requires only a single rinse cycle, Kao launched New saving water. We will continue to work on the reduction of water Beads Neo in January 2011 to expand the series. used together with consumers. In addition, Merit Shampoo that was improved in the spring of 2010 can reduce the amount of water used for rinsing the shampoo by approximately 20% due to its superior suds-dissolving ability. In the meantime, Kao launched a page for “Eco-shampooing ■ Changes in water consumed in the usage of Kao products Basic unit index (million tons) 100 per unit of sales 5,000 100 82 81 73 80 Target: 70 60 2,500 40 20 0 2005 2007 2009 2010 (FY) Water consumed in the usage of Kao products Basic unit index * Under the basic unit index, water consumed in the usage of Kao products per unit of sales from April 1, 2005 to March 31, 2006 is defined as 100 * Water consumed in the usage of Kao products refers to the water consumed by consumers. * In fiscal 2010, we improved the precision of data through systematization of data process“Eco-shampooing” ing and also reviewed past data. http://www.kao.co.jp/merit/eco/try.html 3 Chemical Kao actively works on the management of chemical substances in accordance with substances SAICM and endeavors to provide information that will lead to the safe use of products. In accordance with the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals products including Kyukyutto (dishwashing detergent) and Haiter Management (SAICM), many countries have established and revised (chlorine bleach) and will enrich safety information for consumers in laws and regulations relating to chemical substances including EU’ s response to global trends. REACH *1. In Japan, the amended Chemical Substances Control Law *1 REACH “Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals,” an was promulgated in 2009. Kao has always implemented consistent EU regulation *2 JIPS (Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship) is an effort based on the “principle management of chemical substances by operating its own database, for enhancing global management of chemical substances (GPS)” that the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) is promoting in response to the “Comprehensive Management System for Chemical Substances.” decision of the SAICM. Kao, however, established a new system for quantity management by use in response to the amended Chemical Substances Control Law in May 2011. This has enabled Kao to conduct automatic tallying of substance quantity data by use that is necessary for the report on quanThe GHS mark at tached on Haiter. In accordance with the tity for fiscal 2010 that will be implemented in April–June, 2011. In industr y’ s guidance, Kao will addition, Kao cooperates in promoting a voluntary effort for enhancrespond to the GHS sequen ti ally for dishwashing detering management of chemical substances that the Japan Chemical gents (excluding detergents for Industry Association launched in 2010 (JIPS) *2 . automatic dishwashing machines), chlorine bleach, and In January 2011, the Japan Soap and Detergent Association chlorine cleansing agents. (JSDA) voluntarily introduced labeling based on the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS) that is advocated by the United Nations for some products of its member companies. Kao has implemented the GHS labeling for the targeted Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 16 Strategic CSR 2 Ecology Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri Taking into consideration the sustainable procurement of raw materials and other 4 Biodiversity concerns, Kao formulated the Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity in fiscal 2010. Kao works towards full procurement of “sustainable palm and palm kernel oils” for biodiversity conservation. In 2007, Kao became a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) and began purchase of certified palm oil under the Book and Claim system*, which is one of the systems certified by RSPO, in September 2010. Kao is also preparing to start the purchase of certified palm kernel oil while confirming the certified system and the stability of supply. In so far as a sufficient amount of oil can be procured, we will aim to completely switch to certified palm and palm kernel oils for all of the Group’s needs by 2015. * Book and Claim system: A system to handle credits of palm oil certified by RSPO. By purchasing “certification credits” issued in proportion to the amount of palm oil produced and registered by plantations certified by RSPO, users of palm oil are considered to have purchased the amount of certified palm oil corresponding to the amount of credits. This system strictly ensures that the same amount of certified palm oil as palm oil used is produced and urges plantations to produce certified oil. Harvesting oil palm fruit bunches In cooperation with outside experts, Kao formulated the Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity. For Kao, which manufactures detergents and cosmetics using palm unique efforts in this area, including its own technological developand palm kernel oils and naturally derived ingredients as raw materiment as a means of contributing to biodiversity conservation. In the als, any loss of biodiversity and ecosystem destruction is closely future, we will endeavor to spread the policies to the Kao Group as a related to the continuity of its business activities. Kao asked outside whole and further promote technological development to promote experts to implement “Kao’s Risk Analysis on Biodiversity” and identhe use of recyclable materials, the sustainable procurement of raw tify risks and issues of biodiversity as related to its business activities. materials, and the development of methods to grasp and evaluate the Kao then formulated the “Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiverimpacts of our business on biodiversity. sity” in April 2011. The policies show Kao’ s intention to advance its ■ Relationship between Kao’s business activities and ecosystems Kao’s business activities benefit from biodiversity and have an impact on ecosystems in all phases of its products’ life cycle. Genetic resources Mineral resources Energy resources Ecosystem Water Water (water withdrawal) Natural resources Impacts of extraction of raw materials on ecosystems Life cycle of Kao products Material Development/ Distribution Use Disposal procurement manufacturing Impacts of emissions of chemical substances, etc. on ecosystems Light, vibration Packaging and CO2, SOx, NOx… Household effluent Industrial effluent containers 17 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 ■ Formulation of the Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity July 2010– September 2010 1. Commenced “Kao’s Risk 3. Workshop in which all relevant divisions Analysis on Biodiversity” participated conducted by outside experts ● Identified risks and issues throughout the life cycle October–November 2010 ● Individual divisions’ potential risks and issues were shared among all participants 4. Identified issues for the formulation of ● Provided prior explanations, including lectures on biodiversity, ● Determined priorities the Basic Policies on Conservation of to individual divisions Biodiversity Five issues identified through hearings and workshops Issue 1) Is the traceability of raw materials ensured? 2) Is the management system for the use of genetic July–August 2010 resources sufficient? 3) Should we further promote the development of 2. Outside experts conducted environmentally conscious products? hearing surveys at concerned 4) Is the biodiversity surrounding our offices and plants division of the Kao Group. conserved? (11 divisions) 5) Are internal and external communication activities sufficient? ● Collected information regarding biodiversity based on Kao’s business characteristics ● Identified potential risks associated with individual Formulated the basic policies incorporating divisions’ business activities the measures to solve the issues Workshop held on September 27 Kao Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity 1. Identify the relationship between our business activities and biodiversity. 2. Reduce the impacts of our business activities on biodiversity. 3. Develop innovative technologies to enable sustainable use of ecosystem services. 4. Comply with relevant international agreements. 5. Make efforts to conserve local ecosystems in the vicinity of our business activities. 6. Raise awareness of biodiversity among all employees and promote sharing of information on biodiversity between divisions. 7. Pursue cooperation with external stakeholders in conserving biodiversity. Specialist Comment I hope that Kao’s challenge to biodiversity conservation will have ripple effects throughout the country. I would like to welcome the fact that Kao formulated the Basic PoliIn addition, I would like to pay special attention to the “technocies on Conservation of Biodiversity. I myself was involved in part of logical development” expressed in the third of the Basic Policies as the formulation process. Kao is a company that uses biological one of Kao’ s strengths. Kao has already developed detergents and resources including palm oil as main raw materials, and I witnessed shampoos that can reduce the usage of water and has succeeded in members’ very earnest discussions in formulating the policies and largely reducing impacts on ecosystems in the usage of its products. felt a strong sense of responsibility of Kao employees to both the I hope that Kao will further promote such technological development. environment and consumers. As for specific activities, preempting the formulation of the Basic Policies, Kao began purchasing palm oil cer tified by RSPO last autumn, and I can appreciate that Kao is aiming at switching to a sustainable way of procurement for all of its palm oil. As for palm kernel oil, which is a main raw material of detergents and other products, the amount of certified oil in circulation is small, and therefore, it is difficult to make a quick switch. However, I really hope that Kao will switch to a sustainable way of procurement for all of its palm kernel oil through Kao’s high procurement ability and in cooperation with local Dr. Naoki Adachi producers. I expect to see this challenge by Kao as Japan’ s largest CEO detergent manufacturer to have ripple effects throughout the country. Response Ability, Inc. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 18 Strategic CSR 3 Human capital development Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri Fostering a corporate culture and developing people to realize global Yoki-Monozukuri To achieve Yoki-Monozukuri that delivers products that fulfill the expectations of society in each country and region, diversity in the workplace is a must. With “Diversity & Inclusion” as keywords, Kao is promoting a corporate culture of building creative workplaces where a variety of employees can play an active role, while also working on human capital development around the world. Towards the development of people who can play an active role globally —Project to promote diversity In 2010, Kao launched a project to consider the promotion of diversity and had members from various divisions identify issues relating to the promotion of diversity within Kao. As a result, we confirmed that it is important that human resources with various values, regardless of their gender or nationality, can play an active role on a global basis while exercising their individual abilities. We also confirmed that in creating a corporate culture to promote this idea, the challenge is “sharing visions” and “improving communication skills.” Based on the above understanding, in fiscal 2011, we will promote educational Diversity Promotion activities and efforts to promote diversity in the workplace under a Project meeting held unified policy that covers the entire Kao Group. on November 16 Specialist Comment I hope that Kao will promote diversity as a strategy for growth towards true globalization. For a company determined to develop its business in the global tance enthusiastically expressed by management. I also hope that in market, the requirements of ideal human resources are different than cooperation with managers on site, internal communications will be those that apply in Japan. It is always said that the HR composition of enhanced so that each employee will understand and accept the a company should represent the market it is doing business in. Howimportance of diversity and inclusion. By doing so, I am confident ever, I think that a true Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) strategy should that Kao will be a true global company. exceed mere “representation of the market.” It should accept people’s different values and build an inclusive workplace to develop creativity in the organization. I appreciate Kao’s attitude of regarding diversity as an issue that Kimiko Horii is closely related to its business strategy and its efforts to promote Co-founder, Advisor, NPO GEWEL diversit y and inclusion. I hope that the issues identified by the (Global Enhancement of Women’s project’ s activities will be discussed even further, and their imporExecutive Leadership) 19 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 3 Promoting human capital development in a manufacturing setting—Global Techno School The Global Techno School is a camp training program that lasts seven provides trainees with “skill” training, including basic and professional months and targets operators at production sites. Employees, who education on production engineering, to foster human resources who are mainly in their 30s from production sites around the world, gather can voluntarily identify problems and attempt to solve them. at the Wakayama Plant to receive “mind and skill” training. Since the opening of the Global Techno School, 841 employees This training was introduced in April 1989 with the aim of fostering (including 70 foreign employees) have graduated from the program, future leaders in developing/manufacturing products. In the “mind” many of whom are playing an active role as key players and leaders in training, trainees “find” themselves and gain insights by practicing tea their workplaces. English classes were added in fiscal 2008 as Kao ceremony and zazen (seated meditation), while they learn the history endeavors to develop people who have the mind and skills that allow and culture of Kao’ s Yoki-Monozukuri, the necessary attitude toward them to practice Yoki-Monozukuri not only in Japan but also globally. work and their seniors’ attitudes toward their job. In addition, Kao ■ Overall composition of Kao’s Global Techno School Dec. Seminar activities Practice and application Seminars, etc., Graduation of 5 gen*-ism 47 days ceremony Specialized Specialized Chemical engineering, 19 subjects (P), knowledge knowledge process control, machine 22 subjects (M), Jul. Process (P) Machinery (M) engineering, mechatronics 31 days Intermediate Plant care, safety and disaster parent meeting General education and base prevention, environmental 37 subjects, for specialized education quality, cost, SCM 42 days Learning to enhance personal Handing Kao’s production May qualities and acquire 18 subjects, Entrance ceremony spirit on to 20 days accomplishments the next generation Participants from overseas plants learn in the same class with simultaneous interpreters. Specialized lectures are provided in the Japanese Total: 96 subjects, language class and the English language class. 140 days, * 5 gens: genba (“ﬁeld site”), genjitsu (“fact”), genbutsu (“actual thing”), 7 months Practical training about electricity genri (“doctrine”), and gensoku (“principle”) Employees’ Voices “I will convey the mind and skill of Kao’s Yoki-Monozukuri to my colleagues on the job.” Comment from a participant from China Comment from the participant’s manager When I heard I was going to par ticipate in the training As for Mr. Zhang Liang, who participated in the training in program—which all members in the production engineering 2009, I hoped that he would learn advanced technologies and department dream of participating in—I was too excited to put a new way of working and use the results in his work after my feelings into words. At the same time, I felt anxious about the training. whether I could adapt to the training. In July 2009, I visited the Wakayama Plant and interHowever, with the well-developed training programs and viewed him during his training and soon realized that a posithe studies on advanced technologies, my worries disappeared tive change was occurring in him. His knowledge and abilities immediately. Through the training, I learned high-level techof production engineering and skills had made excellent prognologies, gained a positive attitude toward work, appreciated ress. He was originally shy and was not good at getting along the effects of high work efficiency, and the spirit of studying with people, but he had become very active and was able to diligently. The training also provided mental training programs improve his communication abilities. including zazen (seated meditation) and the tea ceremony. As I expected, he has utilized what he learned through the training in his workplace and has since had a good impact on other employees. Zhang Liang Mao Jianquan Engineering & Development Department Engineering & Development Department Kao Corporation Shanghai Kao Corporation Shanghai Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 20 Kao Sustainability Report 2011 Basic CSR 1 CSR Management “Seido wo Ayumu (Integrity),” the origin of Kao Kao founder Mr. Tomiro Nagase who started Nagase Shoten, a dealer in Western sundries, in 1887 left us with words of wisdom: “Tenyu wa tsuneni michi wo tadashite matsubeshi.” This translates as, “Good fortune is given only to those who work diligently and behave with integrity.” Based on this, each member of the Kao Group responds to consumers and business par tners with sincerity to achieve greater satisfaction. “Seido wo Ayumu,” the origin of our corporate behavior, was translated into the term “Integrity” as our business activities expanded globally and has been implemented in the Kao Group in Japan and abroad. Tomiro Nagase, Kao founder Tenyu wa tsuneni michi wo tadashite matsubeshi (Extracted from the will of Kao founder, Tomiro Nagase) CONTENTS Corporate Governance ............................................... 22 Compliance ................................................................ 23 Risk Management ...................................................... 26 Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) Activities ... 28 Product Quality Management .................................... 30 ■ Column Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 1: Integrity ..................................................................... 25 21 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 CSR Management Corporate Governance Achieving sound and transparent management Kao develops and maintains a managerial framework and an internal control system with the aim of continuously increasing corporate value. Corporate Governance Policies/structure For details Kao’ s basic position on corporate governance is to develop a managerial framework and an http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_imgs/corp_info internal control system that can realize highly efficient, sound, and transparent management with /governance_001.pdf the aim of continuously increasing corporate value. Kao considers the continuous enhancement “Report concerning Corporate of corporate governance to be an important managerial task. We therefore review our own goverGovernance” nance system annually based on the requests of stakeholders, including shareholders, and social trends, and implement necessary measures in a timely fashion. Kao has introduced, within the framework of the Board of Directors (including two Outside Directors) and the Board of Corporate Auditors (including two Outside Corporate Auditors), the Executive Officer system in order to separate the supervisory function from the executive function. Kao has established the Compensation Advisory Committee and the Committee for the Examination of the Nominees for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the President, which fulfill similar functions as the compensation committee and the nomination committee of a “company with committees,” respectively. The Compensation Advisory Committee consists of all Representative Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and all Outside Directors. At this committee, the Representative Directors obtain opinions on the remuneration system and the level of remuneration for the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers; the committee meets once a year during the period to review remuneration paid to the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers and reports the outcome to the Board of Directors. The Committee for Examination of the Nominees for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the President, on the other hand, consists exclusively of all Outside Directors and all Outside Corporate Auditors. This committee examines the nominees prior to the election or re-election of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and/or the President, and submits its evaluation of the nominees’ qualifications to the Board of Directors. To improve the effectiveness of audits and strengthen the auditing function, four Corporate Auditors, including two Outside Corporate Auditors exchange opinions regularly with Representative Directors, attend meetings of the Board of Directors, meetings of the Management Committee and other important meetings, participate in regular conferences for corporate auditors of domestic Group companies, and share auditing information with the internal auditing division and the company's Accounting Auditor. Corporate Auditors also conduct hearings with internal divisions and our subsidiaries regularly or as necessary. Corporate Governance Kao Group in Japan Ensuring the independence of Outside Directors/Corporate Auditors For details http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_imgs/corp_info/ governance_002.pdf In February 2010, Kao established and announced the Standards for Independence of Outside Directors/Corporate Auditors of Kao Corporation. All of Kao's incumbent Outside Directors and “Standards for Independence of Outside Corporate Auditors satisfy the standards and are registered with the Tokyo Stock Outside Directors/Corporate Auditors of Kao Corporation” Exchange Group, Inc. as independent Directors/Corporate Auditors. In addition, Kao believes robust discussion at meetings of the Board of Directors is important for corporate governance; Average attendance rate of Outside the secretariat provides sufficient explanations on the background, objective, content, etc., of Directors/Corporate Auditors at the items on the agenda to Outside Directors prior to every meeting. Board of Directors meetings in fiscal 2010 (April 1, 2010–March 31, 2011） Internal Control Policies/structure Outside Directors 89.2% Kao formulated its Policies regarding the Development of the Internal Control System in May Outside Corporate Auditors 96.4% 2006 and reviews them every year and revises them as needed after confirming the level of compliance. In accordance with these policies, the Internal Control Committee, chaired by the Representative Director, President & CEO of Kao, discusses and determines system maintenance and Six Committees under operation plans related to internal controls. The committee also evaluates the status of related the Internal activities on a regular basis and makes improvements as needs arise. Control Committee Six committees (see the column on the right) have been placed under the Internal Control Committee, and individual subcommittees to analyze and comprehend the situation surrounding ● Disclosure Committee internal control and make necessary improvements by employing the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check and ● Compliance Committee Act) cycle. The members of the Board of Directors and Executive Officers who sit on these six ● Information Security Committee subcommittees as key members also serve on the Secretariat of the Internal Control Committee to confirm the status of maintenance and promotion of the internal control system, including the ● Risk Management Committee status of individual subcommittees’ activities. ● Committee for Responsible Care In response to the Internal Control Repor t System under the so-called J-SOX legisPromotion lation, Kao has established the J-SOX Secretariat and works to promote the development, ● Quality Assurance Committee operation and efficient evaluation of its internal control system and enhance the reliability of financial statements. Kao will continue to improve its internal control system. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 22 CSR Management Compliance Practicing “Integrity” With the aim of behaving lawfully and ethically and conducting fair and honest business activities, Kao actively promotes wide implementation and establishment of compliance on a global basis. Compliance Policies/goals/structure For details Kao upholds the principle of integrity, passed down from the company’ s founder, as one of the http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_info/compliance.html core values of its corporate philosophy, the Kao Way. “Integrity” means to behave lawfully and ethically and conducting fair and honest business activities. Kao regards this word as the “Kao’s Business Conduct Guidelines” starting point of compliance and sets it out as guideline to be followed so that it may continue to earn the respect and trust of all stakeholders. To practice “integrity” in the conduct of our daily duties, we have positioned the following three matters as the key issues of BCG: (1) Establishment and revision of Kao’s Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG), (2) Implementation of educational activities to promote each employee’ s understanding of BCG (we ask employees to sign a confirmation of their attendance at workshops), and (3) Establishment and operation of compliance hotlines to deal with legal and ethical violations in a timely and appropriate manner. We have established a firm structure to promote compliance focusing on the following three issues and conduct related activities in order to promote this structure throughout the entire Kao Group. 1 Establishing a Compliance Committee Kao has established a Compliance Committee, chaired by an Executive Vice President and comprised of representatives of relevant divisions and affiliates. The Compliance Committee discusses the establishment and revision of the BCG and implements activities to promote the wider implementation and establishment of corporate ethics both domestically and outside of Japan, the operation of the compliance hotlines and the review and monitoring of hotline responses. The committee reports important matters, decisions, the outline of activities and makes proposals to the Board of Directors. There were no significant violations of laws by any Kao Group companies in fiscal 2010. 2 Secretariat meeting of the Compliance Committee The Compliance Committee has established a secretariat and holds a secretariat meeting every month. At the meeting, members of the secretariat review and discuss the responses to inquiries made to both internal and external hotlines, consider new efforts to promote compliance and make plans to provide compliance education. 3 Implementing compliance audits and monitoring At the Kao Group, internal audits on compliance are conducted by the Kao Global Internal Audit, and the following monitoring is regularly conducted to gather employees’ opinions on compliance status and take necessary measures. ● Self-appraisal of individual divisions Compliance Committee members of individual divisions conduct self-appraisals concerning whether or not there are any violations of the BCG and the progress of activities to promote compliance in their own divisions once a year. ● Employee opinion survey “Find” The Kao Group conducts a global employee opinion survey, “Find,” every other year to monitor the status of compliance among employees. ● Supplier satisfaction survey Kao conducts a business partner satisfaction survey on a regular basis, targeting suppliers and other business partners. ● Self-check exercises at compliance seminars Seminar participants are required to do self-check exercises to improve compliance awareness. 23 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Compliance Global Establishing and operating compliance hotlines The domestic Kao Group companies have established both internal compliance hotlines operated by the Compliance Committee secretariat members and external hotlines operated by outside specialists, including law yers and counselors, to provide a means for repor ting compliance-related matters, including legal or ethical violations. All of these hotlines accept reports and inquiries not only from Kao’ s employees in Japan, but also from related parties, including domestic business partners. During the consultation process, the identities of callers are strictly protected. In addition, proper consideration is given to ensure that callers are not disadvantaged as a result of the consultation, and when it is necessary to confirm details with a third party, the caller’s approval is first sought. Moreover, people contacting the hotlines by e-mail will get a reply (receipt of report or consultancy and plan of measures) within 24 hours. In addition to internal hotlines, all of Kao’s overseas Group companies have external hotlines (known as “Integrity Lines”) operated by service providers who respond to each inquiry in the caller’ s own language 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. In fiscal 2010, an average of 19 reports was received per month (including at overseas Kao Group companies), however, none of them presented serious risks to Kao Group companies. Compliance Kao Group in Japan System to help ensure thorough compliance in our daily activities At Kao, employees trained as “legal exper ts” closely monitor trends in enforcement and Laws and regulations revised amendment of laws and regulations related to its business, and when necessary, promote the in fiscal 2010 for which legal dissemination of information through such means as internal seminars. In addition, various experts conducted relevant internal rules that are useful in putting BCG into practice are available on the intranet at Kao activities: Group companies in Japan. Fire Service Act, Industrial Safety and Health Act, Act on the Rational Use of Energy, Patent Law of the People’s Republic of China, Cabinet Information Security and Protection of Personal Information Policies/goals/structure Office Ordinance on Disclosure of Corporate Information, etc., Foreign Exchange and Foreign Kao has established Guidelines on Handling Trade Secrets, Kao Guidelines for Handling Personal Trade Control Act, Pharmaceutical Information, and IT Security Guidelines, based on its Information Security Policy to ensure Affairs Act, Act on the Evaluation business activities are carried out in accordance with the relevant laws. The Information Security of Chemical Substances and Committee, divisional members for protection of trade secrets (TS), and supervisors who handle Regulation of their Manufacture, personal information are required to ensure comprehensive information security management etc., Poisonous and Deleterious when performing their respective roles. Kao provides these personnel with necessary training Substances Control Act, etc. and education on an ongoing basis. In response to global sharing of information, Kao endeavors to improve the Kao Group’s level of TS and personal information management. Number of laws for which legal experts have been appointed and the number of internal regulations registered as of the Information Security and Protection of Personal Information Kao Group in Japan end of March 2011 Number of laws for which legal Reviewing the scope of protection of information assets experts have been appointed: Since fiscal 2010, Kao has regarded not only the protection of information assets like trade 336 laws in total secrets and personal information, but also the audit of information technology, including Number of internal regulations hardware, software and various data files for the purpose of protecting such information assets, registered: as areas to be dealt with by the Trade Secret (TS) & Personal Information Protection Committee. With this expansion of scope of protection, the Committee changed its name to the Information 504 regulations Security Committee. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 24 C o l u m n Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 1 Integrity Kao advances its Business Conduct Guidelines along with the times and attempts to introduce them globally. Kao has placed emphasis on the principle of integrity since the company was founded. In promoting globalization, we have adopted Kao’ s Business Conduct Guidelines (BCG) as corporate action guidelines since 2003 for each individual employee to take appropriate action. Implementing Integrity Workshop on Continuously reviewing the content a global basis of the BCG With the revision of the BCG in 2008, Kao developed the comThe role which we are expected to play by society changes pliance workshop conducted for domestic Kao Group compaconstantly as society becomes more aware of the importance nies thus far into the universal Integrity Workshop, which was of sustainability. In response to such change, Kao announced held throughout Asia, including Indonesia, Thailand, China and its Environmental Statement in 2009 to clarify its intention to Vietnam. In fiscal 2010, we also implemented the Integrity engage in environmentally conscious corporate activities more Workshop in the European and American group companies actively. As a development in the international community, the including those in the United States, the United Kingdom, ISO 26000, comprehensive guidelines for social responsibility, Spain and Mexico. Of nearly 11,300 employees working at overwas published in 2010, and companies’ social responsibility seas Group companies, approximately 4,600 employees have continues to expand. participated thus far. Based on this background, Kao revised the BCG in April For the workshop, employees who are key persons in each 2011 with the aim of adopting the Kao Group’ s global standard overseas Group company become trainers. The workshop version. We will introduce a Japanese version of the Integrity includes case studies specific to each country and region, Workshop that was conducted in Asia, Europe and the United taking into account cultural and social differences so that States to Japan and attempt to promote sharing of the revised participants can recognize integrity as a universal issue. In BCG across the entire Kao Group. addition, we expanded the scope of targeted employees for the workshop from managers to non-managerial employees in a step-by-step manner so that all employees can fully understand the principle of integrity. ■ Overseas Kao Group: The status of implementation of Integrity Workshop (as of the end of March 2011) Number of Number of Region workshops participants Integrity Workshop held at Kao Brands Company implemented Asia/Oceania 141 3,833 Europe and the United States 40 783 Total 181 4,616 The workshop has been completed at Kao (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd., Pilipinas Kao, Inc., Kao (Hong Kong) Ltd., Kao (Taiwan) Corporation, Kao (Singapore) Private Limited, and Kao (Australia) Marketing Pty. Ltd. Integrity Workshop held at Kao Specialties Americas LLC Background to the Revision of the BCG in April 2011 ● The revision of the Kao Way (April 2010): Increased emphasis on respect for diversity and contribution to sustainability ● Environmental Statement (June 2009), measures for biodiversity (COP10 held in October 2010) ● The revision of Nippon Keidanren’s Charter of Corporate Behavior (September 2010) ● Issuance of ISO 26000 (guidance on social responsibility) (November 2010) 25 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 CSR Management Risk Management Implementing company-wide risk management Based on the Kao Risk Management Policy, Kao deals with various potential risks associated with its overall business operations in an appropriate manner. Policies/structure To implement Kao’ s corporate philosophy of Yoki-Monozukuri, measures to deal with various potential risks associated with its overall business operations are formulated. These risks are then appropriately controlled to reduce their effects and the frequency of their occurrence. At the same time, consideration must be given to measures to minimize damage in the event that a potential risk actually occurs. Kao conducts risk management based on the Kao Risk Management Policy by specifying priorities in managing and addressing risks. Kao‘s four priorities are: (1) Protection of human life, (2) Environmental conservation, (3) Continuation of operations, and (4) Protection of assets. In addition, Kao’ s Board of Directors regularly checks and oversees the company-wide risk management system and determines basic policies for dealing with major risks. Strategic management risks in particular are analyzed in advance by the relevant divisions and countermeasures are developed. Where necessary, the Management Committee and the Board of Directors check and oversee these risk countermeasures. With regard to operational risks, each division designates a dedicated staff member responsible for promoting risk management and conducting ongoing risk management activities, including the confirmation and evaluation of risks and the consideration of measures to address them. Kao has established the Risk Management Department which promotes the PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, and Act) cycle of risk management in order to identify the status of each division’ s risk management activities, support their improvement, and enhance risk management from a company-wide perspective. Risk management system Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Internal Control Committee Risk Management Committee Committee • Disclosure Committee • Risk Management Committee Chairperson Executive Officer in charge of risk management • Compliance Committee • Committee for Responsible • Information Security Care (RC) Promotion Managers of each Division (Accounting and Members Committee • Quality Assurance Committee Finance, Legal and Compliance, etc.) Vice President, Risk Management Secretary-General Department Divisions Divisional members responsible for promoting risk management Risk Management Promotion Liaison Meeting Divisions in charge of dealing with company-wide risks (Product Quality Management, Environment and Safety, Legal and Compliance, etc.) Goals Kao recognizes events and factors that may have an impact on individual divisions’ business activities and operations and impede the “continuation of operations and achievement of business goals” as risks. To manage such events and factors in an appropriate manner, Kao has established the activity goals on the following page, and the Risk Management Department promotes related activities. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 26 CSR Management Risk Management 1 Identifying major company-wide risks and enhancing measures to mitigate them Kao conducts an investigation of risks related to its business units and functional divisions in Japan and overseas Group companies, and recognizes events with a high likelihood of occurrence and which could have a significant impact, and continues to review and develop measures to mitigate them from a company-wide perspective. 2 Enhancement of management system for risks requiring an emergency response Kao identifies major risks requiring urgent attention among accidents, disasters, product quality problems, etc., and has enhanced the risk management system in keeping with any changes in the business environment while placing utmost priority on keeping people safe from harm and respecting human life. 3 Improvement of Business Continuity Plans (BCP)*1 *1 Business Continuity Plan（BCP） As for events that could have a significant impact on the maintenance and continuance of Kao’s A plan for continuing important corporate operations based on business activities (e.g. plant shutdown due to a large-scale earthquake and/or spread of infecpredetermined procedures to ensure tious disease), Kao has prepared effective measures to mitigate them assuming various levels of selected operations and functions are damage and influence on Kao Group companies. maintained in selected ways, depending on the situation in the event of interruption and/or shutdown of business Global activities due to unexpected events Implementing a risk survey and enhancing countermeasures In the risk survey that Kao conducted in fiscal 2010, based on the recognition that product quality problems and cessation of operations are events that could have a significant impact on its business activities, Kao brought these factors to light at individual divisions in Japan and overseas Group companies and enhanced preparations for such events. In fiscal 2011, Kao will recognize factors that could have an adverse impact on the achievement of its business objectives and divisional objectives as risks and strive to identify and mitigate them, paying attention to any changes in the business environment. In Japan, through the Risk Management Promotion Liaison Meeting, we will improve employees’ awareness of risks by sharing information on risks that could have an adverse impact on our business activities as well as on risks that are emerging in the industry as a whole. Global Improving the overseas management system for risks requiring an emergency response In fiscal 2010, Kao revised the overseas management system for risks requiring an emergency response in the event of product quality problems or a cessation of operations, in order for the headquarters in Japan and supervisory function divisions in Japan to be able to respond immediately and efficiently upon the occurrence of any event with urgency and gravity. In fiscal 2011, we will clarify the system of responsibility and the chain of command in the event of an emergency in accordance with the global R&D, production and sales systems centered on the Beauty Care Business and strive to enhance the system to enable more immediate and appropriate responses on a global level. Kao Group in Japan The Great East Japan Earthquake and reinforcement of Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) For details On March 11, the Great East Japan Earthquake and subsequent tsunami hit the greater eastern “Responses to the Great East Japan part of Japan causing widespread devastation. Kao’ s plants and distribution and sales bases in Earthquake” (page 5) the Tohoku and Kanto regions did not escape damage and were forced to suspend operations. In the face of severed supply chains in production, distribution and sales, the Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) that had been discussed functioned properly, concerning decisions on the kind of products that Kao should provide in priority to other products and measures designed to restore business operations, etc. However, Kao also faced the unexpected occurrence of events, and new issues were identified, and as a result, Kao‘s BCPs need to be further enhanced. In fiscal 2011, making use of the experiences of the earthquake and assuming an earthquake in the northern part of Tokyo Bay, we will attempt to enhance our planned response in the event supply chains are severed due to a disaster, including when failures occur in the procurement of raw materials and the functional maintenance of important IT systems. 27 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 CSR Management Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) Activities Promoting environmental and safety activities as a company handling chemical products Kao engages in Responsible Care (RC) activities, a chemical industry initiative for self-managed activities in order to ensure consumers’ safety and protect the environment. Policies/goals/structure Basic Policies for RC Activities ● Maintain employees’ health and Kao is committed to securing the safety of all stakeholders, including consumers, and promoting safety and improve operational safety environmentally friendly activities throughout the product life cycle, from product development, ● Develop products with attention to procurement of raw materials, production, distribution, sales and use to disposal. To achieve the environment and safety this, Kao has established the Environment and Safety Division, formulated basic policies in line ● Save resources and energy and with the underlying concepts of the basic elements of the Responsible Care (RC) activities*2, the reduce waste ● Promote human safety in the chemical industry’s initiative for self-managed activities concerning the environment, safety and community and take a responsible health, and promotes activities according to the annual plan. approach to environmental conservation ● Comply with laws and internal RC promotion system controls ● Provide adequate training Board of Directors ● Conduct evaluations ● Disclose information and improve reliability in the community Management Committee Sustainability Internal Control Committee Committee for Responsible Care Promotion Committee • Disclosure Committee Executive Officer in charge of environment and Chairperson • Compliance Committee safety management • Information Security Committee • Risk Management Committee Members Environment and Safety Division Sales Division • Committee for Responsible Care (RC) Product Quality Management Division Logistics Division Promotion Production & Engineering Division Purchasing Division • Quality Assurance Committee Consumer Research Division R&D Division Business Division (consumer products) Business Office SC Division Business Division (chemical products) Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. Divisions Environment and Safety Division, Product Quality Secretariat Management Division Member of Committee for RC Promotion *2 Basic elements of RC activities Five objectives (“Environmental Annual schedule for RC activities conservation,” “Process safety and disaster prevention,” “Occupational December safety and health,” “Chemical and Committee for RC Promotion product safety,” “Distribution safety”) (Presentation of results, and “Communication with society” set company-wide targets) November RC Promotion Office’s audit February Act Self-audit Objectives October Environmental conservation Self-audit Process safety and disaster prevention Check Plan Occupational safety and health Issue Sustainability Chemical and product safety Report (Dialogue with community) Distribution safety March RC Promotion Planning Meeting Do (Set each division’s plans June as action program) Compile the preceding year’s results End of April Submission of implementation reports/plans Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 28 CSR Management Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) Activities As for specific activities, Kao holds meetings of the Committee for Responsible Care Promotion in December each year. The Commit tee for Responsible Care Promotion consists of 12 members, 10 of whom represent the 10 divisions and business corporations that promote RC activities within the domestic Kao Group, plus representatives from the Environment and Safety Division and the Product Quality Management Division, and is chaired by the Executive Officer in charge of Environment and Safety Management. The Committee for Responsible Care Promotion discusses measures for ensuring a complete understanding of the RC philosophy and reinforcing the RC management system. The Committee also discusses the following fiscal year’ s targets for RC activities based on the results of the Responsible Care Promotion Office’ s audit that is carried out every November. The RC Promotion Planning Meeting is held every March to deliberate each of the draft plans submitted by the individual divisions in charge of RC promotion. Based on the outcomes of these meetings, activity units established within the individual divisions in charge of RC promotion play a central role in attempting to improve their divisions’ RC activities. As for the global development of RC activities, Kao is currently promoting the collection of data from plants and plan to expand the activities to the Kao Group as a whole by around 2013. Global Utilization of environmental safety database *1 Environmental & Safety Data Kao has established the Comprehensive Management System for Chemical Substances to Management System manage chemical substances in an appropriate manner, and the Environmental & Safety Data (“Kanchian” System) Management System (“Kanchian” System)* 1, an environmental and occupational safety database, to reduce the environmental impact and decrease the number of occupational acciData shared among the Kao Group under dents, and operates them across the Kao Group. this system includes those related to energy These systems have increased the accuracy and speed of management activities conducted consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, to ensure compliance with the PRTR* 2 Law and the issuance and management of MSDS* 3. In soot and dust emissions, wastewater addition, the use of data on the environmental impact of the Kao Group as a whole and information amounts, wastewater concentration measurements, soil and groundwater concerning its occupational accident reports have allowed us to automatically calculate greenmeasurements, PRTR material amounts and house gas emissions and the frequency and severity rates of occupational accidents. emissions, waste materials generated, discharged and finally disposed of, Kao Group in Japan occupational accident statistics, traffic accident statistics and more. Conducting Responsible Care Promotion Office’s audits *2 PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) The Responsible Care Promotion Office annually implements audits of RC activities conducted The PRTR Law aims to encourage by the individual divisions in charge of RC promotion in November to determine their progress businesses to take ownership and improve and challenges to be addressed. In addition, the individual divisions conduct self-inspection of their management of chemical substances, their activity units. These results are reported to management at the Committee for Responsible thereby preventing environmental damage. Care Promotion meeting held in December each year and utilized in the formulation of the next fiscal year’s policies and targets. *3 MSDS In fisc al 2010, the individual divisions in charge of RC promotion conducted self(Material Safety Data Sheet) inspection in October, and the Responsible Care Promotion Of fice conducted audits in Material Safety Data Sheet(s) provide November. These audits identified no significant problems. information to ensure safe and appropriate handling of chemicals, such as names of Results of audits by Responsible Care Promotion Office conducted in fiscal 2010 substances contained in the product, Production & information about potential hazards and R&D Business Units Corporate Affiliates* Engineering handling precautions. No. of questions 51 35 79 65 67 No. of items requiring 3 1 6 12 11 For details continued observation Average evaluation score http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_02_11.html (5-point scale) 4.94 4.97 4.90 4.83 4.76 List of Obtained Certification of ISO * Affiliates: Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK), Kao Logistics Co., Ltd. Kao Group in Japan Implementing continuous RC education The Responsible Care Promotion Office and RC promotion staff of the individual divisions in charge of RC promotion regularly provide RC education on ISO and conduct occupational safety and health activities for Kao’s employees and the staff of its business partners. In fiscal 2010, the Responsible Care Promotion Office held 22 RC training sessions targeting employees with the participation of a total of 298 people. Results of RC education conducted in fiscal 2010 Production & R&D Business Units Corporate Affiliates Total Engineering No. of training sessions 6 1 3 4 8 22 No. of participants 132 8 13 30 115 298 * For the domestic Kao Group 29 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 CSR Management Product Quality Management Implementing thorough quality management of products based on the “Consumer Driven” principle Kao manages and assures the quality of products by establishing strict standards and rules in each phase, from development to production, distribution and sales. Policies/goals The foundation of Kao quality management activities is Kao ‘s heartfelt Yoki-Monozukuri comBasic Policy for mitment from the perspective of its consumers/customers as expressed in the Mission of the Quality Management Activities Kao Way. Based on this, Kao has implemented quality management activities since its establishment with the participation of all employees in all phases, from research to product devel● Consumers/customers decide on opment, production, distribution and sales with the aim of achieving the basic goals set for the quality of the products quality management activities. ● Providing products that users wish to continue to use ● Ensuring safe usage for Structure consumers/customers ● Legal compliance ● Transparency and accountability The Quality Assurance Committee, which consists of the Executive Officer in charge of product quality management and representatives selected from the business divisions, the consumer For details division, and the R&D, production, and purchasing divisions, determines company-wide basic policies and checks quality management activities. In addition, each business unit has established http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/safety_00.html a comprehensive quality management system from the perspective of our consumers/customers Basic Policy for Quality Management through a Quality Improvement Study Meeting where the business divisions, the R&D, production Activities and purchasing divisions and the consumer division consider each product, looking at assurance of quality for both new and upgraded products. It also looks at ways to improve quality after a product’s launch. Meanwhile, a Quality Assurance Meeting confirms progress of important measures and issues with Quality Assurance Committee members. Product quality management system Board of Directors Management Committee Sustainability Internal Control Committee Quality Assurance Committee Committee • Disclosure Committee Chairperson Executive Officer in charge of product quality management • Compliance Committee • Information Security Committee Members Product Quality Management Division R&D Division • Risk Management Committee Consumer Research Division Purchasing Division • Committee for Responsible Care Production & Engineering Division Business unit Promotion • Quality Assurance Committee Secretariat Quality Management Center Product Quality Management Division Business Units Research & Development Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Quality Assurance Human Health Care Business Unit Fabric and Home Care Business Unit Product Quality Management Beauty Care Business Unit Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting Chemical Business Unit Purchasing Functional Units Production & Engineering Quality Improvement Quality Improvement Quality Improvement Quality Improvement Logistics Sales Study Meeting Study Meeting Study Meeting Study Meeting Response to Consumers Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 30 CSR Management Product Quality Management Global Pursuing safety from a scientific perspective through consideration of actual use *1 COLIPA (The European Cosmetic Association) Kao has established its own strict standards to govern the safety of its products, their impact on the environment, and the safety of food products. Based on these standards, Kao ‘s Safety Science Established in 1962. More than 16 companies Research Laboratories implement scientific safety assessments of all materials and products. and groups in more than 25 countries have Kao Corporation and Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. have been collaborating in an endeavor to joined the COLIPA. establish safety assessment methods and technologies that do not involve animal testing. With regard to a skin sensitization testing, verification research on the testing methodology using cells that Kao developed in collaboration with Shiseido Co., Ltd. has begun at an alternative method verification center in Europe. As for an eye irritancy testing using cells, verification research in Japan has finished, and international examination is to follow. Additionally, Kao has been participating and playing an important role in several projects to develop new alternatives to animal testing that are being promoted by the European Cosmetics Association (COLIPA*1). With regard to product ingredients, characteristics, directions for use, warning labels, and the wording used in advertisements, responsibility is in the hands of the individual divisions, while for matters with novelty, including new usage, a Product Safety Study Meeting discusses them from a social scientific perspective. If unexpected problems, including product quality issues, should arise, the Product Quality Management Division immediately determines the level of danger and the possibility of its magnifying effect. Kao is further endeavoring to enhance the system to deal with emergencies in an appropriate manner, including cooperation with external parties such as administrative agencies and distribution partners to fulfill its responsibilities as a manufacturer, such as social responsibility, product quality responsibility and accountability promptly and with certainty. Kao Group in Japan Quality management activities throughout the entire product life cycle Kao promotes quality management activities for all products throughout the entire product life cycle from research, product development, production, distribution and sales to use, storage and disposal by consumers. In addition, Kao examines all statements and wording used on product packaging, including instructions for use, in terms of safety, legal compliance, and ease of understanding. To ensure the reliability of these examinations, Kao has introduced and operates a system under which each product has been approved by all related divisions, including divisions in charge of consumer relations, trademarks, and pharmaceuticals. Kao Group in Japan Implementing an overhaul of quality issues In fiscal 2010, we implemented an overhaul of quality issues, reviewed issues that were brought to our attention by consumers over the past three years, and dealt with issues against which we failed to take sufficient measures. In the production division, we implemented an overhaul of quality risks, checked the cleaning and sterilization situation and conducted anti-bacterial activities at manufacturing facilities. We also enhanced the mechanism for ensuring quality in the development of products. Kao Group in Japan Conducting quality management audits In fiscal 2010, we conducted 12 quality management audits including in the R&D and production divisions. As part of external audits that Kao underwent, prefectural governments inspected Kao concerning the authorization update of the manufacturing & selling business and manufacturing business in relation to the Pharmaceutical Affairs Act, and the update was approved. In addition, external and internal audits of ISO 9001 systems as well as audits of contract manufacturers and raw materials producers and meetings with them to confirm quality of their management systems, were conducted. 31 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Global Offering board member awards for product quality management activities Fiscal 2010 To promote product quality management activities, Kao has been offering “board member Board Member Awards awards for product quality management” to its employees, including at its Group companies in ● Improvement in the manufacturing quality Asia. In addition, Kao has been offering letters of appreciation for continuous efforts. of Bioré facial cleansing products ● Efforts to improve the quality of powder detergents in terms of caking control Kao Group in Japan Fiscal 2010 Introducing category notations into ultra-concentrated detergents “Letter of Appreciation” and softeners to improve identification Not applicable With the rapidly aging population in mind, consumers are increasingly sending in feedback along the lines of: “I don’ t know how to use it” or “I have difficulty seeing the label.” In response, Kao has begun introducing labels to its ultra-concentrated detergents and softeners that enable users to easily identify the products. Kao Group in Japan Implementation of thorough product quality management for food products *2 Traceability Kao conducts the following product quality management activities in order to contribute to Verifying the original materials, use, healthy lifestyle habits through healthy functional food products developed based on research manufacturing history, and location of on lipid nutrient metabolism, etc.: products and raw materials using records 1. Evaluations of the safety and effectiveness of products are conducted both independently and in cooperation with external experts, and even after launch, products are subjected to *3 Original materials numerous evaluations. Primary agriculture, livestock, and fishery 2. Kao practices thorough quality management in the phases from raw materials to manufacproducts. For example, soybeans are an turing, and ensure traceability*2 that spans everything from original materials*3 to consumption. original material of cooking oil. 3. Kao focuses on managing product freshness through its production and distribution phases, including the management of “best-before” dates of raw materials, in order for consumers to WEB be able to enjoy its products without experiencing problems in quality or taste. Ingredients, Containers and Safety Q&A http://www.kao.com/jp/soudan/safety/ Kao Group in Japan Disclosing information on country of origin and allergenic substances contained in food products on Kao’s website Kao actively provides information regarding food product safety. On its website, Kao lists the ingredients of each of its products, as well as provides component analyses and warnings regarding allergenic substances. We are also prepared to respond quickly to inquiries about the country of origin of major ingredients and original materials. In response to frequent requests, Kao has provided additional information on specific countries of origin on our website as a matter of course. The latest situation and future of Econa In July 2009, it was found that the levels of glycidol fatty acid ester Since then, Kao has worked out how it can reduce the con(GE) that was contained in Econa Cooking Oil were higher than tained amount of GEs and is now in the process of preparing for those found in other commonly used cooking oils. Although Econa the re-release of Econa products. Kao will organize findings conCooking Oil posed no safety concerns as a food product, Kao made cerning the safety and effectiveness of Econa Cooking Oil after the decision to reduce GEs as an impure substance to the same reducing the contained amount of GE and again apply for Food for level of other cooking oils, and suspended production and sales of Specified Health Use approval in order to be able to deliver Econa products. A working group of experts was established at the products that can contribute to consumers’ healthy living again. Food Safety Commission, a government agency, and an evaluation Kao will continue to contribute to preventing and improving of Econa products’ effects on health was implemented. Kao has lifestyle-related diseases, from which many Japanese people are cooperated with the Food Safety Commission in the development suffering, through new information ser vices focusing on the of analytical methods and the submission of materials relating to promotion of healthy eating habits as well as the provision of the evaluation. In addition, while cooperating with external functional food items. experts, Kao has reported the background to the suspension of sales and the deliberations made at the Food Safety Commission and the working group through Kao’s website, leaflets and explanatory meetings. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 32 Kao Sustainability Report 2011 Basic CSR 2 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Kao Yoki-Monozukuri Story Yoki-Monozukuri based on the “Consumer Driven” principle The corporate name, “Kao,” originated with the launch of the first product, Kao Sekken quality toilet soap, in 1890. The introduction of this soap was also a new proposal for cleanliness in everyday life. In 1934, the Kao Housework Science Laboratory (formerly the Nagase Housework Science L aborator y) was founded as a rese arch facilit y to conduc t rese arch on people ‘s lifestyles through their housework. As per its corporate mission, Kao has striven for the wholehearted satisfaction and enrichment of the lives of people globally by conducting Yoki-Monozukuri. Kao’s attitude in proposing new lifestyles through approaches that have scientific basis remains unchanged even now as Kao deliver products to people around the world. CONTENTS Lecture class Responsibilities to Consumers ................................... 34 Responsibilities to Corporate Customers ................... 36 Responsibilities to Employees .................................... 38 Responsibilities to Suppliers ...................................... 46 Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors .......... 47 For the Community .................................................... 48 ■ Column Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 2: Supporting work-life balance ..................................... 41 Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 3: Co-existence with local communities ........................ 50 33 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Consumers Pursuing Yoki-Monozukuri based on the “Consumer Driven” principle Kao provides products and services that are required by consumers while fine-tuning its outgoing communications. Policies/structure Number of consumer inquiries that we received by phone and e-mail Kao’s Consumer Communication Center as its contact point with consumers not only responds in fiscal 2010: to specific comments and requests submitted by consumers in an “accurate, quick and courteous” manner, but does so in a way that enables it to gain a well-developed understanding of Approximately their general concerns. Kao developed a database, the Kao ECHO System, in 1978. This system, which has been 148,000 inquiries upgraded six times in the intervening years, enables effective communication between Kao and (2% increase on a year-on-year basis) its general consumers and provides a foundation for the entire company to share and utilize conNumber of consumer inquiries sumer feedback. The database stores a wide range of information on all Kao products, ranging (data for Kao and Nivea-Kao) from basic product information to improvement histories and daily life information. By accessing (Number of inquiries) this information, staff at the Consumer Communication Center can respond to consumer 150,000 5% 5% 6% inquiries in a prompt and appropriate manner. In addition, while taking appropriate measures to 6% 6% protect personal information, the system makes a list of all consumer inquiries received each 120,000 day and makes it available to all relevant divisions the next morning. Based on this data, indi35% 35% 34% vidual divisions analyze the trends in inquiries and the incidence (percentage of the number of 37% 37% inquiries to the number of pieces shipped) by product, and use the results in product devel90,000 opment, marketing and production activities. 23% 24% 23% 60,000 26% 25% Mechanism to reflect consumer feedback in products 30,000 35% 37% 37% Interactive communication 30% 33% Inquiries/opinions, etc. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Providing better products Beauty Care Human Health Care Consumers Accurate, quick and Fabric & Home Care Others courteous responses * Excluding inquiries related to the suspension of production and sale of Econa products. Consumer Business Group Communication R&D/Production Center Kao ECHO System Consultation support function Consultation analysis function Goals Kao aims to reflect consumer opinions and inquiries obtained to improve and develop its products and improve services by listening to consumers while fine-tuning its outgoing communications. Kao also endeavors to provide a wide range of daily life information that is useful for everyone from children, the face of the next generation, to the elderly. Kao promotes educational activities by organizing various seminars and actively participating in events organized by administrative agencies. As part of such activities, in fiscal 2010, Kao began providing education support activities, including environmental seminars, handwashing seminars and cleaning seminars that are related to the curriculum at schools. Kao aims to create programs in which employees from a wide range of divisions can participate. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 34 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Consumers Kao Group in Japan Contributing to the enrichment of people’s lives by holding a “cleaning seminar” In fiscal 2010, Kao launched a “cleaning seminar” that corresponded to the curriculum of socio-environmental studies in the lower grades of elementary school. We hope that through this program, children will learn the “impor tance of housework” and “how to use cleaning products” as well as gaining “consideration for their families” and understanding the “joy of contributing to family life.” The class, in which Kao employees act as instructors, is designed to enable children to learn the role of detergents through the practice of “washing dishes,” etc. and acquire environmentally friendly cleaning. Children taking part in a Kao cleaning seminar wash dishes Kao Group in Japan Providing a seminar to teach the importance of hand washing at WEB elementary schools by sending Kao employees as instructors Inquiries http://www.kao.com/jp/soudan/ In fiscal 2010, Kao expanded its hand-washing seminar to 32 elementary schools across the country. We provided a seminar where an instructor taught the appropriate way of washing hands and communicating to children how dir t is actually washed away. Children had fun and enjoyed the practical work. We received favorable comments from teachers and parents, including: “Because it is an experience-based class, it is easy to understand” and “I thought that this seminar should also be provided to students in other grades.” We will continue to actively Hand-washing seminar for elementary expand this type of seminar. school students Products Q&A http://www.kao.com/jp/qa/index.html Kao Group in Japan Providing information on the Kao website In response to inquiries from consumers, Kao endeavors to consistently provide up-to-date information on its website. In particular, we place emphasis on protecting the safety and security of consumers and provide information on the need to conduct a skin allergy test (patch test) before using hair color, and precautions to obser ve when handling aerosol products, etc. In addition, we have released “EmerProduct Catalog http://www.kao.com/jp/products/ gency Treatment,” which describes the correct emergency procedures to be followed if products are accidentally ingested, for example, both on the website and in a mobile version. In fiscal 2010, we began releasing the label information described on products and made “Information on Discontinued Products” accessible to the public two months before the scheduled dates of discontinuation. “Information on Discontinued Products” “Emergency Treatment” mobile version http://www.kao.com/jp/products/haishihin/ 35 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Corporate Customers Building relationships of trust through dialogue Kao actively implements information exchanges and collaboration with corporate customers for the purpose of facilitating the achievement of our shared prosperity and reducing environmental impact. Consumer Products Business Policies/goals/structure Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK), Kao’ s affiliate responsible for selling Kao consumer products to retailers, endeavors to reinforce cooperation with its retailers, including supermarkets and drugstores, through proposal-oriented sales activities. CMK also cooperates with Kao Field Marketing Co., Ltd. to support the creation of a selling space where consumers can easily shop. As for cosmetics, beauty advisers talk to customers and make recommendations with the aim of providing high-quality counseling services. Since fiscal 2010, CMK has been promoting environmental events focusing on environmentally conscious products in cooperation with local governments and retailers. As part of its efforts to advance Yoki-Monozukuri throughout the Kao Group, CMK provides feedback concerning the sales site gained from these activities to Kao’ s product development divisions, and this is reflected in the development of products that are easy to choose and use. Collaboration between CMK and retailers Promoting the success of retailers, who are the interface between products and consumers, and activities to reduce environmental impact Local communities Proposal-oriented Better Cooperation sales activities communication Retailers Kao CMK Supermarkets, Consumers drugstores, etc. Retailer Consumer information information Incorporating retailer/consumer information into product development and improvement of sales Consumer Products Business Kao Group in Japan Introducing Kao’s sustainability efforts to retailers Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK) holds a Leading Retailer Meeting in early spring every year. When the Meeting was held in February 2011, in introducing the direction of Kao’s business, brands and sales activities, CMK explained its efforts towards the reduction of its environmental impact and the spread of universal design using exhibits and panels. Many retailers expressed interest in CMK ‘s efforts and made comments like “I well understood the importance of a sustainable society” and “We want to advance these efforts with Kao.” Chemical Business Policies/goals/structure Introducing Kao’ s efforts towards sustainability One of Kao’ s core businesses is the production and sale of chemical products to customers operating in a wide range of industries throughout the world for use as intermediate materials. The main focus of our chemicals business is oleochemicals (fat and oil products), performance chemicals (surfactants) and specialty chemicals (information materials, fragrances). In this business, Kao has been required to promptly provide information concerning laws and regulations related to products and product safety to corporate customers through supply chains. Therefore, we are attempting to promote close communication with corporate customers and sales distributors. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 36 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Corporate Customers Chemical Business Kao Group in Japan Continuously implementing information exchange meetings with sales distributors With the aim of achieving mutual development with its sales distributors, in fiscal 2010 Kao implemented information exchange meetings with 10 major sales distributors concerning laws and regulations relating to chemical products and environmental and safety efforts. We introduced the latest information, including trends in the control of chemical products in various countries and the sales distributors’ role of distributing information in supply chains. Sales distributors introduced the annual goals and the progress of their CSR and environmental efforts from a PDCA perspective, and this resulted in deeper mutual understanding between Kao and its sales distributors. Professional-Use Products Business Policies/goals/structure Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd. (KPS) proposes its original professional-use products and systems to professional customers who require special cleaning capabilities and hygiene management in the areas of food service (food-service and food processing industries), recreation (hotels, barber and beauty shops, etc.), and medical support & care (hospitals and nursing-care facilities). KPS proposes solutions tailored to suit the needs of individual industries, such as the prevention of food poisoning and realization of clean environments in the area of food service, hygiene management for “comfort” and “beauty” in the area of recreation, and infection-control information support in the area of medical support & care. KPS aims to realize optimal hygiene management for its customers and reduce operational costs. Professional-Use Products Business Kao Group in Japan Implementing infection-control support activities for staff engaged in medical work and nursing care KPS implements an “infection-control best practice” program to support activities of persons engaged in infection control at hospitals and nursing-care facilities. This program aims to change the behavior of staff by requesting them to analyze important matters for infection control in the medical and nursing-care procedures, prepare procedure manuals and check lists that consider scientifically based solutions to the results of the analyses, and put these into practice. In fiscal 2010, Kao implemented the program at 168 facilities in the Tohoku area and 149 facilities in the Kinki area. In addition, we implemented the relevant training and presentation sessions in Tohoku (Sendai) and Kinki (Osaka), and a total of 1,160 persons engaged in medical work and nursing care participated. Infection-control best practice workshop in the Kinki area Cooperation with corporate customers and sales distributors Product/technical service/information on the environment, safety (MSDS, etc.), regulations, societal trends, etc. From Kao Corporate Kao Sales distributors/ customers/ specified agents corporations From corporate customers/corporations Market needs, inquiries regarding safety or other information 37 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Creating an environment and corporate culture that fosters the growth of individual employees and the company as a whole Kao strives to eliminate all forms of discrimination. We also endeavor to preserve the dignity of each individual employee and create an environment where all employees can fulfill their own unique potential. Human Capital Development Policies/goals The efforts of each and every employee to pursue individual results by exercising his or her own abilities and characteristics to the utmost can contribute to the success of their employer. Based on this concept, Kao aims to create such an environment and corporate culture. To this end, Kao has defined this policy as the Basic Principle of Human Capital Development and has made clear what construes an “Ideal Organization” and “Ideal Human Capital.” With the objective of achieving this policy, we provide various opportunities and support for employees to develop their skills and capabilities in accordance with their own level of motivation, individual characteristics, and organizational goals. The Basic Principle of Human Capital Development Continuously improve overall efficiency based on creative and innovative activities aimed at the sustainable growth of the Kao Group through Yoki-Monozukuri. (Pursuit of efficiency) Provide a work environment where each individual’ s dignity is respected, and which makes full use of employees’ autonomy and diversity, since the enthusiasm of all employees to display their boundless wisdom is the wellspring of creation and innovation. (Respect human dignity) Integrate organizational efforts and individual efforts through creative and innovative activities so as to achieve evolution for all. Make efforts to improve policies in order to offer all individuals freedom to display wisdom, and to enable combined individual efforts to lead the Kao Group to further prosperity. (Efforts for integration) Vision of Human Capital Development Ideal Organization Ideal Human Capital We are committed to building organiza1. People with consistent challenging spirits tions that are characterized by openness (Challenge & Change) and frankness so as to encourage people 2. People with high expertise to pursue innovation, by empowerment (Professional Capabilities) of greater transparency, and by organizational management based on the Kao 3. People with a global perspective Way. We also endeavor to actualize (Global Perspective) organizations in which the entire Kao 4. People with the team spirit to achieve superior performance Group operates harmoniously based on (Communication & Collaboration) the concept of an “organically functional organization” which flexibly and quickly 5. People with strong ethics adapts to environmental change. (Integrity) Human Capital Development Global Implementation of the Global Human Capital Development Conference Kao aims to become a company that can attract human resources who pursue global careers around the world, and all Kao Group companies make concerted efforts so that excellent human resources regardless of nationality, race, gender, etc. can play an active role. To promote cross-border and cross-company human capital development, we hold a Global Human Capital Development Conference and discuss the direction of human resource management, the standardization of operations relating to personnel affairs, and the nature of cooperation and collaboration towards the realization of the goal. In fiscal 2010, we held the conference in July with the participation of 47 people from 20 companies in 14 countries in Europe, the United States and Asia. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 38 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Human Capital Development Global *1 Global Leadership Development Program Implementation of various common global training programs (GLDP) I & II Kao’s first global programs common to all In April 2010, we launched a global training and development system called “Creativity Camp Group companies in which members of Kao.” To promote global harmonization, training programs are unified at home and abroad, selected from individual Kao Group and human resources who share values, goals, and ways of doing business are fostered. In companies in Japan and overseas will study addition, we plan the training program mainly focusing on the achievement of business stratKao’s challenges from a broader egies and practice of the Kao Way and operate it in cooperation with each company in the perspective and make proposals to the top management. In fiscal 2010, a total of 70 Kao Group. employees participated in the programs. In fiscal 2010, we implemented common global programs, including Global Leadership Development*1, Management, Global Communication, English Skill*2, Facilitation, Integrity and New Employee Orientation, sequentially in Asia, Japan, Europe and the United States. Human Capital Development Global Launching global rollout of Management Training We launched global rollout of the Managing Human Performance Program (MHPP) to enhance GLDP II graduation ceremony management ability at Genba across the globe, and managers in Group companies have learned the Guidelines for Human Capital Development and the basics of performance management. In *2 English skills Asia, six internal instruc tor s operate the training Aiming to improve employees’ basic program in a unified manner in cooperation with the English-language skills, we have launched headquarters in Japan. In 2010, we implemented the e-learning programs in six countries: Japan, s ame tr aining pro gr am in s eve n A si an c ountr ie s China, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand and including Japan and will also implement it in Europe and Vietnam for the period from July 2010 to the United States while promoting the development of June 2011. A total of 130 employees are internal instructors. participating in the programs. MHPP participants in Vietnam Implementation status of MHPP in fiscal 2010 ● Thailand ● China ● Malaysia ● Indonesia ● Vietnam Human Capital Development Global ● Hong Kong ● Japan Practice of the Kao Way and sharing examples among all Group companies To help promote practice of the Kao Way in daily operations, Kao has rolled out the Kao Way Implementation status of Workshop since 2005. This workshop provides employees with opportunities to discuss the links the Kao Way Workshop between their daily tasks and the Kao Way. In fiscal 2010, workshops were conducted in the (Fiscal 2010) divisions and affiliates shown on the panel at right. Domestic In addition, the Kao Way Recognition Program, which aims to share and commend practical examples of how the Kao Way is put into practice, has been implemented under the leadership of ● Information Systems individual workplaces. The Kao Way Newsletter picks up major examples cited in the Recog● Product Quality Management nition Program to share among Group companies globally. ● Biological Science Research Laboratories ● Processing Development Research Laboratories ● Containers and Packaging Human Capital Development Kao Group in Japan Development Research Laboratories Fair and transparent evaluation and compensation ● Beauty Technology Research Laboratories Kao clearly states the roles and responsibilities of its employees and endeavors to 1) fairly evaluate ● SCM Strategy and Planning their performance, and 2) appropriately reflect achievements in rewards and compensation. ● Safety Science Research It is important to ensure fairness in performance appraisal by eliminating subjective evaluations Laboratories from performance reviews. To this end, we have introduced a mechanism for delivering specific ● Legal Management (Kao, Kao CMK and Kanebo Cosmetics targets to employees by cascading organizational goals on to individual targets, encouraging comtogether) munication between appraisers and appraisees through performance review interviews, and determining pay rates through multi-dimensional processes. Affiliates In addition, as a part of compensation policies, we provide a higher level of compensation for employees who are striving to achieve higher goals and have performed exceptionally. ● Kanebo Cosmetics ● Kao Brands Company ● KPSS ● Kao Shoji 39 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Human Capital Development Kao Group in Japan *3 Equal Partnership (EPS) promotion activities Implementing activities towards the achievement of a workplace Since 2000, the Kao Group companies in that utilizes diversity Japan have been engaged in EPS promotion activities with the aim of achieving an open, cheerful and diverse Aiming to boost diversity, Kao provides special lectures for newly appointed managers and midworkplace where discrimination is not career hires. In fiscal 2010, we implemented a total of 14 lectures, and 311 employees participated. tolerated and where employees are In addition, we established the EPS* 3 Promotion Network, which is composed of HR staff at motivated and enjoy their work. The major regional sites and Kao Group companies and staff from the headquarters of HR. We held the EPS themes of the activities are “respect for Promotion Network conference in July and December to diversity,” “promotion of a work-life receive reports on the status of efforts, share information balance,” and others. for raising awareness and conduct related discussions. In addition, we have prepared the self check sheet by sum*4 Calculation based on inclusion of Kao marizing relevant laws and regulations in respect to Corporation, Kao Customer Marketing Co., diversity and classifying them into 10 groups and 80 Ltd., Kao Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao items. We use this to check the level of respect for Professional Services Co., Ltd., Ehime diversity every year. In doing so, we not only endeavor to Sanitary Products Co., Ltd., Kao-Quaker observe laws and regulations but also strive to achieve Co., Ltd., Kao Business Associe Co., LTD., EPS Promotion Network conference Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., Kanebo recommended targets. Cosmetics Sales Inc., Joset, Ltd., Prive, Inc., Kanebo Cosmillion, Ltd., Lissage, Employee data by region in the world (regular employees) Employee data (Japan, consolidated) Ltd., and e’quipe, Ltd. FY FY FY FY 2010 Percentage 2008 2009 2010 *5 Calculation based on inclusion of nine Japan 26,194 75.4% Female 12,086 13,885 13,562 domestic affiliates that are required to Regular employees*4 Asia (excluding Japan) 4,855 14.0% Male 9,881 9,887 9,797 employ people with disabilities (Kao Corporation, Kao Customer Marketing The Americas 1,099 3.2% Female 3,569 2,483 2,020 Contract employees*4 Co., Ltd., Kao Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Europe 2,595 7.5% Male 162 183 199 Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd., Total 34,743 100% Percentage of female Kao Group in Ehime Sanitary Products Co., Ltd., Kao managers 5.5% 6.7% 7.6% Japan as Logistics Co., Ltd., Kao Business Associe [regular employees only] 4 (55.0%) (58.4%) (58.1%) ● Percentage of female employees: 56.7% (percentage of female employees) a whole* Co., LTD., Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., and ● Percentage of female managers: 22.2% Employment rate of Kao Group in Kanebo Cosmetics Sales Inc.) and Kao people with disabilities Japan as 1.90% 1.90% 1.98% (As of June 1) a whole*5 Peony Co., Ltd. ● Employment rate of people with disabilities at Kao Corporation 1.93% 1.91% 1.93% Kao’s Basic Policies for Employment of People Human Capital Development Kao Group in Japan with Disabilities ● We support the independence of Promoting the employment of people with disabilities disabled persons as members of society to create a society where all Kao recognizes handicaps as an individual characteristic and makes efforts to employ people people with and without disabilities with disabilities, who are motivated and talented, and to create a better working conditions for work and live together. them. Kao also makes efforts to increase job opportu* According to the situation, motivation and ability of people with disabilities, we actively nities for people with disabilities, by actively expanding promote the employment of people with the range of duties at ordinary workplaces; it has also disabilities at our ordinary workplaces and established a special subsidiary, Kao Peony Co., Ltd. special subsidiary. Moreover, Kao set September as the month to deepen under st anding of the employment of p eople with Kao Peony Co., Ltd., a special disabilities. In addition to distributing a newsletter via the subsidiary of Kao company’s intranet, Kao helped boost understanding of This special subsidiary was established with the employment of people with disabilities through three the aim of promoting the employment of study tours to Kao Peony. Study tour at Kao Peony people with disabilities. As of April 2011, Kao Peony Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of Kao that began full-scale operations in April 2006, has a total workforce of 23 employees, 19 of Human Capital Development Kao Group in Japan whom have intellectual disabilities. At Peony, they mainly set and package cosmetics and Policies for re-employing retired employees Personal Care products on the conveyorbelt assembly line. They implement Yoki-Monozukuri with teamwork by sharing From the perspective of “ensuring a stable supply of workforce” and “transferring skills and the process to maximize individuals’ abilities. expertise from skilled and experienced employees,” Kao Corporation introduced the Senior Partner policies in fiscal 2006 to re-employ as contract employees retired managers with Changes in the number of retiring significant technical or business skills and experience. The scope of retired employees covered employees re-employed (Kao Corporation) by the policies was expanded in fiscal 2008 to include those in non-managerial responsibilities. FY Number of employees Number of retiring who reach employees Percentage We will endeavor to operate the policies in such a way as to create an environment that will allow the retirement age re-employed motivated and skilled senior employees to continue to work for Kao with vigor and enthusiasm 2006 58 3 5.2% and to contribute to our business. 2007 68 10 14.7% 2008 77 21 27.3% 2009 98 31 31.6% 2010 102 39 38.2% * Number of employees who reach the retirement age = Number of retired employees + Number of retiring employees re-employed Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 40 C o l u m n Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 Supporting work-life balance Towards the creation of a positive working environment for everyone. Kao is focused on creating a working environment where individual employees can exercise their abilities and also assist them in achieving balance between work and their personal life. As for efforts in Japan to promote a good work-life balance, we have enriched systems to support child rearing and nursing care and endeavored to raise awareness among employees and create a corporate culture that encourages the uptake of these systems. For overseas Kao Group companies, we have also promoted the creation of a better working environment, through the improvement of various support systems and other initiatives. Efforts at Kao Group companies in Japan Child care support Nursing care support To achieve a good balance between work and child rearing, it is Based on a prospective analysis that showed one out of every important to create systems that support child rearing and five or six employees will need nursing care support in the provide employees with emotional support. Kao holds a lunch future, Kao has been advancing a system to support nursing meeting called “Mummy’ s Lunch” as a venue for working care. A wide-ranging interview survey revealed nursing care mothers, providing the opportunity for participants to share weighs differently on employees’ minds and carries large emotheir worries and a round-table talk with a female executive tional weight. Therefore, Kao has formulated policies to support who has experienced child rearing. In addition, Kao holds a nursing care in the recognition that it could be required by seminar to help workers who have taken child-care leave return anyone in the organization. Kao will endeavor to enhance the to work smoothly. To urge male employees to participate in nursing care support system further and create a corporate child rearing, Kao holds a “Child-care management seminar for culture where all employees know basic information on nursing fathers” and attempts to instill the idea that “men should also care and internal and external consultation services and can participate in raising children in cooperation with women.” easily access the system through educational activities including the provision of lectures on nursing care and the publication of the newsletter. “Equal Partnership News Plus” is an in-house magazine that is distributed to employees. It features stories that serve to deepen employees’ understanding of nursing care. Mummy’s Lunch held in August and the “Equal Partnership News Plus” making a feature of “ikumen*” * A father who is actively involved in child-raising Efforts at overseas Kao Group companies Kao Industrial (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Kao Brands Company (USA) Kao Industrial has been promoting a “Happy Workplace” camKao Brands Company provides various programs centered on paign since fiscal 2010. Based on the idea that the most valuachieving a work-life balance. The company has introduced able thing for an organization is “people” and that it is imporflexible working arrangements, such as flexible working hours, tant that employees are mentally and physically healthy, the compressed work weeks and a telework system that allows company has made various efforts, including the implementaemployees to work from remote offices. The company has also tion of health management and welfare programs and social established a part-time working system to shorten working action programs. In fiscal 2010, the company held a weight-loss hours for those employees who require more time at home for contest and a sporting event and expanded the space for relaxfamily purposes. In addition the company offers family leave ation. To improve these activities, the company has placed a which offers time off for new parents, including those who suggestion-box named “Happy Tree” so that employees can adopt, with a number of male employees taking advantage of submit their ideas and also conducts a related survey in order to paternal leave. Employees who express a desire to help within understand what employees are thinking in this area. the community are also given time to perform volunteer activities during work hours. Endorsement of Women’s Empowerment Principles Kao announced official support for “Women’s Empowerment Principles*” and Motoki Ozaki, President and CEO of Kao, signed the CEO Statement of Support for the initiative in September 2010. We intend to utilize the Women’s Empowerment Principles to propel our business and help build a society in which we can maximize the capability of each and every individual. * The Women’s Empowerment Principles were jointly formulated by the United Nations Global Compact and the UN Women (United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women). 41 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Promoting Dialogue with Employees Global Improving work environments by conducting an employee opinion survey known as “Find” Kao conducts an employee opinion survey known as “Find” in Japan and abroad with the aim of further enhancing Kao’s organizational culture and functions and identifying issues that require solutions. Based on the results, individual divisions draw up their own action plans and promote the improvement of work environments and the creation of a supportive corporate culture by implementing these plans. At present, we are engaged in such action plans as the “review and improvement of business processes for Yoki-Monozukuri” and the “creation of an environment for individual development through the practice of daily work (OJT) and training (OFF-JT).” The next survey is scheduled to be conducted in fiscal 2012. Questionnaire Items for “Find” Company/Organizations Work Employee Function of Organizations Quality of Work/ Fairness 1. Leadership Workplace 8. Respect for individual 2. Organizations and Objectives 6. Teamwork & Communication Compensation 3. Performance Driven Culture 7. Work Process & Workplace 9. Development Company Reputation Opportunities & Climate 4. External Reputation 10. Reward & Recognition 5. Customer/Quality Orientation Engagement/Employer of Choice ● Satisfaction through work ● Commitment ● Contribution to the company Action plan Promoting Dialogue with Employees Global Promoting understanding between senior management and employees To promote mutual understanding between senior management and employees, Kao provides a variety of opportunities for dialogue between employees and management both at home and overseas. In Japan, we provide an opportunity to exchange opinions whereby the President & CEO explains the company’ s current situation and priority issues regarding personnel development and the like to employee representatives and also answers questions from employees. Since fiscal 2011, we have called this oppor tunity to exchange opinions the “Kao Forum” and expanded the range of companies that participate to all Kao Group companies in Japan. In addition, each individual Kao site in Japan holds meetings between employees and management. In other countries, we hold the Kao European Forum in Europe and have established a Use of the child-care support labor union and a Staff and Workers’ Representative Congress in China. system by male employees ● In February 2011, the Kashima Plant received a fiscal 2010 award as a Work-life Balance Kao Group in Japan business establishment that promotes gender equality from Kamisu City, Ibaraki Supporting male employees’ efforts to participate in child care Prefecture, in recognition of the fact that the percentage of male employees who take child-care leave is higher than other At Kao, the percentage of female employees who take child-care leave is always more than 90%, companies. and balancing work and child-raising has become nothing special. Moreover, based on the idea that “men and women should work together to bring up children,” Kao implements a variety of Use of the child-care support system educational activities so that male employees will also actively participate in child rearing. FY FY FY In October 2010, we implemented the “Child care man2008 2009 2010 Number of agement seminar for fathers” targeting male employees who employees Female 421 469 534 have children. A total of 40 employees participated in the who took child-care seminar at three offices and plants. We invited an instructor leave*1 Male 89 93 76 from Fathering Japan (an NPO) and learned tips for child rearing through the lecture, which was delivered from the *1 Calculation based on inclusion of Kao Corporation, perspective of enjoying both work and child care. We also Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Field Marketing Co., Ltd., Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd., Ehime had a fruitful discussion among participants. We will conSanitary Products Co., Ltd., Kao-Quaker Co., Ltd., Kao tinue to promote such educational activities with the aim of Business Associe Co., LTD., Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., creating a working environment that assists in creating a “Child care management seminar for Kanebo Cosmetics Sales Inc., Joset, Ltd., Prive, Inc., fathers” at Kayabacho balance between work and parenting. Kanebo Cosmillion, Ltd., Lissage, Ltd., and e’quipe, Ltd. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 42 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Rate at which paid holidays were used Work-life Balance Kao Group in Japan FY FY FY 2008 2009 2010 Rate Promoting appropriate working hours 57.0% 61.5% 61.0% * Kao Corporation (regular employees only) Kao has introduced the Work Management System to manage the number of hours that employees spend at work, the duration of work, and their Number of participants in Life Plan Seminar declared overtime hours. Since fiscal 2008, individual divisions and com(Fiscal 1992-2010) panies have made plans and endeavored to promote appropriate working hours and improve the rate at which paid holidays are used by reviewing A total of 1,783 the content of work. In fiscal 2010, we collected slogans to promote (including 132 couples) appropriate working hours from all employees. Using the slogan that won Number of participants in the first prize among 931 slogans, we created a poster and put it up at all offices and plants. In addition, we have considered efficient ways of workLife-Career Design Seminar (Fiscal 2010) 147 ing to innovate working styles since fiscal 2009. In February 2011, promotion leaders who are recommended from individual divisions began related activities. Educational poster that Five support measures of the was created by collecting slogans “Kao Group Health Declaration” 1 Measures to address lifestyle-related diseases Work-life Balance Provision of healthcare advice focused Kao Group in Japan on preventing lifestyle-related diseases Provision of support for employees’ Supporting proactive future plans attempt to improve their lifestyles 2 Measures to address mental-health issues From fiscal 1992, Kao has held a Life Plan Seminar for employees turning 55-58 to help them Establishment of a system to deal with make plans for their lives after retirement. The seminar includes an explanation of Kao's corpoemployees with mental health problems rate pension system and the social insurance system as well as presentations by invited speakearly on through the introduction of a mental health check system ers, who talk about life on a pension and provide proposals and advice on life after retirement Implementation of training to deal with along with other information. In addition, from fiscal 2007, Kao has implemented a Life-Career mental health issue for managers Design Seminar targeting employees who have reached the age of 45. The seminar is designed 3 Measures to support employees to help participants independently consider their future plans at the halfway point in their lives wanting to quit smoking by understanding themselves. Implementation of the “Kao Group No Smoking Marathon” In fiscal 2010, a total of 293 employees participated in the program, and 136 employees succeeded in quitting smoking. Consideration for Employees’ Health and Human Rights Kao Group in Japan 4 Measures to support employees affected by cancer Issuing “Kao Group Health White Paper for Fiscal 2010” Addition of cancer detection categories to the annual physical check-up designated by the Industrial Safety and Health Act Kao has been promoting a health program called “KAO Health 2010” since fiscal 2005 to “promote health consciousness among employees and help more employees maintain their physical 5 Measures to support and mental health.” In 2008, we formulated a “Kao Group Health Declaration” to state that we women’s health Spread of knowledge of gender-specific will actively support our employees’ health in cooperation with the Kao Health Insurance Union medicine to increase the rate of females and have been making efforts to achieve this. By visualizing employees’ health through the issureceiving gynecological exams ance of the “Kao Group Health White Paper 2010,” Kao aimed to rotate its health promotion project’ s PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, and Action) cycle. The 2010 white paper collected and analyzed data on employees’ health check-ups, health interviews, work situations, itemized statements of medical expenses, etc. in fiscal 2008 and 2009. We will continue to observe trends in this area into the future. “Women’s health seminar” at Kayabacho Consideration for Employees’ Health and Human Rights Kao Group in Japan Participation rate for the fiscal 2010 annual health check-up Promoting creation of a workplace free from discrimination (Kao Corporation and its domestic affiliates*1) and harassment Number of employees who had a health check-up: 99.9% 93.7% Number of employees As people become more aware of harassment in the workplace, Kao now provides training who received post-health programs that deal with human rights and harassment. check follow-up advice*2: In fiscal 2010, we set “Preventing Workplace Bullying” as the main theme for activities to *1 Affiliates excluding Kao Logistics Co., Ltd., Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. and its six subsidiaries promote compliance and implemented a training program targeting managers and supervisors *2 The percentage of employees who received healthcare at individual offices and plants as well as Kao Group companies to raise employees’ awareness advice out of all employees who had a check-up about the need to prevent harassment. Through these efforts, all employees have shared a common understanding that harassment is a socially-prohibited behavior. Kao’s efforts for the prevention of workplace bullying ● Publication of the company’s guidelines, “Guidelines for Preventing Sexual Harassment” and “Guidelines for Preventing Workplace Bullying,” on the company’s intranet ● Receiving allegations relating to harassment and workplace bullying at internal and external hotlines 43 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Policies/structure For details Based on a policy of “maintaining employees’ health and safety and improving operational See “Responsible Care (Environmental/ safety,” included in Kao’s Basic Policies for RC Activities, when occupational accidents do occur, Safety) Activities” on page 28. we analyze the causes and take necessary measures to prevent similar accidents in the future, thereby protecting our employees. In addition, Kao provides extensive safety education to all employees regardless of their employee status at the general training sessions for new hires and training sessions organized by individual divisions in order to boost safety awareness. Our daily activities for occupational safety, process safety and disaster prevention are conducted as part of the Responsible Care promotion system. In particular, when disasters and occupational accidents occur, Kao has established a mechanism to keep track of them through the emergency reporting network, which includes overseas Kao Group companies. In addition, Changes in the frequency rate in when a large-scale earthquake or other large-scale disaster occurs, we will establish a disaster the Production & Engineering prevention organization headed by the President & CEO. and the R&D Divisions (Frequency rate) 1.5 1.09 1.12 Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Goals 1.02 0.99 0.98 1.0 1.10 0.88 0.84 0.72 0.72 In fiscal 2010, we established “Eradication of Occupational Accidents,” “Reinforcement of Disas0.5 ter Prevention Systems,” and “Eradication of Fires and Explosion Accidents” as the domestic 0.18 0.11 Kao Group’s three prioritized goals and implemented activities to achieve them. 0 0 0.08 As specific items of the activities for the “Eradication of Occupational Accidents,” we 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) established “Risk Assessment of Machinery and Operations,” “Safety Assessment of Chemical Kao (Production & Engineering and R&D Divisions) Facilities,” “Reduction of Traffic Accidents,” “Promotion of Occupational Health,” “Reduction Chemical industry Manufacturer of Occupational Accidents of Business Partners and Temporary Staff,” “Thorough implementaFrequency rate: tion of 3Ss, seiri (“tidiness”), seiton (“order”), and seiso (“cleaning”),” and “Risk Assessment of Numbers of deaths and injuries due to occupational Chemical Substances.” accidents per million hours worked (“Accidents” is defined as an incident resulting in the loss of more than one working In addition, we set “Enrichment of Disaster Response Drills” and “Formulation of Business day and the loss of a body part or physical function) Continuity Plans (BCPs)” as specific items for the “Reinforcement of Disaster Prevention Sys* Since 2008, we have included the production and research section of Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. in the calculation. tems,” and set “Reinforcement of Occupational Safety and Process Safety Management Systems” and “Reinforcement of Regular Checks and Patrol of Facilities and Equipment” as specific Changes in the severity rate in items for the “Eradication of Fires and Explosion Accidents.” Individual promotion divisions the Production & Engineering decided on more detailed content for these items and tailored plans to promote these goals. and the R&D Divisions (Severity rate) 0.15 0.13 0.11 0.10 Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Kao Group in Japan 0.1 0.10 0.08 0.09 0.10 Occupational accidents in 2010 0.05 0.07 0.07 0.04 0.04 0.01 The number of employees across the entire Kao Group in Japan (including temporary staff) who 0 0 0.01 0 suffered occupational accidents in 2010 decreased from 156 in 2009 to 95. The number of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) employees suffering injuries resulting in lost work days also slightly decreased in 2010 from 2009. Kao (Production & Engineering and R&D Divisions) Looking at the decline in the total number of employees suffering injuries by category, “fallChemical industry Manufacturer ing over and falling down” accidents decreased most, followed by “traffic accidents” and “backSeverity rate: ache.” Although the total number of “falling over and falling down” accidents and “traffic acciNumber of working days lost per thousand man-hours actually worked dents” decreased, the number of employees who suffered injuries resulting in lost work days due * Since 2008, we have included the production and research to these accidents was still of concern, so we continue to make efforts to reduce such accidents. section of Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. in the calculation. The number of employees in the Production & Engineering and the R&D divisions of the Kao Group (including Kanebo Cosmetics’ production and research division) who are engaged in Changes in the number of employees Injured by occupational accidents in manufacturing processes that can lead to large-scale accidents and who suffered from occupathe Production & Engineering and tional accidents decreased from 35 in 2009 to 24 in 2010. In the Production & Engineering Divithe R&D Divisions sion, accidents in which victims were exposed to hazardous materials and high & low tempera(Persons) ture or falling over and falling down accidents decreased, and there were no accidents related to 40 machinery and equipment. The number of employees who suffered injuries resulting in lost work days was one who suffered from a fall while climbing down a ladder. 30 We will continue to implement measures to reduce falling over and falling down accidents and traffic accidents and conduct enhanced risk assessments and other activities to reduce 30 22 remaining risks with the aim of achieving a zero incident rate resulting in lost work days and 20 22 reducing all occupational accidents. 15 19 10 11 8 9 10 4 1 0 0 2 1 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) Number of employees with lost work days Number of employees without lost work days Number of employees without lost work days (light injury) * Since 2008, we have included the production and research section of Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. in the calculation. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 44 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Employees Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Kao Group in Japan Drills for large-scale disasters and Kao’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake For details On March 11, 2011, the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami thereafter struck northeast “Responses to the Great East Japan Japan. The initial response of Kao’s Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters, such as the Earthquake” (page 5) confirmation of safety, appraising property damage, and the provision of relief supplies to the affected areas and victims, functioned almost in accordance with previously conducted drills and as prescribed in relevant company regulations. In addition, 78% of employees in the targeted areas entered their personal safety status into the Safety Confirmation System during within three days after the Earthquake, and the system was used for early confirmation of the situation of damage and the missing people. Due to the enormous damage caused by this Earthquake and the following tsunami covering an extensive area, the frequent aftershocks and the nuclear power plant accident, some of Kao’s information gathering work was disrupted. For the future, we will identify problems in the procedure of safety confirmation and consider measures to deal with these issues in cooperation with Local Countermeasures Offices and Wide-area Countermeasures Offices with the aim of improving promptness and certainty. Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Global Implementing training programs for safety, disaster prevention and environmental management To improve the level of safety, disaster prevention and environmental management, Kao provides various training programs for employees who are responsible for these fields. As for overseas facilities, in fiscal 2010 Japanese Kao staff visited the plant in the Philippines in August, the plant in Malaysia in February and the plant in Thailand in March and explained the content of a comprehensive disaster and fire drill (fire extinguishing, evacuation, emergency reporting training, etc.) anticipating the occurrence of fire or earthquake. Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Global Occurrence of small fires in 2010 While Kao had no serious accidents in 2010 either in Japan or overseas, there were two small fires at domestic facilities. These fires caused no injuries. ● June/Wakayama Plant, Kao Corporation Used catalysts (including powdered iron) in the catalyst filtration facility produced heat, and the remaining oil caught fire. ● July/Wakayama Plant, Kao Corporation Waste heat retention material into which oil soaked caught fire due to the accumulation of heat at the storage site of waste materials. In light of the above-mentioned two fires, we checked similar facilities and equipment and storage sites of waste materials and confirmed that they had no abnormalities existed. We will continue to implement regular checks, maintenance, and patrol of facilities and equipment to carry out thorough control of security. 45 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Suppliers Strengthening partnerships with suppliers By deepening mutual understanding with suppliers, Kao promotes fair and ethical transactions and sustainable procurement activities. Policies/structure For details To establish good partnerships, Kao shares its corporate philosophies and business goals with http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/csr_procuration_00.html its suppliers. Additionally, in accordance with its Guidelines for Procurement of Raw Materials Guidelines for Procurement of and Equipment, Kao promotes procurement activities based on our basic policies of fairness, Raw Materials and Equipment compliance and ethics, and social responsibility. With regard to social and environmental aspects of the Guidelines, Kao requests the cooperation of our suppliers to improve our performance. Kao is also strengthening partnerships with suppliers by promptly sharing necessary technical information to ensure our quality and specifications demands are satisfied. Monitoring of CSR Procurement Standards in social terms Goals Number of suppliers surveyed and the percentage of suppliers that met the standards Number of Number of In addition to the Green Procurement practices, in 2007 Kao established the CSR Procurement suppliers to suppliers to Standards, which include compliance with laws and social norms and approaches taken to labor Kao Corporation the Asian Kao Group Up to and human rights issues. We monitor suppliers’ self-assessment of their compliance with our stanFY 2008 925 (97%) 353 (98%) dards while gaining their understanding on the need for this. We visit suppliers who do not meet Up to our standards and take measures toward improvement. FY 2009 934 (99%) 380 (98%) In addition, we have produced a database for CSR assessment results and established an Up to 947 (99%) 461 (98%) online system to assist our supply managers with evaluating suppliers. These activities are also FY 2010 conducted at Kao Group companies in Asia. Monitoring of CSR Procurement Standards in environmental terms Number of plants surveyed and Kao Group in Japan the percentage of plants that met the standard Number of Number of supplier Implementation of a supplier satisfaction survey supplier plants to plants to the Asian Kao Corporation Kao Group Up to 1,247 (96%) 215 (94%) Kao commissions an outside company to conduct a supplier satisfaction survey every three FY 2008 years in order to confirm whether Kao is perceived to be conduc ting fair and ethic al Up to FY 2009 1,256 (98%) 242 (95%) procurement activities. This anonymous survey asks our suppliers to evaluate items including supplier selection, required quality, interpersonal interactions, and communication. Up to 1,286 (99%) 283 (95%) FY 2010 In fiscal 2010, based on the survey results, Kao implemented measures such as (1) clearly conveying Kao’s decisions to contract or not contract, (2) making efforts to clarify the estimates Changes in the number of companies and conditions, and (3) improving the method for placing orders. that participated in the Vendor summit (Companies) 400 388 Global 307 319 300 297 Implementation of Vendor summits 123 129 139 219 200 Kao holds supplier meetings (“Vendor summits”) every year as an opportunity to exchange views to strengthen partnerships with suppliers. 100 194 174 178 180 169 0 Global 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Held by Kao Japan Held by foreign affiliates Promoting the sustainable sourcing of raw materials * FSC forest certification FSC (The Forest Stewardship Council) is an independent, non-governmental, not for Kao has been working toward the sustainable sourcing of raw materials paying due considerprofit organization established to promote ation to biodiversity by actively adopting biomass materials and certified materials. In fiscal the responsible management of the world's 2010, Kao began procuring sustainable palm oil and switched to FSC-certified paper* for all forests. The FSC label ensures that the office paper used within the Kao Group. In fiscal 2011, Kao will begin introducing certified forest products including paper come from sustainable paper for product packaging. In addition, Kao will reduce its dependence on fossil responsible sources—environmentally resources by using plantbased resins. We will continue to promote the responsible appropriate, socially beneficial and procurement of raw materials in cooperation with suppliers and related organizations. economically viable. As FSC-certified paper became difficult to procure due to the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have stopped using the paper for the time being. We will resume using the FSC-certified paper as soon as it becomes available. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 46 Responsibilities to Stakeholders Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors Promoting IR activities considering shareholder returns as one of our priorities Kao responds to the trust of shareholders and investors and lives up to For details their expectations by promoting information disclosure http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_ir/investors.html and communication. Investor Relations http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_ir/disclosure.html Disclosure Guidelines Policies/goals “Major global SRI indexes in which Kao has been included” (page 66) Changes in dividends per share To maintain good relations with its shareholders and investors, Kao has a basic policy of considering (Yen) shareholder returns as one of its priorities and secures an internal reserve for capital investment and 60 56 57 58 52 54 acquisitions from a medium-to-long-term management perspective and places priority on providing shareholders with stable and continuous dividends. In addition, Kao flexibly considers the purchase 40 and retirement of its shares from the standpoint of improving capital efficiency. As for information disclosure, Kao has a basic policy of disclosing information in a timely, 20 accurate and fair manner in accordance with its Disclosure Guidelines. With regards to the earnings announcement, Kao discloses necessary information on the online Timely Disclosure Network (TDnet)*1 based on the disclosure standards of Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. This information 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 is also posted in the Investor Relations section of Kao’s website in Japanese and English. (FY) In order to enhance strategic IR communication, Kao aims to improve IR activities for individual investors as well as institutional investors both in and outside Japan. Distribution of profits for fiscal 2010 Net income 46.7 billion yen Kao Group in Japan Annual cash dividend 58 yen per share (increased by 1.0 yen from previous year) Publicizing shareholder meetings and facilitating the exercising of (marked the 21st consecutive year of increase in cash dividends) voting rights Consolidated dividend payout ratio 66.1% To provide domestic and foreign shareholders with sufficient time to examine agenda items, Kao usually sends a convocation notice approximately one month prior to the Annual General Share repurchase from the market 29.9 billion yen Meeting of Shareholders (AGM). In addition, to increase the number of shareholders who exercise their voting rights, Kao has introduced an electronic voting system for the AGM. Overview of IR activities Furthermore, to provide prompt and fair information disclosure to foreign shareholders, ● Financial results briefings who hold approximately half of its shares, Kao makes an English translation of the summarized convocation notice as well as the Japanese original available to them on its website promptly Held twice a year (same day as results are announced) after the Japanese convocation notice is sent out. Kao also posts presentation materials used ● IR roadshow outside Japan at the AGM and summary of voting resolutions from the AGM in both Japanese and English on its website. Held 4 times a year (In North America, Europe and Asia) ● Business briefings and facility tours Held 13 times a year ● One-on-one meetings Kao Group in Japan Over 250 interviews in Implementation of dialogue between Kao and its shareholders and and outside Japan individual investors ● Small meetings ● Disclosure of information on corporate website ● Issuance of the shareholders’ reports Kao strives to promote a two-way communication between Kao and its shareholders and investors. (year-end and interim) “Kabunushi no In fiscal 2010, Kao conducted a total of eight Kao Museum tours for shareholders over four Minasamae” (Japanese version) ● Issuance of the Annual Report (English version) days during the month of September, with approximately 250 people attending. ● Provision of IR information through RSS feed In November, Kao gave a presentation for individual investors. Following presentations by distribution*2 Kao’ s top management and product development manager, there was a question and answer session for participants. *1 TDnet (Timely Disclosure network) A service to distribute information on listed companies on a real time basis; operated by Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. *2 RSS feed distribution A distribution system that automatically provides subscribers with a newsfeed every time a website is updated Presentation for individual investors Fiscal 2010 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Total number of shareholders who attended 986 47 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Responsibilities to Stakeholders For the Community Promoting activities that aim to achieve co-existence and co-prosperity with local communities on a global basis Kao has been utilizing its management resources to conduct systematic activities in the three areas of environment, education, and the arts. Policies/structure Since fiscal 2007, under the theme of “Creating an Environment and Developing Human Activity Guidelines Resources to Nurture the Next Generation,” Kao has been promoting activities that aim to achieve co-existence and co-prosperity with local communities focusing on three important ● Conduct activities that play a role in areas; environment, education, and the arts. nurturing the next generation ● Conduct activities aimed at contributing to the development of Overview of Kao's corporate citizenship activities regional communities and culture ● Conduct activities that protect and Creating an Environment and Developing Human Resources to Nurture the Next Generation nurture the environment to promote a sustainable society Environment Education Arts ● Conduct activities that promote a barrier-free society as a form of ● Kao Community Museum social support ● Kao Creating Forests for ● Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Program Everyone Fellowship ● Conduct activities that make ● Kao Family Concert ● Supporters of “Kao Creating ● Supporting Science effective use of Kao's resources ● Tokyo Music Competition Forests for Everyone” Education ● Create an atmosphere in which ● Mécénat support every employee can participate in community activities as a good Heart Pocket Club citizen Employee participation Volunteer collection of unused postcards and so on for donation activities Pink Ribbon Campaign For details Kao Social Entrepreneuship Schools Supporting the operation of the Wasa Welfare Factory “Measures for Biodiversity” Support for Donation of in-kind goods to welfare facilities the community (page 61) Plant tours Promoting a barrier-free society “Environmental Communication” (page 63) Kao Foundation for Arts and Sciences Goals Educational institutions and Under the theme of “Creating an Environment and Developing Human Resources to Nurture the groups that Kao supported in science Next Generation,” Kao has been focusing on “collaboration with NGOs and NPOs,” “activities and career education in fiscal 2010 that contribute to business,” and “employee participation activities.” ● Members’ Club “Friends of Miraikan” of the In fiscal 2011, we will renew the “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” program and continue National Museum of Emerging Science and to implement individual programs. Innovation (Miraikan) ● Chem Chem Club of the Chemical Society of Japan ● Cooperation with the Science Partnership Project Kao Group in Japan ● Fukushima Prefectural Asaka High School ● Fukushima Prefectural Fukushima Supporting science education and career education High School ● Tokyo Metropolitan Toyama High School ● Osaka Prefectural Tennoji High School In support of science education, Kao provides schools with ● Hiroshima Prefectural Fukuyama Seishikan science experiment classes taught by company employees High School using Kao products for ever yday life as experimental ● Shimane Prefectural Masuda Senior High School themes. In addition, to support career education, which is ● Keio Girls Senior High School very important in developing children's zest for living, Kao ● Murata Girls’ High School sends its employees to educational institutions and groups ● Tokyo Denki University Junior High School/ as lecturers and accepts student visits to our companies for High School ● Ichikawa Gakuen Ichikawa Junior & study tours. Senior High School In fiscal 2010, Kao cooperated with 17 educational insti● Shibaura Institute of Technology Kashiwa Experiment lecture at the National Museum tutions and groups. Junior & Senior High School of Emerging Science and Innovation: “Interface science—Let’s make a skin cream!” ● Seitoku University Girls’ Junior & Senior High School ● Kudan Secondary School, Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo ● Fukashiba Elementary School Kamisu City, Ibaraki Prefecture Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 48 Responsibilities to Stakeholders For the Community Kao Group in Japan Continuing to implement Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship The Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship program provides elementary and junior high school teachers with opportunities to go abroad for about two weeks during the summer vacation to participate in local field research projects on biodiversity. When they return, they are able to incorporate their experiences into environmental education activities they conduct at schools and in local communities. We hope that the experiences of those who participated in the project will be passed on to students, other teachers and local communities. Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship Kao Group in Japan Number of projects Kao Community Museum Program that Kao sponsored Fiscal 2010 5 projects With the aim of contributing to the development of regional culture, Kao has implemented an (with the participation of a total of 10 teachers) open-type subsidy program, the Kao Community Museum Program, to provide support to Number of projects that Kao have citizens’ groups that use museums as the base of their activities. In addition, to revitalize civil sponsored thus far activities nationwide, this program implements exchange programs where citizens’ groups that 41 projects received our aid gather to exchange their experiences and knowledge. (with the participation of a total of 79 teachers) Global The Pink Ribbon Campaign The Pink Ribbon Campaign is a social contribution program jointly implemented by Kao Corporation, Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., and Kanebo Cosmetics Sales, Inc. since 2007. This is an awareness-raising campaign aimed at informing about the benefits of early breast cancer detection in the form of leaflets distributed to customers by the in-store Participants of presentation ceremony for the beauty advisers/counselors wearing pink ribbons for Kao's brands Sofina and est and Kanebo Kao Community Museum Program Cosmetics. Since fiscal 2009, we have implemented this campaign in the Kao Sofina and est sections in Shanghai and Hong Kong. Kao Group in Japan Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools in fiscal 2010 Launching Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools Start-up Kao supports the development of social entrepreneurs who attempt to solve social issues with Entrepreneurs in the phase of business approaches in order to pass a better society on to the next generation. To this end, Kao starting up a business launched Kao Social Entreprenurship Schools, a social entrepreneur development program, in ● Support for child raising and support for students studying while child raising fiscal 2010 in cooperation with Entrepreneurial Training for Innovative Communities. (ETIC.) and (Sourire Corporation) supported five entrepreneurs that work to help solve issues surrounding families in particular. ● Support for achieving a good balance between work and nursing care (NPO Quatre Leaf) ● Beauty support for improving the QOL of Global patients with cancer (Happy Beauty Project) Providing support for disaster relief efforts based Innovation on the Kao Group’s unified standards Entrepreneurs that attempt to create new social impacts In 2007, Kao established the Global Donation Guidelines to regulate donations for disaster relief among other things. Under the guidelines, donations can be given for disasters falling into one ● Independence support for children in welfare homes (NPO Bridge for Smile) of the following three categories: ● Support for work matching for single 1. In Japan, major disasters for which a Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters is established mothers (NPO Wink) by local governmental authorities; 2. In other countries, disasters that occur in the countries and regions where Kao Group companies are located, and for which assistance is needed; or 3. Large-scale disasters that occur in the rest of the world For disasters that occur in Japan, our basic response is to provide donations in the form of Kao products that are needed by people affected. In consultation with Disaster Countermeasures Headquarters, Kao provides products needed as quickly as possible. 49 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 C o l u m n Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 3 Co-existence with local communities Kao aims to be an essential partner for local communities. Takuo Goto Representative Director Senior Executive Vice President Kao Corporation In 1964, Kao established its first overseas manufacturing business environment, triggered by events such as the base in Thailand. Since then, we have conducted soaring prices of coconut oil due to the drought in 1983. overseas business in accordance with the following three However, Kao made a business judgment that PKI would guiding principles: (1) Contribute to the economic develmaintain full operations of fatty alcohol production and opment of the country and the improvement of the Kao Japan would reduce production of the same in people's lives through our business; (2) Transfer the most order to maintain the employment situation at PKI’s advanced technology to the partner country and contribplant. Because we thought it would demonstrate Kao’s ute to the improvement of their technological level and solidarity. Consequently, we were able to win the trust, the promotion of their industry; and (3) Reinvest as much not only of PKI employees and their families, but also of as possible of the profit earned in a partner country in that Aboitiz & Co., Inc., the joint venture partner of the time, country. In addition, we have always considered the and the Philippines Government. impacts of our production activities on local communities In the future, we will use resources carefully with the in terms of employment, safety and disaster prevention minimum of waste, promote production activities that place and environmental conservation as well as our social less burden on the environment, and generously transfer responsibility, and we have earnestly strived to live in our technologies and know-how of developing/manuharmony with local communities. facturing products to our overseas subsidiaries to contribIn 1979, we established Philipinas Kao, Incorpoute to the development of people working at the plants and rated (PKI) in the Philippines, the world’s No.1 coconut their local communities. Kao aims to be an essential partner oil producer. Here we experience a major shift in the for local communities. Provision of employment opportunities and improvement of the lives of local people [Philippines] Support for employee shuttle bus service Support for dental and medical checkups The plant of Pilipinas Kao, Inc. (PKI) is located 35 kilometers Pilipinas Kao, Inc. (PKI) has implemented free dental and mediaway from the city of Cagayan de Oro where many employees cal checkups for residents in the immediate area of its plant live and is not readily accessible via public transportation. since 2008. PKI requests the government to send volunteer Therefore, the company provides a shuttle bus ser vice for dentists and doctors and provides medical products including employees, making their commute more convenient and comantibiotics and cold medicines. PKI employees participate as fortable. This service is operated by a cooperative union that is volunteers and distribute medical products under the supervimanaged by employees in order to help employees live a better sion of employees who have a license to work as a pharmacist. life. This service has not only achieved a high degree of satisThey also support clerical work. In 2010, about 700 people faction among users, but has also led to the creation of new received checkups. jobs by hiring local residents as shuttle bus drivers. Volunteers from PKI and local administrative staff Medical checkups for children A PKI employee serves as an assistant during a dental checkup. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 50 C o l u m n Supporting the good health of Asian women [Countries and regions in Asia] Since 1978 when it first launched its sanitar y products, Kao has provided various kinds of support to pre-pubescent girls, their parents, and elementary schools so that they will readily face their first menstrual cycle with confidence based on correct knowledge. This activity has grown not only in Japan but also in other Asian countries, and Kao contributes to women’ s health by providing menstruation education in cooperation with local elementary and junior high schools. Vietnam In cooperation with local hospitals, Kao Vietnam Co., Ltd. provides a workshop program for young female students so they may experience their first menstrual period without anxiet y. The program incorporates advice from doctors and psychologists, games, an explanation on sanitary napkins and other elements. In 2010, 9,500 students participated in the workshop. Advice from doctors It is often the case that menstruation education programs implemented by the Vietnamese educational administration targets students who have already had their first period, and information sources including the Internet and word of mouth sometimes provide inaccurate information about menstruation. Thus, the program targeting female students who have not yet had their first period that is implemented by Kao Vietnam at elementary and junior high schools in Ho Chi Minh City has received praise from school officials. The program is also highly evaluated because it provides not only the opportunity for menstruation education but also an opportunity for students to come together outside regular school curriculum. Explanation on sanitary napkins Indonesia In Indonesia, local governments only provide menstruation education programs in some private schools. P.T. Kao Indonesia has provided menstruation education targeting second-year junior high school students in cooperation with NPOs since 2000, an explanation of menstruation using educational materials, including menstruation calendars. In 2010, we implemented the program at about 2,200 schools with the participation of about 240,000 people. Menstruation education using video Thailand Malaysia Hong Kong Kao Commercial (Thailand) Co., Ltd. has Kao (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. has provided Kao (Hong Kong) Ltd. has implemented implemented menstruation education educational posters and learning materimenstruation education for more than mainly in local women’ s schools since als on menstruation to local junior high five years. In cooperation with other 1997; a total of one million people have schools since 1992. At present, dedicompanies, we send nurses to schools participated thus far. We provide inforcated employees do the rounds of about to deliver lectures on menstruation and mation on the menstruation cycle 200 schools per year. provide pamphlets on menstruation. In through the use of le af let s, v ide os, 2010, we implemented the program at games,and we have received very favor145 schools. We have provided this eduable feedback on this program. c ation program at more than 70 0 schools thus far. Explanation of the menstruation cycle Students listening to a presentation given by Students holding pamphlets a Kao employee 51 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Kao Sustainability Report 2011 Basic CSR 3 Environmental Activities Kao Yoki-Monozukuri Story The important thing is that use of Kao‘s products is itself a positive ecological action. In the 1960s, a period of high economic growth, contamination of rivers due to domestic wastewater became a social problem in Japan. At that time, phosphorus was added to detergents to increase their cleansing power, but this led to the eutrophic ation of rivers. Kao responded by promoting a range of environmental pollution control measures, including the development of non-phosphorus detergents. Kao also made efforts to improve the functions of detergents, such as cleansing power, and attempted to balance this improved performance with a reduction in the environmental impact. This attitude is still alive at Kao today, and we are promoting the development of products that will satisfy consumers and whose use will automatically lead to environmental conservation. “Non-phosphorus Zav Enzyme” launched in 1981 CONTENTS Product Life Cycle and Environmental Impact ........... 53 Global Warming Prevention ....................................... 55 Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances ... 57 Optimum Management of Waste Materials ............... 59 Other Environmental Commitments .......................... 60 Measures for Biodiversity .......................................... 61 Environmental Communication ................................. 63 Environmental Accounting ........................................ 65 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 52 Environmental Activities Product Life Cycle and Environmental Impact Minimizing environmental impact across the product life cycle Kao has long been actively working to reduce its environmental impact in every aspect of its business in order to realize a sustainable planet and society. Kao‘s efforts cover not only production, where the streamlining of production processes and other energy-saving efforts, as well as recycling of waste, are promoted, but also office operations and logistics. Kao Group in Japan Fiscal 2010 business operations and environmental impact *1 Kao Corporation only Procurement of raw materials *2 Kao Corporation only INPUT OUTPUT *3 Raw materials 864,000 tons CO 2 emissions 384,000 tons *3 All plants of the Kao Group in Japan are Containers and SOx emissions 27 tons covered. Energy figures include all energy packaging NOx emissions 358 tons used at offices and other non-production materials*1 146,000 tons Chemical substances facilities as well as in relation to waste. Recycled amount 89,000 tons discharged 2 tons CO2*2 1,693,000 tons (substances subject to the PRTR Law) *4 All business sites of the Kao Group companies in Japan (including training Product development/Production Wastewater centers and dormitories) are covered. Total production: 1,603,000 tons discharged 8,907,000 tons INPUT COD emissions 64 tons Energy consumption 214,000 kl *5 Estimates for CO2, SOx and NOx Waste discharged 31,000 tons emissions derived from traffic volume of (Crude oil equivalent) Final disposal consumer products (from a plant to a Water consumed 11,328,000 tons amount of waste 53 tons distribution hub), industrial products, raw materials, etc. Offices/Sales OUTPUT *4 (facilities and INPUT vehicles used for sales) CO 2 emissions 41,000 tons Wastewater Energy consumption 23,000 kl (Crude oil equivalent) discharged 273,000 tons Waste discharged 23,000 tons Water consumed 289,000 tons Final disposal amount of waste 140 tons Distribution (product transportation) OUTPUT *5 INPUT CO2 emissions 88,000 tons Energy consumption SOx emissions 167 tons (Crude oil equivalent) 34,000 kl NOx emissions 569 tons Use OUTPUT INPUT CO2 *2 3,304,000 tons Water*2 2,075,000,000 tons Wastewater discharged *2 2,075,000,000 tons OUTPUT Disposal CO2 *2 1,078,000 tons Container and packaging materials*1 75,000 tons Plastic 54,000 tons Paper 19,000 tons Metal/Glass 2,000 tons INPUT OUTPUT Raw materials CO2 emissions The amount of raw materials directly used to manufacture products Amount (CO2 equivalent) of greenhouse gas (the six gases specified in (excluding containers and packaging materials and fuel) the Kyoto Protocol) emissions generated from business activities SOx emissions Containers and packaging materials Total amount of SOx emissions from smoke-and-soot-emitting facilities Total amount of cardboard, containers and packaging materials used for and transportation products sold NOx emissions Total amount of NOx emissions from smoke-and-soot-emitting facilities Recycled amount and transportation Of the waste generated from production and research activities, the Chemical substances discharged amount that is recycled within Kao Amount of substances subject to the PRTR Law discharged into the air Energy consumption (product development and production) and public water Amount of energy consumed at production sites Wastewater discharged Sum of wastewater discharged from production plants, distribution and Energy consumption (distribution and sales sales offices and the water consumed in use of consumer products (facilities and vehicles used for sales)) COD emissions Amount of energy consumed at offices and other facilities and for Amount of COD contained in wastewater vehicles (used for sales activities) in the distribution and sales divisions Waste discharged and final disposal amount of waste Energy consumption (distribution and sales Amount of waste from production sites, distribution and sales offices, and other facilities that is sold or entrusted as waste or recyclable materials to (product transportation)) waste treatment companies, and the amount of waste put for final disposal Amount of energy consumed as calculated from traffic volume of consumer and industrial products, raw materials, etc. CO2 emissions Emissions from consuming energy and those upon decomposition of Water consumption ingredients Industrial water, tap water and well water consumed Containers and packaging materials Total amount of containers and packaging materials (excluding cardboard) used for products sold 53 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Goals Fiscal 2010 results and targets for the future (Responsible Care Activities) *6 More rigorous targets were set in In fiscal 2010, Kao was not able to meet its targets set for CSR procurement, for which it expanded fiscal 2008. the scope in fiscal 2008, although its results improved compared with the previous year. Kao will continue its supplier monitoring activities started in fiscal 2009 and visit and inspect suppliers *7 Basic unit index whose environmental efforts have fallen short of its expectations, so as to promote CSR Amount per unit of value-added production output. Under the index, the procurement. As for other priority objectives, all were successfully achieved. fiscal 1990 value is defined as 100. Since fiscal 2010 was the last year of Kao’ s current medium-term plan, Kao set new fiscal “Value-added production output” is the 2015 targets aligned with the 2020 Medium-term objectives stipulated in the Environmental amount that can be obtained by Statement to ensure that Kao can achieve progress in its environmental protection activities. deducting the variable manufacturing cost from the production output on the basis of selling price. Environmental activity targets and results (fiscal 2010) *8 Transportation fuel Priority objective Relevant division Fiscal 2010 targets Fiscal 2010 results consumption in the basic unit Reduce total energy consumption Transportation fuel consumption per unit Production sites Achieved 59 to 62*6 in the basic unit index*7 of volume of sales Energy conservation Other than Reduce energy consumption by 3% from Achieved Reduced by *9 GHG emissions production sites the fiscal 2007 level 10% Production & CO2 equivalent emissions of six Reduction of Reduce transportation fuel consumption greenhouse gases (GHG) specified in the Engineering Division, Reduced by transportation in the basic unit*8 by 4% from Achieved Logistics Division and 7% Kyoto Protocol fuel consumption the fiscal 2006 level Chemicals Reduce GHG emission*9 to 56*6 in the basic unit index Achieved 51 *10 VOC (Volatile Organic Compounds) Production sites Reduce GHG emissions to 86 Global warming Achieved 74 Abbreviation of Volatile Organic prevention (fiscal 1990 level = 100) Compounds. Kao defines the 100 Other than Reduce GHG emissions by 3% Reduced by substances listed in the Exhibit 1 of the Achieved production sites from the fiscal 2007 level 17% Notice of the Director-General, Reduction of chemical Maximum Environmental Management Bureau, Maintain discharge volume of Ministry of the Environment, Japan (June substances discharged emissions each substance Achieved 17, 2005) as VOC. Chemical substances were Production sites from respective plants at 1 ton or less subject to the PRTR Law 0.6 tons Reduce amount of each substance discharged Maximum *11 CSR procurement VOC*10 substances Achieved emissions from respective plants at 1 ton or less were 1 ton Procurement practice that gives Reduce final disposal amount to 150 tons or less preference to suppliers that give 53 tons and lower the final disposal rate to 0.1% or less Achieved consideration to their responsibilities to 0.04% Waste material reduction Production sites (total of waste from all production sites) the environment and society. The green Reduce waste generation per unit production Reduced by procurement ratio refers to the ratio of Achieved plants that operate environmental by 0.5% from fiscal 2009 level 2.0% management systems at suppliers’ sites CSR procurement*11 Kao 100% (green procurement ratio) Not achieved 99% covered by the environmental protection investigation. Kao began investigating equipment suppliers in fiscal 2008. Environmental activity targets (fiscal 2011 and 2015) *12 Per unit Priority objective Index Relevant division Fiscal 2011 targets Fiscal 2015 targets Calculated by dividing the amount of Reduce by 45% from waste generated by the sum of the total Per unit value added the fiscal 1990 level amount of production at production sites Production sites and the total volume of sales during Reduce by 15% from Emissions the fiscal 1990 level distribution and multiplying by 100. Global warming Head Office, Reduce emissions by 22% prevention sales locations and Reduce by 16% from from the fiscal 1990 level Emissions distribution centers the fiscal 1990 level (facilities and vehicles used for sales) Reduce by 16% from Per unit of volume of sales Product transportation the fiscal 1990 level Maintain the final disposal Maintain the final disposal Production sites and rate at 0.1% or less rate at 0.1% or less distribution centers Final disposal amount 215 tons or less 150 tons or less Waste material Head Office, 72 tons or less 40 tons or less reduction sales locations Per unit*12 Production sites and Reduce by 10% from Reduce by 15% from Amount distribution centers the fiscal 2005 level the fiscal 2005 level generated Absolute Head Office, Reduce by 8% from Reduce by 25% from amount sales locations the fiscal 2009 level the fiscal 2009 level Kao 100% Global warming prevention Biodiversity conservation CSR Green procurement ratio Add process safety and procurement Kanebo Cosmetics Initiate activities disaster prevention as an additional focal point Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 54 Environmental Activities Global Warming Prevention Reducing CO2 emissions in all processes Kao is working on energy conservation in all its activities including production, distribution, and office work. Kao Group in Japan Promoting the introduction of energy-efficient equipment and Changes in energy consumption (thousand kl) Basic unit index streamlining of manufacturing processes 100 500 100 Kao has been promoting the switch from absorption chillers to turbo refrigerators, and in fiscal 2010 400 69 80 completed replacement at the Kawasaki Plant. As part of various other projects that Kao has 65 64 61 59 embarked on, heat pumps that are capable of boiling water using heat in the air were introduced 60 300 18 26 into water sterilizing and heating facilities at the Sumida Complex in fiscal 2010. 25 23 23 Kao is also working to reduce the use of steam and compressed air, which account for a large 200 40 share of energy consumption. As for steam, in addition to expediting the switch to high-efficiency boilers, we are closely monitoring the conditions of steam traps, and promoting the rational use of steam through such means as recovering heat from used steam. With regard to compressed air, we 100 20 have been improving operational efficiency by streamlining processes and minimizing the number 255 255 251 240 223 214 of compressors used. 0 0 These efforts resulted in a reduction of total energy consumption of 8,000 kl in crude oil 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Production sites Non-production sites equivalent from the previous year at production sites. In terms of energy consumption in the basic Basic unit index unit index, it improved by two points on a year-on-year basis, and by 41 points in comparison with * For values in the basic unit index, production sites fiscal 1990, far exceeding the target set by the Japan Chemical Industry Association (20 point data is used for calculation to ensure data continuity from past years. improvement from fiscal 1990). Changes in GHG emissions (thousand-tons-CO2) Basic unit index 1,000 100 100 Kao Group in Japan 80 Reducing environmental impact at offices 750 64 60 61 54 60 49 51 35 50 Kao is taking part in the nationwide Challenge 25 Campaign, and working to reduce CO 2 emissions 500 42 41 at offices as well. 40 In addition to starting the Cool Biz and Warm Biz campaigns in 2005, we have also reduced the number of available elevators, except during morning rush hours, introduced the Building Energy 250 20 Management System (BEMS) to monitor and eliminate any waste of energy, and conducted various 522 485 478 469 404 384 other activities since fiscal 2010 to minimize environmental impact. 0 0 As a result of these activities, electricity consumption at all offices in fiscal 2010 fell by 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 1,899 thousand kWh (10.5%) from fiscal 2004 (before we began these activities). Including town Production sites Non-production sites gas used for air conditioning, we achieved a reduction of 548 kl in crude oil equivalent or 1,706 tons Basic unit index in CO2. *For values in the unit value added index, production site data is used for calculation to ensure data continuity from past years. Kao Group in Japan *1 Reallocation Reallocation means using several plants to produce products. Production at a Reducing environmental impact in distribution location close to the point of consumption results in shortened To lessen the environmental impact in distribution, Kao is establishing and operating efficient transportation distance. systems, promoting a modal shift and cooperative transport with other companies. In fiscal 2010, in the area of transportation of consumer and chemical products, Kao Changes in CO2 emissions from endeavored to shorten the transport distance through reallocation *1 of production facilities and transportation direct shipping of products, use larger shipment containers, and improve loading ratios. In addition, (thousand-tons-CO2) Kao’ s efforts towards a modal shift contributed to the Kawasaki Plant and the Ehime Sanitary 100 97 97 94 Products Company having been authorized by the government to display the Eco-Ship Mark, the 88 88 symbol of eco-friendly logistics business. 80 Kao Logistics Co., Ltd. continues to urge its staff to practice environmentally friendly driving techniques using drive recorders and is actively introducing hybrid vehicles. In the meantime, Kao 60 Logistics cooperates with Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. to review the ordering units of its business partners as well as the frequency of delivery and also aims to improve loading ratios in 40 delivery through cooperative efforts with other companies. Despite these efforts, however, energy used in transportation per basic unit fell by only 0.3% 20 from fiscal 2009 because energy consumption increased as the percentage of hired vehicles used in delivery operations increased. However, Kao achieved a 7% reduction in the energy used in trans0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) portation (per basic unit) compared with fiscal 2006, and the target (a 4% reduction) was achieved. *CO2 emissions were calculated using the emission Kao will make further efforts to increase the efficiency of transportation. coefﬁcients deﬁned by the Ministerial Ordinance based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures and emission coefﬁcients speciﬁed in the Calculation and Reporting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Ministry of the Environment; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). 55 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Kao Group overseas Activities at overseas production sites (China) Changes in CO2 emissions from Kao Corporation Shanghai is committed to minimizing its environmental impact from various overseas production sites Reduction rate of CO2 aspects, including the reduction of CO2 emissions, water consumption, and waste generated. As (thousand-tons-CO2) emissions per unit production (%) regards CO 2 emissions, the company replaced all fluorescent 600 –9.1 0 0 –1.8 lights used within its plant with LED lights, while actively –2.8 –5.5 –3.9 promoting exhaust heat recovery. Furthermore, some outdoor 500 –20 lights were replaced by photovoltaic (PV)-powered lights, utilizing 400 the government’s energy conservation subsidy program. –40 These efforts resulted in a 32% reduction of CO2 emissions 300 per unit of production from 2005. The company will continue its –60 468 467 521 511 503 538 commitment to further reducing its environmental impact. 200 Newly introduced solar-powered street –80 lights 100 0 –100 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (Year) CO2 emissions Reduction rate of CO2 emissions per unit production Global *Domestic production sites (21 plants) are covered. Selected as a leading company in information disclosure in the CDP 2010 report The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an initiative organized by a London-based nonprofit organization representing more than 500 institutional investors. The organization encourages 1,800 companies throughout the world to report their climate change strategies and GHG emissions. Kao has continued to report its related data since the first reporting in 2003 and was selected as a leading carbon disclosure company in 2008 and 2009. In fiscal 2010, Kao was named again as one of the most advanced Japanese companies in terms of information disclosure. This honor shows that environmental protection activities performed by Kao worldwide have been recognized as effective even from the viewpoint of social responsibility investment (SRI). In addition, because activities related to climate change need to be managed across the entire supply chain, we have also been participating in the CDP Supply Chain Project since 2008, and monitoring the climate change strategies of our suppliers. Kao Group in Japan Installation of a second solar panel system at a distribution center As part of its Environmental Statement published in June 2009, Kao has been working to create even more environmentally friendly distribution centers and delivery systems. We have recently installed a second solar panel system at the Sumida Logistics Center (Kanegafuchi, Sumida-ku, Tokyo). The total capacity of the first and second solar panel systems is 197 kW, and it is expected these will be capable of meeting 15% of the center’ s energy demands. We will continue to actively introduce renewable energy systems and take other environThe second solar panel system mental measures as a top priority. installed at the center Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 56 Environmental Activities Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances Promoting chemical substance management on a global scale Kao has developed its own information management system to ensure the high quality and safety of chemical substances used. Policies/goals/structure Since 2001 Kao has been operating the Comprehensive Management System for Chemicals, a database of products, materials, and ingredients, each of which is given a common group-wide code. This system allows us to check safety, antiseptic qualities, related regulations and laws, and other information instantly for each product, material and ingredient group. Therefore, should a problem occur with quality or other matter, its potential affected area can be identified immediately to enable us to take quick countermeasures. The data stored in the system is shared among and utilized by the purchasing, R&D, production, quality assurance, environment and safety, and other divisions, functioning as the backbone of “Yoki-Monozukuri.” In fiscal 2010, Kao pushed forward the development of a system to centrally manage data on substances, such as the volume of production and import and usages within and outside the company, as a means of facilitating the compliance with the amended Chemical Substance Control Law (Japan). As part of this effort, in May 2011, Kao put into operation a system to automatically track the volume of substances used for each usage. Kao will continue to enhance the Comprehensive Management System for Chemicals, and fully utilize this system for speedy global monitoring of regulatory compliance, maintenance of material traceability, and risk assessments for each usage, so as to produce even safer products that people can use with peace of mind. Integrated chemical substance management the organization Materials suppliers Kao Group Users/customers Product development in consideration of quality, safety, and the environment (Material selection; formulation design; production management; Delivery of materials quality control; legal compliance; etc.) Delivery of products Procurement R&D Production Quality assurance Certificate of Product Product specifications Specification (CPS) Material Safety Data Sheet Comprehensive Management System for Chemicals Material Safety Data (MSDS) Sheet (MSDS) Substances used for products; regulation; quality; safety control Certificate of Analysis Certificate of Analysis (COA), etc. (COA), etc. As required: As required: Environmental safety data aggregation Product safety documents MSDSplus Substances subject to the PRTR Law; volatile organic compound (VOC); MSDSplus Certificate of regulatory toxic and deleterious substances; etc. Certificate of regulatory compliance, etc. compliance, etc. Kao Group overseas Meeting the REACH chemical regulation in the EU *1 REACH Kao has introduced the substance volume tracking system linked with the Comprehensive ManRegistration, Evaluation, Authorization agement System for Chemicals as part of its efforts to meet REACH*1 , a chemical regulation and Restriction of Chemicals, an EU enforced in the European Union (EU). framework Of substances manufactured or imported by Kao’ s affiliates in the EU and substances indirectly exported to the EU through customers, the substances that Kao is required to report under REACH were all pre-registered in 2008. As the next step, Kao also completed registration procedures for Phase 1 substances (mainly substances produced or imported in volumes of 1,000 tons or more per year in the EU) by the deadline of the end of November 2010. Kao will proceed to register Phase 2 substances (substances produced or imported in volumes of 100 to 1,000 tons per year) by the end of May 2013, and Phase 3 substances (substances produced or imported in volumes of 100 tons or less per year) by the end of May 2018, after selecting substances to be registered by taking global business conditions and the future needs for substances into consideration. 57 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Global Reinforcement of information management of chemicals For chemical products, Kao has systems to prepare and provide, in collaboration with overseas *2 GHS affiliates, multilingual GHS*2-compliant MSDS, product labels, and labels in the format prescribed （Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals） by each export destination country. In fiscal 2010, Kao started the issuance of GHS-compliant MSDS and GHS product labeling for An internationally agreed-upon system for single substance products exported to Korea, China, and EU as it had previously done for products classification of chemicals according to exported to Taiwan. In addition, as a foundation member of the Joint Article Management the type and level of hazard, Promotion-consortium (JAMP)*3, Kao has been actively involved in the creation of the framework easy-to-understand labeling of for MSDSplus*4, and during fiscal 2010, issued MSDSplus Ver. 3.1 in April 2010, followed soon by information on chemicals, and Ver. 3.1b in January 2011. These revised versions of MSDSplus were distributed to customers preparation of MSDS. The system has through sales distributors. In November 2010, MSDSplus data began to be offered on JAMP-IT*5 been implemented in Japan since 2006, as well to realize faster information sharing. as well as in Taiwan, China, South Korea, Singapore, and EU countries. *3 JAMP (Joint Article Management Kao Group in Japan Promotion-consortium) An initiative established in September Promotion of consolidated management of packaging materials information 2006 to promote cross-industrial activities to appropriately manage information on Kao has been working to closely track information on chemical substances contained in packaging chemical substances contained in materials used for chemical products. As part of these efforts, in fiscal 2010, Kao met suppliers in components and other articles, and Tokyo and Wakayama to explain the company’s commitment in this area. smoothly disclose and share such During the meetings, Kao explained international trends on chemicals management, as well as information across the supply chain the importance of sharing information on contained chemical substances throughout the supply chain. Kao then requested the suppliers to provide information using the Article Information Sheet *4 MSDSplus (AIS)*6. Kao will continue to tighten its control over chemicals in close cooperation with suppliers. A sheet to transmit information on specific chemical substances *5 JAMP-IT IT infrastructure developed to facilitate Kao Group in Japan communication of information on contained chemical substances across Reduction of emissions of chemical substances subject the supply chain to the PRTR Law The number of chemical substances subject to the revised PRTR Law which Kao handled during fiscal 2010 was 75, and the total discharge of the substances into the air and public water was 1.7 tons. In terms of substances subject to the PRTR Law prior to revision, the number of substances handled and their total discharge into the air and public water were 49 substances and 1.4 tons, respectively. In either case, Kao achieved the target of “maintaining annual emissions of each chemical substance from respective plants at 1 ton or less.” Meeting participants listen attentively to Kao’s explanations (Tokyo). *6 AIS Kao Group in Japan (Article Information Sheet) A sheet created by JAMP to transmit information on materials used for articles Management of VOC emissions based on voluntary activity goals Kao has no facilities subject to the VOC emission regulations provided by the Air Pollution Control Act. However, we set independent, voluntary activity goals for each fiscal year to cut VOC emissions. For details In fiscal 2010, Kao surveyed the 100 VOC substances defined in the Notice of the Director http://www.kao.com/jp/en/corp_csr/eco_activities_02_08.html General of the Environmental Management Bureau, Ministry of the Environment. The total “List of Emissions of Substances Subject discharge into the air was 8 tons, meaning Kao achieved the target of “maintaining annual emisto PRTR Law” sions of each substance from respective plants at 1 ton or less.” Kao Group in Japan Proper storage and disposal of PCBs Transformers and other equipment that use polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) as insulating oil are under strict control at the Wakayama, Tokyo and Kawasaki plants and Kanebo Cosmetics’ Odawara Plant. PCB wastes registered with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), an organization to which Kao entrusts PCB waste treatment, are undergoing disposal processing. In fiscal 2010, 32 units of equipment (1.8 tons in total) were transported to JESCO’s PCB treatment facilities. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 58 Environmental Activities Optimum Management of Waste Materials Working toward the realization of a recycling-based society Kao is working to reduce waste and ensure it is appropriately disposed of across the supply chain to minimize the environmental impact of its business activities. Changes in waste amounts Kao Group in Japan (thousand tons) 180 27 Efforts toward zero emissions 20 25 160 24 23 140 120 Kao places importance on the 3Rs in the order of reduce, reuse, and recycle, and based on this 104 policy is carrying out various projects to minimize the generation of waste and reduce the final 100 139 138 132 125 121 waste disposal rate to close to zero as part of its efforts to create a recycling-based society. 80 Although we already achieved our target for fiscal 2010, ahead of schedule, during fiscal 2009 to 60 20 27 25 24 23 reduce the final disposal volume and the final disposal rate*1 at production sites to 150 tons or less 40 35 and 0.1% or less, respectively, we worked even more vigorously in fiscal 2010 and reduced the 20.5 final disposal volume to 53 tons and the final disposal rate to 0.04%. Waste generation per unit of 20 35 34 30 32 31 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 production output*2 also decreased to 98.0% of the previous year, achieving the target of 99.5% 0 or less. 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Production sites Generated amount We intend to enhance our zero emission activities by covering non-production sites and Non-production sites Generated amount logistics, imposing even more thorough separation of waste and reviewing waste-disposal comProduction sites Discharged amount Non-production sites Discharged amount panies we contract to. Final disposal amount *Data for ofﬁces and other non-production sites has been added. *1 Final disposal rate Kao Group in Japan Final disposal amount ÷ Amount of waste generated × 100. At Kao, zero emissions is defined as a final disposal rate of 0.1% or less. Waste reduction efforts at Ehime Sanitary Products *2 Waste generation per unit of production output Kao is striving to minimize waste through such projects as the reduction of wastewater and Amount of waste generated per total production waste liquid from production sites, formulation of more detailed production plans, and replacement of package and container materials used for transporting products and raw materials Amount of waste generated and with reusable ones. treatment flow (fiscal 2010) In fiscal 2010, at Ehime Sanitary Products, a Kao affiliate, waste that can be reused as raw (thousand tons) materials and other waste generated during the production processes, which were incinerated in Amount of waste generated*3 (143.7) the past, were sold as valuable resources, such as materials to make solid fuel, for sales or recycled at waste-disposal companies to reduce waste, which resulted in the decommission of the incinRecycled amount*4 (89.4) erator. Kao will continue its efforts to reduce waste in cooperation with suppliers while ensuring that waste is treated appropriately in consideration of the qualities of each substance. Amount of reduction*5 (0.2) Amount of waste discharged*6 (54.1) Amount of reduction*5 (3.4) Kao Group in Japan Amount of waste recycled externally*7 (50.5) Waste and recycling governance Final disposal amount*8 (0.2) *3 Amount of waste generated Kao has developed the Waste and Recycling Governance System for integrated management of Undesirable substances and defective contracts with waste-disposal companies, the industrial waste manifest system, numerical data, products generated during the production stage (including valuable resources such as and results of disposal inspections. This system is compatible with the electronic manifest system, used paper and metals, and items that can which Kao is currently introducing to its Group companies to enhance legal compliance and transbe used at other plants) parency. The electronic manifest system, which had already been introduced to the Sakata, *4 Recycled amount Kawasaki and Tochigi plants, was put into operation at the Wakayama Plant in fiscal 2010. Waste that is reused or recycled at plants Kao has periodically inspected treatment sites of waste-disposal companies it is in partnership (including thermal recycling) for many years. In addition to these waste-disposal companies, in fiscal 2010, Kao started *5 Amount of reduction inspecting its outsourced manufacturers to ensure that waste generated at these manufacturers in Amount of waste reduced by dehydration, connection with Kao’ s business is treated appropriately. Kao will continue to reinforce its manconcentration, shredding and incineration agement of waste treatment in collaboration with suppliers across the supply chain. *6 Amount of waste discharged Undesirable substances and defective products, incinerated ash, used paper and metals that are removed from plants *7 Amount of waste recycled externally Waste that is recyclable or becomes usable as a resource after treatment (including thermal recycling) *8 Final disposal amount Waste that cannot be used in any way and is safely buried in landfill sites 59 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Environmental Activities Other Environmental Commitments Promoting environmental conservation activities to reduce our environmental impact Kao is actively promoting effective utilization of water resources, countermeasures against soil contamination, and various other environmental conservation activities. Kao Group in Japan Effective utilization of water resources and wastewater control Changes in volume of water consumed Each of Kao’ s plants uses water as a product ingredient, as well as to clean and cool equipment. (thousand tons) Basic unit index We promote effective use of water resources at some plants by recycling water that has been 20,000 100 100 used for cleaning. The Sumida Complex also collects rainwater and uses it to water green spaces. 18,000 90 The amount of water consumption and the wastewater in fiscal 2010 decreased by 825,000 tons 81 79 78 16,000 75 80 and 764,000 tons, respectively, compared with the previous year. These reductions were largely 71 113 297 14,000 70 attributed to the increased efficiency in the use of water to cool equipment at the Wakayama Plant. 279 277 12,000 289 60 10,000 50 Kao Group in Japan 8,000 40 6,000 30 Compliance with wastewater and emissions standards 4,000 11,173 13,356 13,479 12,887 12,166 11,328 20 2,000 10 0 0 In February 2011, n-Hexane extracts in wastewater from the Sumida Complex exceeded regu1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) latory limits due to equipment failure. SOx emissions form the Kawasaki Plant temporarily Production sites Non-production sites exceeded regulatory limits in September 2010. Basic unit index In both cases, Kao reported the incidents to the relevant authorities, improved the facilities * For values in the unit value added index, production and strengthened their management to prevent any further occurrence. site data is used for calculation to ensure data continuity from past years. Kao Group in Japan Changes in the volume of wastewater (thousand tons) Basic unit index Investigation and measurement of groundwater and 20,000 100 100 soil contamination 18,000 90 16,000 74 74 80 71 68 14,000 70 In light of its history of use of chemical substances, Kao measures the levels of substances regu63 12,000 60 lated by environmental standards in groundwater within the premises of each plant every year. 113 297 266 261 In fiscal 2010, voluntary investigations were conducted at the Wakayama, Sakata and Tochigi 10,000 273 50 plants, and it was confirmed that levels of all substances were below their regulatory limit values 8,000 40 across all the test items. 6,000 30 At the Kawasaki Plant, we conducted investigations of soil contamination caused by our 4,000 20 business activities according to the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and local ordi2,000 9,821 10,708 11,017 10,241 9,682 8,907 10 nances. No pollution was observed in any of the test items. 0 0 1990 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Production sites Non-production sites Basic unit index Kao Group in Japan * For values in the unit value added index, production site data is used for calculation to ensure data Environmental impact of discharged wastewater after product use continuity from past years. Organic subtances contained in domestic wastewater are decomposed either at wastewater *9 According to the Fiscal 2010 treatment facilities or by micro-organisms in rivers, before being returned to the natural system of Environmental Year Book Vol. 35, rivers, lakes, oceans, etc. Given this, Kao has defined its basic policy for environmentally conscious JSDA design as “promoting the lowering of environmental impacts throughout the entire life cycle of products.” Based on this policy, we endeavor to use raw materials that are easily biodegraded by micro-organisms and have less impact on the ecological system. At the same time, Kao pays attention to identifying actual impacts of products after consumers' use on the natural environment such as rivers. Kao is also taking part in environmental monitoring surveys on surfactants conducted by the Environmental Safety Technical Subcommittee of the Japan Soap and Detergent Association (JSDA). Specifically, we measure concentrations of the four surfactants, such as LAS contained in products, in four major rivers flowing in urban areas four times a year. We then assess the environmental risks of the surfactants on the ecological system. The results of the surveys have revealed that the risks these surfactants pose to aquatic organisms are not high*9. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 60 Environmental Activities Measures for Biodiversity Aiding biodiversity conservation in cooperation with society Kao constantly monitors the impact of its business activities on biodiversity, and works to preserve ecosystems around the world through various projects. Policies For details Kao’s Challenge toward Kao’ s products benefit from biodiversity throughout their life cycle, including using palm and “Yoki-Monozukuri” 2 coconut oil as their major materials, while, at the same time, having impacts on it. (Biodiversity) on page 17 At Kao, in-house personnel and outside experts have had discussions on what the company should do to minimize its impact on and conserve biodiversity. Taking into account the results of these discussions, as well as risks and issues identified through interviews and workshops with the staff of concerned divisions, Kao established the Basic Policies on Conservation of Biodiversity and published it in April 2011. Based on the Basic Policies, Kao will continue to be actively engaged in conservation of biodiversity in its business activities, including the sustainable procurement of raw materials and the development of technologies that are instrumental in the minimization of impact on the ecological system. Kao will also work on the conservation of biodiversity through activities to contribute to society and cooperative activities with other companies. Kao Group in Japan Promoting collaboration with other companies *1 Japan Business Initiative for Kao has been a member of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB)*1 since the initiative Biodiversity (JBIB) was set up in 2008. At JBIB, Kao is involved in a wide range of activities with other companies, An initiative set up by private companies such as joint research in a working group (development of an evaluation tool to analyze the relain 2008 to proactively promote the tionship between corporate business activities and biodiversity) as well as giving lectures in conservation of biodiversity seminars hosted by JBIB. Kao Group in Japan Introduction of Kao’s activities at the Interactive Fair for Biodiversity *2 Interactive Fair for Biodiversity Kao introduced its commitments to biodiversity at the Interactive Fair for Biodiversity *2 held in conAn international publication and junction with the 10th meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological exhibition show with the theme of Diversity (COP 10 CBD) from October 23 to 29, 2010. In addition to the “Kao Environmental biodiversity held in conjunction with COP 10 in the Shiratori District, an area Statement,” Kao has highlighted its “ultra-concentrated laundry detergent for saving water,” “susadjacent to the venue of COP 10. More tainable procurement of raw materials,” “biodiversity support program: Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ than 200 organizations, including Fellowship program,” and other related activities at its booth. governments, local governments, Of all the visitors to Kao ‘s booth, we had the opportunity to have a face-to-face discussions citizens, nongovernmental and nonprofit with about 1,300 visitors, and explained our commitments. Particularly, with regard to Attack organizations, academic societies, and Neo, our ultra-concentrated liquid laundry detergent that helps save water, the visitors learned corporations from Japan and abroad, participated in the fair. how the product contributes to the conservation of biodiversity by cutting the amount of water used for rinsing. Sustainable raw materials attracted attention at Kao’s booth 61 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Kao Group in Japan “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” program Since fiscal 2000, Kao has been running a program called “Kao Creating Forests for Everyone” aimed at preserving the lush natural environments that exist in our surroundings and leaving them to future generations. The program, which is administered jointly by Kao and the Urban Green Space Development Foundation, gives support to NPOs and citizens’ organizations engaged in the protection and expansion of local green areas. In fiscal 2010, a symposium titled “10th Anniversary Forum: Forests as a Gift for Children” was organized as a commemorative event of the 10th anniversary of the program. Over these 10 years, 336 organizations were supported by the program, the activities covered a 3,035-hectare area of forests in total, and 171, 042 people took part in the activities. Foresting activities by Kakoiyama Mori-no-kai, an organization Kao is proud to support Kao Group in Japan Participation in “Enterprise Forest Project” Kao participates in the “Enterprise Forest Project,” which Wakayama Prefecture is currently working on. The project borrows forest resources from the owners (local governments and individuals) in the prefecture free of charge, and provides them for various environmental activities. In fiscal 2007, Kao borrowed a 0.7-hectare forest in Kimino Town, Kaiso District, and concluded an agreement to work on forestry preservation activities with Wakayama Prefecture and Kimino Town. In fiscal 2010, as in other years since 2007, more than 100 Kao employees and their families took part in the preservation activities in the forest, and carried out such work as weeding and cutting scrub with the support of local forestry associations. Kao employees and their families cutting underbrush Global Sponsoring “Forests for the Future Project in Thailand” Kao is a co-sponsor of the “Forests for the Future Project in Thailand,” a project organized by the Foundation for Global Peace and Environment in 2007 (co-organizer: United Nations Environment Programme [UNEP]). The objective of the project is to plant 500,000 trees in five years in Thailand. In December 2010, Kao received a certificate of appreciation and a plaque of recognition from the organizer during a commemoration ceremony of a tree-planting forum held at Sirindhorn International Environmental Park, located in Cha-am, Phetchaburi Province in southern Thailand. Following this ceremony, some 90 Kao Thailand employees and their families participated in the planting of mangroves in the park. Kao Industrial (Thailand) employees helped with planting. Kao Group overseas Mangrove regeneration in the Philippines Pilipinas Kao, Incorporated (PKI) launched a project to regenerate mangrove forests along the coastlines near its plant, and planted mangroves in collaboration with the Philippines’ Department of the Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) on World Wetlands Day in February 2010. Even after this event, employees of the subsidiary and others have continued with planting, and worked to protect and conserve the environment along the coastline. Thanks to these efforts, the mangroves are thriving. PKI received a plaque of appreciation from DENR for these activities in September 2010. Mangrove seedlings planted along the coast near PKI’s plant Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 62 Environmental Activities Environmental Communication Promoting environmental activities through communication Kao reflects the opinions of all stakeholders in its activities to maintain its ecology-centered management by utilizing various techniques and opportunities. Policies/goals * RPDCA Kao has set short-, mediumand long-term targets for environmental communication, placing utmost A management technique that adds R focus on on-going interactive communication with stakeholders while running the RPDCA* cycle. Our (research) to the widely-used P (plan) D short-term target is to gain stakeholders’ understanding of our environment statement “eco (do) C (check) A (act) cycle together,” and to meet this target, we are engaged in a wide range of activities mainly for communication with children and customers as well as for the education of employees. We regularly measure people’ s awareness and understanding level of “eco together,” and incorporate the results to environmental communication activities. As a mediumand long-term target, Kao aims to earn a reputation as an excellent company regarding the environment. Global Environmental and safety site reports issued by plants and affiliated companies Since fiscal 2005, Kao has issued environmental and safety site reports for affiliated companies and plants as a communication tool for obtaining the understanding of its stakeholders on the environmental conservation and safety activities of each plant and to gain feedback and insight to give direction to future activities. In fiscal 2010, the Kao Group ‘s eight plants in Japan produced Environmental and Safety Site Reports, which were distributed to local residents and plant tour participants. Kanebo Cosmetics also began publishing a report on its environmental activities from 2008, and this is available on its website. In overseas markets, Kao Chemicals Europe and Kao Corporation Shanghai also respectively began to issue a CSR Report and an Environmental Report from 2008. Environmental and Safety Site Report Kao Group in Japan A meeting for exchange on environment, safety, and disaster prevention issues Every year, the Sumida Complex hosts a meeting at which issues relating to the environment, safety and disaster prevention are discussed. This meeting provides local residents with an opportunity to become better acquainted with the Complex’ s activities for environmental conservation, safety and disaster prevention and serves as a forum for the exchange of opinions. The meeting held in March 2011 was attended by 17 representatives of six nearby neighborhood associations. The Kashima Plant also participated in a community dialogue meeting in the Kashima district, organized by the Japan Responsible Care Council. 63 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Kao Group in Japan Environmental education at schools and plants Kao dispatches its employees to schools to provide environmental classes as part of its efforts to raise the ecological awareness of consumers. In fiscal 2010, environmental lectures linked with Kao’s exhibition at Eco-Products 2010 were delivered at two high schools. In 2010, we also started a new program to provide an environmental lecture to school children who joined tours of the Kawasaki and Wakayama plants. This new program, a combination of a plant tour and an environmental lecture, proved to be very popular, and we will continue to offer such combination programs in the future. Children participate in an environmental lecture on eco-friendly detergents at the Kawasaki Plant. Kao Group in Japan Nationwide Environmental Fair Campaign As part of its environmental contributions, Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. (CMK) is working on the Environmental Fair Campaign in cooperation with retailers to offer information at the point of sale on how to reduce environmental impact and about Kao’ s eco-friendly products. The number of retailers taking part in this nationwide fair continues to increase, from 8,000 retailers in October 2010 to about 15,000 retailers in January 2011. The Environmental Fair in a selling space Kao Group in Japan Eco-Products 2010 Kao participated in the Eco-Products 2010 Exhibition held at the Tokyo Big Sight in December 2010. Featuring Attack Neo and water-saving shampooing techniques, Kao’s booth also introduced activities related to the 3Rs and the creation of containers and packaging using minimal resources, as well as eco-chemical products that support industry efforts to reduce CO2 emissions and recycle resources. In addition to these displays, Kao also demonstrated simple experiments and conducted mini-lectures and quizzes, attracting many visitors. More than 12,000 children and adults visited Kao’s booth during the three days of the exhibition. Kao will continue to propose easy-to-do eco-friendly activities through fun-filled environmental education programs. Kao’s booth was popular among visitors. Global First Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children Kao organized, jointly with the Foundation for Global Peace and Environment, the first Kao International Environment Painting Contest for Children under the theme “eco together.” Kao invited entries from children around the world aged between 6 and 15, and received 4,339 works (1,505 from Japan, 2,834 from overseas). The winners were invited to the awards ceremony at the venue of Eco-Products 2010, and shared their thoughts about the environment and the message of their works. Through such activities, Kao will continue to promote “eco together” initiatives while cooperating closely with society regarding environmental action. Children who received awards share their views on the environment and the message of their pictures. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 64 Environmental Activities Environmental Accounting Kao Group in Japan Fiscal 2010 environmental accounting report 1. The aggregation methods for fiscal 2010 comply with the Japanese Ministry of the Environment’ s “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005.’’ Kao also refers to the “Environmental Accounting Guidelines for Chemical Companies (November 2003)’’ issued by the Japan Chemical Industry Association. 2. The companies within the scope of accounting are Kao Corporation and its 10 domestic subsidiaries (Kanebo Cosmetics Inc., Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd., Ehime Sanitary Products Co., Ltd., Kao-Quaker Co., Ltd., Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd., GOLDWELL JAPAN Co., Ltd., Niko Seishi Co., Ltd., and Healthcare Committee Inc., as well as Kao Logistics Co., Ltd. and KC Logistics Inc., both of which have been added since fiscal 2010). 3. The period of accounting is from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011. 4. The environmental impact and waste discharged from business activities cover all data of the entire Kao Group (Kao Corporation and its subsidiaries), whereas previously they represented the values from production activities. Environmental conservation costs Environmental conservation benefits (categories corresponding to business activities) (Unit: million yen) (physical quantity benefits) Environmental performance Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Categories Key activity and outcome Investment Cost*1 Categories indicators (units) Change*2 2009 2010 (1) Business area costs 816 3,716 Energy consumption of Related to production activity 245,912 237,645 –8,267 1) Pollution resource input (crude oil equivalent, kl) prevention Air and water pollution prevention 282 1,586 into business activities Water consumed (1,000 tons) 12,443 11,618 –825 cost Greenhouse gas emissions 2) Global (CO2 equivalent: 1000 tons) 446 425 –21 Breakdown environmental Energy conservation 209 274 conservation SOx emissions (tons) 30 27 –3 3) Resource NOx emissions (tons) 362 358 –5 Resource savings, waste treatment and 325 1,856 circulation disposal cost Related to waste or Wastewater amount (1,000 tons) 9,944 9,180 –764 Plant and equipment for environmentally environmental (2) Upstream/ friendly products, 1,444 3,088 impact originating COD emissions (tons) 66 64 –3 downstream cost containers and packaging recycling from business activities Waste discharged (1,000 tons) 56 54 –2 Acquisition and maintenance of ISO certification, (3) Administration cost environmental publicity, tree planting 11 1,116 Final disposal amount of within work sites waste (1,000 tons) 0.3 0.2 –0.1 (4) R&D costs Environmentally friendly R&D 9,683 2,375 Emissions of chemical substances subject 1 2 1 Natural environmental conservation and to PRTR Law to the air (tons) (5) Social activity cost tree planting activities outside work sites, 0 67 donations *2 Greenhouse gas emissions (CO2 equivalent) are calculated based on the Calculation and Reporting (6) Environmental Manual on Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Ver. 3.0) of June 2010 published by the Ministry of the — 0 Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. remediation cost Total 11,954 10,362 Trends chart for summary environmental accounting data *1 Expense amounts include depreciation costs. for the three most recent periods Economic benefits associated with Fiscal Year Fiscal Year Fiscal Year 2008 2009 2010 environmental conservation activities (Unit: million yen) 1) Environmental conservation cost Details of benefits Amount*3 Revenue from sales of valuable residues Sales value of valuable resources and fixed assets 243 Investment (million yen) 1,328 4,095 11,954 Reduction in costs through energy conservation 212 Cost (million yen) 9,100 10,428 10,362 Cost reduction Reductions in cost through resource saving 1,820 2) Environmental performance indicators concerning environmental conservation benefit Reduction in operation costs (maintenance costs, etc., of environmentally friendly equipment) 162 Energy consumption (crude oil equivalent, kl) 265,050 245,912 237,645 Total 2,437 Water consumed (1,000 tons) 13,166 12,443 11,618 *3 The amount of cost reduction represents annual reductions for items generated in the year. * For economic effect, only the amounts from selling valuable resources and fixed assets and the amount of Greenhouse gas emissions cost reduction are recorded. So-called “deemed effects,” or economic effects based on risk evasion and other (CO2 equivalent: 1,000 tons) 518 446 425 assumptions, are not recorded. * The Guidelines issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment specify that the profit gained from the sale 27 30 of valuable resources and fixed assets should be recorded. However, we recorded the sales values as it is SOx emissions (tons) 27 difficult to calculate the profit accurately. * The amounts of cost reductions are recorded only for the relevant fiscal year for the annual reduction for items NOx emissions (tons) 375 362 358 generated during that year. Cost reduction amounts to be generated over multiple years are not included. Wastewater amount (1,000 tons) 10,508 9,944 9,180 Environmental conservation costs (categories corresponding to areas of application of environmental conservation measures) (Unit: million yen) COD emissions (tons) 73 66 64 Categories Key activity and outcome Investment Cost Waste discharged (1,000 tons) 55 56 54 1) Cost related to global warming Energy conservation 209 267 Final disposal amount of waste (1,000 tons) 0.2 0.3 0.2 measures 2) Cost related to ozone layer Emissions of chemical substances subject to 63 32 PRTR Law to the air (tons) 3 1 2 protection measures 3) Cost related to air quality Prevention of air pollution, prevention of 3) Economic benefit associated with environmental conservation activities 37 448 conservation measures dust pollution, malodor prevention 4) Cost related to noise and Actual benefit (million yen) 3,564 2,192 2,437 Noise prevention 0 7 vibration measures 5) Cost related to environmental conservation measures for Prevention of water pollution 148 1,110 the aquatic, ground, and geologic environments 6) Cost related to waste and Resource savings, industrial waste recycling measures volume reduction, recycling 1,770 4,930 7) Cost related to measures to R&D on products and production 9,716 2,379 reduce chemical risk and emissions 8) Cost related to natural Natural environmental conservation and 0 67 environmental conservation tree planting activities outside plants, donations Acquisition and maintenance of ISO certification, 9) Other costs environmental publicity, tree planting activities 11 1,122 within plant premises Total 11,954 10,362 65 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Recognition by Outside Organizations in Fiscal 2010 Major external corporate recognition and commendations in fiscal 2010 are listed below: Date of award Awarded division Award name and description Organization “Accident-Free Record in Class 3” from the The Labour Standards Bureau, April 12, 2010 Kao Corporation Tochigi Plant Director-General of the Labour Standards Bureau, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) “The Tenth Environmental Technology Award” from May 28, 2010 Kao Corporation the Kinki Chemical Society for the development of The Kinki Chemical Society modiﬁed polylactide resin “The 4th Responsible Care Award” given in The Japan Responsible Care Council July 8, 2010 Kao Corporation recognition of PRTR substances management and (JRCC) reduction of their emissions Attack Neo won “Japan Star Award (Director-General of Manufacturing Industries Bureau, the Ministry of October 7, 2010 Kao Corporation Japan Packaging Institute Economy, Trade and Industry Award)” in the 2010 Japan Packaging Contest Selected as “Top Public Disclosure Company” in the October 18, 2010 Kao Corporation Carbon Disclosure Project 2010 at the CDP 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Japan brieﬁng In Japan Attack Neo won the Minister’s Prize of the Ministry of Eco-Products Awards Steering November 15, 2010 Kao Corporation the Environment in the 7th Eco-Products Awards Committee 2010 Dishwashing detergent, Cucute Hand Beauty, won January 5, 2011 Kao Corporation Nikkei Marketing Journal Awards for Superiority in Nihon Keizai Shimbun 2010 Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards Tokyo Stock Exchange Listed February 3, 2011 Kao Corporation The 16th Disclosure Award (FY 2010) Company Accreditation Committee Kao Corporation Kawasaki Plant, Eco-Ship Modal Shift Project February 4, 2011 Ehime Sanitary Products Accredited with an Eco-Ship Mark (FY 2010) Executive Committee Company Limited Promotion of gender equality employment recognized February 11, 2011 Kao Corporation Kashima Plant Kamisu City, Ibaraki Prefecture and commended by Kamisu City (FY 2010) March 16, 2011 Kao Corporation Selected for ﬁve consecutive years as one of the Ethisphere Institute World’s Most Ethical Companies 2011 Recognized as the “Best Gift in Kind Supporter” in the April 27, 2010 Molton Brown Ltd. Business Supporter’s Celebration Awards of Cancer Cancer Research UK Research UK Overseas Shanghai City (Economic Information Kao Chemical Corporation July 5, 2010 “Energy Conservation Award” from Shanghai City Council of Minhang District, Shanghai Shanghai City) The mangrove regeneration project was accredited by Department of Environment and September 25, 2010 Pilipinas Kao, Inc. the Philippine’s Department of Environment and Natural Resources (Philippines) Natural Resources. Major global SRI indexes in which Kao has been included Kao has been repeatedly selected for several SRI indexes, including the FTSE4Good Global Index, a leading socially responsible investment index that was developed by the UK-based FTSE Group. FTSE4Good Index Series website: http://www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE4Good_Index_Series/index.jsp MS-SRI (Morningstar SRI) website: http://www.morningstar.co.jp/sri/index.htm Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 66 Kao Group Overview Kao Corporation Net Sales by Segment (Year ended March 31, 2011) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Chemical Consumer Products Company Profile (as of March 31, 2011) Business sales 198.5 Business Sales 988.3 Breakdown by Region ¥198.5 Breakdown by Region billion Company name: Kao Corporation Japan 125.0 16.7% Japan 817.3 Asia 72.6 Asia & Oceania 82.0 Head office: 14-10, Nihonbashi Kayabacho North America 29.5 North America 51.0 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Europe 51.5 Consolidated ¥533.5 Europe 60.7 Eliminations (80.0) ¥279.0 Net Sales billion Eliminations (22.8) Founded: June 1887 billion ¥1,186.8 billion 45.0% 23.5% Chemical Business Incorporated: May 1940 Oleo chemicals Beauty Care Business Performance chemicals ¥175.8 Prestige cosmetics Paid-in capital: 85.4 billion yen Specialty chemicals billion Premium skin care products 14.8% Premium hair care products Number of employees: 5,924 (34,743 on a consolidated basis) Fabric and Home Care Business Fabric care products Human Health Care Business Representative: Motoki Ozaki, President & CEO Home care products Food and beverage products * Figures are rounded to the nearest whole number or decimal. Sanitary products * Figures are rounded to the nearest whole number or decimal. Personal health products * Figures in the graph represent net sales to outside customers only. * Eliminations represent intersegment sales. Net Sales and Income Net Sales by Region (Year ended March 31, 2011) (year ended March 31, 2011) Europe ¥97.5 billion Consolidated net sales: 1,186.8 billion yen North America Consolidated operating income: 104.6 billion yen ¥83.0 billion Consolidated ordinary income: 103.3 billion yen Asia Consolidated ¥131.4 billion Net Sales ¥1,186.8 Japan Consolidated net income: 46.7 billion yen billion ¥874.7 billion * Figures are rounded to the nearest whole number or decimal. * Figures are rounded to the nearest whole number or decimal. * Figures in the graph represent net sales to outside customers only. * Eliminations represent intersegment sales. Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates China Kao (China) Holding Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ ■ Kao Corporation Shanghai ■ ■ ■ The Netherlands Kao Commercial (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ KPSS Nederland B.V. ■ Shanghai Kanebo Cosmetics Co., Ltd. ■ Kao Chemical Corporation Shanghai ■ Kao Trading Corporation Shanghai ■ United Kingdom Kao (Hong Kong) Ltd. ■ ■ ■ Kao Brands Europe Ltd. ■ KPSS (UK) Ltd. ■ Molton Brown Ltd. ■ Vietnam Kao Vietnam Co., Ltd. ■ ■ Germany KPSS-Kao Professional Salon Services GmbH ■ Thailand Guhl Ikebana GmbH ■ Kao Industrial (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ ■ Kao Corporation GmbH ■ Kao Commercial (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ Kao Chemicals GmbH ■ Kao Consumer Products (Southeast Asia) Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ Spain Malaysia Kao Chemicals Europe, S.L. ■ Kao Soap (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ Kao Corporation S.A. ■ Kao (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ ■ ■ Fatty Chemical (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ Switzerland Kao Plasticizer (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ KPSS AG ■ Kao Oleochemical (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. ■ Kanebo Cosmetics (Europe) Ltd. ■ Singapore Kao (Singapore) Private Ltd. ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ Beauty Care Business ■ Human Health Care Business ■ Fabric and Home Care Business ■ Chemical Business 67 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Beauty Care Business Human Health Care Business In the Beauty Care Business, Kao delivers a wide range of In the Human Health Care Business, Kao provides products products from prestige cosmetics designed to satisfy each that help make people’ s lives more comfor t able and consumer’s desire for beauty to skin care products includhealthier. Such products include sanitary products develing facial and body wash and hair care products, such as oped by Kao’s unique technologies, functional health food shampoo and conditioner. products that propose new values, bath additives, and oral care products including toothpaste. Fabric and Home Care Business Chemical Business In the Fabric and Home Care Business, in order to support Through its Chemical Business, Kao globally delivers a clean and comfortable living, Kao delivers a variety of proddiverse range of chemical products that meet needs in a ucts that pursue quality, function and convenience in the wide range of industries. Such products include fat and oil fields of fabric care, such as laundry detergents and fabric products made from natural oils and fats, sur factants, softeners, and home care such as dishwashing detergents toners and toner binders, and fragrances. and household cleaners. Japan Kao Customer Marketing Co., Ltd. ■ ■ ■ Kanebo Cosmetics Inc. ■ Kanebo Cosmetics Sales Inc. ■ E’quipe, Ltd. ■ Lissage Ltd. ■ Kanebo Cosmillion, Ltd. ■ Nivea-Kao Co., Ltd. ■ Ehime Sanitary Products Co., Ltd. ■ ■ Kao Professional Services Co., Ltd. ■ Kao-Quaker Co., Ltd. ■ Canada Kao Brands Canada Inc. ■ KPSS Canada Ltd. ■ U.S.A. Kao Brands Company ■ KPSS, Inc. ■ Taiwan Kao Specialties Americas LLC ■ Kao (Taiwan) Corporation ■ ■ ■ ■ Philippines Mexico Pilipinas Kao, Incorporated ■ Quimi-Kao, S.A. de C.V. ■ Indonesia P.T. Kao Indonesia ■ ■ ■ P.T. Kao Indonesia Chemicals ■ Australia KPSS Australia Pty. Ltd. ■ Kao (Australia) Marketing Pty. Ltd. ■ Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 68 Contents of the Booklet and Full PDF Version The Sustainability Report 2011 (this full PDF version) provides detailed information on various activities carried out by individual Kao Group companies. The booklet (The Sustainability Report 2011 —Summary—) is a digest version that summarizes the main contents of the PDF version. Page in Page in Section title Item PDF version booklet Editorial Policy ● Editorial Policy ● Scope of reporting P1-2 P1-2 Top Commitment Top Commitment P3-4 P3-4 Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake P5-6 P5-6 ● Kao’s CSR activities Kao’s Approach to Sustainability Challenge P7-8 P7-8 ● Strategic CSR activities’ prioritized themes and progress ● Promotion of activities for sustainability ● Communication 1. Practice of Genba-ism based on the Consumer Driven principle P9-10 P9-10 Challenge to 1. Global 2. Universal Design P11-12 P11-12 Yoki-Monozukuri 2. Ecology 2020 Medium-term Objectives and the review of the actual results in ﬁscal 2010 P13-18 P13-18 3. Human capital development Project to promote diversity Global Techno School P19-20 P19-20 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance ● Policies/structure ● Ensuring the independence of Outside Directors/Corporate Auditors Internal Control ● Policies/structure P22 Compliance ● Policies/goals/structure ● Establishing and operating compliance hotlines ● System to help ensure thorough compliance in our daily activities P23-24 Compliance Information Security and Protection of Personal Information ● Policies/goals/structure ● Reviewing the scope of protection of information assets CSR Management (Column) Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri1 : Integrity P25 P21 ● Policies/structure ● Goals ● Implementing a risk survey and enhancing countermeasures ● Improving the overseas management system for risks requiring Risk Management P26-27 an emergency response ● The Great East Japan Earthquake and reinforcement of Business Continuity Plans (BCPs) Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) Activities ● Policies/goals/structure ● Utilization of environmental safety database ● Conducting Responsible Care Promotion Ofﬁce’s audits ● Implementing continuous RC education P28-29 ● Policy/goals ● Structure ● Pursuing safety from a scientiﬁc perspective through consideration of actual use ● Quality management activities throughout the entire product life cycle ● Implementing an overhaul of quality issues ● Conducting quality management audits ● Offering board member awards for product quality management activities Product Quality Management P30-32 ● Introducing category notations into ultra-concentrated detergents and softeners to improve identiﬁcation ● Implementation of thorough product quality management for food products ● Disclosing information on country of origin and allergenic substances contained in food products on Kao’s website ● The latest situation and future of Econa ● Policies/structure ● Goals ● Contributing to the enrichment of people’s lives by holding a “cleaning seminar” ● Providing a seminar to teach the importance Responsibilities to Consumers P34-35 of hand washing at elementary schools by sending Kao employees as instructors ● Providing information on the website Consumer Products Business ● Policies/goals/structure ● Introducing Kao’s sustainability efforts to retailers Responsibilities to Corporate Chemical Business ● Policies/goals/structure ● Continuously implementing information exchange meetings with sales distributors P36-37 Customers Professional-Use Products Business ● Policies/goals/structure ● Implementing infection-control support activities for persons engaged in medical work and nursing care Human Capital Development ● Policy/goals ● Implementation of the Global Human Capital Development Conference ● Implementation of various common global training programs ● Launching global rollout of Management Training ● Practice of the Kao Way and sharing examples among all Group companies ● Fair and transparent evaluation and compensation P38-40 ● Implementing activities towards the achievement of a workplace that utilizes diversity ● Promoting the employment of people with disabilities ● Policies for re-employing retired employees Responsibilities to Stakeholders (Column) Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 2 : Supporting work-life balance P41 P22 Responsibilities to Employees Promoting Dialogue with Employees ● Improving work environments by conducting an employee opinion survey known as “Find” ● Promoting understanding between senior management and employees Work-life Balance ● Supporting male employees’ efforts to participate in child care ● Promoting appropriate working hours ● Supporting proactive future plans Consideration for Employees’ Health and Human Rights ● Issuing “Kao Group Health White Paper for Fiscal 2010” ● Promoting creation of a workplace free from discrimination and harassment P42-45 Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention ● Policy/structure ● Goals ● Occupational accidents in 2010 ● Drills for large-scale disasters and Kao’s response to the Great East Japan Earthquake ● Implementing training programs for safety, disaster prevention and environmental management ● Occurrence of small ﬁres in 2010 Responsibilities to Suppliers ● Policy/structure ● Goals ● Implementation of a supplier satisfaction survey ● Implementation of Vendor summits ● Promoting the sustainable sourcing of raw materials P46 Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors ● Policy/goals ● Publicizing shareholder meetings and facilitating the exercising of voting rights ● Implementation of dialogue between Kao and its shareholders and individual investors P47 ● Policies/structure ● Goals ● Supporting science education and career education ● Continuing to implement Kao Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship P48-49 For the Community ● Kao Community Museum Program ● The Pink Ribbon Campaign ● Launching Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools ● Providing support for disaster relief efforts based on the Kao Group’s uniﬁed standards (Column) Commitment to Yoki-Monozukuri 3 : Co-existence with local communities P50-51 P23-24 Product Life Cycle and Environmental Impact ● Fiscal 2010 business operations and environmental impact P53 Environmental activity targets and results ● Fiscal 2010 results and targets for the future (Responsible Care Activities) P53 ● Promoting the introduction of energy-efﬁcient equipment and streamlining of manufacturing processes P25-26 Global Warming Prevention P55-56 ● Reducing environmental impact at ofﬁces ● Reducing environmental impact in distribution ● Activities at overseas production sites (China) ● Selected as a leading company in information disclosure in the CDP 2010 report ● Installation of a second solar panel system at a distribution center Appropriate Management of ● Policies/goals/structure ● Meeting the REACH chemical regulation in the EU ● Reinforcement of information management of chemicals ● Promotion of consolidated management of packaging materials Environmental Activities Chemical Substances information ● Reduction of emissions of chemical substances subject to the PRTR Law ● Management of VOC emissions based on voluntary activity goals ● Proper storage and disposal of PCBs P57-58 Optimum Management of ● Efforts toward zero emissions P26 Waste Materials P59 ● Waste reduction efforts at Ehime Sanitary Products ● Waste and recycling governance ● Effective utilization of water resources and wastewater control P26 Other Environmental Commitments P60 ● Compliance with wastewater and emissions standards ● Investigation and measurement of groundwater and soil contamination ● Environmental impact of discharged wastewater after product use ● Policies ● Promoting collaboration with other companies ● Introduction of Kao’s activities at the Interactive Fair for Biodiversity ● Participation in Measures for Biodiversity P61-62 “Enterprise Forest Project” ● Sponsoring “Forests for the Future Project in Thailand” ● Mangrove regeneration in the Philippines ● Policies/goals ● Environmental and safety site reports issued by plants and afﬁliated companies ● A meeting for exchange on environment, safety, and Environmental Communication disaster prevention issues ● Environmental education at schools and plants ● Nationwide Environmental Fair Campaign ● Eco-Products 2010 ● First Kao P63-64 International Environment Painting Contest for Children Environmental Accounting P65 Recognition by Outside Organizations in Fiscal 2010 P66 P27 Kao Group Overview ● Company proﬁle ● Net sales and income ● Business ﬁelds ● Principal Subsidiaries and Afﬁliates P67-68 P29-30 Contents of the Booklet and Full PDF Version P69 P28 Independent Review P70 GRI Content Index P71-76 69 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Independent Review Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 70 GRI Content Index This index specifies an applicable or relevant item in the Kao Group‘s reports that corresponds to an indicator of the GRI 2006 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, based on Kao‘s interpretation of the Guidelines. The information listed in the “Section” column of the table below is mainly found in the Kao Sustainability Report 2011. Some information is, however, found in the relevant pages of the Kao website. For the columns under “UNGC,” related Principles of the Global Compact are specified, drawing upon “MAKING THE CONNECTION— The GRI Guidelines and the UNGC Communication on Progress” that indicates the relevance of the GRI Guidelines and those of the United Nations Global Compact. 1. Strategy and Analysis Pages of the Indicator Indicator description Sustainability Section UNGC Report 2011 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, p.4 1.1 chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Contributing to society through Yoki-Monozukuri organization and its strategy. p.7 Kao’s Approach to Sustainability pp.9–12 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1: Global 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. pp.13–18 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2: Ecology pp.19–20 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 3: Human capital development 2. Organizational Profile Pages of the Indicator Indicator description Sustainability Section UNGC Report 2011 2.1 Name of the organization. p.67 Company profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. p.67 Company profile Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues pp.67–68 Principal Subsidiaries and Affiliates covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. p.67 Company profile Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview customers/beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: • Number of employees; • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector 2.8 organizations); pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations). • Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility 2.9 — Not applicable openings, closings, and expansions; and • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). Recognition by Outside Organizations in Fiscal 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. p.66 2010/SRI 3. Report Parameters Pages of the Indicator Indicator description Sustainability Section UNGC Report 2011 Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. p.2 Period covered 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). p.2 Issuing period 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). p.2 Issuing period 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. — Refer to Company profile on the Kao website Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: p.2 Editorial Policy • Determining materiality; 3.5 p.7 Kao’s CSR activities/Strategic CSR activities’ • Prioritizing topics within the report; and prioritized themes and progress • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. p.2 Scope of reporting/Names of organizations Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6 covered ventures, suppliers). pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview 71 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 p.2 Scope of reporting/Names of organizations covered p.40 Human Capital Development 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. p.42 Work-life Balance pp.67–68 Kao Group Overview Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period — Not applicable to period and/or between organizations. p.14 CO2 p.16 Water p.44 Occupational Safety, Process Safety and Disaster Prevention Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including p.46 Promoting the sustainable sourcing of raw 3.9 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of materials the Indicators and other information in the report. pp.53–54 Product Life Cycle and Environmental Impact pp.55–56 Global Warming Prevention p.59 Optimum Management of Waste Materials p.60 Other Environmental Commitments p.65 Environmental Accounting p.14 CO2 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier p.16 Water 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change p.54 Fiscal 2010 results and targets for the future of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). (Responsible Care Activities) p.60 Other Environmental Commitments Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or p.14 CO2 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report. p.16 Water GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. pp.71–76 GRI Content Index Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, 3.13 p.70 Independent Review explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Pages of the Indicator Indicator description Sustainability Section UNGC Report 2011 Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest p.8 Promotion of activities for sustainability Principles 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or p.22 Corporate Governance 1 to 10 organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Principles 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the p.22 Corporate Governance 1 to 10 reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of Principles 4.3 p.22 Corporate Governance the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 1 to 10 p.8 Communication Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Principles 4.4 p.42 Promoting Dialogue with Employees direction to the highest governance body. 1 to 10 p.47 Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Principles 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the p.22 Corporate Governance 1 to 10 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Principles 4.6 p.22 Corporate Governance are avoided. 1 to 10 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Principles 4.7 highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, p.22 Corporate Governance 1 to 10 environmental, and social topics. p.1 Our Mission Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and p.18 Kao Basic Policies on Conservation of Principles 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the Biodiversity 1 to 10 status of their implementation. p.23 Compliance p.38 Human Capital Development Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s p.4 Top Commitment identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, Principles 4.9 p.8 Promotion of activities for sustainability including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 1 to 10 p.22 Internal Control internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own p.8 Promotion of activities for sustainability/ Principles 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social Communication 1 to 10 performance. p.22 Corporate Governance Commitments to External Initiatives p.13 Strategic CSR 2: Ecology Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 p.26 Risk Management Principle 7 addressed by the organization. p.28 Responsible Care Activities p.4 Top Commitment p.16 Chemical substances Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or p.28 Responsible Care Activities Principles 4.12 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. p.55 Reducing environmental impact at offices 1 to 10 p.57 Appropriate Management of Chemical Substances p.61 Promoting collaboration with other companies Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 72 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ p.15 Contributing to the development of the global international advocacy organizations in which the organization: metrics on packaging sustainability including refill • Has positions in governance bodies; products Principles 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees; p.17 Biodiversity 1 to 10 • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or p.56 Selected as a leading company in information • Views membership as strategic. disclosure in the CDP 2010 report Stakeholder Engagement p.8 Communication p.11 Specialist Comment 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. p.18 Specialist Comment p.19 Specialist Comment p.8 Communication p.11 Specialist Comment 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. p.18 Specialist Comment p.19 Specialist Comment p.8 Communication pp.34–35 Responsibility to Customers pp.36–37 Responsibility to Corporate Customers p.42 Improving work environments by conducting an Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 4.16 employee opinion survey known as “Find” type and by stakeholder group. Promoting understanding between senior management and employees p.46 Responsibility to Suppliers p.47 Responsibilities to Shareholders and Investors p.11 Specialist Comment p.18 Specialist Comment p.19 Specialist Comment Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, p.35 Providing information on the website 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, p.42 Improving work environments by conducting an including through its reporting. employee opinion survey known as “Find” p.46 Inplementation of a supplier satisfaction survey p.47 Publicizing shareholder meetings and facilitating the exercising of voting rights 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Pages of the Indicator Indicator description Sustainability Section UNGC Report 2011 Economic Principles1.4.6 Disclosure on Management Approach p.7 Kao’s Approach to Sustainability &7 Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Core costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, — Refer to Investor Relations on the Kao website EC1 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Core Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s p.13 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2: Ecology Principle 7 EC2 activities due to climate change. Core Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. — Refer to Investor Relations on the Kao website EC3 Core Significant financial assistance received from government. — — EC4 Aspect: Market Presence Add Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at — — Principle 1 EC5 significant locations of operation. Core Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at — — EC6 significant locations of operation. Implementing activities towards the Core Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the p.40 achievement of a workplace that utilizes Principle 6 EC7 local community at locations of significant operation. diversity Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts p.6 Assistance to the areas affected by the quake and tsunami pp.48–49 Supporting science education and career Core Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided education/Continuing to implement Kao EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Earthwatch Teachers’ Fellowship/Launching Kao Social Entrepreneurship Schools/Providing support for disaster relief efforts based on the Kao Group’s unified standards Add Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the — — EC9 extent of impacts. Environmental p.7 Kao’s Approach to Sustainability pp.13–18 Promoting “eco together” with the aim of achieving 2020 Medium-term Objectives Principles 7.8 Disclosure on Management Approach p.25 Integrity &9 p.28 Responsible Care Activities p.54 Fiscal 2010 results and targets for the future 73 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials Core p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 EN1 environmental impact Core p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Principles Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. EN2 environmental impact 8&9 Aspect: Energy Core p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 EN3 environmental impact Core Indirect energy consumption by primary source. — — Principle 8 EN4 Add Principles Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. p.55 Global Warming Prevention EN5 8&9 pp.13–15 CO2 Add Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and pp.55–56 Activities at overseas production sites/ Principles EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Installation of a second solar panel system at a 8&9 distribution center Add Principles Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. p.55 Global Warming Prevention EN7 8&9 Aspect: Water p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Core Total water withdrawal by source. environmental impact Principle 8 EN8 p.60 Effective utilization of water resources Add Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. — — Principle 8 EN9 Add Principles Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. — — EN10 8&9 Aspect: Biodiversity Core Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected — No applicable areas Principle 8 EN11 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Core biodiversity in protected areas and areas of highbiodiversity value outside pp.61–62 Measures for Biodiversity Principle 8 EN12 protected areas. Participation in “Enterprise Forest Project”/ Add Sponsoring “Forests for the Future Project Habitats protected or restored. p.62 Principle 8 EN13 in Thailand”/Mangrove regeneration in the Philippines Add pp.17–18 Biodiversity Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Principle 8 EN14 pp.61–62 Measures for Biodiversity Add Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with — Not applicable Principle 8 EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Core Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. environmental impact Principle 8 EN16 pp.55–56 Global Warming Prevention Core p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 EN17 environmental impact Add pp.13–15 CO2 Principles 7.8 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. EN18 pp.55–56 Global Warming Prevention &9 Core Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. — — Principle 8 EN19 p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and environmental impact Core p.57 Appropriate Management of Chemical NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 EN20 Substances p.60 Compliance with wastewater and emissions standards p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Core Total water discharge by quality and destination. environmental impact Principle 8 EN21 p.60 Effective utilization of water resources p.53 Fiscal 2010 business operations and Core Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. environmental impact Principle 8 EN22 p.59 Optimum Management of Waste Materials Core Total number and volume of significant spills. p.60 Other Environmental Commitments Principle 8 EN23 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Add under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of — — Principle 8 EN24 transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Add habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water p.60 Other Environmental Commitments Principle 8 EN25 and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services Core Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Principles 7.8 pp.15–16 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 2: Ecology EN26 of impact mitigation. &9 Core Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Principles p.15 Reduction of CO2 emissions for packaging EN27 category. 8&9 Aspect: Compliance Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for p.60 Compliance with wastewater and emissions Principle 8 EN28 non-compliance with environmental laws an regulations. standards Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 74 Aspect: Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Add materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the p.55 Reducing environmental impact in distribution EN29 workforce. Aspect: Overall Add Principles 7.8 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. p.65 Fiscal 2010 environmental accounting report EN30 &9 Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work p.23 Compliance p.25 Integrity Principles 1.3 Disclosure on Management Approach pp.28–29 Responsible Care Activities &6 p.38 Human Capital Development p.41 Supporting work-life balance Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment p.40 Implementing activities towards the Core Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. achievement of a workplace that utilizes LA1 diversity Core Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. — — Principle 6 LA2 Add Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or — — LA3 part-time employees, by major operations. Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Core Principles Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. — — LA4 1&3 Core Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including — — Principle 3 LA5 whether it is specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker Add pp.28–29 Responsible Care (Environmental/Safety) health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health Principle 1 LA6 Activities and safety programs. Core Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of p.44 Occupational accidents in 2010 Principle 1 LA7 work-related fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place p.29 Implementing continuous RC education Core to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding p.43 Consideration for Employees’ Health and Principle 1 LA8 serious diseases. Human Rights Add Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. p.28 Policies/goals/structure Principle 1 LA9 Aspect: Training and Education Core Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. — — LA10 Add Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued pp.38–40 Human Capital Development LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Add Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development p.39 Fair and transparent evaluation and LA12 reviews. compensation Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Core Principles according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators — — LA13 1&6 of diversity. Core Principles Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. — — LA14 1&6 Human Rights Principles Disclosure on Management Approach p.23 Compliance 1.2.3.4.5 & 6 Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Core Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include Principles — — HR1 human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. 1.2.3.4.5 & 6 Core Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening Principles p.46 Responsibilities to Suppliers HR2 on human rights and actions taken. 1.2.3.4.5 & 6 p.25 Integrity Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Add p.40 Implementing activities towards the Principles of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of HR3 achievement of a workplace that utilizes 1.2.3.4.5 & 6 employees trained. diversity Aspect: Non-discrimination Core Principles 1.2 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. — — HR4 &6 Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Core Principles 1.2 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these — — HR5 &3 rights. Aspect: Child Labor Core Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Principles 1.2 — — HR6 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. &5 75 Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Core Prnciples1.2 compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or — — HR7 &4 compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices Add Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or Principles — — HR8 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 1&2 Aspect: Indigenous Rights Add Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Principles — Not applicable HR9 actions taken. 1&2 Society p.23 Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach Principle 10 p.50 Co-existence with local communities Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Core manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, pp.50–51 Co-existence with local communities SO1 and exiting. Aspect: Corruption Core Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to p.23 Implementing compliance audits and Principle 10 SO2 corruption. monitoring p.24 System to help ensure thorough compliance in Core Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and our daily activities Principle 10 SO3 procedures. p.25 Integrity Core Compliance Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. pp.23–24 Principle 10 SO4 No material law violation Aspect: Public Policy Core Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. — No lobbying activities are conducted Principles 1-10 SO5 Add Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and — No political contributions are made Principle 10 SO6 related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Add Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and — — SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Core Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for p.23 Establishing a Compliance Committee SO8 noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility pp.9–12 Challenge to Yoki-Monozukuri 1: Global Principles Disclosure on Management Approach pp.28–29 Responsible Care Activities 1&8 p.30 Product Quality Management Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Core assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services pp.30–32 Product Quality Management Principle 1 PR1 categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Add concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life — — Principle 1 PR2 cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Core Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of p.31 Quality management activities throughout the Principle 8 PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. entire product life cycle Add Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes — No material violations Principle 8 PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Add Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring p.34 Responsibilities to Consumers PR5 customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications Core Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to — — PR6 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Add concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and — No material violations PR7 sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy Add Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy — Not applicable Principle 1 PR8 and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Core Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations — No material violations PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Kao Sustainability Repor t 2011 76
