Emaar – Invest Group Overseas United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress Report 2010-2011 Communication On Progress report The Eighth Gate Master Plan Emaar-IGO 2 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO 3 Communication On Progress report The Eighth Gate The mixed-use SYP26 billion (US$ 500 million) Eight Gate project is being developed by the Emaar-IGO venture. The Eighth gate will introduce the city’s first master planned community and will include touristic area, commercial, leisure and retail units. And it’s spread over an area of 300.000 m2 and located at Yafour only 22 Km from downtown Damascus, that is considered today as the new center for business and commercial activities in the city. The project builds upon the ancient history of Damascus in its architectural style of ornately decorated buildings influenced by traditional design and pays homage to the city’s ancient roots. A signature tall gate marks the access to the main plaza. Divided into three zones-commercial Centers, and Touristic areathe exclusive development contains apartments as well as a classical style piazza, commercial tower, plaza and a mall inspired by the souks of Damascus as well as high street shopping experience an al fresco dining out options. Emaar international Emaar international, the global property developer with six business sectors, more than 60 active companies and a collective presence in over 36 markets spanning the Middle East, North Africa, pan Asia, Europe and North America. Emaar’s expansion to Syria is in line with its vision to become one of the most valuable companies in the world through geographic expansion and business segmentation. Emaar international has joined hands with IGO, an offshore investment and property development company, to unveil the Eighth Gate, a master-planned community. IGOInvest Group Overseas Invest Group overseas is an off shore company registered in the British Virgin Island. The Head Quarters of IGO is located in Dubai United Arab Emirates. IGO is an Investment Company that specializes in exploring business opportunities in the Middle East and other potential markets. IGO aims to becoming one of the leading investment and management companies in the Region’s booming economies. This vision has been translated into a business philosophy that is guided by. Emaar-IGO 4 Communication On Progress report The Message As we embark on a new year, we are proud to herald our local and regional achievements. We are proud of 2011, as we unveiled the Rouya commercial buildings & Damascus Stock Exchange building, in addition to the Construction World Forum Building as valuable pillars to the Eighth Gate project. The plans are underway for the completion of the Touristic Apartments in 2013 followed by the Eighth Gate Mall begining 2013. We thank the Syrian Government for its support in making this remarkable Eighth Gate possible. As it was the dedication and effort of those teams that helped make the Damascus business hub possible. We are looking at a new Damascus and it is this project that helped reinstate the stamp of our lifestyle. At Emaar-IGO we aim for the stars, and for that, nothing stands taller than our achievements. Nidal Turjman Acting General Manger, Emaar-IGO Syria Emaar-IGO 5 Communication On Progress report The Image We at Emaar-IGO believe that customers are not just a source of revenue – they are the ambassadors of our brand and the life blood of our company. And that how we always place great emphasis on ideas where we encourage people to experiment, explore, and test the boundaries of what is possible. Indeed, we believe that our starting point is that everything possible, furthermore we are aware that the best idea in the world means nothing without execution Bottom line, Emaar-IGO is a lifestyle brand, and we work endlessly to improve the lives of our customers. The Vision Our Vision for Emaar-IGO is its Transformation into One of the Most Valuable Lifestyle Developers Beyond Real Estate Development. Emaar-IGO 6 Communication On Progress report Emaar-IGO Corporate Social Responsibility Practices Emaar-IGO is positioned primarily as the one of the well differentiated market leaders in the real estate sector in Syria, where we have integrated our corporate social responsibility values with our business development strategy by behaving ethically and acting responsibly towards our social and ethical commitments. Through a consistent strategy, Emaar-IGO has developed the three main themes of its CSR projects in Education, Health, and environment with a core objective of improving a quality life for targeted segments in each project through promoting and supporting initiatives which contributes to the intellectual development of the Syrian economy. “a perfect small community first time experience in Syria”  Environment Water Treatment Station The water treatment station by recycling the sewage water for irrigation of all Project’s. Facing the limit Access to water, lead EmaarIGO to install the water treatment Companies around the world now face real limits on access to water. A rising population and growing economies are putting substantial stress on resources. Pollution is increasingly a concern. Emaar-IGO 7 Communication On Progress report Power Electrical substation Emaar-IGO has completed installing an underground based power electrical substation that converts the high-voltage electrical power to the average voltage (66/20kv) using a gas isolation system. Which it ensures a fixed source of electricity to all the Eighth Gate residence with power saving and reducing of global warming since it is an underground based substation. Emaar-IGO 8 Communication On Progress report  Education, Emaar-IGO offer full scholarships, From Emaar-IGO strategy in supporting the education sector, and the enhancement of all creative talented skills to create a better future to the community, Emaar-IGO with an academic collaboration of Tomohi Institute has sponsored 10 highly qualified students through their university time by covering all their tuition fees with a continuous academic evaluation in coordination with Tomohi institute in Syria.  Health, Emaar-IGO has adopted a Non-smoking policy, which is applicable to head office, main branch, sales centre and all future branches. Besides the office areas, all stairways, kitchens, corridors, bathrooms…etc have been declared a non-smoking zones. Emaar-IGO 9 Communication On Progress report The National Paper Recycling Campaign, In 2010 and 2011 Emaar-IGO was engaged in the Paper recycling campaign through systemizing paper collection every week from all the project, and sending it to one recycling point in coordination with the child rights nonprofit organization.  Other Landmarks,  Full Facilities: The First serviced community in Syria with a full covered Facility management package that insures Safety Clean facilities. Continuous Maintenance.  Youth Enhancement : in collaboration with Shabab program, Emaar-IGO offers an internship program to young graduates at its offices, introducing talented skills to the international work environments, which helps them in building their future careers. Emaar-IGO 10 Communication On Progress report  Spotlight on Emaar IGO Human Resource practice. Medical insurance: In accordance with the respective regulations, Emaar-IGO offers a full insurance program for its employees, along with a Social Security program -in coordination with the official authorities in the Syrian Government.  Investing in our TEAMS. We at Emaar-IGO do not offer people jobs, we offer them a chance to grow, where we work hard to ensure that people feel valued, that good work does not go unrecognized. Emaar-IGO 11 Communication On Progress report Training programs that we conducted in 2010. We are committed to helping our people develop their talents through both formal training programs, and day-to-day experience. Leadership enhancement three days course, given by the best trainers in the region. Emaar-IGO 12
