Unit 21 Trinity Enterprise Centre Furness Business Park Barrow-in-Furness Cumbria LA14 2PN United Kingdom Tel: (0044) (0)1229 824034 Fax: (0044) (0)1229 824035 Ser v ice s to th e On sh o r e Natu r a l G as In d u str y Web site: www.wilcock.co.uk Email: graham@wilcock.co.uk UN Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2011 Contents 1 Introduction 2 Statement of continued support and commitment 3 Description of practical actions completed and measurement of outcomes Wilcock Consultants Limited is an Employment Business Wilcock Consultants Limited: Registered in England and Wales No: 2927854. Registered Office as above. Registered under the Data Protection Act 1984 2 1 Introduction This is the second Communication on Progress made by the company. This annual requirement is being addressed as part of the company’s formal annual management review, with a formal Communication of Progress being one of the outputs from that review. The management review is carried out at the highest level in the company as part of the company’s accredited quality, environmental and health and safety management systems and, amongst other things, reviews company’s policies, performance and compliance and sets new objectives and targets. This, and subsequent, Communications on Progress will be formally submitted to the UN Global website as well as being available on the company website. 2 Statement of continued support and commitment Attached is a signed statement from our Managing Director regarding our continued support and ongoing commitment to the initiative and it’s principles. Unit 21 Trinity Enterprise Centre Furness Business Park Barrow-in-Furness Cumbria LA14 2PN United Kingdom Tel: (0044) (0)1229 824034 Fax: (0044) (0)1229 824035 Ser v ice s to th e On sh o r e Natu r a l G as In d u str y Web site: www.wilcock.co.uk Email: graham@wilcock.co.uk 17th October 2011 Secretary-General United Nations New York NY 10017 USA Dear Mr Secretary-General I am pleased to confirm Wilcock Consultants Ltd’s continuing support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti corruption. We also confirm our ongoing commitment to support and advance these principles within our sphere of influence. We have committed, and do commit, to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to day operations of our company and have made a clear statement of this commitment to our employees, partners, clients and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner via our website and by submitting a Communication on Progress annually to the UN Global Compact website. Yours sincerely, Graham Wilcock Managing Director Wilcock Consultants Limited is an Employment Business Wilcock Consultants Limited: Registered in England and Wales No: 2927854. Registered Office as above. Registered under the Data Protection Act 1984 4 3 Description of practical actions completed and measurement of outcomes 3.1 Introduction The decision on practical actions to be taken as part of the company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact forms part of the decisions made on the company’s overall objectives and targets in the annual management review. As the company’s commitment to the Global Compact is integrated with other company commitments, principle issue areas are also addressed in various elements of the company’s management systems. Similarly, performance in relation to these issues over the previous year is reviewed both against last year’s objectives and in relation to potential new objectives. The following relevant principle issue areas were discussed in the management review in 2010 and further practical actions agreed and outcomes measured in 2011: Environmental performance – agreed objectives and targets against relevant adverse impacts – in accordance with the company’s accredited environmental management system. Occupational health and safety – accident statistics, near miss reporting and trend analysis Labour standards – continuing monitoring of application of legal contracts for services and working conditions Anti Corruption and Bribery Policy – updates to policies and procedures in response to legislation and best practice guidelines. 3.2 Environmental Performance 3.2.1 Annual Environmental Report As part of the company’s accredited environmental management system (EMS), aspect and impact registers are maintained together with a register of relevant environmental legislation. As part of the annual environmental report presented to the management review, updates to the legislation and other requirements are identified, compliance with current legislation is reviewed and performance against current agreed environmental objectives and targets reported on. Each year targets are increased or varied. An Environmental Management Programme (EMP) is established annually as part of the management review and signed by the Managing Director, QSE Manager and QSE Representative. The EMP includes targets and objectives, agreed actions and responsibilities and programme to achieve the targets, defines methods of 5 measurement and is updated with the performance achieved as part of the management review process. The EMPs for 2010 to 2011 addressed reductions in the use of electricity in company offices, improved savings in CO2 in relation to use of vehicles, monitoring usage of paper and ensuring environmental credentials were being taken into account in the purchase of paper. The company has now introduced a new Carbon Reduction Policy to support the existing Environmental Policy and ongoing initiatives to reduce carbon emissions associated with company activities. 3.2.2 Actions completed and measurement of outcomes Reduction in the use of electricity in the offices The company’s offices are in a building owned and managed by others. The heating is provided by electric storage heaters also owned and managed by others and no significant alterations to the building are permitted to improve insulation levels. However, planned changes in office layout and fitting-out have now been completed. A target was set of reducing the electricity used by 2% for 2010-2011 when compared to 2009-2010. NB Figures have been normalised by taking data on ambient temperatures into account in the comparison. Practical measures to achieve this target have included: Introduction of suspended ceilings in units lacking them. Tool box talks on heater controls and objectives and targets Allocation of responsibilities Display of instructions Provision of wall thermometers in each office Quarterly review of temperatures and heater settings Analysis of the electricity consumption figures confirmed that we have exceeded our target of 2% reduction in use after figures are normalised with respect to ambient temperatures using degree day data. A 9% reduction was achieved in relation to night time consumption, i.e. that related primarily to the storage heater system and a much greater saving of 35% was achieved for the daytime use. However, this is felt to be not as representative as the degree day data have more relevance to night time consumption. A straightforward comparison of daytime figures, making no allowance for differences in ambient temperatures, indicates a saving of 5%. The savings in electricity equate to 2.2t of CO2. 6 Reduction in CO2 emissions from vehicles used on company business Vehicles are used to travel to meetings and to carry out project work, i.e. site visits etc, much of which is in an inherent aspect of the company’s activities and can only be reduced to a certain extent. Opportunities were identified to promote the possible use of public transport (where appropriate), management of diaries to share vehicle use where possible and appropriate use of telephone conferencing to avoid some journeys altogether. Additionally the Managing Director’s car has been converted to LPG significantly reducing CO2 emissions per mile. The use of each vehicle has been monitored, including regular measurement of tyre pressures. A total of 16t of CO2 has been saved, significantly exceeding the target of 10t and almost doubling the previous year’s saving. Reduction of waste sent to landfill Each office is provided with a bin for paper recycling which takes all waste office paper. Ink cartridges and toners are returned for recycling, all boxes and folders are retained for re-use. The waste paper bins are provided by a specialist recycling company approved under the company EMS. In addition, we have introduced a new initiative to collect and recycle drinks cans, now carried out by the company in the absence of an overall building-wide facility. Spot checks and quarterly reviews confirm the absence of any recyclable waste in the general bins and the estimated percentage of waste recycled still exceeds the target of 95%. Usage of paper and it’s environmental credentials A new initiative has been put in place to monitor the use of the various printers and copiers in the offices to promote awareness of the environmental impacts associated with printing and copying and also to monitor trends in usage and provide data to assist in optimising decisions on future purchasing of printers. While efficiency and quality issues dictate the need to print or copy and major projects, such as a database cleanse which resulted in the production of a significant amount of hard copy correspondence, alter the usage of paper, improvements in electronic filing and updating of business processes have reduced the reliance on hard copy documents. Environmental assessments have been carried out on the paper types, and their manufacturers, for the paper currently in use. We have also recently changed our stationery supplier and the new supplier provides much more comprehensive information on the environmental credentials of products supplied allowing more informed decisions to be made on a wide range of office consumables and equipment. 7 3.3 Occupational Health and Safety 3.3.1 Health and Safety Compliance and Improvement Report The company has an accredited occupational health and safety management system (OHSMS) to OHSAS 18001:2007. An annual Health and Safety Compliance and Improvement Report is produced for the management review and includes an assessment of occupational health and safety statistics. Additionally, health and safety objectives and targets are set and performance against them measured as required by OHSAS 18001:2007. The company was awarded a RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational Health and Safety again in 2011, previous gold awards have been achieved in 2010, 2009 and 2004. The company also achieved a RoSPA Gold Award for Management of Road Risk (MORR) Award in 2011. Accident Statistics 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (up to 31/8/11) Major injuries (as defined by RIDDOR) 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 (Note 1) Deaths 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Dangerous occurrences (as defined by 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 RIDDOR) Reportable cases of ill health (as defined 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 by RIDDOR) Over three day lost time incidents (as 2 3 4 0 1 3 0 defined by RIDDOR) Other lost time incidents 1 5 5 2 8 3 0 First aid incidents (no lost time) 5 16 28 27 12 12 5 Near miss reports NI 17 57 58 71 36 24 Number of employees 287 315 337 398 365 314 Note 1 Major injury was a fractured elbow 3.3.2 Actions completed and measurement of outcomes General The company OHSMS is designed to act largely on a preventive basis, with a heavy emphasis on accurate risk assessment and effective implementation of control measures and ensuring training and competence, provision of information and awareness and effective two-way communication. The implementation of the OHSMS is audited internally and externally as part of the company’s accreditation and also assessed against rigorous standards as part of the company’s Verify accreditation. Additionally key performance aspects are reviewed quarterly. 8 Work Related Road Safety Major initiatives have been put in place to improve work related road safety on one of the company’s biggest projects where personnel are driving on a daily basis. These included formal driver assessment and training, formal van inspections to improve maintenance standards and increase accountability and awareness of safety issues. Driver assessment and training. Existing arrangements: Checking of current driving licence Completion of a medical questionnaire, followed by medical where deemed necessary Induction training including provision of handbook and company guidelines – General Instructions issued at induction and Safe Driver Handbook issued to all meterworkers Initial driving review, as part of the initial mentoring/probation period Competence assessed against general driving skills, awareness of company requirements, manoeuvring/parking, motorway driving, vehicle condition (including technical knowledge and ability to complete condition checklists accurately) Identification by Project Manager of any specific training and development needs and an agreed plan to fulfil these New initiatives Winter Driving campaign following trend analysis that identified that twice as many accidents and near misses were occurring in the months October to March compared with April to September. Additional formal driving training by external training provider. Priorities for training assessed during employment in relation to any characteristic that places them at potentially higher risk (medical conditions, involvement in accidents/incidents, vehicle damage, complaints or as a result of the review of tracker information). New Safe Driving Handbook issues to all consultants employed on other contracts. Tool box talks provided throughout to raise awareness of key issues Improved Accountability Another initiative designed to contribute to meeting the overall target is that of improving driver accountability for their assigned vehicle and for their driving behaviour. There has been a holistic approach to this with links made between the cleanliness and presentation of vehicles and the pride taken by the assigned driver and their 9 commitment to company values and the overall commitment the company has to health and safety. The use of tracker systems and on-board computers to allow rapid and effective assignment of work and reporting of completed jobs and the knowledge that this represents a system that can monitor performance in an effective way, together with the use of this information, vehicle audits, investigation of complaints to the displayed complaints line has lead to a culture where it is understood that little can remain hidden. This is balanced by extensive pro-active communication, provision of more training, and rapid and effective support for meterworkers demonstrating that the commitment to the effective management of road safety extends throughout the company and it’s clients at all levels. Reduction in injury RTAs We have achieved a 33% reduction in injury RTA’s comparing 2010 with 2009, exceeding our target of a 10% reduction. However, there has been no effective decrease in the overall number of reported incidents. It is considered that this reflects the increased readiness of the meter workers to report all incidents, however minor and whether or not damage occurs. This increased readiness plus the widely acknowledged improvement in the condition and appearance of the vehicles are both believed to be very positive results from the campaign to improve driver accountability. 3.4 Labour Standards 3.4.1 Labour standards report An annual Labour Standards Report is provided for the management review. It reports on employment, working hours, disciplinary issues, remuneration, equal opportunities and anti harassment and on any indications through the company’s performance measurement systems of any potential dissatisfaction or complaint. Additionally, satisfaction surveys are carried out on an annual basis as part of the accredited quality management system to assess levels of satisfaction and identify how these could potentially be increased and to identify any future or potential problems. A report follows each survey with suggested actions 3.4.2 Actions completed and measurement of outcomes Monitoring of working hours Continuing monitoring of working hours has confirmed that the Working Time Regulations have been met in all instances and that where any individual is working consistently over the norm of 40 hours per week, their Account Manager has reviewed 10 this and confirmed their satisfaction with this arrangement and that their health and safety has been reviewed. The consultants in question are working these hours at the direct request of the client and the client’s representative signs their time sheets. Four of those working the longest hours are involved in site work and at least half of the hours booked are on stand-by and not actually worked. Averaging the hours worked over a 17 week reference period, or less where there is insufficient data, only one consultant has exceeded the 48 hour average and he has completed an opt out agreement. Only one has reached the maximum allowable daily shift of 13 hours, but has not exceeded it. Compliance with Equal Opportunities and Anti Harassment Policy Internal and external audits of the relevant company procedures identified no nonconformances and confirmed documented objective evidence on the effective implementation of the company’s procedures to ensure, as far as the company’s involvement extends, equality in identification, interviewing and selection of consultants. There have been no reported or suspected instances of potential harassment, bullying or discrimination. All new employees are now introduced to the Equal Opportunities and Anti Harassment Policy as part of their formal induction and copies are issued to all placed consultants and records of all of these confirmed in quality audits. Copies of the policy also displayed in the offices. Review of Working Conditions and Levels of Satisfaction Quarterly checklists are completed for the head office, personnel placed with clients are encouraged to returned questionnaires and report any potential problems and Account Managers are responsible for reviewing conditions relevant to project work. The quarterly checklists have identified various aspects of health and safety which have then successively been improved in the company’s offices. There has been heightened awareness of potential early symptoms of repetitive strain injury associated with the used of keyboards and this together with a pro active approach of reviewing detailed keyboard and mouse arrangements with all relevant staff has lead to replacement and upgrading of some equipment and a more bespoke approach to ensure effective ergonomic design and a consideration of the individual. Queries raised on health and safety questionnaires and returned risk assessment checklists from placed personnel are reviewed and any “non-zero” returns are logged and addressed by a senior manager and actions to resolve them documented. Only very minor issues have been identified and all have been addressed and closed out. The 11 validity of this is supported by the results of Account Manager SHE tours which again confirm the high quality of working conditions and the absence of any dissatisfaction or concerns. We carry out regular satisfaction surveys addressing, among other things, pay and conditions, quality of support and health and safety issues. Each year these surveys indicate high levels of satisfaction, with the few isolated negative comments considered individually as no trends or general concerns have been indicated. On the basis of the review of the results improvement opportunities have been identified with improved circulation of the newly re-designed newsletter and re-introduction of the birthday card system due to the positive comments previously received. 3.5 Anti corruption policy 3.5.1 Actions Completed and Measurement of Outcomes Response to the Bribery Bill The company’s existing Anti Corruption and Bribery Policy is reviewed annually as part of the management review and has been updated in response to the Bribery Bill. The policy refers to an anti-corruption programme developed by the company. This programme has been integrated with company’s other existing formal accredited management systems, in particular the quality management system. Risk Assessment and Control Measures A risk assessment has been carried out and approved by the Managing Director identifying the possible areas of risk, the existing/new controls and the levels of residual risk. Risks are generally considered low in relation to the likelihood of bribery/corrupt behaviour but some score highly in relation to the potential harm should the unlikely event actually occur. Further control measures to ensure that the company is effectively implementing all best practices have been agreed and integrated with existing audited controls. Training and Awareness As part of the agreed anti-corruption programme, the company is carrying out initiatives to ensure personnel, placed consultants, project staff and sub-contractors are aware of the requirements of the company’s systems. These initiatives include training events, consultation and tool box talks and a further integration of requirements into general work instructions. 12 4 Conclusion We are committed to measuring all key aspects of our performance, including all the principle issue areas addressed by the UN Global Compact, and to achieving continual improvement. We have achieved this over the past year by setting and communicating targets and assigning the resources necessary to achieve them. We have met our targets and have set increased targets for the next year.
