Nourishing Our Consumers, Neighbors, Employees, and Our Planet campbell soup company 2011 Update of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2 Table of Contents Defining Success Nourishing Our Neighbors Resource Stewardship in Our Operations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89 Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46 Resource Stewardship in Action . . . . . . . . 93 A Letter from Our President and CEO . . . . 5 Supporting Volunteerism. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 48 Inspections and Compliance Record. . . . . 95 Corporate Profile and Economic Impact. . . 8 Giving . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52 Sustainable Packaging. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 97 Management Strategy and Analysis. . . . . 11 Achieving Lasting Social Impact. . . . . . . . 54 Sustainable Agriculture. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 Managing Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Winning in the Community (Recognition). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Supply Chain, Logistics, and Corporate Governance and Ethics . . . . . . 23 Transportation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 Stakeholder Engagement. . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Nourishing Our Employees Recognition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105 Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 Nourishing Our Consumers Resources Engagement & Recognition . . . . . . . . . . . 65 Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 About This Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 Extraordinary Workplace. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 Offering Healthy and 2010 CSR Report External Links Nutritious Products . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Diversity and Inclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 (Resource) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 108 Ensuring Customer Satisfaction. . . . . . . . . 36 Safety. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Global Reporting Food Safety and Quality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Recognition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Cross-Reference Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 Advancing Social Impact with Our UN Global Compact Index . . . . . . . . . . . 118 Consumers and Our Customers . . . . . . . 40 Nourishing Our Planet Independent Review Statement . . . . . . . 120 Recognition. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87 Selected Awards and Recognitions. . . . . 122 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Defining Success Ov er the past year, WE . . . Welcome to Campbell’s 2011 Update • Published our 2020 Destination Goals for CSR and Sustainability of the Corporate Social Responsibility • Launched a Supplier Sustainability Scorecard process Report — another step in a conversation • Integrated CSR and sustainability into our that spans 140 years involving our performance management systems employees, business partners, customers, • Were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North American and World Indexes and consumers — a conversation about • Were named one of the World’s Most Ethical Campbell’s role in society. Companies by Ethisphere in 2010 and to Corporate Respon­sibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens List IN T H I S S E CT I O N Overview Corporate Profile and Corporate Governance Promoting global wellness Economic Impact and Ethics and nutrition, helping to Campbell’s organizational Our approach to build a more sustainable profile, heritage, and busiGovernance, Public Policy, environment, and honoring ness units and Winning With Integrity our role in society from the farm to the family Management Strategy Stakeholder and Analysis Engagement A Letter from Our Campbell’s approach to straListening to, working President and CEO tegic CSR and sustainability with, and participating in A perspective from Doug management and integration the strategic stakeholder Conant, Campbell Soup engagement process President and CEO Managing Performance Integrated CSR Performance Management, Performance Scorecard, and Destination Goals Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S uccess 4 Overview Promoting global wellness and nutrition, helping to build a more sustainable environment, and honoring our role in society from the farm to the family This report is the product of an ongoing conversation that began 140 years ago, when our company’s founders first started canning quality vegetables and soups from a small warehouse in Camden, New Jersey. It is a conversation among our employees, customers, consumers, and everyone else connected with Campbell Soup Company and our family of brands, about the role of a food and beverage company in our society — its impact, contributions, and obligations. Current trends in corporate social responsibility (CSR) generally focus on accountability, transparency, and engagement. For companies in the food and beverage sector, however, there are a number of additional dynamics. Some issues unique to our sector include sustainable agriculture, responsible sourcing, promotion of human health and sound nutrition, and responsiveness to consumers’ ever-changing expectations of the foods they choose for themselves and their families. At Campbell, we strive to address each of these issues. We recognize and respect the fact that “CSR” and “sustainability” mean different things to different people. First, here is some context on how we view these terms. At the most basic level, CSR and sustainability at Campbell Soup Company mean advancing global wellness and nutrition, helping to build a more sustainable environment, and honoring our role in society from the farm to the family. More broadly, we consider CSR and sustainability as approaches to the conduct of business that build employee engagement, create positive social impacts, enable operational efficiency, reduce costs, foster innovation, strengthen our relationships with our customers and consumers, and ultimately create business advantage over the long term. We firmly believe that a company should be judged not just on its financial performance but on its commitment to CSR and sustainability. We are confident that our consumers, customers, employees, and investors feel the same. We also believe that the importance of this commitment will increase as the 21st century progresses. We invite you to join our conversation today, and look forward to your participation for many years to come. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S uccess 5 A Letter from Our President and CEO Welcome to Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. We are delighted to have this opportunity to share with you the state of our progress, and the evolution of our thinking, in a journey of critical importance. Dear Campbell Stakeholders: For Campbell, conducting business in a socially responsible manner is mission-critical. Through our Campbell Mission, we have committed ourselves to building “the world’s most extraordinary food company by nourishing people’s lives everywhere, every day.” We recognize that achieving this mission depends on our ability to win, with the utmost integrity, in three arenas: the workplace, the marketplace, and the community. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) plays a central role in each. We win in the workplace by valuing and engaging our employees. We win in the marketplace by meeting the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, more completely, and more uniquely than anyone else. And we win in the community by building on our long tradition of responsible citizenship, particularly in the areas of community service and environmental sustainability. In all three arenas, a vibrant CSR program inspires greater support of our company agenda while guiding that agenda in a caring, thoughtful, and socially responsible way. We firmly believe that, as we build a better company, we can also build a better world. Therefore, as outlined in our corporate strategies, we seek to “advance a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility” in everything we do. In our first formal CSR report, published in 2008, we outlined four focus areas: • Our relationships with our customers and consumers • Environmental sustainability • Our commitment to building an extraordinary workplace and • Contributing to our communities We reaffirmed our intent to keep building on our long track record of social responsibility. We committed ourselves to expand our CSR reporting over time, by providing our stakeholders with increasing detail and transparency about our aspirations, goals, and achievements. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S uccess 6 Since then, we have made significant progress: • We recruited a Vice President of Corporate Social Responsibility, charged with working across the company to build a comprehensive CSR strategy. • We built an enterprise-wide CSR Leadership Network, comprised of business leaders and content experts to clarify our priorities, define and drive key programs, identify appropriate metrics and targets, and develop effective integration and communication strategies. • We strengthened our bonds with our consumers and, as a result, launched new products, such as Campbell’s Select Harvest, a line of soups designed by women for women. • We introduced Nourishing Our Neighbors, an enhanced community service program that brings together all of Campbell’s community activities, including the Campbell Soup Foundation and others, under one umbrella. • We announced a five-year, $10 million charitable commitment to our hometown of Camden, New Jersey. • We relaunched Campbell’s Labels for Education to focus this school-support program specifically on art, academics, and athletics. • We eliminated millions of pounds of packaging, optimized shipping routes, and advanced energy-saving capital projects that have reduced waste and greenhouse gas emissions while saving water, energy, and money. • We achieved world-class employee engagement, while continually enhancing our culture of diversity and inclusion. Most importantly, we undertook a thoughtful effort to create a clear and focused vision for all of our CSR efforts. There are many global issues that affect our business and our society, including health and nutrition, education, resource stewardship, climate change, alleviation of poverty, equality of opportunity, human rights, and others. In such a complex world, no company can be all things to all people. If we wish to have a meaningful impact, we must focus on those issues most closely aligned with our unique combination of skills, knowledge, and capabilities. During the past year, I challenged Campbell’s CSR Leadership Network to define long-term “destination” goals that will clarify our purpose, promote strategic alignment across our organization, and deliver measurable benefits. The result — Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda — defines “success” for Campbell in corporate social responsibility and sustainability over the next decade. The agenda includes four destination goals: 1. Nourishing Our Consumers — Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile of our product portfolio. 2. Nourishing Our Neighbors — Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood obesity by 50%. 3. Nourishing Our Employees — Achieve 100% employee engagement in CSR and sustainability. 4. Nourishing Our Planet — Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half, as measured by water use and CO2 emissions per product produced. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 7 These goals are not isolated platforms. They are a framework for making better business decisions — for advancing nutrition and wellness in all of the countries in which we do business, for engaging our employees, for supporting the health of our planet, and for strengthening the communities where we live and work. We will regularly review these goals and their many supporting strategies, programs and targets, and make adjustments as needed. In adopting Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda, we are leveraging our company’s heritage, mission, and core competencies to define our opportunities and our signature in our society. We are building on a solid foundation. Our product portfolio is well-positioned to provide affordable choices to consumers that support superior vegetable nutrition, healthy weight management, and sensible snacking. We are highly active in our hometown communities around the world. Our employee value proposition is resonating with our people and driving stronger employee engagement. And our expanding work in the area of environmental stewardship is contributing directly to our bottom line while supporting the expectations of our customers and consumers. Most importantly, we are harnessing the expertise, enthusiasm, and dedication of our people to reach beyond sales and profits and make our world a better place to live. I can tell you that our people have responded to our heightened focus on CSR with a passion that energizes me. I am proud to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with them in this important venture. Together, we will deliver on our CSR destination goals and thereby take another step toward achieving our mission: building the world’s most extraordinary food company. Thank you for reviewing Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Douglas R. Conant President and CEO Campbell Soup Company Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 8 Corporate Profile and Economic Impact Today, Campbell Soup Company is the world’s leading soup maker and a global manufacturer of high-quality, branded foods. Our $8 billion portfolio is highly focused in three core areas: simple meals, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Joseph Campbell, a fruit merchant, and Abraham Anderson, an icebox manufacturer, created the firm of Anderson & Campbell in 1869, and began producing tomatoes, vegetables, jellies, soups, condiments, and minced meats. Nearly 30 years later, Dr. John T. Dorrance, an organic chemist educated at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, joined the company, and developed a process for making commercially condensed soups. The soups became so popular that in 1922, the company changed its name to Campbell Soup Company. Today, Campbell Soup Company is the world’s leading soup maker and a global manufacturer of high-quality, branded foods. Our $8 billion portfolio is highly focused in three core areas: simple meals, baked snacks, and healthy beverages. Our product portfolio features many market-leading brands, such as Campbell’s soups, Swanson broths, Liebig and Erasco soups in Europe, Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery, and frozen products in North America, Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific, and V8 beverages. Other brands of note include Pace and Prego sauces. Headquartered in Camden, New Jersey, Campbell employs approximately 18,000 people in more than 21 countries. Our products are sold in some 120 countries but, our principal geographies are the United States, Canada, Australia, France, Germany, and Belgium. The company’s operations are reported in the following segments: U.S. Soup, Sauces, and Beverages; Baking and Snacking; International Soup, Sauces and Beverages; and North America Foodservice. U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages The U.S. Soup, Sauces, and Beverages segment represents U.S. retail businesses including the following products: Campbell’s condensed and ready-to-serve soups; Swanson broth, stocks, and canned poultry; Prego pasta sauce; Pace Mexican sauce; Campbell’s canned pasta, gravies, and beans; V8 beverages; and Campbell’s tomato juice. Baking and Snacking The Baking and Snacking segment includes Pepperidge Farm cookies, crackers, bakery, and frozen products in the U.S. and Arnott’s biscuits in Australia and Asia Pacific. International Soup, Sauces and Beverages The International Soup, Sauces, and Beverages segment includes the soup, sauce, and beverage businesses outside of the United States, including Europe, Latin America, the Asia Pacific region, and the retail business in Canada. The segment’s operations include Erasco and Heisse Tasse soups in Germany, Liebig and Royco soups in France, Devos Lemmens mayonnaise and cold sauces and Campbell’s and Royco soups in Belgium, and Blå Band soups and sauces in Sweden. In Asia Pacific, operations include Campbell’s soup and stock, Swanson broths, V8 beverages and Prego pasta sauces. In Canada, operations include Habitant and Campbell’s soups, Prego pasta sauce, Pace Mexican sauce, V8 beverages, and certain Pepperidge Farm products. North America Foodservice The North America Foodservice segment includes the company’s Away From Home operations, which represents the distribution of products such as soup, specialty entrees, beverage products, other prepared foods, and Pepperidge Farm products through various food-service channels in the United States and Canada. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S uccess 9 Where We Operate — Countries and Facilities SSB = U.S. Soup, Sauces and Beverages BS = Baking and Snacking ISSB = International Soup, Sauces and Beverages NAFS = North America Foodservice Campbell Soup Company United States Downers Grove, IL (BS) Denver, PA (BS) Corporate Headquarters Bentonville, AR (Sales) Employees: 330 Employees: 730 Camden, NJ Employees: 20 (Administrative) Marshall, MI (SSB) Downingtown, PA Dixon, CA (SSB) Employees: 20 (BS/NAFS) Employees: 1,920 Employees: 250 Employees: 330 East Brunswick, NJ (BS) Pepperidge Farm Corporate Headquarters Sacramento, CA Employees: 100 Aiken, SC (BS) Norwalk, CT (SSB/NAFS) Employees: 120 South Plainfield, NJ (SSB) (Administrative) Employees: 750 Employees: 30 Paris, TX (SSB/NAFS) Employees: 1,100 Employees: 860 Stockton, CA (SSB) Maxton, NC (SSB/NAFS) Employees: 210 Employees: 850 Richmond, UT (BS) Employees: 430 Bloomfield, CT (BS) Cincinnati, OH (Sales) Employees: 260 Employees: 20 Everett, WA (NAFS) Employees: 240 Coral Gables, FL (Sales) Napoleon, OH Employees: 10 (SSB/NAFS) Milwaukee, WI (SSB) Employees: 1,240 Employees: 40 Lakeland, FL (BS) Employees: 310 Willard, OH (BS) Employees: 580 Employment levels at the end of FY2010, Rounded. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess / Where We Operate — Countries and Facilities 10 Australia Belgium France Mexico Glen Iris (Sales) Puurs (Administrative/ISSB) Le Pontet (ISSB) Mexico City (Administrative) Employees: 150 Employees: 300 Employees: 320 Employees: 90 Huntingwood (BS) Canada Paris (Administrative) Villagran (ISSB) Employees: 600 Toronto Employees: 70 Employees: 240 (Administrative/ISSB/NAFS) Marleston (BS) Employees: 720 Germany Russia Employees: 450 Luebeck (ISSB) Moscow (Administrative) China Employees: 450 Employees: 50 North Strathfield Hong Kong (Administrative) (Administrative/Sales) Indonesia Sweden Employees: 350 Employees: 20 Jawa Barat (BS) Kristianstadt (ISSB) Employees: 940 Employees: 150 Shepparton (ISSB) Shanghai Employees: 220 (Administrative/Sales) Malaysia Employees: 30 Selangor Darul Ehsan Virginia (BS) (Administrative/ISSB) Employees: 940 Employees: 140 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 11 Management Strategy and Analysis Our Mission: Together we will build the world’s most extraordinary food company by nourishing people’s lives everywhere, every day. Campbell’s mission statement clearly expresses our company’s purpose. It inspires us not only to produce high-quality wholesome products that are trusted the world over, but also to make a positive difference in the world we live in, for the stakeholders with whom we interact every day. Campbell’s Success Model, core business strategies, and balanced scorecard expressly incorporate and reinforce our commitment to corporate social responsibility and sustainability. Our Success Model defines the way that we pursue our mission: Winning in the Workplace — Placing the right people in the right positions, and creating a high-performance culture with world-class levels of employee engagement. Winning in the Marketplace — Delivering above-average total shareholder returns by meeting the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, more completely and more uniquely than anyone else. Winning in the Community — Building on Campbell’s long tradition of responsible corporate citizenship, particularly in the areas of community service and environmental sustainability. Winning with Integrity — Conducting our business in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and in accordance with the highest standards of honesty, fairness and ethical business conduct. Defining CSR and Sustainability Strategy Every year we conduct a formal strategic planning process in which we reassess and refine our core business strategies. Since 2008, advancing a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility has been expressly identified as one of Campbell’s seven core business strategies. 1 Grow our icon brands within simple meals, baked snacks and healthy beverages 7. 2 3 Deliver higher levels of consumer satisfaction through superior innovation focused on wellness while providing good value, quality and convenience Make our products more broadly available and relevant in existing and new markets, consumer segments and eating occasions 4 Strengthen our business through outside partnerships and acquisitions Our Seven Core Strategies 5 Increase margins by improving price realization and company-wide total cost management 6 Improve overall organizational excellence, diversity and engagement 7 Advance a powerful commitment to sustainability and corporate social responsibility Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 12 Our strategic planning process begins with a broad situation assessment. As part of this first step, we examine the key internal and external drivers of our CSR and sustainability strategy, including key trends in the area of sustainability and the evolving expectations of our stakeholders with respect to responsible corporate citizenship. Our strategic plan for CSR and sustainability rests on four key pillars: environmental stewardship (Nourishing Our Planet); our interactions with customers and consumers (Nourishing Our Consumers); community service (Nourishing Our Neighbors); and building an extraordinary workplace (Nourishing Our Employees). As part of our annual situation assessment, we review our performance in each of these areas, and external trends and drivers in the marketplace and among our stakeholders, through a multifaceted lens that is depicted graphically below. In conjunction with our materiality assessment, we analyze our strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats to help us fine-tune our goals, strategies, and operational priorities in each of our four primary CSR platforms. In 2009, we set the groundwork for Campbell’s first formal CSR strategy, identifying several characteristics that are important to long-term success. They included, for example, a shared perspective on CSR across the company, definition of core metrics and long-term performance goals, and the recognition that our business executives and employees require specific resources and tools to activate our strategy. We declared that our strategy should provide for active stakeholder engagement; that our practices, performance, and results should be transparent; and most important, that our efforts should be shaped by a focus that is unique to Campbell Soup Company and the impact we can have. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 13 Materiality Analysis At Campbell, we examine the key internal and external drivers of our CSR and sustainability strategy, including key trends and the evolving expectations of our stakeholders with respect to responsible corporate citizenship. Defining materiality is an important component of an effective CSR and sustainability strategy. As a global food and beverage company, it is critical that we monitor and manage the myriad of business and societal issues in an effective and transparent manner. There are many areas in which Campbell’s long-term business success aligns with important marketplace and stakeholder priorities, including sustainable agriculture, responsible sourcing, promotion of human health and sound, yet affordable nutrition. We believe that carefully considering these areas of alignment can lead to a more informed CSR strategy and help drive both positive social impact and long-term business success. Identify Identify Issues from a wide range of stakeholders and sources Primary Sources • Customers • Suppliers • National Advertising Division, Federal • Consumer Research • Service Providers Trade Commission • Employees • NGOs and Issue Advocates • Factory Managers • Scientific and Industry Research • Regulatory Agencies • Brand Partners • Benchmarking • Media Outlets • Trade Groups • Investors • Emerging-Issues Monitoring • Professional Organizations • Public Policy • Key-Cause Partners • Shareholder Advocates • Community Partners • Innovation Partners and Portals Issues • Wellness, Nutrition • Enterprise Risk Management • Diversity • Market Performance • Energy/Climate • Education • Food Safety • Hunger Relief • Camden Community Investment • Quality • Transparency • Plant Communities • Ingredients • Cause Marketing • Human Rights • Sustainable Agriculture • Transportation Infrastructure • Executive Pay • Weight Management • Employee Safety • Political Contributions • Packaging • Ethics, Corporate Governance • International Trade • Water Use • Labor Relations • Business Continuity • Waste Management • Employee Engagement • Advertising • Training and Development Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 14 Filter Filter issues against key strategic drivers and stakeholder interests and concerns • Destination Goals and Metrics • Customer and Consumer Trends • Brand Reputation • Campbell Mission and 7 Strategies • Regulatory Frameworks • Employee Recruitment and Engagement • CSR Focus Areas • Impact to Community • Strategic and Operating Plans • Campbell Success Model • Total Delivered Cost Prioriti ze Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and those most important to our key stakeholders Stakeholder Relations & Community Community Community • Key Cause Campaigns • Citizenship in Plant and Importance to Campbell Stakeholders • NGO Relationships Office Communities Stakeholder Relations • Political Influence • Community and Investor Outreach Community • Youth Programs • Education Importance to Campbell’s Business Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 15 Prioriti ze Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and those most important to our key stakeholders Workplace Workplace • Culture, Engagement, Ethics Importance to Campbell Stakeholders Workplace Workplace • Board Governance • Managing CSR and Sustainability • Executive Compensation • Training and Development • Benefits and Compensation • Diversity and Inclusion Importance to Campbell’s Business Marketplace & Health and Wellness Marketplace Marketplace • Advertising and Labeling • Total Shareowner Return • Nutrition Information Health and Wellness Importance to Campbell Stakeholders • Responsible Sourcing • Nutrition, Weight Management Health and Wellness • Food Safety and Quality • Consumer Education • Research and Development • Disease Prevention Marketplace Marketplace • Supply Chain Performance • Consumer and Customer Priorities • Supply Chain Standards • Product and Market Growth Importance to Campbell’s Business Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 16 Prioriti ze Prioritize focus areas by importance to Campbell long-term business interests and those most important to our key stakeholders Environmental Performance & Supply Chain Environmental Performance Environmental Performance • Recycling • Resource Stewardship Importance to Campbell Stakeholders • Packaging and Design Supply Chain • Sourcing • Transportation and Logistics Importance to Campbell’s Business Review Integrate into business planning and External Stakeholder Relationships Internal Review External Review • Strategic and Annual Operating Plans • Feedback to CSR Report • Board and Governance Updates • Customer, Consumer, and Supplier Input • CSR Leadership Network • Investor, NGO, Stakeholder Engagement • Emerging Issues Management • External Research, Regulations, Trade Groups Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 17 CSR and Sustainability Governance One of the most important characteristics of a successful CSR strategy is an effective governance structure, with the resources and authority to make efficient decisions, establish accountabilities, and drive execution. We have created a CSR Leadership Network at Campbell that consists of five leadership teams. Each team has a formal charter, mission statement, and agreed indicators of success. Four of the teams are focused on our key content areas, including environmental sustainability, community service, building an extraordinary workplace, and delivering on the promises of our brands to our customers and consumers. These teams meet regularly to define strategy and review performance. The fifth team is our CSR Steering Committee, led by the CEO, which is composed of senior executives of the company’s largest businesses and corporate functions, including Finance, Human Resources, Supply Chain, Legal, Research & Development, Public Affairs, and Information Technology. The Steering Committee regularly reviews progress updates from the four strategy teams. Periodic updates on the company’s CSR and sustainability strategy are also provided to the Board of Directors. CAMPBELL SOU P B OARD OF D I RE CTORS Steering Committee Campbell Corporate Leadership Team Customer/Consumer Environment Community Workplace • Research and Development • Research and Development • Public Affairs • Human Resources • Consumer Insights • Procurement • Campbell Soup Foundation • Communications • Consumer Affairs • Agriculture • Procurement • Compensation and Benefits • Cause Marketing • Packaging • Volunteerism • Organizational Effectiveness • P&L Business Leads • Global Operations • Cause Marketing • Talent Acquisition and • Sales and Marketing • Plant Management • Citizenship Management • Sector and Stakeholder • Supply Chain • Donations • Diversity and Inclusion Engagement • Logistics • Plants and Facilities • International • International • Brands • Information Technology Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 18 Driving Innovation At Campbell, we have adopted a broad definition of Innovation and a set of Innovation principles. We strive to integrate our CSR and Sustainability efforts into our innovation process. Definition of Innovation • The creation or adoption of new products, services, systems or processes • That results in leverageable and sustainable competitive advantage, or eliminates competitive disadvantage • Thereby enhancing the value of the company Innovation Principles 1. Every employee in every role is expected to have an innovation mindset to improve our new products, services, systems and processes 2. We set aspirational objectives, aligned with our Mission and strategies, to drive our innovation agenda 3. We identify, prioritize, and resource the innovation initiatives that we judge most likely to ensure we reach our desired destinations 4. We ensure that all innovation initiatives adhere to disciplined innovation principles and processes We leverage our innovation mindset and principles across our company by establishing CSR and sustainability goals and initiatives under our each of the four key pillars of our CSR strategy. Proposed concepts for innovation that we receive through our employee innovation portal (Campbell’s ideaNET) and our external innovation portal (Ideas for Innovation) are assessed in light of our seven core business strategies and CSR goals. We use a similar lens when judging candidates for Campbell’s most prestigious recognition, our Extraordinary Performance Awards. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 19 Managing Performance CSR and sustainability metrics are integrated in categories across Campbell’s balanced scorecard. They range from specific steps in strategy development to individual reporting milestones. Campbell employs a “balanced scorecard” to define annual objectives and measure the performance of the company as a whole and by the individual business units. Goals defined in the scorecard fall within four key measurement areas relating respectively to the company’s financial, strategic, operational, and marketplace objectives. Through our balanced scorecard, we assess not only whether we achieve our objectives, but also how we achieve them. CSR and sustainability metrics are included in categories across Campbell’s balanced scorecard: the primary tool used to determine annual incentive compensation for executives, managers, and professionals. Objectives range from specific steps in strategy development to individual reporting milestones, such as establishment of agreed-upon metrics, expansion of community service programs, workplace diversity and inclusion, and supplier diversity and safety. Some examples of CSR objectives in the balanced scorecard for the current year include the following: • Advance progress toward long-term Sustainability Destination Goals while delivering value to Campbell Businesses • Improving environmental stewardship through reductions in energy and water use • Increasing recycling efficiency and expanding logistics sustainability efforts • Improving diversity representation and inclusion • Improving Campbell’s global safety performance • Maintaining and improving our world-class levels of employee engagement • Advancing progress to our Community Destination Goal to reduce hunger and childhood obesity in Campbell Communities • Launching a signature community program in Camden, NJ as a blueprint for future expansion Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess / Performance Scorecard 20 Performance Scorecard We continue to strengthen our baselines and key metric set and will continue to report progress year over year. E CO N O MI C ($ millions) 2008 2009 2010 Net Sales 7,998 7,586 7,676 Earnings Before Interest and Taxes 1,098 1,185 1,348 Taxes on Earnings 268 347 398 Dividends Paid 329 350 365 Capital Expenditures 298 345 315 Research and Development 115 114 123 Nutrition and Wellness** Product Portfolio (revenue) 1,720 2,029 2,466 Nutrition and Wellness Revenue / Total Revenue 21.5 26.8 32.1 E NV I RO N MEN TA L Water Use (Gross 000 gal.) 7,829,355 7,050,749 6,891,498 Water Use Cu. Meter / Tonne of Food Produced 10.33 9.35 9.06 Energy Use (mmbtu) 10,239,864 10,276,947 10,154,522 Energy Use (mmbtu) / Tonne of Food Produced 3.57 3.60 3.53 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (mmtCO2) 899,537 879,084 850,376 GHG Emissions (mmtCO2) / Tonne of Food Produced 0.313 0.308 0.295 Solid Waste Recycled (%) 64* 84.5 83.1 Waste Disposed (tonne) / Tonne of Food Produced 0.023* 0.019 0.022 Capital Investment in Environmental Compliance & Sustainability 12.3 15.1 15.7 S O CI AL Employee Engagement Ratio 12:1 23:1 17:1 Supplier Diversity Spends ($ millions) 136 140 145 Recordable Case Rate 3.10 2.76 2.65 Lost Day Case Rate 0.46 0.33 0.36 Women in Global Workforce (%) 44 45 Women in Global Management Positions (%) 33 33 Charitable Giving including In Kind ($ millions) 32.6 37.2 Food or In Kind Donations ($ millions) 18.4 21.5 28.4 Tuition Assistance Paid ($ millions) 1.4 1.1 Healthcare Expense U.S. ($ millions) 102.3 100.6 107.7 Pension and Post-Retirement Medical Expense U.S. ($ millions) 54 53 66.1 Savings Plan Contributions ($ millions) 18 18 18.2 * Waste Disposed and Recycled % for 2008 is result for U.S. only. Subsequent numbers represent global operations. ** Includes end of FY revenue from Organic, Full Vegetable Serving, Light, Low Fat, Reduced Sodium and Whole Grain products. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 21 Destination Goals Campbell’s Corporate Imperative CSR 2020 Agenda is aligned with our company’s mission. It is anchored in our core competencies, fueled by our employees’ innovation, and driven by four key destination goals. We are embarking on a long-term journey that will leverage Campbell’s unique role in society and both the challenges and opportunities of environmental sustainability — not as standalone functions, but as a framework to make better business decisions, continually advance nutrition and wellness, engage our employees, and strengthen the communities we live and work in. We will review these goals, and their many supporting strategies and targets, regularly and make adjustments as needed. To learn more about our efforts to advance these goals and related strategies, please review the relevant report sections in more detail. NOURISH Our Consumers NOURISH OUR NEIGHBORS Continually Advance the Nutrition and Measurably Improve the Health of Young Wellness Profile of Our Product Portfolio People in Our Hometown Communities NOURISH OUR WORKFORCE NOURISH OUR PLANET Achieve 100% Employee Engagement Cut the Environmental Footprint of in CSR and Sustainability Our Product Portfolio in Half Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 22 CSR Corporate Imperative 2020 Destination Goals • Nourishing Our Consumers — Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile of our product portfolio. • Nourishing Our Neighbors — Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood obesity by 50%. Supporting Goals – Make a positive impact in the lives of 100 million youth through our volunteer, community, and signature programs. • Nourishing Our Employees — Achieve 100% employee engagement in our CSR and sustainability strategies. • Nourishing Our Planet — Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half as measured by water use and CO2 emissions per tonne of product produced. Supporting Goals – Reduce energy use by 35% per tonne of product produced and source 40% of the energy used by the company from renewable or alternative energy sources. – Recycle 95% of waste generated on a global basis. – Eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging from Campbell products. – Deliver 100% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable, or from recycled content). – Reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per tonne in our top five agricultural ingredients. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 23 Corporate Governance and Ethics Campbell is committed to winning in the marketplace and in the workplace in compliance with the law and the highest ethical standards. Our company has a long history of excellence in corporate governance. Campbell’s expectation of ethical behavior by every employee is rooted in our respect for the reputation of our great company and our convictions about the way we must conduct our business on a daily basis. Our multifaceted Winning With Integrity program provides the systems and tools to help our employees win in the right way, honor Campbell’s distinguished heritage, and secure its future. All Campbell associates share the responsibility to make certain that our pledge to win with integrity in the marketplace, the workplace, and the community is fulfilled every day, in every decision they make and every action they take. Campbell’s longstanding commitment to excellence in corporate governance is reflected in our Corporate Governance Standards, which are re-evaluated annually, and in the Board’s painstaking governance process. Our Board has long been led by an independent, nonexecutive chairman. Systematic procedures for evaluating the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees have been in place for many years. Corporate Governance — Board of Directors Campbell’s commitment to responsible corporate citizenship and the sustainable, long-term growth of our business begins with our Board of Directors. The Board consists of 14 independent members, one former company executive, and two current company executives, President and CEO Doug Conant and Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Denise Morrison. Board operations, including approval of agendas and information provided to directors, are managed by an independent, nonexecutive chairman. Our Board believes that diversity in the backgrounds and perspectives of our directors contributes to sound corporate governance. Four of our current directors are women. One director is from India, one was born and raised in Argentina, one is African-American, and one, who was raised in Colombia, is Hispanic. Our Board includes members with diverse business experience in the food industry, consumer products, financial services, retail, packaging, finance, and international business. Every member of our Board is expected to be a person of the highest integrity and to abide by exemplary standards of business and professional conduct. Our company has a long history of excellence in corporate governance. Campbell’s Corporate Governance Standards, first published in our proxy statement in 1992, are reviewed annually by the Governance Committee and approved by the Board. The Governance Standards currently provide for four standing committees of the Board: Audit, Compensation and Organization, Finance and Corporate Development, and Governance. The Board focuses on the areas that are important to shareowners, such as strategy, risk management, leadership development, emerging markets, director recruitment, external development, and executive compensation. Directors meet individually with senior management and visit plant facilities to assess operations. In 2006, the Board approved, and the company implemented, a continuing education program for directors on topics relevant to the company and to directors’ fiduciary responsibilities. During a portion of every Board meeting, directors confer in an executive session in which no members of management are present. In FY2010, the full Board received an in-depth presentation on CSR and sustainability from our Vice President of Corporate Social Responsibility. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 24 Five years ago, the Audit Committee recommended, and the Board approved, a framework pursuant to which the Board as a whole and each of the standing committees have been assigned specific accountabilities for review of the Company’s management of certain categories of enterprise risk. The responsibilities reflected in the framework are included in the annual schedules of recurring agenda items for the Board and the respective committees, and the Audit Committee reviews the framework annually. Review of the principal enterprise risks and the process by which those risks are managed and monitored, is overseen by the Board and incorporated into their annual strategic planning process. All of our directors stand for election each year. For their service, they receive annual fees based on the median director compensation paid by peer food and consumer products companies. Approximately 50% of each director’s compensation is paid in cash and 50% is paid in common stock. Director stock ownership requirements have existed at Campbell since 1993. Currently, our directors beneficially own more than 40% of our company’s common stock. In FY2010, the full Board convened six times, and all directors attended at least 75% of scheduled Board meetings and the sessions of the committees on which they served. Public Policy Engagement Campbell participates actively in the discussion of local, state, national, and international public policy issues relevant to our business strategies and operations, from food safety and advertising to healthcare and international trade. We also contribute to public dialogue on policy issues through our memberships in food industry trade associations, such as the Grocery Manufacturers of America, the Food Marketing Institute, the American Bakers Association, the Confederation of Food and Drink Industries of the EU, the Food and Consumer Products Association of Canada, the Australian Food and Grocery Council, and the International Life Science Institute. We express our views candidly and are committed to transparency in our interactions with government agencies and officials. Campbell’s lobbying disclosure reports are filed with the appropriate state and federal authorities under the U.S. Lobby Disclosure Act and are available for review at www.senate.gov/legislative/ Public_Disclosure/ LDA_reports.htm. In 2009, Campbell adopted a formal set of Political Accountability Guidelines and related disclosures, which are available on the company’s public website. In the U.S., the company does not endorse any individual political party or candidate, but we do encourage voluntary political activity by our employees. Our employees can contribute funds to political candidates and organizations engaged in policy issues that are important to our company, such as food manufacturing standards and worker safety, through Campbell’s Political Action Committee (PAC), a segregated fund that is affiliated with the company. Contributions made by the Campbell PAC are publicly reported in accordance with federal law. To view Campbell PAC’s disclosures of contributions and expenditures to the Federal Election Commission (FEC), visit www.fec.gov/finance/ disclosure/disclosure_data_search.shtml. Also in 2009, Campbell established its Public Policy Council, an 11-member committee of senior executives that evaluates and advises the company on the array of public policy issues that affect Campbell and the food industry. By providing thoughtful analysis and leadership, the Public Policy Council helps Campbell’s Government Affairs group provide information and valuable insights to both to our trade associations and directly to regulatory agencies and elected officials. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 25 Winning With Integrity Codes and Policies Campbell is committed to win in the marketplace and in the workplace in compliance with the law and in accordance with the highest ethical standards. We will compete vigorously, but we will be honest, lawful, and fair in our dealings with our employees, customers, consumers, communities, and all others whose lives we touch. This bedrock principle drives all that we do and illuminates all that we aspire to achieve. Our employees know that they are expected to honor our company’s commitment to integrity at all times, everywhere in the world. Campbell’s Winning With Integrity program provides the resources, tools, and guidance that enable our employees to understand and comply with our standards and expectations for business conduct. The program includes, among other things, an interactive website, extensive written materials, and a comprehensive, worldwide training program. Among the resources available on our website are Campbell’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, our Corporate Compliance Manual, information about our Integrity Hotline and our compliance and ethics training program, and links to core corporate policies. Principal Codes and Policies Campbell’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is the foundation document of the Winning With Integrity program. The Code outlines our company’s basic standards and expectations, highlights important Campbell policies, and summarizes certain fundamental legal requirements that our employees must follow at work. It also provides guidance about other resources to which employees can turn if they have questions or concerns about a potential legal or ethical problem. The Code is available in multiple languages, and every Campbell employee receives a personal copy. Individual corporate policy statements on specific compliance issues are issued by the CEO and updated as necessary. Other policies, manuals, and guidelines are issued by the respective business units and corporate functions. A central Index of Standards and Procedures for Compliance, maintained by the Legal Department, provides a comprehensive inventory of the policies, procedures, and guidelines in use at the corporate level and within the individual businesses and functions. New or revised corporate policies and guidelines are issued every year. In FY2010, for example, Campbell revised and reissued its global guidelines for responsible advertising to children and its guidelines for personal postings on social media by Campbell employees. Examples of key corporate policy statements and guidelines relevant to CSR and sustainability include the following: • Human Rights Principles • Environmental Sustainability Policy • Political Accountability Guidelines • Global Guidelines for Responsible Advertising to Children • Commitment Concerning Advertising to Children • Code of Business Conduct and Ethics • Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 26 Education and Training Campbell provides comprehensive training for every employee on “core” issues relating to ethics and compliance, and “risk-based” training that is tailored to individuals’ roles in the company and the issues associated with their specific job responsibilities. As part of the Winning With Integrity program, all employees are required to complete annual training focused on our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. This training is available online or in person, and is offered in 13 languages. To maintain interest and engagement, we vary our core training courses by emphasizing different aspects of the Code every year. One course, for example, focuses on situations involving workplace harassment, discrimination, violence, and concerns about product quality. Another illustrates the application of the Code to issues relating to workplace privacy, confidentiality, conflicts of interests and gifts, financial integrity, and records retention. Our newest core training course, launching in FY2011, focuses on workplace violence, social networking, and creating an ethical corporate culture. Campbell’s Integrity Hotline Campbell’s Integrity Hotline is a service through which complaints and concerns can be reported to the Company or the Board on a confidential and/or anonymous basis. Access to the hotline is available through a secure Internet website and toll-free by telephone from all countries in which Campbell does business. To comply with special requirements of the European Union and in certain EU member states, we maintain a separate hotline service for employees in France, Belgium, and Germany. The availability of the Integrity Hotline and instructions for its use are widely publicized to our employees around the world. All reports to our hotlines are investigated. Evolution of the Program Our Winning With Integrity program is continuously assessed and adjusted to reflect developments in our business, such as entry into new markets and other strategic initiatives. Reflecting our commitment to building a diverse and inclusive workplace, new online training in diversity and inclusion was introduced in FY2009 and a new anti-harassment online training course is being introduced in 2011. With the growth of our new business operations in Russia and China, we also expanded training on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also modify our training program, as well as our standards and procedures for compliance, in response to new legislative and regulatory requirements, enforcement trends, political and public policy concerns, and trends in the broader business and financial environments. For example, in light of the heightened government scrutiny and new legislation concerning food safety, we updated the Food Safety Law Chapter in the Corporate Compliance Manual and are providing additional training on food safety, labeling, and crisis management issues. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 27 Stakeholder Engagement Campbell applies multiple strategies to engage our stakeholders and gather diverse external perspectives on our business activities. Campbell uses multiple tools to gather diverse external perspectives on our business activities. In addition to third-party consumer and customer research, our Consumer and Customer Insights and Consumer Affairs departments, and our Customer Relationship Managers help us identify the priorities of our marketplace stakeholders. Specific processes are used to obtain feedback from our suppliers, employees, investors, and external thought leaders in areas including health and nutrition, food safety and quality, environmental stewardship, community relations, and employee engagement. We also conduct benchmarking for leadership performance and interact with many trade and issue management groups worldwide. To complement the rich input we receive through our existing stakeholder engagement models, in FY2009 & FY2010 we also conducted specific surveys on CSR and sustainability with consumers, key customers, suppliers, and internal brand managers. Consumers genuinely appreciate the opportunity to provide feedback on CSR. Below are just three of the more than 100 comments we received after our most recent consumer survey of key CSR attributes and perceptions. Campbell’s business leaders serve as trustees or members of the advisory boards of many organizations engaged in “I just wanted to say ‘Thanks’ for creating a great the CSR/sustainability agenda, including, for example, the site devoted to listening to the customers. It shows following: that you are a great company and one of the reasons you’ve been around for so long. You truly • American Council for Fitness and Nutrition are a benchmark for other companies to follow and • Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation my hat’s off to whoever came up with this idea for • A gricultural Sustainability Institute, University of this site and also to the CEO or others running this California at Davis fine company. I feel very proud that I can offer my opinions and that someone IS listening to me and • Food Allergy Research and Resource Program that I really am making a difference. Keep up the • Center for Food Safety at the University of Georgia great work! I appreciate everything you’ve done so • Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network far.” Greg • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship “Thank you for this opportunity! It’s nice to see a • Society of Consumer Affairs Professionals (SOCAP) company trying to find out what really matters to the consumer — thank you!” Kristin • Net Impact • Food for All “Thanks for the opportunity to help improve Campbell and to offer my opinion on a vari• Association for Consumer Research ety of subjects. I really enjoy taking part in this • Foundation for Strategic Sourcing forum.” Sharon • European Cluster for Fruit and Vegetable Innovation • Food Bank of South Jersey • Students in Free Enterprise • United Way of Camden County • United Way, Wilton/Norwalk, CT Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 28 In addition, Campbell has established a Scientific Advisory Panel to provide external expertise on vegetable nutrition. The panel has been designed to provide strategic insights on current and emerging science on vegetable and plant ingredients including their nutrient/phytonutrient composition; the health benefits that these vegetable/plant ingredients and phytonutrients could provide; how manufacturing and processing may affect these nutrients and phytonutrients; and how product attributes can be delivered from this science. All of this information is part of the materiality assessment that is conducted annually in the CSR and sustainability strategic planning process. S TAKE H O L DE R IN T E R A C T ION S TYPES OF ISSUES STRATEGIC B ENEFI TS Employees • Employee forums • Business trends, • Open and reliable channels of • Brandand plant-based interests, and knowledge communication across entire intranet sites • New ideas for innovation workforce • Business Resource Affinity • A sense of shared perspective, with multiple Networks touch points to support • Employee surveys alignment • Anonymous channels • Labor negotiations • Innovation portal Health Research and • R&D relationships • Nutrition and labeling • Cutting-edge science on Advocacy Bodies • Campbell memberships standards nutrition • Research results • Clinical research • Accurate and understandable • Strategic issue partnerships • Industry partnerships labeling • Cause marketing relationships aligned with Campbell brands Consumers • Dedicated Consumer Affairs • Product ingredients • Understanding and alignment organization, web portal, • New product inputs with consumer interests and telephone, and written • Labeling trends interaction • Nutrition • Direct, high-touch relationship • Consumer insights research • Product use and recipes with Campbell’s consumers • Campbell’s Kitchen website • Buying and use behavior • Trust and ability to • Nutrition and wellness • Consumer priorities communicate rapidly website • Specific consumer studies, including on CSR/ sustainability Customers • Direct customer relationship • Business relationships • Tailored business strategies organizations • Customer service & support that meet our customers’ • Top-to-top customer • Marketing support needs and priorities meetings (including CSR/ • Trade practices sustainability strategy) • Logistics & supply chain • 360° customer feedback capabilities vehicles Suppliers • Assessments and audits • Product quality and safety • Robust and reliable supply • Face-to-face meetings • Sustainable packaging chain • Business continuity plans • Supply chain risk mitigation • Alignment on ethical, human • Community partnerships • Cost-saving opportunities rights and environmental • Supplier diversity initiatives • Partnership in local citizenship expectations • Product design activities • Sustainable packaging fairs continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report De f ining S Uccess 29 continued from previous page S TAKE H O L DE R IN T E R A C T ION S TYPES OF ISSUES STRATEGIC B ENEFI TS Shareowners • Meetings with institutional • Business performance • Close and interactive investors and major • Health and Wellness product relationship with shareowners shareowners to address strategies from institutional to retail business and CSR/ • International expansion plans • Enhanced understanding of sustainability issues • Sustainability targets and Campbell’s seven business • New expanded outreach to results strategies socially responsible investors Communities and • Direct, on-the-ground • Critical local needs — hunger, • Focused, tailored approach NGOs relationships youth, support services in our to community service that is • Networking relationships communities aligned with the Campbell across our community • Strategic partnership priorities family of brands, our local partners — heart health, obesity, communities, and the most • Recognition events sustainable agriculture, pressing priorities on which • Brainstorming discussions diversity Campbell can have the • Regional priority plans — greatest impact health, community revitalization, youth • Signature partnerships Governments, • Campbell Public Policy • Food safety, quality, labeling • Credible and authentic Policy Makers Committee sets priorities • Regional priorities relationships with policy • Direct engagement on issues • Health, wellness and nutrition makers important to Campbell policy • Consistent policy positions business globally • Regulatory affairs employees • Building a reputation as a at plant and international sites trusted source of industry • Significant monitoring and perspective communication activities Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Consumers Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Consumers Ov er the Past Year, WE . . . At Campbell, Nourishing Our Consumers • Increased sales of our Nutrition and Wellness Product Portfolio by more than 20% begins with our wholesome portfolio. • Reached more than 330 million people so far That’s why we have been able to provide through our “AdDress Your Heart” campaign consumers with nutritious, high-quality, • Offered more than 115 U.S. products certified and great-tasting food for more than by the American Heart Association • Joined the Healthy Weight Commitment a century. Foundation to help reduce obesity • Were the first company to receive the “Mission Achievement Award” from the American Heart Association IN T H I S S E CT I O N OU R 2 0 2 0 G OAL S Overview Food Safety and Quality For more than a century, Campbell’s commitment Advancing Global Nutrition and Wellness Campbell has been dedito providing products that Continually advance the nutrition and wellness profile cated to Nourishing Our are wholesome, safe, and of our product portfolio Consumers by providing affordable has allowed connutritious, high-quality, and sumers to enjoy our brands great-tasting foods. for generations. Offering Healthy and Advancing Social Impact Nutritious Products with Our Consumers Campbell is committed to and Our Customers helping consumers use food Strategic partnerships to maintain and advance their between Campbell, our health and personal wellconsumers, and our custombeing. ers allow us to make a more powerful impact in key social Ensuring Customer areas. Satisfaction Campbell actively seeks and Recognition values consumer feedback Campbell’s core principle of because earning our consum“Winning in the Marketplace” ers’ trust is, and always will is literally brought to life be, our paramount focus. through recognition. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 32 Overview Campbell’s goal is to make healthy and nutritious products an affordable, everyday opportunity for all consumers to help them meet their nutritional requirements and lifestyle needs. At Campbell, Nourishing Our Consumers begins with our wholesome product portfolio. Earning and maintaining our consumers’ trust is, and always will be, our paramount focus. For more than a century, we have dedicated ourselves to nourishing our consumers by providing nutritious, high-quality, and great-tasting foods. We nourish the lives of our consumers by: • Delivering safe, high-quality, affordable, and convenient foods and beverages • Continually improving the nutritional value of our products • Using consumer feedback to improve our offerings • Providing value-added services, such as recipes, in our advertising and on our websites • Marketing our products responsibly To address the growing interest in issues such as healthy weight management, heart health, childhood obesity, and quality of life, we are increasing our product development focus on foods that meet consumers’ increasing needs for nutrition and wellbeing. We provide consumers around the world with great-tasting products that deliver a range of choices to help them meet their nutritional requirements and lifestyle needs. Our goal is to make nutritious, high-quality, and great-tasting products an affordable, everyday opportunity for all consumers. In addition, we will continue to educate our consumers regarding food choices and how our products, as part of a balanced diet, help support a healthy lifestyle. An important component of this effort is providing accurate and reliable labels with ingredients and nutrition information to help our consumers make informed purchasing decisions. In 2011, we announced plans to participate in an industry-wide effort to provide front of label nutrition information. Campbell’s Nutrition and Wellness website offers simple, everyday solutions, tools, and information to help our consumers meet their wellness goals. Our goal is to provide useful information to help consumers make healthy choices whether they are at home or on the go. Campbell’s Kitchen works to make this information even more accessible by providing a variety of practical, great-tasting recipes and menu plans that are good for families and their budgets. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 33 Offering Healthy and Nutritious Products Campbell’s focus on the nutrition and wellness credentials of our products provides our consumers with a portfolio of affordable options for themselves and their families. Around the world, the role of food in maintaining and advancing health and personal well-being is growing among consumers. At Campbell, we continue to add wellness attibutes to our products and now in the U.S. have more than 200 products with reduced levels of sodium; more than 200 products that are low in fat and saturated fat; more than 150 products that have 100 calories or less per serving; and more than 115 product SKUs that are certified by the American Heart Association. Our goal is to continue to deliver great-tasting products that can be part of a healthy diet and lifestyle. Growth of Nutrition and Wellness Product Portfolio ($ in millions) Growth of Nutrition and Wellness Product Portfolio includes Organic, Full Vegetable Serving, Light, Low Fat, Healthy Levels of Sodium, Whole Grains. Continually Advancing the Nutrition and Wellness Attributes of Our Product Portfolio Healthy Sodium Levels: Campbell has been a food industry pioneer in our commitment to reduce the amount of sodium consumed in the typical diet. For more than 40 years, we have offered our consumers lower-sodium soup options. Over the past decade, we have made significant progress advancing our science, technology, and formulation capabilities to deliver lower-sodium choices that are also great-tasting. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 34 Campbell now offers eight times the number of reduced-sodium products in our portfolio compared to 2005. To date we have advanced sodium reduction in more than 90 of our soups, including a 32% reduction of sodium in our top-selling Campbell’s Tomato soup to the healthy sodium level of 480 milligrams per serving while preserving its great iconic taste. In addition to soup, we have offered lower-sodium choices in our V8 juices, Campbell’s SpaghettiOs pastas, Pepperidge Farm natural breads, and introduced Prego Heart Smart pasta sauces. In Canada, across both retail and foodservice channels, approximately 73 products meet the nutrition criteria for the country’s Heart and Stroke Foundation’s Health Check™ program. Since 2003, Campbell Canada has removed more than 46 million teaspoons of sodium from more than 100 products across Campbell’s Condensed, Chunky and Gardennay brands. To help Canadians more easily identify healthier choices in the soup aisle these products now feature a prominent visual `Blue Band’ around the top identifying 25 percent less sodium products. Campbell Canada’s leadership in sodium reduction also has been recognized by Blood Pressure Canada’s Award of Excellence — the only such food manufacturer in Canada to earn that honor. In Australia, the sodium levels across all Campbell’s ready-to-serve soups now meet the Australian National Heart Foundation’s guidelines for sodium. That’s just one of the reasons why a number of Campbell’s Country Ladle soups have been awarded the National Heart Foundation Tick. In our North American foodservice channels, we have reformulated and expanded our line of soups and Pepperidge Farm products offered in schools to meet the standards outlined by the Alliance for a Healthier Generation — a partnership between the William J. Clinton Foundation and the American Heart Association — in which Campbell was one of the first participants to join in October 2006. Trans-Fats In recent years, the food industry has acted aggressively to address consumer concerns about trans-fats (TFAs), which are often found in processed food products. Campbell has been an industry leader in removing trans-fats across our product portfolio while maintaining great taste, texture, and quality. In 2004, we announced the reformulation of our entire line of Pepperidge Farm Goldfish crackers to zero grams of trans-fats. Since then, we have reduced or eliminated artificial trans-fats in almost all of our bakery products. We continue to look for opportunities to reduce the saturated fats in our snack products and to use lean meats in our soups. Promoting Positive Nutrition Whole Grains: The U.S. Dietary Guidelines recommend making half your grains whole grains. Campbell provides whole grains in a broad range of products including more than 25 varieties of Pepperidge Farm breads, rolls, English muffins, and bagels. In 2010, Pepperidge Farm had more bakery products certified by the American Heart Association than any other bakery company. Pepperidge Farm also has developed Goldfish crackers and graham snacks that are made with whole grains in the U.S. In Australia, Arnott’s offers whole grain Arnott’s Vita-Weat products, including 9 Grains Crispbreads made with 100% whole grains and Rice Crackers made with 100% whole grain brown rice. Campbell’s Australia also offers consumers the goodness of whole grains under their Country Ladle brand with a range of ready-to-serve soups featuring whole grain brown rice, whole grain barley, and whole grain pasta. All Campbell’s Condensed Kids’ Shapes soups in the U.S. are now made with whole grain pasta. Whole grain pasta is also featured in several varieties of Campbell’s Select Harvest and Campbell’s Condensed soups. Organic Offerings: In the U.S. market, we offer organic versions of our Swanson chicken, beef, and vegetable broths, as well as 17 varieties of Wolfgang Puck soup and all Wolfgang Puck broths. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 35 Vegetables: Many Campbell products deliver one or more full servings of vegetables in each portion. A glass of V8 vegetable juice provides two servings of vegetables required in a daily diet. V8 V-Fusion juice provides a full serving of vegetables and a full serving of fruit. Thirty-five (35) varieties (SKUs) of Campbell’s Chunky soup provide a full serving of vegetables in each serving. In 2010, Prego introduced two Veggie Smart varieties that provide 50% of your recommended daily vegetables in every 1 /2 cup serving. The Healthy Request Line: Campbell has a dedicated product line of 25 soups that each meet criteria established by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and the U.S. Department of Agriculture for a healthy food. These products are also 98% fat free, have up to 50% less sodium, have zero grams of trans-fats, and are low in saturated fat and cholesterol. They also contain at least 10% of the Daily Value of specific beneficial nutrients, such as vitamins A and C, calcium, iron, protein, and fiber. Campbell offers 25 varieties (SKUs) of Healthy Request soups that display the American Heart Association’s heart-check mark. Weight Management Eating patterns that are low in caloric density (the relationship of calories to volume) help people maintain a healthy weight and soup has been described as a “secret weapon” for weight control by dieticians who recognize that many soup varieties offer a low calorie dense option. Campbell has introduced a range of Light soups in both its Campbell’s Condensed and Campbell’s Select Harvest soups. Beyond soup, Pepperidge Farm has a number of 100 calorie packs that are being offered for both cookies and Goldfish crackers. Vegetable consumption as part of a healthy diet may also help with weight management. Recent research found that the simple addition of V8 100% vegetable juice in people’s diets was part of a successful strategy to help them meet the vegetable guidelines. Using Nutrition Science to Enhance Food Nutrition Research Support: Campbell has a long history of conducting and supporting research in better nutrition, food preparation, and dietary patterns. Using a multidisciplinary approach of nutritional, food, sensory, culinary, and packaging science, we strive to offer consumers healthier choices that also meet their uncompromising taste expectations. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 36 Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction Campbell encourages our consumers to provide feedback because we continuously strive to develop new products that will meet or exceed their expectations for great-tasting, affordable, and nutritious foods. Campbell actively seeks and values consumer feedback, whether positive or negative. Last year, nearly 500,000 consumers in the U.S. contacted Campbell to ask questions, express concerns, or praise our products. The majority of these contacts are received through our toll-free phone number, but consumers can also send letters or reach us through our website. Our Consumer Affairs team is charged with receiving, tracking, and responding to all consumer feedback. This includes contacting individuals who use or control social media outlets that comment on our products. Through ongoing analysis of consumer comments, we are able to improve our products, packaging, production processes, and level of service. FY2010 CONSUMER Inquiry CONTACT 54% PRIMARY CATEGORIES Praise 11% Complaint 35% Innovating with Ideas from Within Campbell and Beyond Campbell has a passion for innovation. We continually seek to improve the quality, wellness profile, convenience, and value of our products. We are always interested in ideas for new products, packaging, marketing, and production technologies that will help us meet the needs of our consumers and customers better, faster, and more completely than the competition. We recognize that valuable ideas for innovation may come to us from many sources, both inside and outside the company. Consumers, customers, suppliers, contractors, inventors, and friends often have ideas that they would like to share with us, and we welcome them. To streamline this process, Campbell introduced Ideas for Innovation in 2008. This web portal enables people to submit ideas that are then shared with our skilled Research and Development and Marketing personnel, who are dedicated to improving our products, packaging, marketing programs and production methods. We also work with outside partners to develop innovative ideas. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 37 In 2009 we launched ideaNET, an internal idea-generation program, and asked our employees to share their innovative ideas in such areas as product development, sustainability, marketing, community programming, and health and wellness. Ideas that are submitted are acknowledged and reviewed by experts within the company. Campbell employees from more than 45 global locations have offered up more than 1,300 ideas since the inception of the program. Beyond simply listening to feedback, we are actively engaged in programs designed to help our consumers live better and longer lives. We understand, for example, that it can be a challenge to manage dietary needs for individuals who are allergic to certain foods. To increase awareness and provide additional education for families affected by food allergies, Campbell has partnered with the Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network (FAAN) to offer a free six-month trial membership to any family dealing with allergies. By helping consumers participate in FAAN, we seek to assist those with allergies to understand their dietary options and obtain the information they need to minimize health risks. For our consumers who desire products without gluten we have created a website that can be found at www.campbellswithoutgluten.com. The site contains important information as well as a list of products that are gluten-free. Tracking Consumer Feedback Campbell conducts frequent surveys and other research to gauge consumer satisfaction and improve our understanding of what our consumers expect from us. We constantly challenge ourselves to find new and innovative ways to meet or exceed these expectations. One of the best ways to find out whether our consumers are satisfied is to ask them. We know that consumer satisfaction is key to consumer loyalty and retention. Our Consumer Affairs group does just that. With each contact received through our contact center, consumers are able to participate in a short, post-call survey. This information is used to create process and service improvements resulting in increased consumer satisfaction with our service, products and packaging. Our consumers mean the world to us! Providing Information Our Consumers Want Campbell continually develops and tests new programs to provide consumers with useful information on meal ideas, health and wellness, and other tips. For example, each day our Meal-Mail program delivers nearly 500,000 recipes electronically to busy Americans who are hungry for convenient, great-tasting meal ideas that will please their families. Consumers can also access our Campbell’s Kitchen website (www.campbellskitchen.com) at any time and download recipe ideas that have been tested and approved by our Campbell’s Kitchen team, often with the assistance of our Campbell chefs and nutritionists. New Product Innovation We continuously strive to develop new products that will meet or exceed our consumers’ expectations for taste, nutrition, convenience, value, and variety. All new products must meet our stringent standards for safety and quality. Our manufacturing processes are designed to maintain the nutritional value and preserve the goodness of our wholesome ingredients. Campbell’s Research and Development department is constantly monitoring trends and working to apply cutting-edge science to help the company grow globally. Our strategies are focused on providing better everyday simple meals, healthy beverages, and baked snack choices. Our goal is to help consumers reduce negative components in their diets, close nutrition gaps, maintain healthy weight, and protect heart health, with a special emphasis on vegetable and grain nutrition. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 38 Food Safety and Quality Campbell has an extremely successful history of protecting the consumer. We fulfill the expectations that our consumers place on us to have robust safety and quality systems in place. Campbell is committed to providing products that are safe, wholesome, and affordable. We are committed to maintaining our consumers’ trust by continuously improving our quality control processes. We have devised a set of worldwide quality standards that define the requirements for food safety and quality. All Campbell businesses, as well as all of our suppliers and co-packers, are required to meet these standards. Our quality standards extend from the fields where our ingredients are sourced to the finished products that are shipped to our customers and then purchased by our consumers. Ingredient Sourcing and Traceability A quality product begins with quality ingredients. We purchase most of our fresh ingredients from farms in the countries where we produce products. We also source certain ingredients from carefully selected suppliers around the world. Our ingredient suppliers and contract manufacturers must meet the requirements for safety and quality set forth in our Supply Base Requirements and Expectations Manual. These requirements were developed after reviewing the quality audits of supplier manufacturing sites, and are based on careful study of best practices throughout the food industry. We conduct periodic audits and on-site inspections of our ingredient suppliers to ensure compliance with our worldwide quality requirements. We require our suppliers to know where their ingredients come from, and we conduct periodic exercises to assure that we can quickly determine where our products have been shipped. Product Manufacturing Campbell operates more than 30 manufacturing plants in 11 countries with the support of more than 2,000 individual suppliers and more than 70 co-packers. Our facilities produce more than 5 billion packages of 10,000 distinct soup, sauce, baked snack, bakery, and beverage products. Throughout the manufacturing process, our quality teams monitor, identify, and address potential issues that could create a quality or safety risk. In collaboration with our suppliers, other food manufacturers, and customers, Campbell has committed to the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI), establishing manufacturing facility food safety systems certification to GFSI recognized standards as a requirement. • Foreign Material: We use a variety of advanced technologies, including X-ray, metal detectors and magnets, process audits, and inspections to protect against foreign material contamination. We share best practices and technologies with our suppliers and co-packers. • Allergens: We control for a variety of food allergens, including fin fish, shellfish, peanuts, tree nuts, eggs, dairy protein (dairy in Australia), soy protein, wheat, and sesame seeds. We maintain strict internal controls to safeguard against cross-contamination during production. Campbell has invested in data systems to maintain label ingredient statement and claims accuracy. We have also pioneered the use of advanced coding and scanning technologies that help assure individual package verification of labeling accuracy, allergen control, and product traceability. • Genetically Modified (GM) Ingredients: The Company respects local market regulations and preference regarding the use of GM ingredients. We adhere rigorously to all local regulatory requirements in the markets where we distribute our products. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 39 • Incident Management: We maintain strict and consistent controls throughout our manufacturing processes, but we are also prepared to act swiftly and effectively if there is a problem with any of our products. If we suspect that the safety of a Campbell product has been compromised, Campbell’s Corporate Crisis Management Team initiates a recall process to remove the product from store warehouses and shelves and alert consumers immediately. Working through protocols established by government agencies around the world, we provide regular updates on the scope and status of any product recall. We also have 24-hour support available to our retail trade customers and consumers to address any questions and concerns. Following each recall, we conduct a thorough root cause analysis to identify and implement corrective actions. This work has led to improvements in our tracking and manufacturing controls. Global Recalls: 2010 — 3 Recalls impacting 7 products 2009 — 3 Recalls impacting 4 products Food Safety Campbell has a great legacy of leading the industry in food safety. Food safety involves the growing, handling, preparation, and storage of food with the goal of preventing food-borne illnesses. At Campbell, food safety involves a collection of departments and teams that partner to manage risks and protect our consumers, our customers, our brands, and our Company. Campbell professionals bring together a variety of scientific disciplines, such as toxicology, microbiology, thermal processing, analytical chemistry, and forensic analysis. Campbell experts are heavily involved with, and are often leaders in, the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) and other highly respected technical, trade, and scientific organizations with committees dedicated to food safety. Campbell employs several layers of technology to keep our food products safe, from optical sorters to magnetic scanning to eliminate any metallic objects. To make certain that what’s on the label is what’s in the package, Campbell helped develop a “vision” system to ensure that the labels placed on every can or package are correct. Another emerging area is cutting-edge X-ray technology that not only can detect metal, glass, and other dense foreign objects, but can also identify package or filling defects. We also understand that our products — and our reputation — are only as good as the ingredients that come from our suppliers. Campbell has developed a comprehensive program designed to protect the safety of ingredients and products throughout the supply chain, involving suppliers, packagers, and co-manufacturers. Our suppliers’ quality controls must be as good as ours, and we validate their processes to ensure that they are. Vendors must meet stringent requirements using procedures such as Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), a systematic, preventive approach to controlling food hazards. We use HACCP in our own manufacturing facilities as well. Vendors and co-manufacturers also are subject to rigorous and regular audits by Campbell’s Global Procurement and Supply Base Quality teams to ensure continued compliance with our exacting standards. We verify the safety of the ingredients and finished products using analytical tests, microbiological assays, and investigations of packaging integrity — a holistic approach that makes Campbell a leader in food safety. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 40 Advancing Social Impact with Our Consumers and Our Customers Campbell’s strategic partnerships increase our ability to impact issues that are important to our consumers, customers, and society. As part of our mission to nourish people’s lives everywhere, every day, Campbell supports several signature strategic partnerships that allow us to make a more powerful impact than we could on our own in areas as diverse as promoting sustainable agriculture, accessible and healthy nutrition, addressing hunger in the U.S., bringing positive opportunities to our youth, and promoting awareness among women of the impact and causes of heart disease. Sustainable Agriculture National FFA Organization At Campbell, our dedication to making the best soups goes beyond the ingredients. That’s why we support local farms and farmers across the United States. Over the past three years we have contributed $525,000 to the National FFA Organization to support scholarships for tomorrow’s leaders in sustainable agriculture. PART NE RS H I P S T O A D VA N C E S O C IA L IMPA CT A H EA LTH ier PRODUCT PORTFOL IO Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 41 Hunger Relief Helping To Stamp Out Hunger The need for food assistance has never been greater. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s annual study measuring food security in the United States, the number of Americans living in food-insecure homes increased from 36.2 million in 2007 to more than 50 million in 2009. Even more troubling is the fact that one in three is a child. Stamp Out Hunger is the National Association of Letter Carriers’ annual national food drive held on the second Saturday of May. Campbell promotes the drive in the media and with the help of our retail partners in-store. The company helps underwrite the cost of the postcard that is sent to every home in America to promote what is the world’s largest one-day food drive. In 2010, a record 77.1 million pounds of food was collected by more than 230,000 letter carriers. Campbell and the National Football League Tackle Hunger Through the Campbell’s Chunky online Click For Cans program, we engage consumers in a fun and competitive way in order to increase awareness regarding hunger in America. The Chunky brand team provides a donation of 1,000 cans of Campbell’s Chunky soup to each of the Feeding America food bank partners of the 32 NFL teams. In addition, as the Click For Cans competition progresses, the food bank of the winning team is awarded an additional donation of 17,000 cans of Chunky soup, while the runner-up receives 12,000 additional cans of Chunky soup. Nutrition and Wellness Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation Campbell is a founding member of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation. The Foundation is working to reduce obesity, especially childhood obesity, by 2015 by promoting the importance of energy balance — balancing calories eaten with calories burned through activity — and focusing in three critical areas: the marketplace, the workplace, and schools. As part of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation, Campbell is committed to building on our portfolio of healthy products in the marketplace, especially those well-suited to supporting healthy weight. We will continue our work with leading wellness organizations to help educate people about the importance of a healthy lifestyle. We are building on our nationally recognized and award-winning employee wellness programs to support our employees and their families and continuing to strengthen our commitment to America’s schools with programs such as our long-standing Labels for Education program. Campbell Supports Go Red For Women To Help Fight Heart Disease It’s no coincidence that the red color of our iconic soup label stands for love and passion, but also for strength and courage, which come to mind when you see the red-dress symbol. Campbell created its signature AdDress Your Heart program to raise awareness and funds to support the fight against heart disease. Over the past five years, top designers including Nicole Miller and Michael Vollbracht for Bill Blass have designed one-of-a-kind Campbell red dresses, which have been worn by celebrities with personal connections to heart disease. To date, Campbell has pledged more than $3.6 million through 2012 to the American Heart Association’s Go Red For Women movement to support the fight against heart disease. Pepperidge Farm and the Susan G. Komen Foundation Raise Awareness for Breast Cancer Pepperidge Farm released specially pink-wrapped Milano cookies to show support for the Susan G. Komen Foundation for the Cure® during National Breast Cancer Awareness Month. This was part of Pepperidge Farm’s ongoing commitment to finding the cures for breast cancer. Pepperidge Farm donated $180,000 to the Susan G. Komen Foundation in 2010 for a total of more than $1,075,000 in the past few years. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 42 Labels for Education The Labels for Education (LFE) program has been an institution in U.S. schools since 1973. The program is registered in more than 80,000 schools and impacts more than 17.5 million students annually. Over the last three years, we have awarded more than $7 million in educational merchandise to participating schools. The LFE program supports schools by helping them obtain educational resources they might not otherwise be able to afford, such as computers, athletic equipment, and musical instruments. In 2009, we announced a renewed focus on Academics, Arts and Athletics to provide opportunities for our young people. Campbell continues to partner with the GRAMMY Foundation in a joint venture to make music education more accessible in tens of thousands of schools (K-6) across America. Through the partnership, the GRAMMY Foundation’s proprietary Discovery Through Music curriculum was made available to nearly 60,000 schools nationwide that are registered in the Labels for Education program. In 2010, the Labels for Education program was expanded to include new retail partners — Bic, Pop Secret and Post Cereals. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r C onsu mers 43 Recognition When Campbell receives recognition from our consumers, customers and the media, it is validation that we are on the right path on our journey to build the world’s most extraordinary food company by “winning in the marketplace.” American Heart Association named Campbell its first recipient of the Mission Achievement Award, which was established to recognize an organization whose extraordinary efforts help to advance the mission of the AHA through consumer public education and awareness, corporate support and industry leadership in prevention. IRTS Gold Medal Award for significant career-long contributions to the integrity, health, and success of the electronic media industry #5 Corporate Reputation: Global Pulse U.S. Companies – Reputation Institute Blood Pressure Canada’s Award of Excellence: The only food manufacturer in Canada to earn this honor. BusinessWeek named Campbell’s Among Top 100 Global Brands. Kroger named Campbell an Outstanding Supplier for exceptional results in key areas including quality, innovation, service level, audit results, sustainability and pricing. Institutional Investor magazine named Campbell’s Investor Relations (IR) group among the top three in its category’s survey of sell-side investment firms. Reader’s Digest Australia announced Arnott’s the winner of the Australian Iconic Brand Category in the magazine’s 2009 Trusted Brands Survey. The survey examines consumer attitudes and opinions about everyday products and services. U.S. Foodservice recognized Campbell through its Vendor Recognition Program for its outstanding work on U.S. Foodservice’s exclusive brand partnerships and its excellence in the frozen grocery category. Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network recognized Campbell for its commitment to food allergy safety, awareness and education. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Neighbors Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Neighbors Ov er the Past Year, WE . . . At Campbell, we are proud of our long• Logged nearly 20,000 volunteer hours in the U.S. standing commitment to the communities • Distributed more than $28 million in product where we live and work. We are focused donations globally on areas where we believe we are uniquely • Collected 77 million pounds of food during the positioned to make measurable social annual Stamp Out Hunger food drive • Awarded $2.5 million worth of equipment to and human impacts based on our mission, schools through Labels for Education geographic focus, and core competencies. • Tracked over 310,000 hours of “active” play time through Team Xtreme IN T H I S S E CT I O N OU R 2 0 2 0 G OAL S Overview Achieving Lasting Laying the groundwork for Social Impact Improve the health of young people future impact through local Leveraging our core compeMeasurably improve the health of young people in our needs and solutions, strategic tencies to make measurable hometown communities by reducing hunger and childpartnerships, and signature change in the areas of hunger hood obesity by 50% programs relief, obesity prevention, and positive impacts on youth Impact 100 million youths Supporting Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million Volunteerism Winning in the youths through our volunteer, community, and signaMaking a difference in our Community ture programs communities through the (Recognition) commitment and passion of Local recognition from longour employees time community partners Giving Meeting the needs of the communities where we live and work Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 46 Overview At Campbell, we are proud of our long-standing commitment to the communities where we live and work. That commitment begins in our hometown of Camden, New Jersey, and extends to many communities where our employees live and work. We describe our community efforts as Nourishing Our Neighbors. We are focused on areas where we believe we are uniquely positioned to make measurable social and human impact, based on our mission, geographic locations, and core competencies. We apply three delivery lenses to create sustained CSR value in our community efforts: 1. Local Needs, Local Solutions. We know that one size does not fit all. We are also cognizant that we do not have people, plants, or even products in every community in the world. We do have long-term investments in many communities, ranging from wellness to nutrition to helping kids achieve their true potential in life. 2. Strategic Partnerships. We know first-hand that there are many great community-based organizations that know how to make an impact in the most efficient way possible. They know the local needs and how to maximize limited resources to make the most impact. In Camden alone, we maintain relationships with more than 100 community-based organizations that are aligned with our priorities and the community’s most pressing needs. We maintain similar strategic relationships with other organizations in each of the communities where we live and operate to make the most significant positive impact possible. 3. Signature Programs. Some of our programs are specifically designed to make a positive impact on youth, to significantly address the U.S. hunger challenge, and to promote awareness among women of the impacts and causes of heart disease. The Labels for Education program has been in place for more than 30 years, contributing more than $110 million worth of equipment to schools. The Stamp Out Hunger initiative is the nation’s largest single-day food drive, which has collected more than a billion pounds of food since its inception, and AdDress Your Heart is a well-known partnership with the American Heart Association in which Campbell has contributed $3.65 million over six years to help fight heart disease among women. These are just a few examples of programs in which strategic collaborations allow us to make even more meaningful impact than we could on our own. Destination Goals We have established 2020 Destination Goals within our Nourishing Our Neighbors CSR platform. These goals will inform and prioritize our efforts and programs over the next decade. • Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood obesity by 50%. Our hometown communities include the headquarters locations of Campbell and Pepperidge Farm, and the communities of our principal North American plants. • Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million youths through our volunteer, community, and signature programs. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 47 Laying the Groundwork for Future Impact Campbell has a long history of making positive social impact in our local communities through monetary support, in-kind giving, and employee volunteerism. While this work has always been an integral part of our corporate culture, additional tools were needed to bring the program to the next level. The company’s Nourishing Our Neighbors CSR pillar was redesigned in April 2009 to streamline our community programs across all U.S. Campbell locations. The platform encompasses all community initiatives, including the Campbell Soup Foundation, our Dollars for Doers volunteer matching grant program, matching gifts to education, in-kind giving, and the United Way employee giving program. Integral to the redesign was the Nourishing Our Neighbors portal, an online info-center for employees that allows them to search for volunteer opportunities in their area, log volunteer hours, apply for Dollars for Doers grants, and learn more about Campbell community programs. In FY2010, nearly 2,000 employees accessed the Nourishing Our Neighbors portal — logging volunteer hours, searching for and managing projects, submitting requests for Dollars for Doers grants, and much more. The portal provides not only a onestop shop of information on community programs, but also access to all U.S. Campbell locations, including home access for plant employees, making our programs more accessible to everyone. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 48 Supporting Volunteerism Beyond monetary and in-kind support, Campbell provides enthusiastic, passionate volunteers to local nonprofit organizations working to make positive change for residents in their communities. Whether volunteering on their own or as part of a departmental team, Campbell volunteers have done everything from skills-based volunteering, such as redesigning the layout for a Feeding America food bank to simply lending an hour to read to a child on-site at a Campbell location. Employees volunteer in several ways at Campbell: • All employee service days • Team-building activities • As individuals At Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations in the U.S., employees engage annually in Make a Difference Week. In FY2010, more than 1,000 employees from five different locations volunteered during the course of one week at 60 different projects, double the participation from FY2009. Volunteers worked with more than 25 different agencies on projects that directly related to childhood obesity and hunger such as sorting food at a local food bank and teaching nutrition education to urban youth. Through their efforts, employees sorted 67,000 pounds of food, harvested 4,000 pounds of fresh produce, taught nutrition education to more than 200 youth, and much more. National Make a Difference Day, which Campbell participated in for the past 21 years, grew to Make a Difference Week in 2007, when it was recognized that Campbell employees were looking for more turnkey opportunities to volunteer during the work day. At Pepperidge Farm in Norwalk, Connecticut, employees increased their volunteer hours by 170% in the first five months of FY2010. Employees sorted food at the Connecticut Food Bank, filled backpacks of food for children who otherwise go hungry on weekends, and served meals to needy families at a local shelter. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 49 Dollars for Doers Campbell employees are both encouraged and recognized for volunteer service completed during the workday and outside work hours through our Dollars for Doers program. Campbell employees are encouraged to volunteer during the workday at company-sponsored volunteer activities. These activities provide an opportunity for employees to work with their department or team on making a difference in their local community and building employee engagement. Team-building volunteer projects are scheduled by the Office of Community Service and local employee engagement teams at Campbell plant locations and managed through the Nourishing Our Neighbors portal. In FY2010, opportunities to volunteer at more than 200 different nonprofit organizations were posted to the site, resulting in more than 1,553 employees across the U.S. logging more than 18,000 volunteer hours. Using the values put forth by the Independent Sector, a leadership forum for charities, foundations and corporate giving programs committed to advancing the common good, Campbell employees volunteered approximately $370,000 worth of time in FY2010. *The graphic depicts statistics from Fiscal Year 2010. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 50 Employee volunteer activity at eligible nonprofit organizations is not only encouraged, but also financially supported through the Dollars for Doers program. Our Dollars for Doers program was created by Campbell in 1994 as a way to recognize and encourage both individual and team employee volunteerism. In April 2009, this program was revised and became a “dollars per hours served” program, in which nonprofits receive a $500 grant for every 25 hours of volunteer service completed by a Campbell employee. In FY2010, Campbell awarded 145 grants totaling $150,000 to nonprofits throughout the U.S. based on the volunteer efforts of our employees, more than five times the number of grants awarded in the previous year. J I M H UFFMA N d e s c r i b e s N ou r i sh i n g O ur N ei ghbor s at t he i ndi v i dual l ev el For almost a decade, Jim Huffman has driven more than 20 extra miles a day to deliver meals to the elderly and homebound in his rural Northwest Ohio community. He shovels their driveways in winter, takes out their garbage, and performs minor home repairs, even if he has to climb up on the roof to do so. He’ll stop by and keep them company, providing companionship as well as nourishment. “Everybody’s struggling,” Huffman said. “I have the time. Anything that I can do to help an elderly person stay in their house as long as they can, I will do.” Huffman has worked for Campbell for 22 years. His current job is in the boiler house at the Napoleon, Ohio, facility. For him, it’s not a big deal to work at Campbell from 4 p.m. to 4 a.m., then start delivering meals at 11 a.m. It takes him at least two hours between driving and socializing, but he makes the rounds no matter how tired he is. “After I step into that first house, I’ve got a smile on my face,” Huffman said. “I don’t know who enjoys it more, them or me.” Huffman delivers every day in the winter because he says, he works every day, so why not go the extra step? He said he’s always been surrounded by generous people and he learned from them. As a child, he hung out at the local dentist’s office, watching as the man gave away dentures for free. Campbell, Huffman said, “gives so much to this community, it’s unbelievable.” Besides corporate-wide programs like food drives, the local plant has also given money to build a local hospital wing and supported local charities. Huffman’s fellow Campbell employees have also helped, swapping or filling in on shifts so he could make his deliveries. And the next generation of givers is coming: Huffman said his 19-year-old son was recently en route to the movie theater when he encountered a couple who needed help paying for gas. Huffman’s boy gave the couple his last $8, and then walked home, forgoing his own entertainment. “He’s something,” Huffman said proudly. Like son, like father. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 51 Volunteering with Strategic Focus In order to both take advantage of Campbell’s core competencies and make a measurable impact in our designated community goal areas, Campbell employees frequently volunteer in the areas of hunger relief, obesity prevention, and making positive impacts on youth. Campbell employees volunteer at their local Feeding America food banks in the U.S. and with Food Banks Canada. Volunteer service for local food banks goes beyond just hosting local food drives to much more involved skills-based volunteer initiatives such as assisting with the redesign of a food bank’s floor plan, building shelving, sorting and distributing food, as well as serving on the board of directors. Employees also support other Campbell initiatives such as Stamp Out Hunger, the nation’s largest single-day food drive, with volunteer service. For Stamp Out Hunger, employees sort food at local post offices and food banks the day of the food drive and for months afterwards. For organizations such as the Food Bank of South Jersey, Stamp Out Hunger donations represent one quarter of the food bank’s total annual inventory. At the local level, employees frequent soup kitchens such as the Cathedral Kitchen in our hometown of Camden, New Jersey, and Loaves and Fishes in Sacramento, California, serving meals to hundreds of low-income families and individuals during each day of volunteer service. In Maxton, North Carolina, employee volunteers worked during the summer of 2010 with a feeding program in Scotland County, delivering 30,000 meals to sites that serviced the 70% of children in the county eligible for free meals. Employee volunteers are constantly seeking to make a lasting positive impact on young people, especially in the area of education. In Camden, local students are brought to our headquarters for one-on-one reading and literacy instruction for one hour each week through the Reading STARS and Read and Believe programs. In FY2010, 80 employees increased the reading competency of elementary school students by an average of one grade level in just 16 weeks during Reading STARS. During their fifth annual service day at Pepperidge Farm, 230 employees worked to renovate the George Washington Carver Center. The Center has been a vital community hub for the past 71 years supporting the children and families of Norwalk through academic enrichment and recreational programs. Employees worked to landscape, paint, clean and install new kitchen appliances. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 52 Giving Campbell continually meets the needs of its local community through many programs that provide financial support, including Dollars for Doers, Matching Gifts to Education, employee giving campaigns, and the Campbell Soup and Arnott’s Foundations. In addition, Campbell locations across the globe provide in-kind support to local organizations in need. Campbell Soup Foundation Since 1953, the Campbell Soup Foundation has provided financial support to local community-based organizations that inspire positive change in the U.S. communities where employees live and work. The Foundation places particular emphasis on Camden, New Jersey, and other regions where Campbell has manufacturing facilities. For example, the Foundation donates more than $1 million annually to a variety of organizations that are expanding educational, cultural, residential, employment, and other opportunities for Camden residents. Nourishing the lives of the people of Camden, particularly children, is among the Foundation’s top priorities. The Summer Program, the Foundation’s signature initiative, provides constructive summer activities for more than 10,000 youngsters each year. A small sampling of the Campbell Soup Foundation’s Camden partners includes: • The St. Joseph’s Carpenter Society, which works to move families from renters to homeowners • Urban Promise, which gives city children and teens a safe place to learn and grow • The Cathedral Kitchen, which provides meals and culinary training to impoverished families • The Food Bank of South Jersey, which provides hands-on nutrition education through cooking Beyond Camden, the Campbell Soup Foundation also supports charitable efforts in more than 20 communities where Campbell has operations. Partners include: • The Lancaster Partnership, which provides financial assistance, mentoring, counseling on college selection, and summer employment for minority youth in Denver, Pennsylvania, and surrounding communities • The Scotland County Literacy Council, which provides literacy and job-readiness training for the unemployed of Maxton, North Carolina, and surrounding communities • The Lamar County Chapter of the American Red Cross, which provides economically disadvantaged youth with training in basic hygiene, first aid, and disaster, safety, and fire safety in Paris, Texas The Campbell Soup Foundation also manages and funds several employee charitable programs: Dollars for Doers, the Matching Gifts to Education program, and the United Way employee giving campaign. The Dollars for Doers program provides funding to local organizations based on the volunteer service of Campbell employees. The Matching Gifts to Education program matches donations made by Campbell employees to institutions of higher education, donating approximately $140,000 annually. In FY2010, the Campbell Soup Foundation provided $574,000 in matches to United Way employee giving campaigns at 15 Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations, for a total of $1,732,679 in giving to the United Way. Arnott’s Foundation The Arnott’s Foundation, founded in 2004, focuses on families, aiming to create positive environments that allow families to build, maintain, and enjoy a better quality of life. It has three main beneficiaries: Camp Quality, a camp for children and families coping with cancer; Driver Reviver, a program that provides snacks to weary drivers to prevent fatigue-related accidents; and Fairy Sparkle, an inspiration to sick children in Australia’s hospitals. The Arnott’s Foundation also manages food donations Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 53 from Arnott’s to Foodbank Australia. In FY2010, the Arnott’s Foundation, funded through Arnott’s employee giving campaign, distributed a total of $172,591 (AUD). Employee Giving Employees financially support organizations in their local communities through the annual United Way employee giving campaign. Fiscal year 2010 saw a record number of Campbell and Pepperidge Farm locations host campaigns, with 15 locations participating, up from 14 in FY2009. Campbell is the largest United Way contributor in many locations where we have headquarters or manufacturing facilities, playing a key role in caring for the needy and providing vital social services in those communities. In FY2010, Campbell employees contributed more than $1.1 million to local United Ways. Coupled with a Campbell Soup Foundation match of $574,000, total Campbell and Pepperidge Farm contributions exceeded $1.7 million to United Way branches across the U.S. In Canada, employees participate in an annual giving campaign that benefits six agencies including: the Canadian Cancer Society, regional children’s charities, the United Way, and Food Banks Canada. In FY2010, contributions totaled $45,996 (CAD), including a 1:1 match from Campbell Canada. F Y 2010 G LO BAL G IVING Corporate Donations $1,975,403 Total: $37,215,815 Foundation $1,774,437 Employee Giving $1,208,989 Cause Marketing $3,855,000 In-Kind $28,401,986 Public Benefits Commitment — Camden As part of the construction of a new 80,000-square-foot employee center at Campbell’s World Headquarters in Camden, the company made a $10 million pledge to the city. The pledge includes approximately $2 million in public benefits to be used over the next five years to support job training and professional development opportunities for Camden residents; $5 million in grants from the Campbell Soup Foundation to continue its philanthropic work in the city over the next five years; and $3 million through the Neighborhood Revitalization Tax Credit (NRTC) program, which provides businesses with a tax credit for funds given to nonprofit entities carrying out comprehensive revitalization programs in New Jersey. The first round of NRTC funding, distributed in FY2008, totaled approximately $1.3 million and was split between two organizations. The first is Heart of Camden, a nonprofit organization serving the Waterfront South section of Camden that focuses on housing restoration, economic expansion, and human development. Heart of Camden’s neighborhood plan includes revitalizing Broadway, the neighborhood’s main corridor, creating quality market-rate and affordable housing, and improving air quality. The second organization is Parkside Business and Community in Partnership, an organization focused on revitalizing the Parkside Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 54 neighborhood in Camden. Parkside’s neighborhood plan includes the revival of the business district along Haddon Avenue, support for affordable housing, financial literacy, and youth development projects. The second round of funding, totaling $902,000, was distributed in FY2009 to four organizations as part of the North Camden neighborhood plan. The plan supports a job training and development center managed by Respond, Inc., a new housing development on the vacant prison property in North Camden with Camden Lutheran Housing, a live-in facility for troubled teens working at learning job skills through technology with Hopeworks ’n Camden, and riverfront clean-up efforts with Save Our Waterfront. In 2010, $1.1 million in funding was split between all eligible plans in North, Central, South and East Camden. Cooper University Hospital Foundation was awarded $256,344 for nine new homes, a repaved parking lot and more in the Cooper Lanning neighbor­ hood. In East Camden, the Cramer Hill Community Development Corporation received funding for a gateway renovation project. Three rounds of funding covered all main areas of Camden — North, Central, South, and East: NRTC East CAMDEN, NJ Fu nding • $146,156 (FY2010) • Cramer Hill CDC EAST NORTH CAMDEN, NJ N O RTH • $902,000 (FY2009)/$95,000 (FY2010) • Respond, Inc. • Camden Lutheran Housing C EN TR AL • Hopeworks ‘N Camden • Save Our Waterfront CENTRAL CAMDEN, NJ • $630,000 (FY2008)/$456,344 (FY2010) SO UTH • Parkside Business and Community in Partnership • Cooper University Hospital Foundation SOUTH CAMDEN, NJ • $630,000 (FY2008)/$402,500 (FY2010) • Heart of Camden Achieving Lasting Social Impact Campbell’s core competencies uniquely position us to make measurable change in the areas of hunger relief, obesity, and positive impacts on youth. Measurable Social Impact in the Communities Where We Live and Work In 2009, we set new long-term Destination Goals specifically designed to leverage key Campbell competencies and deliver positive social impacts to our communities. Supporting Goals: • Measurably improve the health of young people in our hometown communities by reducing hunger and childhood obesity by 50%. • Make a positive impact on the lives of 100 million youths through our volunteer, community, and signature programs. We will establish interim strategies and tactics in each of these areas with the goal of demonstrating measurable progress year after year. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 55 Hunger Relief and Childhood Obesity Campbell is committed to making a positive impact in the areas of hunger relief and obesity through product donations, signature programs, and local partnerships. Hunger relief is integral to our Nourishing Our Neighbors strategic platform. Through our ongoing partnership with and support of Feeding America, the nation’s largest food bank network, Campbell donated more than $19 million worth of product in support of the efforts of 25,000 separate charities in FY2010. In addition, more product was distributed through ongoing product reclamation efforts. Campbell reimbursed customers more than $10 million for product that was reclaimed and donated at the local store level. In Australia during FY2010, Arnott’s contributed product valued at more than $2.5 million (AUD), which was distributed through Foodbank Australia and Driver Reviver. Campbell and Food Banks Canada have entered a new comprehensive multiyear partnership that will support hunger relief across Canada through the donation of nutritious food, charitable funds, educational resources, and other awareness and community programs. In total in FY2010, Campbell donated more than $28 million worth of product to organizations that distributed it to those in need across the globe. Stamp Out Hunger Since 1993, Campbell has partnered with the National Association of Letter Carriers for Stamp Out Hunger, the nation’s largest single-day food drive. People across the country are invited to leave bags of nonperishable food items outside their mailboxes, which are then collected by the nation’s 230,000 letter carriers and delivered to local food banks. Campbell works to promote household awareness through the distribution of 120 million direct mail postcards, and also kicks off the drive each year by donating one million pounds of food to the effort. In FY2010, the food drive generated a record 77 million pounds of food, breaking a billion pounds of food collected since the drive’s inception. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 56 STA MP OU T HU NGER F O O D DR I V E YEAR T O TA L P OUN D S C O L L E C T ED (in millions) 1993 11 1994 32 1995 45 1996 45 1997 53.2 1998 53.5 1999 58.4 2000 63.2 2001 69.1 2002 61.7 2003 60.7 2004 70.9 2005 71.3 2006 70.5 2007 70.7 2008 73.1 2009 73.4 2010 77.1 1,059.8M LBS COLLECTED SINCE 1993 Chunky Tackling Hunger/Click For Cans Online Program For more than a decade, Campbell’s Chunky soup has been the official soup of the National Football League (NFL). Campbell supports each team’s relationship with a local food bank by donating 1,000 cans in support of food drives during the football season. The Chunky soup brand also generates awareness for hunger relief through the annual Click For Cans competition. Through weekly voting, fans are able to use their votes to receive a bonus donation to their community food bank. In 2010, fans of the Green Bay Packers were able to secure a donation of 18,000 pounds of Chunky soup, which was distributed to organizations across Wisconsin. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 57 Let’s Can Hunger Campbell is a strategic partner with Students in Free Enterprise (SIFE), a global, nonprofit education organization that establishes a partnership between business and higher education to create a better world. In FY2010, collegiate members of SIFE teamed with Campbell on an initiative called Let’s Can Hunger, a series of competitions in which participating teams developed creative solutions to one of the world’s most enduring challenges. In the 2009–2010 academic year, the challenge expanded beyond the U.S. to Australia, Canada and Mexico. Oregon State University received top honors in the U.S. as the overall competition winner. The team toured the country to promote hunger awareness, blogging and tweeting about its stops at food banks, soup kitchens, and farms along the way, collecting nearly 65,000 pounds of food in 30 distinct food drives. In year two of the program, more than 3,000 students generated nearly 700,000 pounds of food, bringing the total collected since the program’s inception to over 770,000 pounds. Their 50,000 hours of service during the 2009–2010 academic year has impacted over 350 food banks in four countries, empowering 33,000 people with the skills, knowledge and resources to break free of hunger. Alliance for a Healthier Generation Campbell has been a national partner of the Alliance since it was conceived by the American Heart Association and the Clinton Foundation in 2006. Campbell has adopted voluntary nutrition guidelines for snacks and side items and has continuously improved the health profile of food items offered to schools across the U.S. and Canada. Examples include lower-sodium soups, whole grain Pepperidge Farm crackers and breads with zero trans-fats, and V8 beverages providing one or more full servings of vegetables and fruits. Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation In 2009, Campbell joined fellow members of the food and beverage industry, its retail customers, and nongovernmental organizations as part of the Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation to help reduce obesity in the U.S. by 2015. The Foundation promotes the importance of energy balance — balancing calories eaten with calories burned through activity — while focusing on three critical areas: the marketplace, the workplace, and in schools. As part of this effort, Campbell is committed to building on our portfolio of healthy products, continuing to work with leading wellness organizations to teach people about the importance of a healthy lifestyle and building on our award-winning employee wellness programs. Help Hunger Disappear For the third year on National Hunger Awareness Day, Campbell Canada partnered with Food Banks Canada for their Help Hunger Disappear campaign. Campbell built high impact displays spelling the word “HUNGER” out of thousands of cans of Campbell’s vegetable soup at select grocery stores in Edmonton, Windsor, Halifax , and St. John. Campbell donated approximately 100,000 cans of Campbell’s vegetable soup to Food Banks Canada through this program. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 58 Positive Impacts on Youth Increasing the availability and success of positive activities for local youth is integral to our community programming. Campbell Soup Foundation Summer Program Over the course of 35 years, the Campbell Soup Foundation has provided more than $16 million in grants to Camden area nonprofit organizations that offer summer activities in the areas of arts and culture, education, career exploration, and recreation. These summer camps are made available to more than 10,000 socially and economically disadvantaged Camden youths each year. Since the program’s inception, more than 530,000 children have participated in the program. The Foundation contributes approximately $375,000 to 26 organizations during the Summer Program annually. Labels for Education Since its inception in 1973, Labels for Education has awarded more than $110 million in equipment and supplies to thousands of schools across the U.S. and Canada. The program is registered in more than 80,000 schools and impacts more than 17.5 million students annually. In FY2009, the program underwent a major repositioning to refresh its presence with educators across the country. All program elements that were intended to be shared or directed with students were designed to remove the Campbell-branded presence. This was done to ensure compliance with our children’s advertising pledge. In addition, the program announced an expanded focus on supporting programs at-risk due to recent budget crises. Campbell has partnered with the GRAMMY Foundation to provide schools that are registered in the Labels for Education program with access to the GRAMMY Foundation’s Discovery Through Music curriculum. Customized for children in kindergarten through 6th grade, the six-week curriculum encourages life-long creativity, allowing children to explore and discover music within other subject areas like math and science. The curriculum gives students a foundation in basic elements, such as beat, tempo, rhythm, and pitch. It also provides ways for instructors to apply these fundamentals as part of lesson plans for any subject. Our partnership makes this curriculum accessible to nearly 60,000 schools nationwide. In 2010, the Labels for Education program was expanded to include new retail partners — Bic, Pop Secret, and Post Cereals. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 59 Team Xtreme Pepperidge Farm has partnered with the NBA and star players such as Dwyane Wade, Tony Parker and Al Horford to engage kids across the country in active play. All kids have to do is join Team Xtreme online and go outside and play. Youth can then log their hours for a chance to win great prizes. The Team Website Play Center is the hub where kids can go to learn active games to play outside. Team Xtreme currently has over 92,000 members who have logged and tracked more than 310,000 hours of active play time. Royal Agricultural Winter Fair The Royal Agricultural Winter Fair is the largest of its kind in Canada. Campbell sponsors a section of the fair called Journey to Your Good Health, which educates kids on health and nutrition. Campbell also sponsors a section called Healthy Eating Around the Clock and arranges a display with coupons for our products. Members of our Nutrition Strategy Team talk to parents and kids for ideas on how to eat healthy. Lastly, Campbell sponsors a “Be Healthy” stage, where kids can answer Campbell trivia and win prizes. Camp Quality Campbell Arnott’s, through the Arnott’s Foundation, has brought joy to children living with cancer all around Australia by helping with sponsored camps and fun days, and featuring Camp Quality kids’ artwork on product packages. Camp Quality caters to more than 1,500 families in Australia and works to improve the quality of life for children with cancer and their families. A dedicated employee volunteer program has also provided meaningful community engagement. Fairy Sparkle The Arnott’s Foundation supports Fairy Sparkle, a one-woman inspiration who, since 1991, has been visiting hospitals throughout Australia to help bring joy to sick children and families. At the Sydney Children’s Hospital, she also created a Fairy Garden to serve as a respite from the grueling routine of long-term hospital stays. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r N eighbors 60 Winning in the Community (Recognition) Points of Light Institute: Corporate Engagement Award of Excellence 2010 Food Banks Canada: Key Partner — Food and Consumer Products and Key Partner — Financial and Gifts-in-Kind Corporate Volunteer of 2009: Human Services Council of Norwalk Norwalk, Connecticut Corporate Community Partner of the Year: Norwalk Economic Opportunity Now Norwalk, Connecticut Top Food Donor: Daily Bread Food Bank Toronto, Canada Nationwide Team of Excellence: American Cancer Society Maxton, North Carolina United Way of Coastal Fairfield County: Chairman Circle Award Norwalk, Connecticut Hector MacLean Award of Excellence: United Ways of Scotland and Robeson Counties Maxton, North Carolina 2009 Campaign Chair’s Award for Lancaster County: United Way of Lancaster County Denver, Pennsylvania 2009 Community Impact Partner Award: United Way of Snohomish County Everett, Washington 2009 United Way of Central Florida Summit Award: United Way of Central Florida Lakeland, Florida Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception: Partner of the Year Camden, New Jersey Paul Aiken Encore Award: South Jersey Cultural Alliance (presented by Symphony in C) Camden, New Jersey Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Employees Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Employees Ov er the Past Year, WE . . . Campbell’s success model is founded on • Maintained our world-class employee engagement ratio with a rate of 17:1 the belief that to win in the marketplace, • Spent $145 million with women and minoritywe must first win in the workplace. Our owned businesses Campbell Promise, “Campbell Valuing • Exceeded safety benchmarks in the food Industry People, People Valuing Campbell,” • Were honored by the National Business Group  on Health for promoting a healthy workplace captures the spirit of this belief and • Were recognized by the American Heart demonstrates the partnership we have Association as a “Fit Friendly Company” with our employees. • Provided $1.1 million worldwide in tuition assistance IN T H I S S E CT I O N OU R 2 0 2 0 G OAL S Overview Diversity and Inclusion Winning in the Workplace We are committed to executEngage 100% of our employees means delivering a superior ing our global diversity and Achieve 100% employee engagement in our CSR and employment experience to inclusion strategy in the sustainability strategies our employees. workplace, as well as the marketplace and community. Engagement & Recognition Safety Employees who feel valued Workplace health and are more likely to be fully safety programs protect our engaged in our Company’s employees and increase success. productivity. Extraordinary Recognition Workplace Campbell has received both We make significant national and local recognition investments in our employfor our workplace efforts. ees and their families through our full menu of benefits, resources, and programs. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 63 Overview We define “Winning in the Workplace” as delivering a superior employment experience to our employees that reflects our values and delivers on our promise of “Campbell Valuing People, People Valuing Campbell.” At Campbell, we know that our long-term success depends on our ability to maximize shareowner value. To achieve success, we know we must “Win in the Community” and “Win in the Marketplace.” And, we know that in order to win in these two key areas, we must first “Win in the Workplace.” Over time, we have worked to create an innovative, flexible, fun, and engaging culture where employees feel welcomed, recognized, included, rewarded, developed, nourished, and inspired. This culture has also empowered our employees to take an active role in corporate social responsibility and sustainability by managing environmental resources, supporting our local communities, and advancing nutrition and wellness in our product portfolio. We have added a CSR and sustainability goal to our employees’ annual performance objectives to recognize their efforts and help us reach our destination goal of 100% employee engagement in CSR and sustainability business strategies. Our commitment to the Campbell culture is reflected by both our Employee Promise of “Campbell Valuing People, People Valuing Campbell” as well as our Employee Value Proposition: Campbell … the ingredients to be extraordinary where icon brands thrive, people are valued, and you can make a difference. Our L eadership M odel Inspire Trust Our culture is also shaped by our Leadership Model, which outlines the behaviors every Produce Create Campbell employee is expected to know and Extraordinary Direction Results demonstrate. The model is anchored in inspiring Our trust because we believe trust is at the core of Leadership everything we do. From respecting each other Model to taking responsibility for one’s own actions, it Execute Drive all begins with trust. With Organization Excellence Alignment Build Organization Vitality Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 64 Our Employees Campbell employs a diverse workforce with over 18,400 employees in more than 21 countries around the world. The majority of employees — nearly 10,000 — are located in the United States. Senior Leadership 21 CEO, Division and Business Unit Presidents & Functional SVPs Global Leadership Team 356 Business and Functional VPs & Senior Directors Mid-Level Managers & 2,319 Individual Contributors Entry-Level, Sales Employees 3,582 & Administrative Staff Manufacturing & Other 10,330 Supply Chain Employees Some additional key facts about our workplace and employees: • In FY2010, Campbell hired 1,257 new employees: 569 (45%) female and 688 (55%) male. • Global turnover decreased from 11.6% in FY2009 to 8.9% in FY2010. • Women currently make up 45% of our global workforce. In terms of leadership, women make up 24% of the global leadership team and women-run businesses comprise a majority of the company’s total U.S. revenue and profit. • People of color currently make up 35% of our U.S. workforce. While Campbell continues to make progress in creating a more diverse and inclusive culture, we know there is more work to be done. See Diversity and Inclusion starting on page 77 for more information. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 65 Engagement & Recognition We believe that our employees feel most valued when they are fully informed, understand the company’s business goals and plans, and are invited to offer their feedback on a regular basis. Research shows that engaged employees are more productive and profitable as well as more customer-focused, safer, and more likely to stay with the company. At Campbell, we firmly believe that employee engagement is one of the most important indicators of our ability to drive performance improvement and win in the workplace. In fact, every employee who participates in our Performance Management process must include a specific objective around engagement. In addition to improved business results, CEO Doug Conant attributes Campbell’s culture revitalization over the past nine years to our continually improving employee engagement. Doug says, “We’re performing at a higher level and are more innovative and more self-governed because our employees believe that each individual can make a difference to Campbell’s success.” Campbell began measuring employee engagement formally through the Gallup survey in 2001, and is proud of the considerable progress we have made each year. Based on these results, Campbell was recognized by Gallup in 2010 as one of the “Best Places to Work” in America for a fourth year in a row. Over the past nine years, Campbell has continued to increase employee Engagement Percentile* Engagement Ratios** engagement to world-class levels as 71% 76% 79% 82% 78% 6:1 9:1 12:1 23:1 17:1 measured by our engagement percentile and engagement ratio versus the Gallup overall database, as well as the engagement ratio that compares the number of engaged employees to actively disengaged employees. Campbell received the Gallup Great Workplace award in 2010 for the fourth consecutive year. 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 * Measures how Campbell’s overall Grand Mean score compares relative to Gallup’s overall database of respondents ** Ratio of engaged employees divided by those actively disengaged While we are proud of our high engagement levels, we recognize that our work is not done, and there are many opportunities for improvement. We are focusing on three key areas for employees: to help ensure that they know what is expected of them, to have the materials and equipment to do their jobs, and to have the opportunity to do their best every day. Through team and department action planning, we are working to address issues that are critical to sustaining our high overall engagement. As part of the process, Campbell University provides a variety of tools and resources to help teams “go beyond the numbers” and create meaningful action plans around key factors that drive engagement. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 66 Engagement in Action Below are just a few examples of how the Campbell workforce around the world continues to be engaged: Employees Powering Innovation Campbell employees have long been engaged in efforts to develop new products that deliver against consumer needs and to identify ways to improve how we work. In 2009, ideaNET, a new online community, was launched. Here, Campbell employees globally can post ideas for improving Campbell’s business and workplace and share their thoughts on ideas posted by others. ideaNET combines individual entrepreneurship with social networking. When an employee submits an idea, it is posted to an open “Idea Board” where other employees can share their comments and help build upon the concept. Authentic Advertising To promote Campbell’s Creations, a line of soups featuring the flavors and textures of homemade soups, Campbell Canada launched a commercial filmed like a home movie ­— complete with an unsteady camera. The 30-second spot features Alison Hastings, Product Developer adding ingredients to a pot of soup in the Campbell’s Test Kitchen and Hilton Cummings, Linesman, Filling Team A explaining in the voice-over that Alison is making this Campbell soup more like homemade, with less salt and more herbs and spices. The employee-actors were selected through a “Souper Star Search” at the Toronto plant, where applicants were asked to explain why they are proud of their role in making Campbell’s soups and proud to serve the soups to their families. Campbell Today Campbell’s daily, online publication provides high-quality news that is candid, interesting and timely. Recent features have included an update from the CEO on Campbell’s business performance, a story on highly engaged teams, a summary of our new products in Canada, a report on a fundraiser for the March of Dimes, and an article highlighting the culture and traditions of the many American Indian employees at our Maxton, North Carolina plant. The publication reaches 7,600 employees, and a recent online survey suggests that 90% read it regularly. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 67 Employee Forums The Employee Forums, held each quarter, give employees the opportunity to hear directly from the CEO and other senior leaders on Campbell’s strategies and financial performance. The sessions, which occur shortly after each earnings release, also include business unit profiles, employee recognition, and updates on community service. The forums are held live at World Headquarters and are broadcast to approximately 20 company sites worldwide. The replay is shared with our top 356 leaders for further distribution. Pepperidge Farm Innovation Fair The Pepperidge Farm Innovation Fair is an opportunity for employees across the company to submit their best and brightest ideas for new product creations. This year, entrants were asked to focus their ideas on Goldfish, the iconic snack cracker. Employees from Pepperidge Farm headquarters, the company’s Bloomfield, Connecticut, bakery, Arnott’s in Australia, and Campbell WHQ submitted over 200 product and packaging concepts and presented them at Pepperidge Farm’s Norwalk event. At the fair, attendees could see and taste the results of ideas before voting for their favorites. Design Manager Brian Klecatsky was one of more than 250 fair attendees. “It was energizing to feel the excitement and the pride people had in their ideas,” he said. “I think that spirit and energy is part of what defines our unique culture.” Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 68 Recognition Programs Campbell celebrates the hard work, dedication, and accomplishments of our employees throughout the year through several formal and informal recognition programs: • The Extraordinary Performance Awards (EPAs) is our premier annual recognition event. Each year, more than 40 awards are presented to teams and individuals whose outstanding achievements support Campbell’s success model, mission, and seven core strategies. As part of the ceremony, two special awards are granted: – Ambassador of Excellence Award recognizes individual(s) among Campbell’s administrative assistants who have demonstrated outstanding leadership and professional excellence. – Dr. John T. Dorrance Award recognizes outstanding business results and breakthrough thinking. This award, established in 1994, is the most prestigious honor bestowed upon a business team and honors exemplary performance in the marketplace. Based on employee surveys, the EPAs are highly motivational for winners and attendees alike. Following the ceremony, employees attend a reception featuring Campbell products. Though the signature event is held in Camden, New Jersey, employees come from all parts of the world to be recognized and to congratulate their fellow colleagues. And, new in FY2009, an international version of the EPAs was held in Australia with 17 teams being recognized. • You Make a Difference (MAD) Awards make recognizing a co-worker easy. The awards — quick and personal in nature — are designed to recognize someone for achievements that go beyond day-to-day job requirements. Any employee can nominate another employee. Approximately 10,000 MAD awards have been presented since FY2007. • Influence With Honor Awards recognize three or four top leaders each year during Campbell’s Global Leadership Meeting. These are people who exemplify our leadership model and are personally selected by our CEO for their character, competence, and teamwork. Recognizing Our Achievements Other forms of recognition are also presented within our different business units and locations, including Pepperidge Farm, Campbell Canada, and North America Foodservice. For example, Merit Awards are presented to Campbell Sales Company employees for their accomplishments in winning in the marketplace and in the workplace, and for demonstrating leadership, commitment, teamwork, tenacity, and agility. In addition to individual contributors, one sales team is also recognized as “Team of the Year” for its collective effort. Team of the Year: Team Kroger, led by team leader Gerald Hulett (front, holding the award), was named Team of the Year at the National Sales Meeting’s Merit Awards ceremony. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 69 Extraordinary Workplace Campbell understands that employees want to be treated respectfully, have the opportunity to progress in their careers, and have access to benefits that will help them maintain or enhance their overall wellness — physically, mentally, and financially. Recognizing that “Winning in the Workplace” is essential to our success as a business, we continuously strive to meet the needs of our employees and create an extraordinary workplace by: • Upholding Our Promise: “People Valuing Campbell, Campbell Valuing People” • Providing competitive compensation and benefits • Giving employees the resources required to do their jobs well • Empowering employees to help shape our workplace and business • Recruiting, cultivating, and retaining employees who make a measurable difference • Building a diverse and inclusive environment where all employees are encouraged to grow, personally and professionally • Offering work/life flexibility that helps employees balance work with personal interests and responsibilities Each year we measure employee engagement to gauge the success of our workplace initiatives. Our employees’ response has been inspiring. In the past several years, our employee engagement scores have risen meaningfully each year, and are now among the highest in the food industry and beyond. Compensation Campbell’s compensation philosophy supports our Success Model. The foundation of the model — “Winning in the Workplace” — recognizes that our people drive profitability and our competitive advantage. We understand that paying competitive wages is critical to attracting and retaining the talent we need to build a company that can produce extraordinary results and compete over the long term. Our compensation program is market-based and performance-driven: • C ampbell conducts a comprehensive market analysis each year to ensure our compensation programs are competitive with the appropriate set of peer companies. • E mployee performance is evaluated as part of Campbell’s annual Performance Management process. Consistent with the Campbell Leadership Model, employees are evaluated and rewarded based both on what they do (results they create) and how they do it (behaviors they demonstrate). Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 70 Health and Wellness Wellness is important when it comes to our products and our people. Campbell benefit programs represent a significant investment in our employees and their families. Given our global population, we offer a range of competitive programs unique to our varying countries and locations that are aligned with state and local regulations. We take a holistic approach to wellness that encompasses physical health, mental well-being, and financial security now and in the future. YOUR HEALTH Being fit, eating right, and practicing screening and prevention can help employees save money on healthcare expenses. To help, Campbell provides 100% coverage for preventive care under most of our U.S. medical plan options, on-site fitness centers, global fitness center discounts, nutritional resources, worksite wellness, and more. Campbell also brings our commitment to healthy food to the workplace by subsidizing the cost of employee meals in our cafeterias, YOU R with greater subsidies for healthier and vegetarHEA LTH ian options, and by clearly communicating nutritional content. Many of our global locations also offer employees free cooking education around health and wellness. YOUR FINANCES Campbell offers a 401(k) plan to U.S. employees. Through automatic payroll deductions, U.S. employ­ees may contribute up to 50% of eligible pay up Y O UR YOUR LIF E W EL L N ES S F I N AN C ES to the annual IRS limits. To help increase savings, Campbell matches an employee’s contributions, dollar for dollar, up to 4% of pay. Campbell also makes a 3% retirement contribution to the accounts of employees hired after January 1, 2011. YOUR FUTURE Campbell knows that the choices employees make today regarding their health and finances will have a long-term impact on them and their YOU R families. To help, Campbell is committed to FU TU RE continually educating employees about what’s available and how to maximize participation in our programs so they can achieve their health and retirement savings goals. YOUR LIFE Less stress and more overall balance can help increase employees’ general well-being and increase productivity at work and at home. To help, Campbell offers stress management resources, as well as flexible work arrangements. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 71 U.S. Program Highlights Campbell pays most of the cost for our U.S. healthcare offerings and makes significant contributions to a full menu of wellness, work/life, retirement, and income protection programs. We also review our plans regularly to ensure that our benefits package is in line with our competitive market. In 2010, Campbell was honored by the National Business Group on Health as one of the nation’s leading corporations for innovative programs promoting a healthy workplace and for helping its employees and their families make better choices about their health and well-being. Our broad range of U.S. programs and resources includes: • Medical Decision Support (MDSTM): This high-touch service provides comprehensive, objective and personalized information about diagnoses and treatment options for over 60 medical conditions. • Health Station Tour: Employees participate in voluntary on-site biometric screenings and health education counseling, with referrals and enrollment in appropriate wellness programs. • Online Health Assessment: Employees and their spouses can complete an online questionnaire about their health habits that provides them with a confidential, personalized analysis of current health status and risks, which they are encouraged to share with their physicians. • Free & Clear: Employees and eligible dependents may enroll in this free smoking-cessation program, which includes Nicotine Replacement Therapy if appropriate, once every 12 months. • Worksite Wellness Programs: Free flu shots, walking programs, healthy cooking demonstrations with guest chefs, and healthier food options in our company cafeterias and vending machines are available. • Fitness Centers: On-site fitness centers are available at a number “More than ever, a healthy workforce is of locations, including World Headquarters in Camden, Campbell critical to helping America’s large employers Canada, and some plant locations. Fitness center discounts are compete in the global marketplace. offered to all U.S. employees. Campbell is to be applauded • Your Life Resources: This confidential round-the-clock service for making health and wellness provides employees and their families with support and counseling, an integral part of their workas well as resources for many topics including parenting, workplace.” Helen Darling, related situations, legal and financial issues, and substance abuse President of the National Business or self-improvement. Group on Health Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 72 Measuring Our Success We believe an important indicator of program success is the level of employee satisfaction with the programs, in addition to improvements in behavior, health outcomes, clinical performance indicators, and medical decision-making. We have seen impressive outcomes for many of our U.S. health and wellness programs: • 1,685 employees have used MDS™ services since FY2006. 88% of survey respondents indicate this service helped them become more involved in their care, while 76% said it improved their communications with doctors. • 48% of eligible employees received flu shots in FY2009. • 1,932 employees completed the online health assessment in FY2009. • 1,255 employees participated in our 2009 Health Station Tour, with 95% of on-site screening participants indicating that they felt more motivated to take health improvement action. • Aetna’s MedQuery™ program provided wellness and quality of care information to over 6,500 participants, resulting in a healthcare plan savings of approximately $10 per employee per month. • 69% of participants enrolled in our Lifestyle Management program have improved or eliminated moderate health risks. • Between November 2005 and November 2009, 1,302 people enrolled in our tobacco-cessation program, with a quit rate of 44.4%. According to a survey, 93.8% of participants were happy with the results. J AN KE L LY t a l k s a b ou t We l l n e s s a t C am pbel l Campbell strives to help employees become and stay healthy through its award-winning wellness program. We believe that a healthy workforce doesn’t just mean that employees are free from illness, but that they’re engaged in their work and moving toward a better state of being and vitality. One unique Campbell-provided resource is the Medical Decision Support (MDS™) program. Upon diagnosis of certain conditions, employees and their family members can speak with a doctor from a leading medical school and/ or a medical researcher about their condition. As a follow-up, they receive a personalized information packet, as well as unlimited access to these live resources. The program was recently expanded to cover additional health conditions (e.g., obesity, autism) and to include additional resources (e.g., quality of care evaluation tools, research desk for any medical condition). Surveys show that 100% of Campbell employees who used these services would recommend them to others. “Helping employees improve their health is good for them, and good for Campbell as well,” said Jan Kelly, Director of U.S. Health and Welfare Programs. “Studies show that companies can achieve a $1 to $2 return on every dollar spent on a comprehensive employee wellness program. Not only can this investment help Campbell control costs as healthcare prices increase, but it can provide immeasurable benefits as employees move toward a better state of health.” Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 73 Workplace Wellness in Action We believe in the importance of making wellness personal and relevant for employees. A few key events include: GO RED for Heart Health In support of our partnership with the American Heart Association and to promote heart health in the workplace, we launched our company-wide Go Red campaign in 2006. Each February, workplace activities are based on four pillars — Engage, Educate, Move, and Go Red — and are designed to address heart disease risks. Activities include: • Health screenings, lectures, and Go Red walks to promote physical activity • Heart healthy recipe contest and discussions on healthy eating • Organized walking tours and other exercise events 10K-A-DAY CHALLENGE This four-week program for employees in the U.S. and Canada encourages employees to walk at least 10,000 steps a day. Our CEO, Doug Conant, acts as a program champion by being visible everyday during his workplace walks and challenging other employees to participate as well. More than 1,500 Campbell colleagues in the U.S. and Canada participated in the program last year. Average steps per day increased from a baseline of 8,198 to 10,840 after the four-week program. LIFESTYLE CHANGE AWARD This annual award recognizes employees for their ongoing commitment to a healthy lifestyle and the positive influence they have had on others to adopt healthy behaviors. Fifteen sites participated in the 2010 Lifestyle Change Award program and generated 65 nominees. Each site selects its own winner. A cross-functional team narrows the list to eight finalists, who are presented to the Executive Sponsors for selection of five North American Winners. All winners receive a commemorative plaque and the final five winners receive a cash prize, a gift basket filled with healthy Campbell products, and recognition during the Employee Forum. FAMILY INVOLVEMENT During Campbell’s de Mexico’s Health & Safety Fairs, employees and their families participate in free health screenings and information sessions. This annual event at the Villagran plant is sponsored by local health related companies, government institutions and Campbell medical personnel. During the fair, attendees receive free services and screenings, including: • Cholesterol, blood pressure, and glucose screenings • Pap tests • Dental hygiene visits • Vision testing, including glaucoma screening • Body composition evaluation Based on the results, representatives from the sponsors help employees develop a personal health improvement plan. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 74 Work/Life Flexibility Campbell understands the pressures and challenges our employees face as they balance work with personal interests and responsibilities. We also understand that our employees are better able to meet the demands of the business when their personal needs are being met. When it comes to work/life flexibility, we believe a “one-size-fits-all” approach simply won’t do. Our programs are designed to recognize that not all employees are the same and that their needs may change over time. Our programs also reflect country and local differences. In response to employee needs, Campbell offers a range of flexible work arrangements, including telecommuting, flex-time, job-share, and reduced and compressed work weeks. Depending on an employee’s role and location, here is a sample of the work/life flexibility programs and benefits that may be available: • Adoption assistance CAMPBELL KIDS • S ummer hours — employees work extra time Monday–Thursday and head out early on Fridays • O n-site seminars, fairs, and workshops on such topics as stress, nutrition, and safety • Company store and cafeteria • Credit Union with ATM • F itness facilities, including personal training and group exercise classes, plus discount memberships on a network of commercial fitness centers • A ccess to free counseling services on a variety of personal and An on-site Family Center at our World work/life issues Headquarters provides day care and a full kindergarten program. Its “School’s Out” • Paid personal days, vacation days, and holidays program helps any employee with children • Unpaid personal leave age 6 to 12 to cover those days when schools • Lactation rooms for nursing mothers are closed for teacher conferences, snow days, etc. A Summer Fun program also offers educational programs for employees’ children ages 6 to 12. All participating children are enrolled in our KidFit program offered through a partnership with the WHQ Health and Fitness Center. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 75 Training and Development Campbell is committed to creating a learning culture that enables each employee to maximize his or her individual potential and contributions. Campbell is also committed to helping employees take charge of their own development in ways that are meaningful to them and relevant to their roles. For example, the Organization Resource Planning (ORP) process provides guidance on employees’ strengths, development needs, and career advancement opportunities. Outcomes of the process include customized individual development plans, placement on succession plans, talent moves (including sharing talent globally), and fast-tracking high-performing/highpotential employees. Employees also now work with their managers to integrate CSR and sustainability performance measures into their individual development plans. We also provide a variety of programs to support employees’ individual development organized in three key skills areas: • Leadership: supervising employees, managing teams, and overall leadership • Functional: building skills and competencies specific to their particular role, business, and/or function • Individual: enhancing more general/personal skills as well as overall knowledge of the organization Campbell University Campbell University offers classroom-based courses, webinars, podcasts, computerbased training, and tools designed to build personal effectiveness, functional, and management skills. This combined learning approach is designed to meet the needs of Campbell’s diverse global workforce by empowering each employee to choose the learning method best suited to his or her needs. The Campbell University website, available to all employees, provides resources ranging from the fundamentals of being a high-performing manager to building high-performing teams, establishing strategies, managing meetings effectively, and building core functional skills and know-how. Key Campbell development programs include: • STARS (Strategic Thinking and Analysis for the Right Solution) is a disciplined, yet highly flexible, approach to problem-solving and decision-making. It provides key decision-makers with a common approach and language for business planning, project management, and addressing unexpected problems and opportunities as they occur. 159 employees attended STARS in FY2010. • Front-Line Leadership Development Program helps address the development needs of Campbell’s manufacturing supervisors and other front-line leaders in the U.S. and Canada. This training is customized for Supply Chain leaders, providing tools and leadership training as well as a forum for manufacturing supervisors to come together, build skills, and share insights. 185 manufacturing supervisors completed this training in FY2008 and FY2009. • CEO Institute is a unique, two-year program for our highest-performing leaders with outstanding potential. CEO Doug Conant sponsors this intensely personal experience and drives the participants to develop a clear and compelling leadership philosophy that is well-grounded in their personal principles and aligned with the organization’s values and expectations. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 76 Campbell offers Tuition Assistance to employees at many locations, helping to defray the cost of tuition and associated expenses for eligible employees who successfully complete courses at accredited schools. Campbell provided $1.1 million worldwide in tuition assistance in FY2010. Campbell also supports development through relationshipand feedback-based activities: • Mentoring Program: Pairs high-performing employees with executives for 12-month mentor-mentee relationships. • Mentor Circles: Two executives partner to provide coaching, feedback, and development opportunities to groups of up to 12 entryto mid-level employees, including women and people of color. • Self-managed mentoring: Various resources are available to employees at all levels. Finally, Campbell believes that great learning and knowledge-sharing happens through on-the-job experience, including global assignments. Campbell currently has employees on expatriate assignments outside their home countries in Australia, Canada, China, Belgium, Malaysia, Indonesia, and the U.S. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 77 Diversity and Inclusion Creating and marketing products effectively to an increasingly diverse world requires a strong commitment to diversity in every aspect of our business. Our company-wide diversity efforts encourage all employees to bring their uniqueness and individuality to work every day. We believe that building a diverse and inclusive culture is critical to winning in the workplace, marketplace, and in the community. That is why our Diversity and Inclusion strategy (illustrated below) closely aligns with the Campbell Success Model. Today, Campbell has an overall representation of 45% women and 35% people of color in the U.S. While we have also seen an increase in representation of women and people of color in the executive ranks, we continue to be challenged with retaining diverse employees at lower levels of management. Improving in this area is a priority across our organization, brought to life through our active recruiting with associations (e.g., Consortium, Reaching Out MBA, Costco Minority Scholars). DIVERSITY IN THE MARKETPLACE M A RKE T P L A CE GLOBAL DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION STRATEGY CULTURAL DIVERSITY & INTELLIGENCE INCLUSION LEADER WO R K PL AC E CO M M U N I T Y While employee representation is important, we believe it is only the foundation for a dynamically diverse and inclusive environment. To build on this foundation, company-wide initiatives are executed with five goals in mind: 1. Firmly establish leadership support and accountability: Senior leaders are responsible for participating in at least one diversity and inclusion training session and for leading a diversity and inclusion activity within the organization. Each Business Resource Affinity Network (BRAN) has an executive sponsor and senior leaders participate in activities such as the Diversity Book Club. 2. Link diversity and inclusion to performance management: Employees at all levels must identify and reach a diversity and inclusion objective, documented on their performance review form, each year. They can participate in any activity that helps to create, manage, value, or leverage a diverse workforce (e.g., organizing a diversity-focused teambuilding activity, seeking out female or minority-owned suppliers). Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 78 3. Integrate diversity and inclusion into talent management: Recruiting, developing, and retaining women and people of color is a priority for our business. 4. Build diversity and inclusion into business practices: Our supplier diversity initiative has grown significantly since its inaugural year in 2006 with an increasing goal each year. 5. Educate and train to advance diversity and inclusion: All employees have access to online and classroom diversity and inclusion training, and may participate in educational events about diverse cultures. Our training offerings have expanded from one classroom-based training session in FY2006 to five classroom-based courses and an eLearning class that is adapted for U.S. and international audiences. U.S. participation in diversity and inclusion training sessions was 2,396 employees in FY2010. Winning with Women Campbell received the 2010 Catalyst Award for our success in advancing women to leadership roles, a critical part of the company’s overall workplace and marketplace transformation. The annual Catalyst Award honors exceptional initiatives from companies and firms that demonstrate the strong business case supporting women’s advancement to leadership and positions of influence by employing best practices around diversity, inclusion, and employee engagement. Campbell was recognized for its “Winning in the Workplace, Winning in the Marketplace, Winning with Women” submission, which used employee engagement, knowledge sharing, diversity and inclusion, and innovation to support the company’s overall transformation plan. The award was based on many factors, including strong improvements from 2005–2009 in the following areas: • Women’s representation on the Board of Directors grew to 20% from 13%. • Women in executive roles grew to 25% from 21%. • In manufacturing roles, the percentage of women plant directors and managers increased to 21% from 14%. • Women play a significant role in leading key functions including Legal and Governmental Affairs, Human Resources, and Diversity and Inclusion. Women also have made significant contributions in Marketing and Product Development. “Campbell’s strives to create a better, more inclusive, more successful culture for all of our employees,” says CEO Doug Conant. “Catalyst’s recognition of our progress affirms that we are heading in the right direction, but I am confident that we can do even more.” Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 79 Diversity and Inclusion in Action While our Diversity and Inclusion efforts originally began in the U.S., over the last several years, we’ve seen these efforts expand across the globe. A few examples include: Asian Network Employees Support Business Promotion When Campbell hosted Chinese government officials at its World Headquarters in summer 2009, the Asian Network of Campbell stepped forward to assist. Four employees fluent in Mandarin served as translators during the visit of China Inspection and Quarantine (CIQ) agency representatives. Their skills were crucial in facilitating this mutually beneficial visit — Campbell promoted Swanson broth to influential members of this emerging market while the CIQ learned more about U.S. food safety practices. Diversity Book Club Opens the Dialogue The Diversity Book Club provides a forum for employees to discuss diversity issues and to learn from their colleagues’ perspectives. The Book Club has over 500 employees at multiple locations. Groups of approximately 15 employees, which often include senior leaders and even CEO Doug Conant, meet monthly to discuss a book focused on diversity in the workplace. Discussions are guided by Campbell employees who volunteer to facilitate. On-site Mosque at Indonesia Plant The Al Maa’idah Mosque was opened in Indonesia to accommodate employees’ religious on-site needs. The Mosque, built in 2008, can accommodate 230 people. Award-Winning Efforts Internally and externally we are gaining recognition for our work to build an extraordinarily diverse and inclusive culture. Doug Conant’s work in this area was recognized in 2008 by Diversity Best Practices with the CEO Leadership Award. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 80 Business Resource Affinity Networks (BRANs) While open to all employees, BRANs provide a valuable forum for employees from similar backgrounds and interests to network, develop professionally, promote cultural awareness, encourage community involvement, and provide mutual support. The networks also help us attract and retain a diverse group of employees and enhance understanding of the consumer marketplace. A member of the CEO’s Executive Leadership Team serves as a sponsor for each of the following BRANs: Campbell African American Network: Positively impact Campbell’s business results, employee engagement, and employee retention by empowering, nurturing, building a culture of connectedness, and providing a forum to elevate visibility. Asian Network of Campbell: Help Campbell meet the needs of consumers and stakeholders by leveraging the diversity of its Asian community. Hispanic Network de Campbell: Build organizational vitality and promote excellence by fostering an environment that acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives, and leadership of Hispanic employees. Our Pride Employee Network: Create a safe community for our lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender employees and their friends so they can share experiences, learn from, and support each other. The Bridge: Build an adaptive workplace which fosters trusted cross-functional and generational partnerships as a means to develop its talents and fuel innovation. Women of Campbell: Enable all women of Campbell to achieve and demonstrate their full potential so that the company can achieve sustainably good performance. Global American Indian/Aboriginal Network: To promote excellence by fostering an environment that acknowledges and leverages the talents, perspectives, and leadership of American Indian employees and act as an information and heritage resource for American Indian employees and their supporters. This network was established in our Maxton, North Carolina, location, where 30 percent of its more than 850 employees are of American Indian descent. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 81 Supplier Diversity To effectively respond to today’s diverse marketplace, we must strive for diversity not only among our employees and consumers, but also in our supplier base. Our U.S. supplier diversity mission is to grant diverse suppliers equal access to potential business opportunities in an effort to strengthen our supplier base and reflect the markets we serve. These relationships strengthen our competitive position while contributing to our market share, our total shareholder return, and to the quality of life in the communities where we live and work. Simply stated, there is no other way for us to effectively create and market consumer food products in an increasingly multicultural world. We firmly believe that diverse suppliers have a positive impact on our business, consumers, and community. Spending with Diverse Suppliers Since the program’s inaugural year in FY2006, we have significantly increased our annual spending with women and minorityowned businesses. Our goal for FY2011 is to spend $155 million with diverse suppliers. $155 SPENDING WITH DIVERSE SUPPLIERS (in millions) Since the program’s inaugural year in $145 $140 FY2006, we have significantly increased $136 $129 our annual spending with women and minority-owned businesses. Our goal for FY2011 is to spend $155 million with diverse suppliers. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 82 Safety Campbell aspires to reach lost-time and injury rates of zero, and continues to drive performance to eliminate potential risks in the workplace. Campbell’s Global Safety Leadership Team (GSLT) was created in 2003 to develop and implement a Global Safety Strategic Plan with the ultimate goal of providing a safe and injury-free workplace. This team, along with cross-functional safety committees at each location, helps implement standardized safety practices across the company and facilitate the sharing of best practices to improve overall safety. We aggressively and thoroughly evaluate workplace incidents, review our practices and take proactive measures to address emerging issues. Our efforts have led to a 59% reduction in lost workday injury rates over the past three fiscal years at our facilities. Our safety performance has also exceeded food industry benchmarks for the past three years (illustrated below). RECORDABLE RATE OF INJURY Industry Sector Benchmark: 6.2 This rate measures significant workrelated injuries and illnesses that result in days away from work, medical care (other than first-aid), or restricted work activity. Food industry recordable rate of injury benchmark: 6.2. 3.1 2.76 2.65 2008 2009 2010 Benchmark is from Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. 2008 results, published in 2009 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 83 TOTAL LOST TIME INJURY RATE Industry Sector Benchmark: 4.0 A lost-time injury is a work-related injury or illness that results in missed or restricted days of work. Food Total Lost Time Injury Rate Benchmark: 4.0 .46 .36 .33 2008 2009 2010 Benchmark is from Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor. 2008 results, published in 2009 Beyond tracking and improving injuries and illnesses, we believe it is important to recognize our employees as they reach important safety milestones. Campbell has implemented the Safety Flag Program to recognize key safety milestones at our locations. This program honors Campbell facilities where safety systems have kept all employees safe from lost-time injuries on the job for at least one year or one million work hours. The location is given a flag to display at their plant or facility when they reach this milestone. Today, 22 of Campbell’s more than 30 sites proudly fly the Safety Flag, many with gold Campbell “C”s added for reaching additional million-hour milestones. Special flags are given to plants that have experienced no lost-time incidents (LTIs). Campbell’s Global Safety Excellence Award recognizes up to three Campbell facilities each year for their ongoing efforts to instill a concern for workplace safety into their cultures. Plants are evaluated based on a number of criteria, including: • Demonstrated safety results • Sustained safety systems • Achieving continued injury reduction • Safety leadership • Integration of safety systems • Employee ownership of safety efforts Winning plants are recognized each year in June, National Safety Month. Past winners include the Pepperidge Farm plant in Willard, Ohio, and the Campbell plant in Maxton, North Carolina. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing Ou r E mploy ees 84 Recognition Campbell has received both national and local recognition for our workplace efforts, including our efforts to win with women, celebrate diversity, drive higher levels of engagement, and provide employees with valuable health and wellness resources. Diversity Recognition • Hartford Business Journal’s 2010 Leadership Organization Diversity Award for our inclusion practices and the ratios of minority employees • HRC 2010 Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality • 2008 Walmart Stores, Inc. “Martin Luther King Jr. Visionary Award” award for our “ability to foster an environment where all people have equal access to opportunities in the workplace, the community and the world” • One of the top 100 companies to work for by Savoy Professionals, a leading media advocate for diversity in corporate America Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Planet Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Nourishing Our Planet Ov er the Past Year, WE . . . Our deep commitment to • Established a new goal to eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging by 2020 environmental stewardship has • Reduced our water use by more than 150 million matured over our 140-year history gallons to a set of strategic business • Met our U.S. EPA Climate Leaders Goal, reducing initiatives that deliver innovation CO2 emissions/production unit by 12% between 2005 and 2010 in manufacturing, sustainable • Recycled 83% of all waste generated in production packaging, agriculture, and • Eliminated more than 4.5 million pounds of steel, logistics. plastic and paper packaging materials IN T H I S S E CT I O N OU R 2 0 2 0 G OAL S Overview Sustainable Agriculture Commitment, Approach, Working with farmers and Cut our environmental footprint in half and Management of applying comprehensive Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfoEnvironmental Sustainability agricultural science to lio in half, as measured by water use and greenhouse at Campbell advance the state of sustaingas (GHG) emissions per tonne of product produced able agriculture Resource Stewardship Reduce energy needs and seek greener in Our Operations Supply Chain, Logistics energy sources Environmental resource and Transportation Reduce energy use by 35% per tonne of product management strategy, focus Advancing sustainability in produced and source 40% of the energy used by the areas, and results our supply chain and logistics company from renewable or alternative energy sources optimization that drives Resource Stewardship improved environmental Recycle as much waste as possible in Action performance Recycle 95% of waste generated, on a global basis Environmental initiatives and results at Campbell plants Recognition Advance sustainable packaging principles and facilities worldwide External acknowledgment Eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging from of Campbell’s environmental Campbell products Sustainable Packaging stewardship and manageCampbell’s sustainable ment approach Promote more sustainable agriculture packaging guidelines, Reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per innovation, and marketplace tonne in our top five agricultural ingredients results Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 87 Overview Campbell has long had a deep commitment to stewardship of the environment and the resources we use in the production of our food and beverage products. What started as respect for our communities and agricultural partners has matured over the course of our 140-year history to a strategic set of business initiatives that seek not only to manage compliance, cost, and efficiency, but also to deliver innovation in resource management, sustainable packaging, agriculture, and logistics. We have a global environmental management system (EMS) that applies to the environmental impact of our more than 30 manufacturing facilities. To integrate environmental programs through all business operations worldwide, our management system sets company-wide goals for energy and water conservation as well as waste management and reduction. We perform environmental audits of all worldwide operations according to the protocol established by the International Audit Protocol Consortium (IAPC). Audit intervals are based on historical trends and operational challenges and strengths. We take a precautionary approach to the environment by seeking to apply processes or practices with less environmental impact when possible. Campbell is an active member of many different groups around the world working to advance more sustainable operations, supply chains, and products. Campbell experts from different disciplines participate in these groups based on the particular focus area from engineering, to packaging, to sustainable agriculture. Campbell is a member of the Sustainability Consortium. The Sustainability Consortium brings together independent scientists and engineers from leading academic research institutions around the world and other leading researchers from the NGO, governmental, and industrial sectors to build a scientific foundation that drives innovation to improve consumer product sustainability. In addition to lending our expertise to broader sector efforts, we continue to investigate lifecycle assessment (LCA) opportunities within our own product lines. We hope to expand on this work in the future. To integrate environmental programs through all business operations worldwide, we have established long-term goals and performance targets for energy and water conservation, waste management and reduction, sustainable packaging, and agricultural innovation. Campbell Soup Company 2020 Environmental Sustainability Destination Goals Primary Cut the environmental footprint of our product portfolio in half (water and greenhouse gas [GHG] emissions/tonne product produced) Supporting • Reduce energy use by 35%, and source 40% of the energy used by the company from renewable or alternative energy sources • Recycle 95% of waste generated, on a global basis • Eliminate 100 million pounds of packaging from Campbell products • Deliver 100% of global packaging from sustainable materials (renewable, recyclable, or from recycled content) • Reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per tonne in our top-five agricultural ingredients Relative reduction goals for energy use, water use, and waste recycling in our operations are based on a baseline year of FY2008 performance. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 88 9.06 10,154,522 MORE THAN 934 CU. METER OF MMBTU MILLION WATER USED USED GALLONS PER TONNE GLOBALLY OF WATER SAVED OF FOOD SINCE 2008 PRODUCED 3.53 MORE THAN 4% MMBTU USED PER TONNE 29,000 LESS GHG EMITTED OF FOOD TONNES PER TONNE PRODUCED GHG OF FOOD REDUCED PRODUCED IN 2010 (2010 V. 2009) 83% 0.022 15.7MM WASTE TONNES CAPITAL RECYCLED GLOBALLY OF WASTE DISPOSED INVESTMENT IN ENVIRON$ PER TONNE MENTAL OF FOOD COMPLIANCE PRODUCED AND SUSTAINABILITY WATER USE WATER USE CU. METER / ENERGY USE (GROSS 000 GAL.) TONNE FOOD (MMBTU) PRODUCED 2010 6,891,498 2010 9.06 2010 10,154,522 2009 7,050,749 2009 9.35 2009 10,276,947 ENERGY USE (MMBTU) / GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG) GHG EMISSIONS (TONNE CO2) / TONNE OF FOOD EMISSIONS (MMTCO 2) TONNE OF FOOD PRODUCED PRODUCED 2010 3.53 2010 850,376 2010 0.295 2009 3.60 2009 879,084 2009 0.308 SOLID WASTE WASTE CAPITAL INVESTMENT RECYCLED (%) DISPOSED (TONNES) / IN ENVIRONMENTAL TONNE OF FOOD COMPLIANCE AND PRODUCED SUSTAINABILITY ($MILL) 2010 82.9 2010 0.022 2010 15.7 2009 84.5 2009 0.019 2009 15.1 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 89 Resource Stewardship in Our Operations Environmental resource management strategy, focus areas, and results Energy Management and Proactive Climate Actions As a food company that relies on high-quality agricultural products, we must be aware of and be prepared operationally for the risks posed by climate change. We have completed a number of initiatives that have reduced our energy use and greenhouse gas emissions globally in the last four years. Examples of some of these energy conservation programs include reducing the electricity required for plant lighting by installing more energy-efficient systems, reducing fuel use by installing heat-recovery systems, and reducing water and steam demand by recycling water from the product cooling process. We are continuing our long-standing efforts to reduce the amount of energy and water use per case of finished product. Teams of plant personnel have implemented strategies that have reduced energy requirements of our manufacturing process. Further modifications are being implemented to support this effort and drive future performance improvements. We now produce a case of soup with 19% less energy than we did 10 years ago. In August 2006, Campbell joined the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders program, a national voluntary effort to reduce GHG emissions. As a Climate Leader partner, we have committed our energy conservation and GHG reduction program to: • Track and report 100% of the emissions from facilities and operations over which Campbell has control • Inventory the six major GHG gases and report progress annually based on the EPA protocols and guidance • Develop a corporate GHG inventory management plan based on the EPA checklist that institutionalizes the inventory process • Reduce our GHG emissions from our U.S operations by 12% per case of product produced by the end of our FY2010 versus a FY2005 baseline. We met this goal by achieving an actual energy reduction of 12.04% by the end of FY2010. Over the past five years, we have implemented the Climate Leaders protocol to develop the systems needed to track our energy use and the resulting direct and indirect GHG emissions. These systems have been verified by the U.S. EPA as an accurate means of monitoring and tracking GHG emissions. The following charts outline the results achieved against the baseline year of FY2005: Climate Leaders GHG Emissions Operations in the United States (Tonnes CO2 per 1,000 adjusted cases of product produced) Campbell Fiscal Year GHG Emissions per 1,000 Adj. Cases 2006 4.78 2007 4.80 2008 4.67 2009 4.65 2010 4.38 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 90 Beginning in FY2009, we began filing comprehensive energy, climate and carbon footprint performance metrics within the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) framework. Campbell’s latest submission can be reviewed in detail at https://www.cdproject. net/en-US/Results/Pages/Company-Responses.aspx?company=2611. Beginning in FY2008, we began to compile energy-use data for all worldwide operations. The following charts compare energy use at our worldwide facilities over the past two fiscal years: T otal E nergy Use — All Worldwide Operations — Combined Fuel Use and Electricity FY2009 FY2010 Global Facilities 10,276,947 mmbtu 10,154,522 mmbtu North American Facilities 8,840,005 mmbtu 8,701,209 mmbtu International Facilities 1,436,942 mmbtu 1,453,313 mmbtu Campbell fuel use and electricity use at our worldwide operations results in the generation of GHG emissions. The following outlines detailed GHG emissions from our worldwide operations: Greenhouse Gas Emissions — All Worldwide Operations (Metric tonnes CO2) FY2009 FY2010 Total Company Emissions 879,084 850,376 Campbell USA 694,064 668,462 International 185,020 181,914 Direct Emissions (Scope 1) 492,144 468,292 Campbell USA 408,227 387,238 International 83,917 81,054 Indirect Emissions (Scope 2) 386,940 382,084 Campbell USA 285,837 281,224 International 101,103 100,860 Greenhouse Gas Emissions — All Worldwide Operations (Tonnes CO2 per metric tonne product produced) FY2009 FY2010 Global Facilities 0.308 0.295 Campbell USA 0.318 0.302 International 0.276 0.274 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 91 Water Stewardship Water is an integral component in the production of all food and beverages. At Campbell, we use water in the creation of many of our products, as well as for cleaning, cooking, and even vegetable transport within our plants. Maintaining a clean and reliable supply of water is essential both to the future of the company and the future of the communities in which we operate. All of our manufacturing plants have implemented water conservation measures and have established systems to ensure that the water used in our operations is appropriately cleaned and treated before it is returned to the environment. We use water to wash ingredients, cool finished products, satisfy our steam requirements, clean and sanitize our operations, and as an ingredient in our products. All Campbell operations provide wastewater treatment through the use of either a company-owned treatment system or through pretreatment prior to discharge to a municipal-owned treatment works. We apply a stewardship philosophy when it comes to water. We seek to advance conservation across our enterprise, returning clean and appropriately treated water to our local communities following our use. The following chart summarizes our global water use over the past two fiscal years. Global Water Use (Cubic meters — M3) FY2009 FY2010 Campbell Global Operations Water Use 26,689,905 26,087,077 Water Use per tonne of food produced 9.35 9.06 Waste Management We apply a consistent approach to managing the waste generated in our offices and plant operations. We apply a hierarchy to our decision-making process of reduce, reuse, and recycle in our operations to minimize the impact our production has on the environment and help reduce our total costs. We implement strategic initiatives to reduce the various waste streams from our operations. Efforts such as reducing the amount of food manufacturing waste and reusing waste product as either an animal feed or compost has reduced the amount of waste we send to local landfills. Campbell offices around the world have supported our goal of reducing waste by implementing programs to minimize the use of office paper and recycle waste from our office areas. At Campbell World Headquarters alone, a consolidated effort has reduced office supply shipments by 50% and cut paper usage 12% from 2008 to 2009. That translates into 40 fewer tons of paper used and more than 240,000 pounds of CO2 not released during the paper’s production, according to PaperCalculator.org. Material Reuse and Recycling Closed-loop options and beneficial reuse principles guide our thinking when it comes to recycling materials. Part of this effort has included the diversion of off-specification product from local landfills to a facility that crushes the container, recycles the container, and reuses the food material as animal feed ingredients. We also continue to expand our comprehensive recycling programs as we strive to achieve our worldwide 95% recycle rate goal. The current programs to recycle food waste, corrugated paper, steel drums, office paper, plastic, fluorescent tubes, batteries, wood pallets, and scrap metal are all being evaluated to ensure maximum efficiency. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 92 In FY2010, Campbell generated 383,385 metric tonnes of solid waste from our worldwide operations. Of this material, 318,683 metric tonnes were recycled and 64,702 were disposed of in local landfills or utilized as fuel for resource recovery facilities. Campbell’s worldwide recycle rate for FY2010 was greater than 83%. The following chart outlines the amount of waste that was generated, recycled, and disposed from our worldwide operations over the past two fiscal years: Solid Waste Generation and Recycling FY 2009 FY 2010 Total Solid Waste Generated (Tonnes) 352,139 383,385 Material Recycled (Tonnes) 297,502 318,683 Material Disposed (Tonnes) 54,637 64,702 Global Recycle Rate % 84.5 83.1 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 93 Resource Stewardship in Action Environmental initiatives and results at Campbell plants and facilities worldwide Campbell World Headquarters, Camden, New Jersey In Camden, New Jersey, our new Campbell Employee Center at World Headquarters was designed from the ground up, utilizing the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership in Energy Efficient Design (LEED) criteria. Sustainable and energy-saving features of the building include: • The redevelopment of an existing urban site with access to public transportation • Bicycle storage and changing rooms to facilitate alternative transportation options • Filtering of the storm water runoff from the site to help keep local surface water sources cleaner • A roof designed to reduce the local heat island effect • Special site lighting to reduce local light pollution • Water management design features to reduce water use by more than 20% • Enhanced management of the building’s cooling system’s refrigerant to prevent loss and further improve climate management • Designed daylight harvesting controls to optimize lighting and energy efficiency • Recycled building materials and furnishings, such as carpets and countertops • Wood building products certified as to their forestry sustainability • Low VOC-emitting building materials such as carpeting, paints, adhesives, and sealants • Daylighting and exterior views for 90% of the spaces Maxton, North Carolina A site-wide comprehensive recycling program was launched and waste-handling equipment throughout the plant was upgraded to handle the additional recycling streams. Since the launch, cardboard recycling has increased by 476,000 pounds in FY2009 vs. FY2008. Recycling of soft plastics, papers, overaged/damaged finished product, and other materials has also increased. More than 64,800 pounds of soft plastics have been recycled. The plant initiated additional capital projects addressing water and heat recovery opportunities. Implementation of these projects allowed the Maxton facility to reduce boiler exhaust gases and wastewater discharge, delivering over $1 million/year savings. Key accomplishments at the Maxton plant include: • Saved $97,000 in FY2009 with new recycling program and reduced landfill costs by $23,000 • Decreased the amount of waste sent to the landfill by 2.3 million pounds in FY2009 vs. FY2008 • Recycled more than 1.9 million pounds of overage/damaged finished product that was historically sent to the landfill • Increased cardboard recycling by 500,000 pounds and plastic recycling by 64,000 pounds • Reduced natural gas usage for steam generation by 10% and water usage by 1 million gallons/day, delivering $1,054,000 in gas and water savings • Reduced water use per tonne of food produced more than 15% from FY2009 levels at Campbell’s Maxton Plant, resulting in savings of $200,000 and production increases of 9%. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 94 Paris, Texas; Maxton, North Carolina; and Sacramento, California Energy-efficient lighting systems, which have greatly improved lighting conditions, reduced maintenance costs and significantly increased energy efficiencies (thus reducing energy and operating costs) were installed at facilities across the Campbell network. Lighting fixtures were replaced or retrofitted with high-efficiency fluorescent fixtures and occupancy sensors. Key results include an annual savings of $978,000 in electricity costs and a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in excess of 11,000 tonnes per year. In addition, a new Condensing Economizer Heat Recovery system was installed eliminating more than 25 tons per day of carbon dioxide emissions associated with fuel savings and saving close to 100,000 gallons of water per month. Sacramento, California Campbell’s Sacramento plant initiated new and improved work practices and implemented utility-saving capital improvements across all plant areas to save $500,000 in utility costs in FY2009. A cross-discipline team worked to reclaim energy and waste throughout the plant. Their efforts included more efficient cleaning methods; installing a utility metering and monitoring system, which allows tracking of utility usage; reducing solid waste generation through the implementation of a plant-wide recycling program; installing energy-saving lighting and lower-flow water nozzles; and auditing and reducing process energy and water use. Some key results include: • Reduction of 3.26% in steam usage per product produced, saving approximately $120,000/year • Electricity reduction of 4.85% per product produced, saving $158,000/year • 13.45% reduction in water and wastewater per product produced, saving almost 100 million gallons of water and $139,000/year • Waste reduction of 860 tons, saving $37,000/year and recycling an additional 845 tons of material, saving more than $29,000/year In FY2010, a new Heat Recovery System and a sterile hot water generation system were installed at the Sacramento Plant. This project will eliminate 2,500 metric tons per year of carbon dioxide emissions associated with fuel savings and will save approximately $500,000 annually. Milwaukee, Wisconsin Campbell’s Milwaukee Spice Plant installed a cooling tower that recirculates and recycles both water and heat. This single project has reduced water use at the plant by 64% resulting in water savings of more than 90 million gallons and cost savings of $130,000 per year. Toronto, Canada Campbell’s Toronto plant implemented a new heat and water recovery project that included the design and installation of tanks, piping, and heat exchangers designed to reuse cooling water and extract heat from wastewater to reduce consumption of water by over 20% and reduction in usages of natural gas of up to 5%, resulting in annual savings of $900,000 (CAN). Campbell Company of Canada also completed a solar photovoltaic installation on the roof of the Toronto plant, generating electrical energy to power office lights and reducing CO2 emissions by approximately nine tonnes (about 20,000 pounds) per year. Asset Recovery, Global The Campbell Asset Recovery team works globally to find beneficial reuse or recycling options for some of the foodprocessing and electronic equipment we no longer use or need. We maintain an online marketplace and data-tracking tools to help facilitate this program. While we recognize that more opportunity exists, in FY2010 Campbell recycled or reused more than 3,869,460 pounds of used equipment and generated nearly $2.1 million in revenue from the sale of used equipment. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 95 Campbell Asia Pacific Seven site-based and corporate Green Teams have actively pursued environmental opportunities as part of Campbell’s Global Sustainability Strategy. In FY2009, one team re-engineered the pack and pallet design of all Shapes carton packs. This resulted in the elimination of 9,588 pallets from the supply chain and reduced diesel fuel consumption by more than 43,550 gallons per year and CO2 emission by more than 470 tonnes per year, resulting in a savings of $650,000 per year. More than $1 million was invested in energy-saving initiatives, saving more than $400,000 per year in energy costs and reducing carbon emissions by more than 3,650 tonnes of CO2. Projects included LED relighting at our Huntingwood and Shepparton plants, installation of energy-efficient hand driers at our Virginia plant, window shading at our Huntingwood plant, water harvesting, and bio-pore composting at our Bekasi plant. Campbell Europe Campbell plants in Europe have been executing environmental initiatives resulting in improved performance and resource management. Two out of the five plants in the region recycle more than 90% of their waste. Campbell’s Le Pontet factory has reduced its energy consumption by 15% since 2006, representing a reduction of 1,693 tonnes of CO2 emissions/year. Karpalund has reduced its energy consumption by 43% over the same period. In the area of water stewardship, our Le Pontet plant reduced water use per tonne of product produced by 17% over the last four years, and our Puurs plant achieved a reduction of 8% over the same period. Inspections and Compliance Record Our Environmental Sustainability Policy clearly outlines the expectation that all of our plants and facilities around the world are operated in accordance with environmental laws and our own high performance expectations. While we strive for perfect compliance every day, we also plan to be transparent in the areas that need improvement. The following outlines the regulatory enforcement activities associated with our worldwide operations that occurred during calendar year 2010: Location Description Fine Corrective Action Permitting and operating issues with therOperational and procedural changes to East Brunswick, NJ $9,000 mal oxidizer prevent reoccurrence Improper certification and updating of Everett, WA $960 Plan properly updated and certified RMP Plan Improper modification of air permit to Air permit modified to reflect current Dixon, CA $600 reflect process change situation We also work cooperatively with regulatory agencies to ensure our operations remain in compliance with regional environmental improvement plans and regulatory changes. Our thermal processing facility in Napoleon, OH, continues to work with the Ohio EPA to meet the recently revised ammonia limitations set for the wastewater treatment effluent during summer months. We invested more than $5 million in a capital project to modify our existing wastewater treatment system to provide additional treatment capability. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 96 Our Napoleon, OH, facility also continues to work with the Conservation Action Project (CAP) in Northwest Ohio to reduce runoff from agricultural land and reduce nitrate-nitrogen in the Maumee River. We have made a total of $170,000 in donations to CAP as part of our 10-year commitment to this project. Investing in Improved Compliance and Sustainability Performance We strive to comply with environmental laws and regulations and to reduce our impact on the environment in our local communities. To do this, we employ multiple resources, including water treatment systems, wastewater treatment systems, and air emission controls. Each year, we invest significant capital to maintain and improve these operations. We also invest in new projects that advance our commitment to environmental sustainability by reducing the environmental footprint of our operations. This enables us to make meaningful steps toward our long-term sustainability goals. These specific projects have improved the operation of our facilities and reduced our need for electricity, fuels, and water. Sustainability investments within our production facilities have included the installation of energy-efficient lighting systems, recovering heat from cooling water, and recycling water from our product-cooking process. In the past three years, we have invested more than $43 million at facilities worldwide in order to drive continued environmental performance improvement. FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Environmental Compliance Projects $6,200,000 $5,154,000 $9,989,000 Environmental Sustainability Projects $6,100,000 $9,973,000 $5,751,000 Total $12,300,000 $15,132,000 $15,740,000 We’ve begun a process to track both investments and planned savings from our environmental sustainability efforts. In the last three years, we have invested approximately $22 million in efficiency and conservation efforts designed to deliver more than $9 million in annual savings. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 97 Sustainable Packaging Campbell’s sustainable packaging guidelines, innovation, and marketplace results Campbell’s Global Packaging Development organization is engaged and committed to continuously improving our sustainable packaging footprint. Packaging professionals are engaged in both short term improvements and long term development projects to reduce the environmental impact of our packages while providing the highest quality products possible. • Globally, packaging improvement projects eliminated more than 9.3 million pounds of packaging materials in the last two years. • Campbell’s saved more than 4.5 million pounds of steel, plastic and paper packaging materials in 2010. • Pepperidge Farm converted Baked Naturals line of products to recycled paperboard. • Arnott’s conducted a complete redesign of their Monte Carlo product line saving 15 tons of packaging materials. • Pepperidge Farm completed the first test of returnable corrugated cases for Goldfish products. • Campbell’s completed the first Life Cycle Assessment of a soup product, including the assessment of packaging material impact categories. • Campbell’s has joined The Sustainability Consortium to partner with academic and industry leaders in understanding and systematically assessing the sustainability impacts of our sector from farm to store. B RYAN Mc K AY d i s c u ss e s C a mp b e l l ’s G l obal Packagi ng Sus t ai nabi l i t y Fr am ew or k This year, Bryan McKay, packaging director of Campbell Arnott’s Asia Pacific, was part of the team that developed Campbell’s Global Packaging Sustainability Framework, a series of principles, strategies, and objectives that will frame all future packaging development programs globally. “In going through this process, we realized that many packaging projects already underway at Campbell could deliver a better sustainability footprint for our products,” said McKay, who is based in Sydney, Australia and has worked for Campbell Arnott’s for seven years. “When collated, the results are significant and will positively impact our environment.” For example, by making simple redesigns to existing packaging, Campbell reduced steel usage by more than 3.5 million pounds and paper/board usage by more than 1 million pounds globally. McKay’s department also designs and develops packing for new products, meaning future product packaging will be assessed under these new criteria. Going forward, McKay’s team is working with key suppliers to investigate other areas where they can reduce waste. For example, they’re looking at using renewable and biodegradable packaging materials, including post-consumer recycled materials in beverage bottles, further reducing metal container weights, and employing packing and processes to improve baked goods shelf life and reduce waste. Said McKay, “This framework gives us the direction to change our focus and efforts on driving packaging sustainability at Campbell.” Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 98 • Transitioned a PET beverage bottle supply from the U.S. to a local supplier in Canada, eliminating 750 trucks, and their associated environmental impact, from the road • Redesigned Shapes and Jatz packaging in Australia, reducing paperboard by 440,000 pounds and eliminating 12,000 pallets from distribution In addition to these changes, we have initiated strategic technology development programs with key suppliers aimed at producing sustainability breakthroughs in the foreseeable future. Many of these efforts were highlighted during our Packaging Sustainability Fair held at Campbell World Headquarters in June 2009. O UR PRINCIPLES Protect Implement packaging that delivers the safest, highest-quality food while insuring consumer and brand protection. Reduce Continuously seek packaging material and processes that utilize less resources while maintaining product quality and supply chain efficiency. Recycle Utilize recyclable and recycled content packaging materials where possible. Renew Utilize renewable sources of packaging materials where safe and effective. Work with suppliers to promote clean production technologies and best Partner manufacturing processes. Design with a sustainability Create economic value by Partner externally with suppliers, mindset to deliver safe, linking sustainability with customers, and industry groups consumer-preferred packaging source reduction, material to strengthen our program and while minimizing our environselection, and supply chain influence direction mental impact efficiencies Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 99 G LOB AL PAC KAG I NG Materials % Recycled Content Million Pounds P O RT F O LI O 27.2 (As weight in MM lbs) • Steel Cans and Ends 28 242.3 105.7 6.6 7.2 • Glass Jars 7 21.7 • Corrugated 40 • Aluminum 42 101.3 • Folded Cartons 80 • Laminate/Paperboard 0 • Paper/Labels <5 • Plastic, Microwave, Trays, & PET 0 410.2 Sustainable Packaging Guidelines In FY2009, our packaging professionals developed formal packaging sustainability guidelines to help inform decisions associated with the packaging materials used to protect the wide range of our products. These guidelines translate industry best practices into a set of guiding principles. Sustainable Packaging Goals We have updated and created new goals to guide the design and development of packaging throughout the global packaging community at Campbell’s. • 100 million pounds of packaging eliminated by 2020 – Material selection – Material reduction • 100% of our global packaging made from sustainable materials – Renewable materials – Recyclable materials – Recycled content • 100% of our packaging supply base proactively engaged in developing sustainable alternatives – Economically feasible – Grounded in Science and Technology – Sustainable end-of-life scenarios Campbell is a member of the Consumer Goods Forum Global Packaging Project (GPP). The GPP launched a partnership of major manufacturers and retailers to define and pilot a new common language of definitions to measure the sustainability of packaging. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 100 Packaging Challenges One topic that has received attention in the media recently has been the use of a material called bisphenol A (BPA). BPA is used in a broad array of household and consumer products. The lining of most metal food containers used to prevent corrosion and help maintain the food’s safety, quality, and flavor also can contain residual amounts of BPA. The compound has a long history of safe use in many plastics and has been approved for use in food packaging by all global regulatory agencies that have reviewed it. Campbell’s primary consideration, now and always, is the safety of the people who purchase our products. We adhere to the guidance of the U.S. FDA and comply with the packaging requirements of global regulatory agencies. Leading scientific and regulatory agencies the world over have thoroughly reviewed numerous tests and studies and reaffirmed that BPA is safe for food packaging. Nonetheless, there are additional scientific studies underway to ensure the safety of BPA in food packaging. We welcome this additional research and will continue to monitor these scientific studies closely, basing any necessary changes in our packaging on their findings and conclusions. We go to great lengths to make sure Campbell’s products are safe for families to enjoy. Providing high-quality food and beverages that are safe to eat and drink has been our top priority for 140 years. Our packaging has always — and will always — comply with applicable safety standards. Sustainable Agriculture Working with farmers and applying comprehensive agricultural science to advance the state of sustainable agriculture Campbell continues to work closely with the farmers who grow our agricultural ingredients to expand our sustainable agricultural practices and programs. We strive to reduce the impact that these practices have on the environment, while enhancing practices that benefit wildlife and promote biodiversity. By promoting biological diversity through systematic crop rotation and preserving wetlands and natural drainage through habitat management, we reduce the effects of soil erosion, conserve water, and improve overall watershed management health. Through our involvement as a member of the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization’s regional vegetable Integrated Pest Management (IPM) program, we are finding ways of improving our internal programs and extending our impact beyond our contract growers. We have made significant advances in our sustainable agriculture efforts over the past 20 years. Campbell encourages better water management practices, including drip irrigation and retention basins to reduce runoff and conserve water. Our contract growers have implemented conservation tillage to reduce fuel usage and greenhouse gas emissions. Our researchers have developed disease-resistant varieties to reduce pesticide usage and have advanced environmentally friendly integrated pestmanagement programs. Almost every effort has the potential to improve multiple areas of stewardship. Changing climate is expected to have large and far-reaching effects on crop productivity as well as on pests and diseases affecting the cultivated crops. To address these changes, Campbell has teamed with the University of California at Davis (UC Davis) to use computer models backed by field experiments to identify optimal water and nitrogen use, and develop weather-based predictive systems for the key disease and insect pests for which pesticides are routinely used to create better IPM strategies. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 101 H ELPING TO B UILD A SUSTAI N AB L E SU P P LY CHAI N , F ROM FARM TO TA BL E SUPPLIERS Standards and expectations set for supplier performance. Supplier scorecards and assessments. Purchase high-quality ingredients produced by local farmers. Supplier engagement in sustainable agriculture and packaging initiatives. MANUFACTURING Leading systems and technology for ensuring quality and safety of ingredients and products. Global objectives set and investments made in energy and water conservation, waste management, and recycling. Growing efforts in alternative energy. DISTRIBUTION Logistics optimization to improve environmental impact and distribution of finished products to retail customers. Innovation from packaging to shipping to reduce transportation costs. SmartWaySM certification of our shipper fleet. CUSTOMERS Support of and partnership with customers on CSR and sustainability initiatives and priorities. Sharing of best practices and strategies from suppliers through customers. Participation in the Sustainability Consortium. CONSUMERS Sector-leading consumer insights and recognized leadership in consumer affairs. Advancing nutrition and wellness across the portfolio. Balancing demand for quality, affordability, and convenience with sustainable packaging. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 102 Actions and Initiatives Our goal is to be the sector leader in sustainable agricultural practices and Integrated Pest Management. We have established new long-term goals to reduce water use by 20% and energy use by 30% per pound of ingredient grown of our top agricultural ingredients — tomatoes, carrots, celery, mushroom, and jalapeño peppers — by 2020. Working with our largest suppliers and organizations such as the United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization, and continuing our close relationship with UC Davis, we are developing programs and practices that will help us and our contract growers meet these challenges. In FY2010, we are putting renewed emphasis on this area to establish new performance baselines upon which to build future metrics. Our Sustainable Agriculture Initiatives for FY2010 included: • Supporting increased Integrated Pest Management and reducing synthetic pesticide usage • Participating in Processing Tomato Foundation California water metrics group • Focusing on processing tomato-water conservation • Promoting tomato ingredient transportation fleet upgrades for improved mileage and GHG reduction • Documenting and promoting ingredient plant energy conservation initiatives that reduce water and energy use per tonne of ingredient • Driving improvements into our returnable bulk packaging reuse program Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 103 Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation How Campbell manages aspects of sourcing our products and getting them to the store shelf, including procurement and distribution The Campbell global supply chain organization is responsible for all aspects of producing our products and getting them to the store shelf. This includes procurement, engineering, manufacturing, quality assurance, and distribution functions. About twothirds of our employees work within the supply chain organization at different headquarters locations or at one of the more than 30 manufacturing plants the company has around the world. These employees work in collaboration with our suppliers, research and development, business teams, and trade partners to optimize the supply chain from beginning to end. Key measures of success include safety, quality, total delivered cost (TDC), environmental sustainability, and customer service. MARY L O N G d i s c u ss e s t h e s u st a i n a b il i t y benefi t s of l ogi s t i cs opt i m i zat i on For Sr. Director Logistics and Customer Operations Mary Long, saving fuel, time, money, and along the way, the environment, is almost like a series of puzzles. Her team looks to connect logistics pieces together to create a more sustainable picture that resides in a solid framework of reduced cost and service excellence. “Logistics optimization is all about being green and inherently sustainable,” said Long, who has spent eight years with Campbell. “It’s not really rocket science: You want to travel fewer miles, move more weight when you can and partner creatively.” Long oversees a variety of functions, including transportation, warehousing, and customer operations. This year, her department found ways to make small changes that had big impact. The goal is to continue and increase these changes in the next year, ultimately aiming to reduce the company’s CO2 impact by 20% by 2012. Take freight utilization, which means putting more weight on an individual trailer so there are fewer trucks on the roads. One way that Campbell did that this year is by switching to a transport company that uses trucks constructed of lighter materials. That means those vehicles can carry more product. In one case, those efforts reduced the number of vehicles on the road from 15,000 to 12,000, Long said. “That’s good for the customer and good for us,” Long said. “It takes trailers and trucks off the road completely. You have 3,000 trucks that aren’t on the road or tying up dock time.” In another case of “a little goes a long way,” Supply Chain Solutions found that it could add four pallets of mushrooms to each load going to the Maxton, North Carolina plant that makes cream of mushroom soup. That took 20% of the mushroom vehicles off the road. In addition, we have a goal to reload every inbound delivery to our plants with an outbound shipment. In FY2009 this eliminated 1.2MM “deadhead” miles — i.e., miles when trucks are traveling empty. Creative partnerships with customers can also make a difference. Campbell offers incentive pricing to reward customers who send in optimized weight orders, cutting down on the number of partially filled trucks on the road. Small customers as well as larger ones are taking advantage of the costs savings, she said. An example of this type of partnership is a creative collaboration with another customer that resulted in the customer’s trucks leaving its headquarters, picking up a delivery for Campbell along the way, dropping off its load at Campbell and being reloaded with soup to take back to its home base. This reduced empty miles and was very cost effective, said Long. “It’s a win for them, it’s a win for us, and it’s a win for the environment, and that’s a beautiful thing.” Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 104 Results and Initiatives Campbell Soup Company continues to implement projects aimed at reducing the environmental impact associated with the delivery of ingredients to our facilities and the distribution of finished products to our customers. Our manufacturing facilities continue to produce approximately 93% of all Campbell-labeled products. One significant sustainability advantage Campbell maintains is that many container manufacturing operations are adjacent to our food production plants. By operating container manufacturing operations for both cans and plastic bottles in plants that are directly attached to our major food manufacturing plants, we eliminate the need to expend energy shipping empty containers from remote locations. This makes tremendous improvement to what some refer to as the “embedded environmental impacts” of products. Below are examples of other supply chain projects that further reduce the energy required to deliver our finished product: • In the U.S., we have adopted the use of lighter-weight equipment, increasing payload capacity to 53,000 pounds. This resulted in taking the equivalent of 1,700 trucks off the road, saving 230,000 gallons of diesel fuel, and eliminating more than 1 million miles traveled in the Campbell distribution network. • In the U.S., pallet optimization projects on our inbound raw materials and ingredients have increased the number of pallets per truckload and taken an additional 160 trucks off the road. • In Australia, Campbell packaging professionals redesigned both the product cases and pallet patterns, resulting in a reduction in 440,000 pounds of cardboard and eliminating 100,000 truck miles from the Campbell distribution network. • Campbell Canada packaging professionals redesigned pallet stacking patterns, saving 78,000 pounds of cardboard and removing 750 trucks distributing product from the road in Canada. • Through the use of intermodal (truck and rail) distribution, fuel consumption and CO2 emissions were reduced up to 50% versus conventional truck distribution, allowing us to reduce the number of trucks on the road and save approximately 2,100,000 gallons of diesel fuel. Building a Robust Supplier Base One of our primary objectives is marketing safe products of consistent quality that meet or exceed our customer and consumer expectations. We recognize that our suppliers and other business partners play a critical role in helping us execute our mission and our commitment to sustainability in an ethical and responsible manner. Thus, they must share the same objectives. Campbell’s Supply Base Expectations Manual identifies the expectations and requirements of all firms that are, and aspire to be, a Campbell supplier. The requirements detailed in the manual are designed to help our current and potential brokers, co-packers, re-packers, special packers, suppliers, warehouses, and licensees to meet these objectives. We consider adherence and performance to these expectations as essential factors when entering into or extending existing business relationships. In FY2009, we developed a sustainability scorecard that was shared with our largest suppliers. Using their feedback, we will develop appropriate measures to track and reward advancing sustainability performance among Campbell suppliers. We also are seeking to build a system that supports the growing interest among our customers in understanding the sustainability impacts within the supply chain. In our most recent revision, we have integrated new advanced expectations into the manual that address employee health and safety, environmental performance, and human rights. New suppliers are categorized by risk, utilizing a process documented in our Global Supplier Policy. The policy defines requirements for ongoing monitoring of performance and food safety systems audits against recognized standards as well as those that are conducted by an independent third party. Based on risk categorization and supplier performance, we also conduct site audits of those suppliers in higher-risk categories to verify compliance and execute corrective action plans. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report No urishing o u r P lanet 105 Recognition Acknowledgment of Campbell’s environmental stewardship and management approach Member Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes 2010/11 World and North America Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship/Reputation Institute: Top 20 CSR Index three years in a row Newsweek: Top Green Companies — #154 The City of Toronto recognized Campbell Company of Canada with a “Green Toronto Award” for the water conservation related to this project. Goulburn Valley Water: Campbell received an award from EPA Victoria (Australia) demonstrating commitment to resource efficiency by participating in EPA’s partnership program with Goulburn Valley Water. Campbell Arnott’s received the Australian Packaging Evolution award for their achievements in packaging materials reduction and logistics efficiency. Named to the Bloomberg/Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 106 About This Report This is Campbell Soup Company’s annual report of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs and results. With it, we are striving to provide our stakeholders with a balanced view of our CSR and sustainability strategy and performance in our worldwide operations during fiscal year 2010 (ended July 31, 2010). This report includes an annual update to key programs and a full update to our performance metrics. Our previous report was published in May 2010. This report also includes performance metrics from FY2008 and FY2009, where available. Significant policy or program advances and recognition occurring after FY2010 may also be included. We prepared this report using the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as a basis for organization and content. We have self-declared this performance update to our CSR Report to a GRI Application Level of “B” based on the GRI Application Level Grid. A GRI Content Index is provided here. Additional information about Campbell operations and financial performance is available in our 2010 Annual Report and Form 10-K. This CSR Report is available as PDF. A printed highlights brochure is also available by request. For an interactive overview of our CSR and sustainability activities, visit Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility Website, http://www.campbellsoupcompany.com/csr/. This CSR Report addresses our operations on a global basis. Unless otherwise stated, principles and policies referenced in the report apply to all Company locations worldwide, and to all employees of Campbell Soup Company. The metrics and goals in this report are established and measured by the Campbell businesses and corporate functions that are responsible for achieving them. This is done in consultation with internal and, in some cases, external stakeholders, as well as by reference to external benchmarks and leadership practices. Our goal is to deliver a useful and accurate picture of our performance. Data collection in a multinational manufacturing company is complex, and there are meaningful challenges to compiling consistent performance metrics across more than 30 plant and facility sites in multiple countries. While this report includes globally consistent metrics in several areas, we continue to work on improving the standardization of our measurement systems and building baselines in other areas, such as agriculture. Performance metrics cover Campbell owned and operated facilities. Environmental metrics are reported using widely accepted parameters and units. We use the Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse Gas Protocol to calculate our GHG emissions. Financial data is presented in U.S. dollars. Campbell management uses a system of internal controls, including a process of verification by internal subject-matter experts, to ensure that this report fairly represents our CSR and environmental sustainability activities and results. We expect and welcome feedback from interested stakeholders. Contact Dave Stangis, Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility, One Campbell Place, MS43, Camden, NJ 08103. You may also contact us via our dedicated CSR Feedback Email Address: csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 107 H O W THE REPORT COMES TOG E THE R Identify Issues identified in our Materiality Assessment Map Mapping of issues to GRI and other external frameworks Contextualize Organizational and geographic context for completeness Filtering and prioritization based on Campbell impact areas and external reporting expectations Full written report (pdf) and Online, high-level summary for Hard-copy overview for references to GRI and UN Global reference and regular updates community, employees, and other Compact stakeholders Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 108 2011 CSR Report External Website Links Reference URL AdDress Your Heart www.campbellsaddressyourheart.com Agricultural Sustainability Institute, UC Davis www.asi.ucdavis.edu/ Alliance for a Healthier Generation www.healthiergeneration.org American Council for Fitness and Nutrition www.acfn.org/ American Heart Association www.americanheart.org Arnott’s Foundation www.arnottsfoundation.org.au/foundation/home.asp Blood Pressure Canada’s Award of Excellence www.hypertension.ca/bpc/ Boston College Center for Corporate www.bcccc.net Citizenship Camp Quality www.campqualityusa.com Campbell Soup Foundation www.campbellsoupcompany.com/Foundation.aspx Campbell’s without Gluten www.campbellswithoutgluten.com Campbell’s Nutrition and Wellness website www.campbellwellness.com/ Campbell’s Supply Base Expectations Manual www.campbellsoupcompany.com/supplier_requirements.asp Canadian Association of Food Banks in www.cafb-acba.ca Canada Canadian Cancer Society www.cancer.ca Catalyst www.catalyst.org Click For Cans www.chunky.com/clickforcanslanding.aspx Code of Business Conduct and Ethics www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_conduct_ethics.asp Commitment Concerning Advertising to www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_children_commitment.asp Children Confederation of Food and Drink Industries www.ciaa.be of the EU Contact Us www.campbellsoupcompany.com/ContactUs.aspx CSC Governance Page www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance.asp Daily Bread Food Bank www.dailybread.ca Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes www.sustainability-index.com Driver Reviver www.driverreviver.com.au Environmental Sustainability Policy www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_environmental_sustainability_ policy.asp Feeding America www.feedingamerica.org Fishful Thinking www.fishfulthinking.com/ Food Allergy & Anaphylaxis Network www.foodallergy.org Food Allergy Research and Resource www.farrp.org/ Program Food and Consumer Products Association www.fcpmc.com/ of Canada Food for All www.foodforall.org continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 109 continued from previous page Reference URL Food Marketing Institute www.fmi.org Foodbank Australia www.foodbank.com.au Foundation for Strategic Sourcing www.f4ss.org/ Global Guidelines for Responsible www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_children.asp Advertising to Children Go Red For WomenTM www.goredforwomen.org GRAMMY Foundation www.grammy.org/GRAMMY_Foundation/ Grocery Manufacturers Association www.gmabrands.com Healthy Weight Commitment Foundation www.healthyweightcommit.org Heart and Stroke Foundation’s Health www.healthcheck.org/ Check™ program Help Grow Your Soup www.helpgrowyoursoup.com/ Help Hunger Disappear www.helphungerdisappear.com Human Rights Campaign www.hrc.org/ Human Rights Principles www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_human_rights_principles.asp Ideas for Innovation www.campbellsoupcompany.com/ideas/ Kids in Crisis www.kidsincrisis.org Labels for Education www.labelsforeducation.com/default.aspx Let’s Can Hunger www.letscanhunger.com National Business Group on Health www.businessgrouphealth.org National FFA Organization www.ffa.org National Minority Supplier Development www.nmsdcus.org Council (NMSDC) Net Impact www.netimpact.org Political Accountability Guidelines www.campbellsoupcompany.com/governance_political_accountability.asp Royal Agricultural Winter Fair www.royalfair.org SmartWay certification www.epa.gov/smartway Society of Consumer Affairs Professionals www.socap.org (SOCAP) Stamp Out HungerTM www.stampouthunger.info/#/29397/ Students in Free Enterprise www.sife.org Team Xtreme www.goldfishfun.com United Nations Food and Agricultural www.fao.org Organization United Nations Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org Urban Farming Inc www.urbanfarming.org Urban Promise www.urbanpromiseusa.org/ V8 Make Every Serving Count ® www.v8juice.com Women’s Business Enterprise National www.wbenc.org Council (WBENC) Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 110 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a framework of internationally accepted guidelines and principles for companies and organizations to report on corporate responsibility and sustainability performance. For more information about GRI, go to www.globalreporting.org. Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO statement CEO Letter 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2010 Form 10-K Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.3 Operational structure Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.4 Headquarters location Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.5 Countries of operation Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2010 Form 10-K 2.7 Markets served Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.8 Scale of organization Corporate Profile and Economic Impact 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 2010 Form 10-K size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Recognitions are included in each section of the report Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period About This Report 3.2 Date of previous reporting period About This Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About This Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its About This Report contents 3.5 Process for defining report content About This Report Materiality Analysis 3.6 Boundary of the report About This Report 3.7 Limitations of the scope or boundary of the report About This Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased About This Report facilities, outsourced operations and other entities that could affect comparability continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 111 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation 3.9 Data measurement techniques and assumptions About This Report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information No restatements in the provided in earlier reports current report 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in No significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied reporting periods, scope, or in the report boundary unless noted in the report 3.12 Location of the Standard Disclosures Management Strategy and Analysis Managing Performance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external About This Report assurance for the report Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure Corporate Governance and Ethics 2010 Proxy Statement 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is CEO and Chairman roles are also an executive officer separate 4.3 State the number of members of the highest governance Corporate Governance and body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members Ethics 4.4 Mechanism for shareholders and employees to provide 2010 Proxy Statement recommendations or direction to the board 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the board, Managing Performance senior managers, and executives and the organization’s 2010 Proxy Statement performance 4.6 Processes in place for the board to ensure conflicts of interest 2010 Proxy Statement are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the CSR and Sustainability members of the board for guiding the organization’s strategy Governance on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Winning With Integrity principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing the organization’s CSR and Sustainability identification and management of economic, environmental, Governance and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 2010 Proxy Statement 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach Food Safety and Quality or principle is addressed by the organization Resource Stewardship in Our Operations continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 112 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and Winning With Integrity social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations or advocacy organizations Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder Engagement whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency Stakeholder Engagement of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholder Engagement stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Materiality Analysis responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance Disclosure on Management Approach Defining Success Overview EC1 Economic value generated and distributed, including Managing Performance revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, 2010 Form 10-K donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for Resource Stewardship in the organization’s activities due to climate change Our Operations Campbell’s Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Report EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Campbell Career Site obligations 2010 Form 10-K EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 2010 Form 10-K EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to This information is not tracked local minimum wage at significant locations of operation or reported in this way. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Supplier Diversity suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Training and Development management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Giving and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 2010 Form 10-K impacts, including the extent of impacts continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 113 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Planet Overview EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental Performance Metrics Sustainable Packaging EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used Sustainable Packaging EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Resource Stewardship in Our improvements Operations Resource Stewardship in Action EN6 Energy-efficiency initiatives or renewable energy sources Resource Stewardship in Action EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Resource Stewardship in reductions achieved Action EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Resource Stewardship in Our Operations No water sources significantly affected by withdrawal EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN11 Use of land in protected areas No Campbell operations in protected areas EN12 Significant impacts of activities in protected areas No Campbell operations in protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Resource Stewardship in Our Operations Sustainable Agriculture EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Sustainable Agriculture impacts on biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation This information not tracked or list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by reported. level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN17 Relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Resource Stewardship in Our Operations continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 114 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Resource Stewardship in Our achieved Operations Resource Stewardship in Action EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not currently reported in CSR report EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and Not currently reported in CSR weight report EN21 Wastewater discharge Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN23 Releases of hazardous substances by number and volume Resource Stewardship in Our Operations EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste No waste transported, deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention imported, exported, or treated Annex I, II, III and VIII and percentage of transported waste waste deemed hazardous shipped internationally under the terms of the Basel Convention EN25 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water Not tracked or reported bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizations discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Resource Stewardship in Our services, and extent of impact mitigation Operations Sustainable Agriculture Sustainable Packaging EN27 Percentage of products whose packaging is reused Sustainable Packaging EN28 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Environmental Fines or regulations Violations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Supply Chain, Logistics, and and other goods and materials used for the organization’s Transportation operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Resource Stewardship in by type Action SOCIAL Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Employees Overview LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, Nourishing Our Employees and region Overview LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Nourishing Our Employees gender, and region Overview continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 115 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Compensation provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Health and Wellness operation Work/Life Flexibility LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Not reported agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, Not reported including whether it is specified in collective agreements LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Safety management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Safety absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Health and Wellness programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Not reported trade unions LA10 Training and continuing education hours by employee Training and Development category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Training and Development support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Training and Development career development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Nourishing Our Employees employees per category according to gender, age group, Overview minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Diversity and Inclusion LA14 Compensation by gender and employee category This information is not reported Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing our Employees Overview Campbell Human Rights Principles HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Not reported agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Supply Chain, Logistics, and undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Transportation HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Winning With Integrity concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Incidents of discrimination and action taken Not Reported continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 116 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation HR5 Businesses with significant risk 2010 Form 10-K HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents No operations identified as of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the having significant risk for elimination of child labor incidents of child labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of No operations identified forced or compulsory labor, and measure to contribute to the as having significant risk elimination of forced or compulsory labor for incidents of forced or compulsory labor HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s This information is not tracked policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of No incidents of violations indigenous people and actions taken involving rights of indigenous people Society Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Neighbors Overview SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Nourishing Our Neighbors practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations Overview on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for Winning With Integrity risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s Winning With Integrity anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Winning With Integrity SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Public Policy Engagement development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Public Policy Engagement parties, politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, Not Reported antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Fines/sanctions for non-compliance with regulations Material items are reported in 2010 Form 10-K Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Nourishing Our Consumers Overview Food Safety and Quality PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Offering Healthy and products and services are assessed for improvement, and Nutritious Products percentage of significant products and services categories Food Safety and Quality subject to such procedures Ensuring Consumer Satisfaction continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 117 continued from previous page Full Partial Not Reported I n f ormation Report S ection/ S ection Disclos ures Reported L ocation PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Ensuring Consumer and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts Satisfaction of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by Food Safety and Quality procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Ensuring Consumer regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and Satisfaction service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Ensuring Consumer surveys measuring customer satisfaction Satisfaction PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Campbell Corporate codes related to marketing communications, including Governance Policies advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Not reported in this report and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, The National Advertising including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of Division reports many outcomes advertising disputes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches This information is not of customer privacy and losses of customer data reported PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Material items are reported in concerning the use of products and services 2010 Form 10-K Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 118 UN Global Compact Index The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Campbell Soup Company committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact in 2009. Below is an index of our reporting against the UN Global Compact principles within the content of this 2011 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. More information on our progress can be found on our Company website at www.campbellsoup.com/csr. P rinciple Report S ection/ Number D escription L ocation 1 Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principles S  upply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation 2 Make sure business is not complicit in human rights abuses Human Rights Principles Nourishing Our Neighbors Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation 3 Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Human Rights Principles collective bargaining Nourishing Our Employees Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation 4 Support elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Human Rights Principles Winning With Integrity Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation 5 Support effective abolition of child labor Human Rights Principles Winning With Integrity Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation 6 Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation Human Rights Principles Winning With Integrity Supply Chain, Logistics, and Transportation Diversity and Inclusion 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Food Safety and Quality Nourishing Our Planet Overview 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Resource Stewardship in Our Operations Resource Stewardship in Action continued on next page Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 119 continued from previous page P rinciple Report S ection/ Number D escription L ocation 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Resource Stewardship in Our technologies Operations Resource Stewardship in Action 10 Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Corporate Governance Policies Winning With Integrity Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 120 Independent Review Statement Campbell Soup Company’s 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report — BSR Review Letter Campbell Soup Company requested that BSR conduct an independent review of its Corporate Social Responsibility Report covering activities and performance in 2009. We highlight areas of strengths and challenges, and suggest ways that future reports can address the complex set of issues facing Campbell Soup. It should be noted that our review neither verifies nor expresses an opinion on the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of information provided in this report. Significant strengths and achievements include: In-depth coverage of selected issues The Report provides a comprehensive look at a number of key issues facing Campbell Soup, including its success in enhancing the health profile of its product lines and efforts to address hunger and obesity in the communities where it does business. Particularly notable has been its achievement in the area of health and nutrition. All food companies face these complex issues, and we believe that the information in the Report will allow stakeholders to make informed decisions about Campbell Soup’s programs and objectives. Clear description of CSR strategy and programs, and 2020 goals Campbell Soup has developed a thorough CSR strategy and the underlying governance framework and programs to implement it, and the Report uses clear language to describe them. Also impressive are its 2020 CSR goals, which are bold and as such will entail significant challenges. We look forward in future reports to more detail as to how these goals will be achieved and to Campbell Soup’s progress. Solid progress built on 2008 CSR report The Report shows marked improvement from last year’s, especially in the areas of strategy, metrics, and completeness. In addition, the description of the CSR management system is a welcome addition, and it provides a clear sense of how Campbell Soup will manage its environmental and social responsibilities going forward. In future reports, we encourage Campbell Soup to: Increase focus on selected material CSR issues Campbell Soup has conducted a materiality analysis that has defined and prioritized its most important CSR opportunities and challenges. We believe that the most critical CSR issues have been identified, and encourage a continued and deeper examination of sustainability in the areas of packaging, agriculture production, and supply chain management. Each area offers significant possibilities for reducing risk and achieving a leading position in CSR performance within the food industry. In addition, we believe that a more in-depth discussion should be presented on the outcomes of Campbell Soup’s stakeholder engagement efforts. Leading companies are increasingly using stakeholder engagement as a means to assess market positioning, product developments, and enterprise risk, and providing more detail around stakeholder viewpoints and perspectives would add value to the Report. At the same time, we would welcome a more focused discussion of the company’s wide-ranging community outreach activities, including those addressing obesity and hunger. Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 121 Balance discussion of successes and challenges A hallmark of the most highly regarded CSR reports is the open recognition of difficult environmental, social, and governance problems. Although Campbell Soup has many successful CSR programs and initiatives to highlight, we would also like to see discussion of its key challenges in the areas of health & wellness, community outreach, and management of its supply chain from farm to consumer. Evolve reporting approach CSR reporting is an important component of a company’s engagement with internal and external stakeholders. Companies are increasingly experimenting with a combination of print, online, social networking, and other interactive media to communicate their commitments, programs, and performance. We encourage Campbell Soup to continue development of web-based reporting that will allow stakeholders to access basic information in an efficient manner, while at the same time leveraging more interactive and innovative approaches to convey key strategies, goals, and performance trends. Summary Food companies arguably face a wider array of CSR challenges than those in any other industry. Greater transparency and the likely intensification of critical global issues such as climate change, food security, water availability, and health & wellness, will increase the pressure on the food industry to demonstrate that its CSR programs are both meaningful and effective. Building on the foundation of its strategic plan for addressing environmental, social, and governance issues, Campbell Soup has the opportunity to utilize its CSR report as a primary communication tool in order to strengthen its brand and demonstrate to the food industry that sustainability is perfectly aligned with profitability. Eric Olson Senior Vice President Advisory Services BSR March 30, 2010 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report Reso urces 122 Selected Awards and Recognition Nourishing Our Consumers Nourishing Our Planet • Named to 2010 World’s Most Ethical Companies List, • Named to Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes World and Ethisphere magazine North American — 2010/2011 • Named to 100 Best Corporate Citizens List, • Top 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Index 3 years in Corporate Responsibility magazine a row, Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship, Reputation Institute • Food Allergy and Anaphylaxis Network recognized Campbell for its commitment to food allergy safety, • Green Toronto Award for Water Efficiency, awareness and education. The City of Toronto • Top 100 Global Brands, BusinessWeek • Australian Packaging Evolution Award — Food Packaging Action, Packaging Magazine • Top Australian Iconic Brand (Arnott’s), Reader’s Digest Australia Trusted Brands • Named to the Bloomberg/Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index Nourishing Our Neighbors • Points of Light Institute: Corporate Engagement World Headquarters Campbell Soup Company Award of Excellence 2010 1 Campbell Place • Chairman Circle Award — Camden, NJ 08103 United Way of Coastal Fairfield County Tel (856) 342-4800 Fax (856) 342-3878 • Corporate Community Partner of the Year, For copies of Campbell’s Corporate Social Responsibility Norwalk Economic Opportunity Now Report, write to Dave Stangis, Vice President — • Top Food Donor — Toronto, Canada, Daily Bread Corporate Social Responsibility Food Bank at csr_feedback@campbellsoup.com. • Corporate Citizenship Award, Camden, NJ Chamber of Commerce Campbell Brands Product trademarks owned or licensed by Campbell Soup Nourishing Our Employees Company and/or its subsidiaries appearing in the narrative text of this report are italicized. • Gallup Great Workplace Award — 4 years running, Gallup, Inc. • Platinum Award — Workplace Wellness, The National Business Group on Health • Best Places to Work NJ, New Jersey Biz magazine — 4 years • 50 Best Places to Work — Canada, Global Great Places to Work • 2010 Diversity Award, Hartford Business Journal • Best Places to Work for LGBT Equality — 2 years running, Human Rights Campaign • Catalyst Award 2010, Winning with Women, Catalyst 2010 Campbell Soup Company 2011 Update of the CSR Report
