UN Global Compact Report Communication on Progress 2011 Read on >> | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Contents Statement of Support 3 BCD Travel 4 Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles 4 Responsible Travel Management 5 Human Rights 6 Our Commitment 6 Our Systems 7 Our Activities 8 Our Performance 9 Labor Standards 11 The onboard logo is a marque that represents the pathos of our Our Commitment 11 Corporate Social Responsibility. It celebrates the culture that we Our Systems 12 strive to instill in our day-to-day business dealings as well as our Our Activities 12 personal commitment to becoming better global citizens. Our Performance 13 Environment 14 Our Commitment 14 Our Systems 15 Our Activities 17 Our Performance 18 Anti-Corruption 21 Our Commitment 21 Our Processes 21 BCD Travel Our Activities 21 Europalaan 400 Our Performance 21 3526 KS Utrecht The Netherlands Partnerships for Development 22 Our “Making a Difference” foundation 22 www.bcdtravel.com Growth and Emerging Markets 24 2 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Statement of Support At BCD Travel, we promote our CSR initiatives in our operating markets through the propagation of companywide responsible travel and the BCD Travel is committed to creating and maintaining an continuation of employee activities empowered by our principles and the five crucial areas of social responsibility: environment based on respect for the individual, and to being a valued corporate citizen in every country and 1. Ethical Business Practices community in which we do business all over the world. 2. 3. People Community Last year was a year of recovery. Economic development turned positive 4. Environment in many countries and industries. As consumer confidence increased, 5. Privacy and Data Protection economic and business travel recovery tipped up in the first half of 2010 and gathered additional momentum in the last two quarters. CSR represents a key element of a corporation’s character. It can also be defined as one of the main strategic assets of an operation as it One slope of this upturn is the travel industry, which, as a trade, has becomes intimately linked with its identity. As such, with this report we implications that go beyond the economy. Travel affects many social, are proud to introduce our CSR brand, onboard. cultural, institutional and environmental segments. For this industry, Corporate Social Responsibility efforts are characterized not only by The onboard name and image stand for our readiness, determination greener alternatives offered to clients. CSR symbolizes the way a and commitment to three of the fundamental vows that encompass company conducts business by measuring the ecological and social a corporation’s CSR efforts: we pledge to be socially responsible and impact that its decisions and activities will have on the actions of promote community awareness with our clients and employees; we their clients, employees and communities in general. pledge to be ethically accountable as we bond to our moral code both as a business and as individuals; we pledge to be environmentally As one of the largest corporate travel management companies in conscious and promise to protect the earth. the world, BCD Travel acknowledges the influence our decisions have on our clients’ travel programs and the role that these On our second year reporting results to the United Nations Global play in the environment. We are deeply committed to helping Compact since we joined in 2008, we are honored to be able to share our clients structure travel programs that support their our CSR efforts as responsible global citizens and members of this company’s overall CSR goals. important organization. John Snyder Global President & Chief Operating Officer 3 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > BCD Travel The expert in travel for a growing global work force, O  ur Commitment to Ethical Business Practices While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent with the BCD Travel is the world’s third largest corporate business and social practices of the communities in which we operate, travel management company. Our mission is to simplify we believe that honesty is the essential standard of integrity in any and streamline travel services and strategic business locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on honesty, integrity and respect. management to benefit our clients’ organizations on every level, from the bottom line to the business traveler. Our Our Commitment to People BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination commitment to service and innovation means that some of where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. the largest and best-known companies in the world entrust We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace us with their travel management services. and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of positive change in the communities in which we live and work. Our Commitment to the Community Our Corporate Social Responsibility Principles BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support BCD Travel’s voluntary commitment to a high level of social the communities in which they live through social investment, business responsibility is the foundation of our Corporate Social Responsibility relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. (CSR) Principles. As one of the largest corporate travel management companies in the world, we deem it vital to maintain our social activism Our Commitment to the Environment at a level that matches our economic capacity. BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and the health and safety of our employees. We are conscious of our responsibility to Together with our shareholders, BCD Holdings N.V., we regard a conserve resources and continuously look for ways to more efficiently commitment to and investment in improving our local and global use resources to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation communities as an investment in our (and their) future – we believe in and emissions to the air, water, and land. building for the “next next” generation. Our Commitment to Privacy/Data Protection Our CSR Principles focus on five key areas: ethical business practices, Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information can result in BCD people, the community, the environment and privacy/data protection. Travel and our customers failing to comply with industry best practices, compliance or legislative requirements. These events impact customer retention and result in financial or reputation damage. BCD Travel takes great care and responsibility with customer data and information systems. 4 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > BCD Travel Responsible Travel Management As a company, BCD Travel helps customers to align their travel program with their larger CSR goals. We deliver cost-effective results and environmental, social and ethical protection for local and global communities. Our strategic approach moves beyond the “greening” of travel. We offer comprehensive responsible travel management solutions that focus on both: Sustainability Measuring the environmental impact of business travel and taking steps to minimize the program’s carbon footprint. Solutions include: • Carbon emission reporting • Carbon off-setting Accountability Improving traveler wellbeing and security and promoting responsible standards throughout the travel supply chain. Solutions include: • Travel risk management • Traveler tracking • Medical repatriation Some of our employees visiting the Children’s Hospital Center in Mexico 5 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our Commitment Our employees are the back bone of our business. Their dedication, productivity and experience make it possible for us to remain innovative and competitive. BCD Travel’s continued success is dependent upon our ability to meet the needs of our global and diverse workforce. BCD Travel is committed to user privacy in its products and services and seeks to provide a secure business environment for the protection of BCD Travel is committed to providing a workplace free of discrimination employees’ and customers’ private information. Security measures are where all employees can fulfill their potential based on merit and ability. employed regardless of the media on which information is stored (paper, We strive to deal with everyone in a fair and open manner and embrace overhead transparency, computer bits, etc.); systems which process it and accept differences in others. (personal computers, voicemail systems, etc.); or methods by which it is moved (electronic mail, face-to-face conversation, etc.). Information is BCD Travel is committed to being an agent of positive change within our also protected in a manner consistent with its classification. wider communities. We encourage our employees’ efforts to support the communities in which they live through social investment, business In addition, BCD Travel ensures that our employees: relationships, and participation in charitable endeavors. • are aware of their own human rights and respect the rights of others; BCD Travel is committed to providing a violence-free workplace. Acts • have a substance-free working environment, which is free of or threats of physical violence, including intimidation, harassment, harassment; and/or coercion, that involve or affect the company or that occur in • receive a fair compensation and benefit programs and have a flexible the workplace or in the conduct of company business off company workplace that serves the requirements of both the Company and the property, will not be tolerated. This prohibition against threats and individual; acts of violence applies to all persons involved in company operations, • have the opportunity to voice their complaints or concerns regarding including, but not limited to, BCD Travel personnel, contract workers, human rights abuses; temporary employees, and anyone else in the workplace or conducting • have the opportunities and resources needed to enhance their company business off company property. competencies and performance. 6 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Our Systems BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures • BCD Travel regards with paramount importance the human rights of our internal staff to ensure that their data is protected and secure at to ensure that our commitments to human rights issues all times. are addressed. • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors who are BCD Travel operations: encouraged to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub• Our statements on human rights issues are clearly outlined within contractors, which stipulates our policy on human rights issues. our global CSR Principles document, which has been distributed to all employees and is also available on our Web site. Human rights policies • The human rights of our community at large are equally important. are also highlighted on local intranet sites and in local employee and Pertaining to the “Community” pillar within our CSR Principles, we HR manuals. In the event that local laws are more restrictive than believe in being an agent of positive change through: BCD Travel’s standards, employees must comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws. – Local empowerment – Investment in our community begins with the individual and we encourage our employees to initiate and support • BCD Travel has established a dedicated CSR Committee to provide efforts to improve our local communities. leadership and resources to help raise awareness of CSR issues (including human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti– Making a Difference – We proudly support our shareholder’s corruption) throughout the organization. This committee is made up organization-wide Making a Difference foundation that is focused of staff members from various functions across the globe who meet on supporting children’s causes around the globe. See page 22 for virtually each month to plan and harmonize current initiatives and more information. explore ways to further raise CSR awareness throughout the company. – E merging markets – Our partnership with licensees in emerging • The majority of our locations around the world have a dedicated markets helps these businesses and their employees secure their contact person to whom employees can turn for advice on human future role in a global marketplace by providing access to training, rights abuse issues. technology and opportunities for business growth. See page 24 for more information. • Annual employee satisfaction surveys are carried out by a third party on a global scale. These surveys are one way in which employees voice – Working with suppliers – BCD Travel works with suppliers and their opinions and raise any important issues. other business partners to encourage joint in-kind contributions to community initiatives. 7 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Services for our clients: Our Activities BCD Travel ensures that our clients’ human rights are also addressed. We ensure that customer and traveler data entrusted to the company • Steered by our CSR Committee, BCD Travel has developed a set of remains secure and protected in accordance with legal stipulations and CSR Principles, which is made available in a variety of ways to our the company’s own security standards. We also endeavor to protect our employees worldwide. These principles include detailed information clients’ travelers by offering the following services: on the protection of human rights and have been endorsed at the highest level in the company. • Travel Risk Management & Traveler Security BCD Travel’s innovative risk management technology enables our • The CSR Committee carries out a yearly audit to ensure that our client to monitor their travelers’ security anywhere in the world. Our global entities comply with human rights standards and the standards DecisionSource platform provides crisis management reporting, preoutlined in our CSR Principles document. trip and on-trip compliance reporting, risk assessment and destination intelligence. The application offers instant access to accurate travel and • Quarterly updates are provided from all regions, reporting on their security information. In the event of a crisis, a plan can be immediately activities and progress within our CSR Principles, which covers data executed to get travelers out of a high-risk area quickly. It monitors risk protection and security for both employees and clients. across the globe, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, generating e-mail alerts to keep travelers informed and aware. • BCD Travel has taken extensive measures to protect corporate and customer data which comply with legal provisions and BCD Travel’s • Medical Repatriation international security standards, such as ISO 17799, ISO 27001 and PCIBringing home travelers who become sick or are injured while on a DSS, from loss, manipulation, unauthorized access and falsification of business trip is a highly specialized and sensitive business, requiring data and information. knowledge of both travel and medicine. BCD Travel works with a thirdparty specialist that gets patients home with the maximum of care and • A number of our locations carry out external audits of all work spaces minimum of fuss. through an external company specializing in safety and ergonomic standards in the workplace to ensure that our employees are working in a safe and comfortable environment. • We have set up the BCD Travel Information Center an online resource designed to keep our employees and clients up-to-date on evolving issues that may affect travelers. This resource is available on our Web site and provides realtime updates. 8 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights Our Performance • Our systems, processes and actions above ensure that our employees’ • We have successfully passed our SAS 70 audit in November 2010. This and travelers’ levels of satisfaction and security are raised. In addition annual audit covers the period of January 1st – September 30th, 2010. we help travelers stay informed, productive and safe while on the road. • In December 2010, the second annual Global Security Summit was held. • Our CSR Principles document is provided to employees via local During this meeting targets were defined for 2011 with the main focus intranet in six languages – English, Dutch, French, German, Spanish being on PCI compliance, use of global security tools and applications and Portuguese. New employees are provided with a copy of our CSR and the definition of KPIs in order to measure global ‘security health’. Principles document to ensure that they are aware of our commitment To continue our cooperation efforts for data protection, our regional to support international human rights standards. We will also continue representatives will participate in a quarterly global team meeting to to promote our CSR Principles throughout our organization. Track progress towards our top security priorities. • Our global employee satisfaction survey was conducted in 2010 and • A global Security Round Table has been set up and will meet weekly to showed a 1 percent decrease in overall satisfaction over 2009. The discuss and follow security initiatives globally. results have been analyzed and management teams in each Region are working on action plans to address the most frequently highlighted • We will continue to build a comprehensive information security areas of improvement. framework. Our policies will take into account the national laws of the many countries where BCD Travel operates and will provide at least the • Our data centers ensure that customer data remains secure while minimum information security requirements for all BCD Travel entities stored on BCD Travel production information systems. Our ISO and partners. Our initiatives will provide a clear statement to clients 9001:2008-certified, state-of-the-art data centers in both the U.S. and that we are following the information security principles globally. EMEA include security provisions such as video surveillance systems, motion and vibration detectors, key card access, dual-layered access • We will continue to carry out our annual CSR audit to enable us to authentication, mantrap, wall intrusion sensors, advanced early-warning track our progress and highlight areas that need attention. By the end smoke detection systems and 24x7 monitoring. of 2011, we plan to ensure that our results show a positive increase in all markets. • A new company-wide interactive security awareness course has been implemented in the U.S. and Canada to address security awareness and operations. This training program will also be rolled-out in EMEA in Q1 2011. 9 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Human Rights According to our December 2010 internal CSR audit and quarterly reports… • An increase of 3% in global CSR awareness was achieved in 2010. In •A data sensitivity and e-mail encryption training course was carried some regions an increase of up to 14% was achieved. out for account management certification. The course included modules on data sensitivity, costs associated with security breach, • Although BCD Travel has a global policy on human rights issues handling PII, BCD Travel data security best practices and tools, (highlighted in the “People” section of our global CSR Principles encrypting sensitive emails, and ways to communicate BCD Travel’s document), 82% of BCD Travel countries have an additional written security policies to our customers. human rights policy in place compared to 59% in 2009. • ISO 9001:2008 recertification for data center operations in the US • 85% of our locations around the globe have a dedicated person in was achieved in May 2010. place whom employees can contact regarding complaints or concerns about human rights abuse. • Some information security improvements and implementations to protect BCD Travel’s data as well as our clients’ data carried out in • The percentage of BCD Travel countries with written policies dealing 2010 included: encryption of AS400 back office systems, deployment with the following human rights issues (over and above the company’s of an application vulnerability tool, deployment of an endpoint global policy) are: protection anti-virus solution, implementation of a web application firewall and data loss prevention technology, encryption of data held – Anti-discrimination – 73% compared to 66% in 2009 in SQL databases and testing of a Smartphone management tool to – Employee health and safety – 96% compared to 84% in 2009 control content, activity and applications in order to secure data. – Workplace and sexual harassment – 86% compared to 75% in 2009 In addition, physical security at all our data centers worldwide was – Working hours 96% compared to 81 % in 2009 improved thus enhancing our audit capabilities. – Fair compensation and benefits – 96% compared to 81% in 2009 • BCD Travel is moving towards industry recognized certification to the • Information security policies have been re-written and aligned to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) and to the conform with ISO 27001 standards. Roll out is planned for February 2011. ISO 27001 Information Security Management System standard, both of which are slated for certification in 2011. 10 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Our Commitment BCD Travel respects employees’ right to collective bargaining. BCD Travel also requests that suppliers recognize their employees’ right to chose whether or not to associate with or establish any organization including labor organizations. Forced or involuntary labor is not tolerated by BCD Travel. This includes background of each of its employees. BCD Travel will not discriminate work on a forced contract, slavery and other forms of work against one’s (or tolerate discrimination by its employees) against any applicant or will or choice. BCD Travel does not accept employment through feeemployee based on age, gender, race, color, religion, national origin, charging employment agencies, or in any other way which confines the ancestry, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status and employee in unreasonable debt bondage. sex (including pregnancy, childbirth, and other specific conditions), or any other characteristic protected by law. BCD Travel respects children’s right to development and education. Therefore, we do not support child labor and do not use children as All employment decisions related to new hires, transfers, promotions part of our work force. We will assist education systems, where we can, and compensation are based on experience, skills, qualifications and in providing work placements or internships as part of university or responsibilities. BCD Travel will strive to achieve the full potential of vocational courses of study. all employees. We operate in a fair and open manner and embrace and accept differences in others. We are committed to being an agent of BCD Travel employs individuals of different ages, genders, ethnicities, positive change in the communities in which we live and work. physical and mental abilities and lifestyles and values the unique 11 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Principle 5 Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Activities Our Systems • CSR Audit – A CSR audit was conducted to measure how issues • BCD Travel endeavors to be a fair employer and to provide employees surrounding labor standards faired across our BCD Travel countries with a healthy and safe working environment, compensation and of operation. These figures will be used to highlight areas for benefits inline with market standards, working hours aligned with improvement and measure our future progress. local country labor laws and strict rules against child labor. Each employee is provided with written terms of employment stipulating • Work Placements – Work placements allow students to gain real the number of working hours per week, monthly salary and other experience in an industry or a particular function that he or she is terms and conditions concerning overtime etc. interested in. BCD Travel has accepted various placements around the globe, working in close partnership with the students’ educational • BCD Travel respects the rights of the employees to form works institutions. BCD Travel has provided practical experience and councils, which allow a greater degree of employee input into the mentoring to help the students complete necessary coursework while company. Several works councils are currently in place in European on placement. countries and conform to local country and European Union laws. • Training programs – BCD Travel is dedicated to our employees’ • Our statements on labor standards are clearly outlined in our global professional development. By investing in their continuing education, CSR Principles document under the “People” section, which has been we help them hone their skill levels to advance within the company. distributed to all employees and is also available on our Web site. Examples of current training opportunities include: Human rights and labor policies are also highlighted on local intranet – Management and leadership training seminars for staff at all levels sites and in local employee and HR manuals. In the event that local – Managerial potential assessment of employees and the provision of laws are more restrictive than BCD Travel’s standards, employees appropriate training must comply with the more stringent, applicable local laws. – Job specific training programs for staff at all levels – Training programs to enhance IT skills and BCD Travel product • BCD Travel works with suppliers and sub-contractors and encourages knowledge them to sign up to our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub– CSR awareness sessions contractors, which stipulates our policy on child labor, forced labor, – Health and safety training collective bargaining and discrimination. – Security awareness training. 12 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Labor Standards Our Performance Percent Contribution to the Region Global Norm Overall Score In addition to continuing to carry out the above activities over the last year, our CSR audit of operating countries has shown the following United States 38.3% progress during 2010: Canada 1.1% • Increase in the number of countries offering training programs for Mexico 4.7% new employees and/or for existing employees from 78% in 2009 to 100% in 2010. Europe 46.3% • Our 2010 Global Employee Survey revealed a drop in overall South America 3.2% satisfaction to 74.2% from last year’s 75.2%. This is still higher than the Asia and Australia 6.4% results for 2006 2008 and also is 2.2% higher than the *Global Norm Score. There are many factors that contribute to the drop, although the global economic crisis is seen as a key contributing factor. • 32% of audited countries include the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-Contractors in supplier contracts. Our goal for 2011 is to increase the percentage of suppliers that include our Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-Contracts in their contracts with BCD Travel. * The Global Norm Score is an average overall satisfaction score based on data obtained over the last 10 years from several service companies in various geographical regions. See opposite. Lion Dance ceremony to celebrate the Singapore office launch: L to R: Andrew Yeo; Arthur Tan; Nassim Majdalawi; Iain Withers; Greg O’Neil; Ana Pedersen; Maureen Brady; Allen Leng. 13 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Commitment BCD Travel is committed to protecting the environment and promoting greater environmental awareness. We are conscious of our responsibility to conserve resources and continuously look for ways to use resources more efficiently to reduce the environmental burden of waste generation and emissions into the air, water and land. 14 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Systems BCD Travel operates the following systems and procedures to ensure that our above commitments to environmental issues are addressed. BCD Travel operations: • We establish and continuously improve our policies, programs and • We inform suppliers and other industry business partners of our practices for conducting our business in a safe, environmentally sound environmental principles and encourage the adoption of environmental manner and in accordance with relevant safety and environmental management practices aligned with these principles. legislation and regulations. • We conduct formal reviews of the company’s activities to ensure • We incorporate environmental considerations into our planning compliance with environmental regulations and internal practices. processes, with special attention to environmental issues during our selection and management of business locations and facilities. • We encourage learning from and working with industry suppliers who incorporate a high level of environmental responsibility into • We conduct our operations in a manner that is committed to recycling, the products and services they offer. conservation of resources, prevention of pollution, and promotion of environmental responsibility among our employees. • We provide products and services to our internal and external customers that promote environmentally sound travel management practices; focus on the efficient use of resources; and minimize the creation of waste, and reduction of harmful emissions to the air, water, and land. 15 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Services for our customers: To help our customers find solutions for their broad CSR needs, BCD • Advito – Advito provides a range of consultative services to diagnose and Travel works with our consulting arm, Advito, as well as with industry improve travel program environmental and social impacts, including: partners, associations and experts. – Responsible Travel Program Diagnostic. To help travel and • Carbon Emission Reporting – Our carbon emission tracker calculates procurement managers determine the contribution their emissions produced by air travel and reports on this information program makes to the company’s overall CSR program and help at company, departmental and individual traveler levels. The to achieve the right balance of traditional travel management tool is incorporated into our information management solution, and CSR objectives. DecisionSource, which provides intelligence to targeted audiences – CSR Travel Strategy Workshop. To help clarify corporate throughout the travel and reimbursement lifecycle. DecisionSource requirements and stakeholder expectations and constraints for calculates emissions in accordance with the methodologies of both sustainable and accountable travel management through single the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate Accounting and or multiple stakeholder workshops. Reporting Standard and DEFRA (the United Kingdom’s Department – Travel Avoidance Program. To help customers to successfully for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs). We offer two credible, implement trip avoidance programs through an integrated transparent and consistent structures to provide our customers with approach that considers all key stakeholder requirements. maximum flexibility in integrating business travel emission reporting – Sustainable and Accountable Travel Procurement. To design with their broader internal CSR initiatives. and manage supplier Request for Proposals (RFPs) that are aligned with the organization’s sustainable and accountable • Carbon Off-setting – Carbon off-setting can help compensate for procurement principles. the environmental impact of travel programs by allocating funds – Meeting Location Optimization. To address the environmental commensurate with the emissions produced through business travel. impact of meetings through sustainable sourcing, ‘environmental That money is then invested in climate protection projects that housekeeping’ and a total trip perspective. generate emission-free energy, reduce demand for energy or absorb – Off-Setting Advisory. To provide the customized advice needed emissions that have already occurred. BCD Travel’s global carbon to address the key questions on carbon off-set partner selection off-setting partner, Atmosfair, conforms to the Gold Standard for and implementation. emissions calculation, project selection and funds allocation. – Travel Risk Management Consulting. To help to assess exposure to travel-related safety and security risks and recommend changes to operational programs, travel security initiatives and risk management providers. 16 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Activities • Further reduced paper usage by implementing online processes or by changing processes in general. • Increased the use of environmental-friendly paper and office supplies. • Reduced the use of toner by using central printers/copiers. • Encouraged waste recycling onsite. • Reduced consumption of water and electricity where possible. • Encouraged BCD Travel to participate in local initiatives to support Earth Day on April 22 and World Environment Day (WED) held on June 5, 2010. • Educated our employees on environmental issues and provided tips on how to be eco-friendly. • Offered the services referenced above to our clients. 17 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Our Performance • Our processes, systems and activities detailed above enable a greater understanding of environmental liabilities linked to business travel among our employees and clients. The steps we have taken count towards reducing the carbon footprint of our travelers and educating our community at large on being more environmentally responsible. • We will continue to encourage local BCD Travel countries to raise environmental awareness amongst our staff and implement new measures to ensure that we offer environmentally-friendly processes, technologies and services to the best of our ability. • All of our offices in Germany and the Netherlands are certified to the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2008. Recertification of both these countries will take place in Q1 2011. ISO 14001 environmental certification in other countries across EMEA and the UK is planned for 2011. • Our recent CSR audit details numerous steps that our offices have taken across the globe to become more environmentally friendly. Overleaf are some specific examples of how our staff has given back to the environment and community. Our new London office holds a BREEAM rating, which is regarded as best practice in environmental design and management within the UK construction and property sectors 18 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment According to our December 2010 internal CSR audit… • Through central purchasing of office supplies, BCD Travel in the US & BCD Travel has achieved the following annual benefits to support our Canada achieved an increase in the purchase of recycled products of CSR Program by virtualizing 444 servers: 5.1% in the first half of 2010. • 97.29% of all paper purchased in Germany in 2010 was environmentallyfriendly. • A 7% reduction in material consumption compared to 2009 was achieved. The increase in online processes means that less material is printed leading to less usage of toner and paper. • A 20% reduction in water consumption compared to 2009 was achieved. • In our office in Stuttgart Germany a new mixing jet system that mixes air with water was installed in the water faucets resulting in a 40% saving in water usage. • BCD Travel moved into new, environmentally friendly locations in Belgium and Singapore in 2010. Our UK office will relocate to a new environmentally friendly office in February 2011. • Server virtualization in our IT department in the US has had a significant environmental impact by reducing energy costs and reducing annual CO2 emissions required to power physical services. In addition, a positive impact on capital and operating expenses was achieved. 19 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Environment Earth Day / World Environment Day BCD Travel in the US carried out a number of activities in support of Earth Day, April 22nd and World Environment Day, June 5th. These activities included: recycling of plastics, permanent elimination of the use of plastic and styrofoam cups, collection of cell phones to be recycled, shut down of all unnecessary electricity and implementation of trash separation and collection. In other regions activities were carried out to increase environmental awareness among all employees. Paperless Documentation BCD Travel endeavour to produce screen friendly documents that are easy to read and navigate on screen avoiding the need to print them out. This not only helps us reduce our paper consumption but also that of our customers and suppliers. “Green” Newsletters • Key offices in the U.S. continue to publish the newsletter “Green Team News,” an electronic newsletter distributed to employees to educate them on a variety of environmental topics and how they can do more to help. • BCD Travel in the UK continued to distribute “CSR Mondays,” by e-mail to all employees on every first Monday of the month with environmentally friendly hints and tips for staff. • Latin America releases a quarterly newsletter with green activities from all countries. • CSR updates, including environmental news, published in global internal newsletters and magazines. 20 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Processes Our Commitment • Our stance on anti-corruption is clearly stated within our CSR BCD Travel is commited to upholding high moral and Principles, which has been distributed to all employees across the globe and available for download on our Web site. ethical principles and specifies the basic norms of behavior • BCD Travel suppliers and sub-contractors are encouraged to sign up to for those employees undertaking business on its behalf. Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Sub-contractors, which stipulates that: “Corruption and bribery are recognized as some of the barriers While BCD Travel’s business practices must be consistent for sustainable development. BCD Travel does not accept these with the business and social practices of the communities practices and does not, therefore, offer or accept any kind of undue payment. BCD Travel expects suppliers to act the same way.” in which we operate, we believe that honesty is the essential standard of integrity in any locale. Although local customs may vary, BCD Travel’s activities are to be based on Our Activities See above. honesty, integrity and respect. Kickbacks, fees, commissions, or any form of payment intended to Our Performance induce or reward favorable decisions and actions are unacceptable and prohibited. Employees of BCD Travel may not, in violation of any • BCD Travel understands that anti-corruption issues may be larger law, pay or offer to pay or give anything of value to induce or reward in some markets than others. As a result, BCD Travel encourages favorable action in any business transaction. These provisions are not local initiatives to help employees understand the broader issues intended to apply to routine, reasonable business entertainment or gifts surrounding anti-corruption and ensure all forms of corruption and of minor value, customary in local business relationships, provided full bribery are prevented. disclosure is made to an immediate supervisor and do not violate any • BCD Travel aims to standardize the use of the Code of Conduct for law or organization policy. Suppliers and Sub-contractors across all operating countries and ensure they sign up all suppliers to this code. • We encourage learning from and working with industry suppliers who incorporate a high level of environmental responsibility into the products and services they offer. 21 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development In addition to the activities that directly support the principles of the UN Global Compact, BCD Travel engages in a range of partnership projects that support broader CSR principles, demonstrate good corporate citizenship and Our “Making a Difference” foundation underscore the company’s commitment to positive change. BCD Travel proudly supports our shareholder’s organization-wide Making a Difference foundation, which pinpoints grass-roots level In accordance with the “Community” pillar of our CSR Principles, we programs that make a direct difference in the lives of children and are committed to nurturing the communities in which we operate, reinforces the charitable instincts of BCD Holdings employees across and support social investments in the form of financial and in-kind the globe. contributions to various charitable organizations. We also invest in core business partnerships in emerging markets to contribute to economic According to the chairman of BCD Holdings and the Making a Difference growth, implement social, environmental or ethical standards, and allow foundation, John Fentener van Vlissingen, “Making a difference that these markets to provide services using a well known global brand. can be felt by children living on all continents requires vision on both a global and local level. We are delighted to invite our company’s staff from all corners of the globe to help improve the world for children. As an organization, we are dedicated to being an agent of positive change and truly benefiting children.” Actions Taken In order to support the community at large, BCD Travel offices support numerous charity organizations and regularly organize fund raisers to support those less fortunate than ourselves. As well as monetary aid, our staff provides in-kind donations and personal time contributions. Our preferred partners also get involved and kindly donate prizes that are raffled within our offices, with all proceeds going towards the chosen charity. Arriving in Paris. Team Rynkeby Ringe helped raise money for the Childrens Cancer Fund Børnecancerfonden0 by riding from Copenhagen to Paris. 22 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development Country specific charity events: Country Charity Type Argentina Fundacion Filovitae Youth program According to our December 2010 internal CSR audit… Germany Streetlife/Madchencafe Youth program Stadtisches Kinderheim Germany Children’s home Our global offices support a wide variety of charitable events: Aschaffenburg Cash In-kind Total Children’s school contribution contribution Employee volunteer Germany FRUZ e.V. project reported reported participants hours U.S. & Canada US$65,769 US$37,321 2,186 5,572 Anton Schrobenhauser Germany Children’s home Stiftung LatAm US$31,369 US$9,824 361 350 Mexico Mexican Children’s Hospital Children’s hospital EMEA US$39,550 US$5,237 N/A N/A Netherlands Child at Venture/Plan Mazoezo Youth program Total US$136,688 US$52,382 2,547* 5,922* Children’s Cancer Fund Children’s cancer Denmark (Børnecancerfonden0) program *Total does not include EMEA contribution. Nordoff-Robbins Music UK & Ireland Children’s program Therapy Medical equipment US Thumbuddy for children IV/AIDS foundation US Hope House Day Care for children US Niles Home for Children Children’s home The Creative Planet School of US Youth program the Arts (CPSOA) 23 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved UN Global Compact Report Back to Index > Partnerships for Development Growth and Emerging Markets Growth and Emerging Market (GEM) partners across Eastern and Central Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia Pacific, and Latin America. BCD Travel enables our partners to operate under a well-known brand that is global in reach. Benefiting from our investment in innovative new technologies enables our partners to enhance service delivery, streamlined processes and generate efficiencies and cost savings, which can then be passed on to their clients. We train them not only to support our own multi-national accounts but also local activity and, in particular, local national accounts that plan to Kampala, Uganda become multinational. Actions Taken Impact of Partnership • Training provided to local travel agents Our partnership with GEM partners helps to secure their future role • Partnerships developed in the last year include the following markets; in a global marketplace by aligning themselves with a company that Greece, Nigeria, Romania and Yemen. understands the importance of combining global reach and purchasing • BCD Travel hosted a Summit Meeting in Istanbul last year, bringing power, with local expertise and flexibility for its customers. together delegates from 30 countries, along with BCD Travel’s GEM team heads to analyze current economic and business trends throughout the BCD Travel provides training and support to our partners, drawing upon region and map the company’s strategy for future growth. the company’s vast knowledge and experience, as well as providing • Online training has been conducted for 30 GEM countries on introducing access to additional services and technology through the company’s credit card payments in to their markets, how to deal with cash flow extensive global network. As a result, our partner markets are better crises, pricing and understanding the cost structure of their businesses. equipped to win new multinational accounts, which in turn help boost • In Romania, we supported local teams on a PR campaign focused on local economies. educating local corporations on travel management issues. We have been particularly active in the African and Middle Eastern regions: with the recent addition of Nigeria, BCD Travel has doubled its presence in sub-Saharan Africa over the last two years, which include partners in Gabon, Ghana, Madagascar, Mauritius, Mozambique, Senegal, Tanzania and Uganda. With the inclusion of Yemen, BCD Travel’s Middle East presence now spans Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. 24 | UN Global Compact Report © 2011 by BCD Travel. All rights reserved
