To our Stakeholders Tofuture Oy is pleased to confirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Tofuture Oy offers consulting services and training in Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability areas. We also offer Software solutions to collect, analyze and consolidate the information needed for sustainability management and for communicating it to various stakeholders. Tofuture Oy is a Certified Training Partner for GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) in the Nordic countries. Being a pioneer in our industry, we are developing corporate social responsibility for our own operations as well through our consulting, training and software services for our customers being globally acting companies in services, logistics and retail and in various industries like energy sector, metal and engineering, chemical and forest industries. We constantly work to maximize the value that our solutions can offer our clients. The 10 principles Global Compact is based upon, are integrated in our company culture and policy. Tofuture Oy joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. For a small consulting and software company this means taking good care of our employees and to protect their rights and well-being. In our operations we focus on energy efficiency in our offices, efficient processes and business travel. Tofuture Oy focuses on developing its consulting services and training to meet the customers’ needs and increasing their understanding and ability to manage corporate social responsibility issues and to cover the needs for data management also for the customers’ network partners and their supply chain issues. Espoo, Finland, March 16th 2011 Veli Kalle Tavakka CEO, Tofuture Oy Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 16th March 2011 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection Human rights and occupational health and safety We will continue to develop our health and of internationally proclaimed human rights and policies are incorporated into Tofuture’s daily safety practices though policies and training, practices. We provide timely and accurate and developing the well-being of our Principle 2: Make sure that we are not payment of wages, provision of different types of employees. complicit in human right abuses employment leave and medical benefits for all our employees. We also consult and train our clients to develop, We will develop our training, consulting and measure and manage their human right issues. the software to meet the emerging and And to report on those to stakeholders. Our evolving needs of clients to better understand, software assist our clients to manage and measure and manage the impacts of their measure their practices related to human rights. operations in the fields of human rights. We strictly resist any kind of human rights abuses. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 16th March 2011 Labour standards Principle 3: the freedom of association and the We respect our employees' freedom of We will continue to obey the local legislation effective recognition of the right to collective association and labor agreements, and strictly in all our operations, and resist any kind of bargaining resist any abuse of labour. discrimination or labour abuses. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of We operate mainly in the Nordic countries and forced and compulsory labour obey the local legislation related to labour standards. We will develop our training, consulting and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child the software to meet the emerging and labour and We provide equal opportunities for every evolving needs of clients to better understand, individual that joins our company. We accept measure and manage the impacts of their Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination individual regardless of gender, age or operations in the fields of labour standards. in employment and occupation. nationality. We also consult and train our clients to develop, measure and manage their practices related to labour standards. Our software is used by our customers in sensitive business, including rawmaterial sourcing globally, food, energy and wood harvesting. The software enables various companies to measure and manage impacts of their operations and also follow-up their supplychain. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 16th March 2011 Environment Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Tofuture encourages its employees to respect the We will develop environmental policies to our environmental challenges; environment, and not wasting resources office, to mitigate our negative impact on the unnecessarily. environment through efficient use of energy Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote and materials. environmental responsibility; and More important input for responsibility is, however, our consulting, training and software We will develop our training, consulting and Principle 9: encourage the development and services that encourage and assist our clients to the software to meet the emerging and diffusion of environmentally friendly take greater responsibility for the environment. evolving needs of clients to better understand, technologies. measure and manage the impacts of their We consult and train our clients to measure, operations on the environment. manage and develop their sustainability performance. Together with our clients, we have a great indirect impact on the environment though reducing the negative impacts and increasing environmentally positive solutions. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Tofuture does not accept any kind of corruption We resist any kind of corruption in our corruption in all its forms, including extortion in its operations. There has not been any cases of operations. and bribery corruption. We also encourage and support our customers to avoid corruption in their businesses. Tofuture Oy, Communication on Progress 16th March 2011
