Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 To Achieve Prosperity and Realize the Dreams of Our Stakeholders Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Corporation Group is constantly striving to achieve prosperity and realize the dreams of its stakeholders by implementing its Management Principles. Serving as the universal and unchanging value and foundation for such endeavors is the Sumitomo’s business philosophy, which teaches us to place prime importance on integrity and sound management, and not to pursue easy gains. In the Sumitomo Corporation Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010, we present our current activities to realize the Corporate Vision, namely, to become “a global organization that constantly stays a step ahead in dealing with change, creates new value, and contributes broadly to society.” This year, we placed our editorial focus on two items. First, we take “Future,” which represents our medium-to long-term perspective described in the medium-term management plan FOCUS’10, as a keyword and report how we deal with the current paradigm shift, how we see our businesses in relation to society (i.e., stakeholders), and what kind of actions we take to create new value over the next ten years. We include as many examples of our actions as possible in the report. Second, we introduce the activities of our employees throughout the world who correctly understand and play their role in the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s CSR, while enjoying their work and lives. We hope that this report will help readers gain a better understanding of the CSR activities of the Sumitomo Corporation Group. Scope of the Report • Period covered: April 1, 2009 to March 31, 2010 (Activities starting on or after April 1, 2010 are included in part.) • Organizations covered: Sumitomo Corporation and the Sumitomo Corporation Group In this report, “Sumitomo Corporation” and “the Company” refer to the non-consolidated organization of Sumitomo Corporation. “The Sumitomo Corporation Group” and “the Group” refer to the entire organization of the Sumitomo Corporation Group. • Publication schedule: Reports on environmental issues have been published annually since 1999, when the first Environmental Report was published. The title of the report was changed in 2003 to Social and Environmental Report, in 2007 to Sustainability Report, and in 2010 to Report on Responsibility & Sustainability. The previous issue was published in November 2009. The next issue is scheduled for publication in November 2011. Referenced Guidelines • GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006, Global Reporting Initiative Please refer to the following site for the content index. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/society/report.html • Environmental Reporting Guidelines, “Toward a Sustainable Society” (fiscal 2007), Ministry of the Environment • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal 2005), Ministry of the Environment • Charter of Corporate Behavior (May 18, 2004), Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) * Disclaimer: This report describes activities of Sumitomo Corporation and its subsidiaries and associated companies (i.e., the Sumitomo Corporation Group) at the current time and in the past, as well as predictions, forecasts and plans for the future. These predictions, forecasts and plans are hypotheses or decisions made based on the information available when the report was written, and therefore may include some level of uncertainty. The results of business activities or occurrences in the future may differ from the predictions, forecasts and plans described in this report. Hence, readers should recognize that the Sumitomo Corporation Group is not responsible for such events. 1 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 CONTENTS Message from the President and CEO 3 Roundtable Discussion with Young Staff Members 5 Message from the Chair of the CSR Promotion Committee 11 Major CSR Activities 12 Sumitomo's Business Philosophy 13 Core Competence and the Medium-term Management Plan 15 CSR in Action Creating new value and aiming for sustainable growth together with society Theme 1 Achieving Prosperity and Realizing Dreams in Indonesia by Meeting the Rapidly Rising Demand for Electricity 17 Building diverse electricity infrastructure Theme 2 Achieving World-class Mining Operations and Supporting Sustainable Development of the Local Community 21 San Cristobal Mine Project in Bolivia Theme 3 Creating and Developing New Businesses into the Next Decade Becoming a leading environmental business operator and major 25 contributor to creating a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society Theme 4 Utilizing Our Integrated Corporate Strength to Promote Social Contribution Activities Worldwide 29 Because of its integrated corporate strength, the Sumitomo Corporation Group is involved in a wide range of social contribution activities around the world Theme 5 Locally-rooted Social Contribution Activities under the Initiative of Local Employees 31 CSR activities of the Sumitomo Corporation China Group Strengthening the Foundations for CSR Activities Development of human and organizational dynamism to enhance value-creation capability Corporate Governance System 35 Internal Control and Internal Audit 38 Risk Management 39 Compliance 41 Environmental Management 42 Human Resources Management 45 Greater emphasis on human resources development and workforce diversity Third-party Review 49 Response to the Third-party Review 50 Company Information 51 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 2 Message from the President and CEO To Achieve Prosperity and Realize the Dreams of Our Stakeholders 3 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 I am pleased to announce the publication of the Sumitomo CSR in the Sumitomo Corporation Group Corporation Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010. For the Sumitomo Corporation Group, CSR means simply following our Management Principles: “To be a global The global economy is finally shifting into slow but steady organization that constantly stays a step ahead in dealing recovery. Yet, that recovery is likely to largely depend on with change, creates new value, and contributes broadly the newly emerging economies in Asia and other parts to society,” and “To achieve prosperity and realize dreams of the world for some time to come, since the economic through sound business activities.” capabilities of developed countries are still not strong enough to lead recovery. Europe’s “sovereign debt crisis” started in The Sumitomo Corporation Report on Responsibility & Greece and its coverage and influence are likely to expand. Sustainability 2010 features a roundtable discussion I took The Chinese economy, the most recent driving force for part in with young staff members. These young people are the global economy, may start slowing down as a result of working on the projects included in the report as examples tightened economic policies. In the U.S., financial restrictions of CSR activities at the Sumitomo Corporation Group. In are getting ever tighter ,which can cause its economic the discussion, we talked about the values we have long slowdown. Despite these concerns, the global economy has been using as the base for our business activities and our regained sufficient vitality to recover on its own, and there thoughts on our efforts to achieve prosperity and realize seems only a limited risk of facing more economy downturns. the dreams of our stakeholders. I am delivering these values and thoughts to all our stakeholders. Global issues and corporate responsibilities Fiscal 2010, the final year for FOCUS’10 While the global economy seems to be gaining power, and a historically important turning point various issues that threaten the sustainable development for the next 100 years of global society are becoming more evident than ever. Fiscal 2010 is the final year of our medium-term management Global environmental issues, including those associated plan, FOCUS’10. The “10” stands for “2010” and the coming with global climate change, shortages of energy supplies, 10 years leading up to the centennial anniversary of the water and food resources, and the growing disparities seen company, the 10 years we will spend building the foundations in the developing countries are only some examples. As the for the new stage of the next 100 years. Thus, fiscal 2010 will globalization of the economy advances, private corporations serve as a historically important turning point. We are about to should assume greater responsibilities and play a larger role start a new chapter in our organizational growth. Standing in in finding solutions to the issues shared by all the people of the middle of a current paradigm shift, we always stay a step the Earth. ahead of the changing times and constantly pay attention to our relationship with society in our business activities. As members of society, private corporations are expected We will maintain this attitude as we work for the sustainable to incorporate measures for solving these various issues development of society and the Group. into their business strategies and properly implement those measures. Our business activities are supported by society. The Sumitomo Corporation Group will continue to show If we are to pursue sustainable development in cooperation its commitment to achieving prosperity and realizing the with members of society, we must plan our business activities dreams of its stakeholders through its actions. by focusing more on corporate social responsibility (CSR). Susumu Kato President and CEO September 2010 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 4 Message from the President and CEO Roundtable Discussion with Young Staff Members What should we do and what should we keep in mind to achieve prosperity and realize the dreams of our stakeholders? President Kato and young staff members, the Group’s driving force in the coming years, exchanged their thoughts and ideas on their work, corporate activities and society. Through my experiences, I have learned Harmonious relationship with that in pursuing sustainable business, the environment and society coexistence with the environment and a good relationship with nature are no less Kato: I have been looking forward important than developing a system that to this opportunity. Please relax and allows proper profits. feel free to share your thoughts and Kato: Maintaining a sound relationship questions with me. with nature is an important theme Morishima: For two years from 2006, I when considering our social corporate worked in Sumitomo Corporation India responsibilities. Even when we know as a trainee. It was a great experience a specific business can make profits, to be engaged in the start-up of an we cannot immediately go for it if it automobile plant, which contributed might have a negative influence on to economic development and job the global environment. Obviously, we creation. Now I am involved in the have to make our utmost efforts to environmental business that handles reduce the environmental impact in our lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. business activities, but we also have 5 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 to create businesses that can support company. It does not lead to technological environmental conservation on a global improvements or job creation. Instead, scale. That is our role as a corporation in if we build a factory in the mining area solving social issues. and hire local people, we can transfer Katagiri: I am involved in a mine technologies from Japan through refining project in Bolivia. When operating a and processing the mining products. We business project overseas, coexistence can also improve electricity, distribution and a good relationship with the local and other infrastructures in the region. community become very important The larger the involvement of local issues, in addition to coexistence with communities in our business is, the larger the environment. This is true both in my contribution we can make to the local area, resource development, and Mr. economy and social development. When Morishima’s area, manufacturing. the new technologies become rooted Kato: The first thing we have to consider in the region and the standard of living when operating an overseas business is improves, they can serve as a foundation how we can put down roots in the region to develop new industries and to and what kind of contribution we can strengthen the ties between the country make to the local community. In mine and Japan. In turn, this will give us more development, for example, it is more opportunities to start new businesses. cost effective if we ship the ore from the We make various different contributions mining area to another place where the to the local community, and in turn the refining and processing can be done community sees our existence as valuable more productively. However, that kind for them—we have to take measures to of operation benefits the country only in build that kind of relationship. the sales of their resource to an overseas Discussion members Kazuyuki Morishima Kohei Saito (Battery Business Development Dept.) (Tanjung Jati B Project Dept.) Joined Sumitomo Corporation in 2003 and Joined Sumitomo Corporation in involved in the export of equipment and 2007. Experienced in the infrastructure components for automotive manufacturing development business in Malaysia and to India. After working in India, he was Singapore. Currently working on a project chosen as a member of the project on to build a thermal power plant that will second-life business of lithium-ion batteries supply power in Indonesia. for electric vehicles (EVs). My dream: I joined Sumitomo Corporation My dream: The aim of the battery business because I wanted to be involved in a job is to develop and promote markets for that would support society at its base. second-life uses of lithium-ion batteries for In Indonesia, the generation of power EVs and in turn to contribute to society’s cannot catch up with the rapid growth efforts to reduce CO2 emissions. My of the economy. I am glad that now I am dream is to build a society with small involved in a business that helps solve CO2 emissions and leave a better global these social issues. environment for the next generation. Nami Katagiri Katsuhiko Onishi (San Cristobal Project Dept.) (Power & Plant EPC Dept., No.1) Joined Sumitomo Corporation in 2005. Joined Sumitomo Corporation in After working on the import of zinc and lead 2007 and involved in a wide range concentrates, she joined a mine project and of Corporate Communications work, spent two years in Bolivia. including media relations and edit of corporate website. Since 2010, he My dream: In the project in Bolivia, we are has been part of a project team in his always aware that we must offer world class current department to build geothermal services not only in our business operations, power plants outside Japan. but also in environmental protection measures and contribution to local communities, and My dream: Transferring to the current Japanese staff and local staff work together department was at my request. I want under this principle. I hope Sumitomo to use the wide range of knowledge I Corporation will continue to be involved actively gained in Corporate Communications in resource development, and I want to apply Department to power infrastructure my experience in Bolivia to businesses in other business. countries. That is my dream and my goal. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 6 Message from the President and CEO Roundtable Discussion with Young Staff Members culture are different. Without keeping good communication with people in the Partnership and trust local area and building trust with them, we cannot carry on the business itself or Kato: What pleased me most about make a contribution in the truest sense. the Bolivian project was the attitude Saito: I agree with Ms. Katagiri. The of the project staff. The members, Indonesian power plant project I am including Ms. Katagiri, shared their involved in was once on the brink of points of view with the local staff and cancellation because of the Asian built a good partnership with them. As currency crisis in 1997. But the project a result, people in Bolivia did not see survived the crisis after we talked us as “foreigners” but as partners who patiently with the Indonesian government are working with the local people for the and the local power utility company, development of Bolivia. which was our client, showing different Katagiri: I think that kind of proposals with a new operational relationship was possible because scheme. Sumitomo Corporation has long the people understood the vision of been helping to develop the Indonesian Sumitomo Corporation, which is to market. It has a historical importance for grow with local communities, and not us. Through these years, we have built simply pursue short-term profit. trusted relationships with our clients, Kato: Local people understood our vision governments and local communities. because each project member showed That is why the local people listened to it in their daily work. I hope that you will our proposals. Now the local people maintain good communication with local see the power plant as an indispensable people in your future work, too. facility for a stable supply of power in Katagiri: I learned that meeting and Indonesia, and the plant is undergoing talking with other people in person is expansion that will double its capacity. most important in building trust and Onishi: Through my work in projects good relationships. While working to build geothermal power plants in in Bolivia, I could see for myself that other countries, I learned that building honesty and sincerity can be understood good cooperative relationships with even when the spoken language and business partners who are experts in the field is most important. How do you see it, Mr. Kato? Kato: As an integrated trading company, trusted partners are essential in developing various types of business. To maintain a good partnership, we first have to make the roles on each side very clear. Then we fulfill our roles while having a clear understanding of 7 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 what it takes to accomplish the tasks of our partner. Even when we entrust a task to an expert, we always have to watch the progress and the outcome, make the necessary decisions and give appropriate opinions and advice. We have to be able to lead the expert in some cases. Otherwise, we cannot build trust and a good partnership. In other words, we need to make “broad and profound” efforts to effectively cooperate with our partners. What our us. In any project, including the project partners want from us is the capability Mr. Morishima is working on, we have to procure many different sorts of to have a clear understanding of what equipment and materials or the ability the partner expects from us and work to to negotiate with local communities— meet those expectations. Again, good functions and knowhow that only communication with the partner is the integrated trading companies can offer; most important factor. that is, integrated corporate strength. Onishi: Mr. Kato, what do you think our Each party will bring their strengths and partners expect most from the corporate support the project from their side. That strength of Sumitomo Corporation when is the ideal partnership. they consider us as a partner? Morishima: I can see how your point Kato: First, our customers expect to see exactly fits in with my work in the a certain level of expertise in any industrial battery business, Mr. Kato. In the field. They know we develop business in cooperative project with automakers to almost all fields as an integrated trading develop a market for second-life uses company. But I believe trust as a company of lithium-ion batteries, our partner is more important in a partnership. expects us to create new value using Sumitomo Corporation has trust that our the special functions and knowhow predecessors have built over our long we have developed as an integrated history. Each employee who supports trading company. the present Sumitomo Corporation must Kato: When executing a cooperative absorb this valuable asset fully and add project with other companies, evaluating their own value to it. This will become even our partner is not enough. We also have more important in the coming years in to pay attention to how the partner sees maintaining our trust as a business partner. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 8 Message from the President and CEO Roundtable Discussion with Young Staff Members Integrated corporate strength (human resources and gobalization) Saito: Mr. Kato, what kind of personal qualities and competencies do you expect most from young staff members like us when you think about sustainable growth in Sumitomo Corporation? Kato: There are many factors, but what I value most is the capability to adapt to globalization. In the next 100 or 200 various business areas, new systems, years in the development of Sumitomo which were unimaginable in the past, are Corporation, our business will be emerging and borderless activities are globalized even further. Then, we will increasing mainly due to the limitations have more occasions to work together on the world’s resources and the with staff in many different regions in globalization of society. People who can the world, and develop our skills while see these changes before everybody working together or competing with else and can find new values in them, or each other. In addition to refining your those who can “create value” are most skills and knowledge, I want you to get needed by Sumitomo Corporation. These to know many other staff members people must have the ability to adapt in different regions and build good to and deal with change, the attitude relationships with them. I also want you to always see the things in positive to take on challenges and try businesses and constructive ways, a never-ending in new areas using good teamwork. curiosity, and a number of other qualities. Saito: What other capabilities do you But most importantly, they must have a want to see in your staff? strong will to grow, or to increase their Kato: I look for the capability to adapt capabilities. Human resources is almost flexibly to changes. Today, when a the only vital asset for integrated trading significant paradigm shift is occurring companies. That is why we always try across the world, I believe that a “change to provide the best human resources in the global power structure” and a development programs. But you should “change in the industrial structures” are not wait for the company to provide the most important factors we have to opportunities. Instead, you should pay attention to. By a “change in the actively seek for opportunities to learn global power structure,” I mean the and improve your own capabilities. You increasing presence of the emerging can use Sumisho Business College and countries. A “change in the industrial other training systems, or you can gain structures” implies the fact that in new knowledge and skills while working with your supervisor, senior members and colleagues, or even with people in suppliers and partner companies, in a new job rotation, especially when you are new to your position. You should actively seek for new knowledge and build your expertise. You can grow yourself through diverse experiences. Katagiri: I also believe on-site experience is very important. The experience we can get on the real site 9 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 of a project includes valuable lessons we cannot learn in training. When I was doing administrative work in Tokyo for the San Cristobal Project in my first year at Sumitomo, I became interested in working on site and requested my supervisor to send me to Bolivia. Once I started working there, I realized there were so many things I wouldn’t have noticed in Tokyo. There were many moments when I was emotionally touched. The project had many more different aspects and was much more profound than I had imagined. Onishi: I am still new in my department. I am very interested in working on site and gaining a range of experience, as Ms. Katagiri did. I may face difficulties in performing my jobs and communicating with local people, but I hope such experience will help me expand my outlook and learn to see things from different angles. Kato: I want every employee to have onrespected by society for its values. site experience. Imagining while sitting We will be celebrating our centennial at a desk is totally different from having anniversary in 2019. To guarantee the real experience. I spent six and half years sustainable growth of the company in working abroad and experienced many another 100 or 200 years, we have to unexpected incidents. Those experiences “constantly stay a step ahead in dealing have been very valuable and helpful later in with change, create new value, and my career. I want you to have a solid plan contribute broadly to society through for your career and have many different various sound business activities.” experiences on many different sites and Also, it is important to be recognized by make them assets for your work and life. society as a company that is essential The personal growth of each employee to the industrial, economic and social will become a very valuable asset for the development of the world. company, too. When we say “to achieve prosperity and realize the dreams of our stakeholders” in our Management Principles, we also mean the prosperity Prosperity and dreams and dreams of our employees. Today, I was reassured that the prosperity and Morishima: Our Management dreams of the company can be realized Principles use the terms “achieve only by integrating the prosperity and prosperity and realize dreams”. How dreams of all our stakeholders, including do you see “prosperity and dreams” for employees. We will strive together to the company? realize our prosperity and dreams and to Kato: For the Sumitomo Corporation realize the prosperity and dreams of the Group to realize its own “prosperity Sumitomo Corporation Group. and dreams” means to continue to be a company that is recognized and All participants: Thank you very much. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 10 Message from the Chair of the CSR Promotion Committee How We See CSR in the Sumitomo Corporation Group Fulfilling CSR Takashi Kano In order to fulfill our social responsibilities, we plan and Director execute a variety of programs to promote further awareness Senior Managing and understanding in each of our employees—the actual Executive Officer, players in our CSR mission. General Manager Corporate Planning & Over the last 12 months, we have used many opportuniCoordination Group ties both in and outside Japan to increase penetration of the Management Principles among our employees, and we held a CSR workshop to provide opportunities for each employee to give careful thought to what fulfilling our CSR mission means in our business activities. The Sumitomo Corporation Group declared its support for the Ten How we see CSR in the Sumitomo Principles of the UN Global Compact in March 2009, and Corporation Group actively participates in various activities offered by Global At the preamble to the Management Principles, the SumiCompact Japan Network, the local network in Japan. In tomo Corporation Group states its corporate vision as “We November 2009, we established the Sumitomo Corporaaim to be a global organization that constantly stays a step tion Group CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to ahead in dealing with change, creates new value, and spread CSR activities throughout our value chains in contributes broadly to society.” And the phrase “To achieve cooperation with our suppliers and business partners. prosperity and realize dreams through sound business activities” follows as the corporate mission. Sumitomo Corporation Report For the Sumitomo Corporation Group, CSR means on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 simply promoting responsible corporate activities and In this Sumitomo Corporation Report on Responsibility & fulfilling our corporate mission to become the ideal Sustainability 2010, we report on the latest measures and organization set out in the vision; in other words, impleactions taken by the Sumitomo Corporation Group in menting our Management Principles. We achieve prosperimplementing our Management Principles. We have placed ity and realize the dreams of our stakeholders by playing special editorial focus on the following two points. our role as a corporation in solving social issues through First, we take “Future,” which represents our medium-to our business activities and social contribution activities long-term perspective described in our medium-term and ultimately building a sustainable society. That is our management plan FOCUS’10, as a keyword and report how mission in society and the fundamental basis of our CSR. we deal with the current paradigm shift, how we see our Underlying that idea is the principle to create new value for businesses in relation to society (i.e., stakeholders), and the sustainable growth of society and the Group. We what kind of actions we take to create new value over the accomplish this by building closer relationships with various next ten years. We include as many examples of our actions stakeholders across the whole Group, correctly understandas possible in the report. Second, we introduce the activities ing social issues and strategically planning our corporate of our employees, who have a good understanding of CSR activities to solve those issues. To this end, we must create a in the Sumitomo Corporation Group and play their roles in virtuous cycle; we fulfill our CSR to create new value, which our CSR activities, while enjoying their work and lives in will become a resource for the sustainable growth of the different parts of the world. Group and the base for further fulfillment of CSR. We hope that this report will help readers gain a better Based on these ideas for CSR, the Sumitomo Corporation understanding of the CSR activities of the Sumitomo Group will continue pursuing its Management Principles for Corporation Group. the sustainable growth of society and our group companies. September 2010 11 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Major CSR Activities A variety of programs to spread our Sumitomo Corporation Group CSR Management Principles Action Guidelines for Supply Chains As stated in our Management Principles, we aim to be In November 2009, we established the Sumitomo a “value-creating company”; that is an organization Corporation Group CSR Action Guidelines for Supply that takes advantage of changes in the times to Chains based on our Management Principles, to achieve corporate growth. The Management Principles ensure that we fulfill our social responsibilities, strict also form the basis of FOCUS’10, our medium-term compliance with laws and regulations, respect for management plan established in fiscal 2009, so that human rights and protection of the environment, with we can further strengthen the foundations for sustainour suppliers and business partners. able growth. In fiscal 2009, we used many opportunities, such as The Sumitomo Corporation Group CSR training sessions for new employees, managers and Action Guidelines for Supply Chains November 2009 locally hired staff as well as lectures held both in Japan The Sumitomo Corporation Group aims to be a global and overseas, to explain why and how we set out our organization that constantly stays a step ahead in dealing Management Principles and what we should take from with change, creates new value, and contributes broadly to the principles to our employees. The Management society. In its Management Principles, the Group sets forth Principles were also discussed in the President’s its mission to achieve prosperity and realize dreams through sound business activities, and to strictly adhere to messages sent to employees, meetings between the a management style which places prime importance on President and integrity and sound management with utmost respect for employees and on the individual. other occasions. In line with its Management Principles, the Sumitomo These occasions Corporation Group hereby sets down the CSR (corporate helped further social responsibility) Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, increase an underaiming to achieve a sustainable and better society. With a view to further strengthening global relations _one of the standing of the elements of the business foundation that supports our principles by our integrated corporate strength, which is our core employees. competence_we will request our suppliers and business Training session in Japan partners to kindly accept, understand, and practice these guidelines so that together we can fulfill our social responsibilities in the value chain in which we are jointly involved. Our suppliers and business partners are expected: CSR Workshop 1. To respect the human rights of employees and never treat employees in an inhumane manner A series of workshop was held from December 2009 2. To prevent forced labor, child labor and unreasonably cheap labor to February 2010 to provide employees with an 3. Not to practice discrimination with respect to employment 4. To respect the rights of employees to associate freely in order to opportunity to better understand what CSR means to ensure smooth negotiation between labor and management the Sumitomo Corporation Group. In the workshop, 5. To strive to provide employees with a safe and healthy work environment participants deliberated on the significance of CSR in 6. To strive to protect the global environment our business activities from the viewpoint of a “value7. To ensure the quality and safety of products and services creating company” as stated in FOCUS’10, our 8. To ensure fair transactions, abiding by all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and to prevent all types of corruption, including medium-term management plan. extortion and bribery About 40 participants joined the workshop from 9. To disclose information regarding the above in a timely and each business unit and regional business unit and appropriate manner chose a real business project to review the value of their services from Support for the UN Global Compact their stakeholders’ point of view. In the Please refer to the following case study, they also website for information on examined processes our support for the UN to develop new Global Compact. partnerships with stakeholders and to redesign and create http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ new business models. CSR Workshop society/global_compact/index.html Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 12 Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy Management Principles and Activity Guidelines Founded on the Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy Sumitomo has always been sincere in conducting its business, contributing to achieving prosperity and realizing the dreams of our business partners, our society and all other stakeholders. As a result, we have built up trust, and this has helped us to develop new businesses and create a cycle of positive growth. The Management Principles and Activity Guidelines of the Sumitomo Corporation Group are founded on Sumitomo’s business philosophy that has been passed on for 400 years. Monjuin Shiigaki Rules Governing the House of Business Principles (the Founder’s Precepts) Sumitomo Monjuin Shiigaki (the Founder’s The Besshi Copper Mine (opened in In 1891, the Rules Governing the House Precepts) is a letter sent by Masatomo 1691) encountered many adverse of Sumitomo were separated into two Sumitomo (1585–1652), the founder of conditions during the Meiji Restoration parts, the family code (corporate rules) Sumitomo and a religious man, to his (in the late 1860s), when the price of and the family constitutions (the family members in his old age. It copper fell, operating costs increased principles of the family head), to succinctly describes the guiding sharply due to rising prices of rice and distinguish ownership from business principles of his business operations. other items, and loans to the feudal operations. On that occasion, the At the beginning, it urges the reader lords were uncollectable. At one point, principle of “integrity” was introduced “Not only in matters of business but in all it was almost forced to sell out. Saihei and placed at the beginning of the Rules situations, make efforts with deepest Hirose (1828–1914), manager of the Governing the House of Sumitomo with gratitude in every aspect.” mine who later became Sumitomo’s the principle in Article 3, which then The precepts also include such first Director-General, acted boldly and together became the Business teachings as “When goods are offered to modernized the operation with Principles. In 1928, while Sumitomo’s you below the normal market price, Western style technologies. Hirose’s business expanded into a variety of under no circumstances should you ever operational reforms saved the mine areas, including the steel, machinery and purchase such goods, for their origins and its community. chemical industries, Sumitomo’s are unknown and they are probably In 1882, when serving as DirectorBusiness Rules were established. The stolen property,” “Never give shelter to a General, Hirose formulated the Rules two articles of the Business Principles stranger, no matter who it might be; also, Governing the House of Sumitomo, have been passed on for generations never take a stranger’s goods into your which consisted of 19 sections and 196 and still serve as the corporate rules of custody, no matter how innocent they articles, to reflect the business philosoall group companies. might appear” (these acts were prohibphy the family had followed over its Article 1. Sumitomo shall achieve ited by the government), and “No matter 250-year history. The Rules clearly strength and prosperity by placing what someone might say to you, never illustrate Sumitomo’s corporate prime importance on integrity and lose your temper or speak harsh words; philosophy in Article 3 in Section I: “We sound management in the conduct of politely explain your position until an shall practice sound management in its business. understanding can be reached.” These order to cope effectively with the Article 2. Sumitomo shall manage its teachings have been handed down and changing times. Under no circumactivities with foresight and flexibility in form the base of Sumitomo’s business stances, however, shall we pursue easy order to cope effectively with the philosophy. They are still seen in today’s gains or act imprudently.” changing times. Under no circumprinciples, such as “no pursuing easy stances, however, shall it pursue easy gains” (i.e., only making a profit on a gains or act imprudently. fairly priced transaction that can be explained with confidence), “compliance” and “integrity and sound management.” Saihei Hirose, Sumitomo’s first Director-General Monjuin Shiigaki (Source: Sumitomo Historical (Source: Sumitomo Archives) Historical Archives) Business Principles 13 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Sumitomo Corporation Management Principles and Activity Guidelines of the Management Charter Sumitomo Corporation Group Osaka North Harbour Co, Ltd., the In the early 1990s, the bubble burst, The first item in the Management predecessor of Sumitomo Corporation, drastic appreciation of the yen continPrinciples, “To achieve prosperity and was founded in 1919. Later, after World ued, and the Japanese economy realize dreams through sound business War II, the company changed its name entered a long period of low growth. activities” describes our corporate to Nippon Kensetsu Sangyo Co, Ltd., Sumitomo Corporation had no choice mission, while the second item, “To starting a new life as a general trading but to re-examine the status quo of its place prime importance on integrity and firm. In 1952, when the company was business transactions and risk managesound management with utmost respect incorporated with the current name, the ment methods. Against this for the individual” shows our manageBusiness Principles were chosen as the background, there was growing ment style, and the third item, “To foster management philosophy for all corpomanagement recognition that the a corporate culture full of vitality and rate operations and the foundation to company needed to revert to conducive to innovation” portrays our sustained growth. Sumitomo’s business philosophy, which corporate culture. While Japan’s economy was growing had served as the base of Sumitomo’s The Activity Guidelines were rapidly after the war, environmental business operations and the driving generated based on these principles pollution, inflation and other public force in overcoming many crises to guide employees in their daily issues started to arise. Business through the last 400 years. This business operations. corporations and their codes of recognition further heightened in 1996, conduct were challenged to make clear when the copper incident occurred, the relationship between the national leading to the 1998 government and corporations, as well establishment of the as between citizens and corporations. Management Corporate Mission Statement To respond to this, Sumitomo CorporaPrinciples and Activity tion laid down the Sumitomo CorporaGuidelines of the Corporate Vision tion Management Charter, an original Sumitomo CorporaWe aim to be a global organization that constantly charter that consists of the Basic tion Group. stays a step ahead in dealing with change, creates Principles of Management and the The Management new value, and contributes broadly to society. Operational Guidelines. Principles and Activity Guidelines were Management Principles compiled based on <Corporate Mission> Sumitomo’s business • To achieve prosperity and realize dreams through philosophy, which has sound business activities been nurtured <Management Style> • To place prime importance on integrity and sound throughout the 400 management with utmost respect for the individual years of Sumitomo’s <Corporate Culture> history, and today’s • To foster a corporate culture full of vitality and global perspective, in conducive to innovation a simple and systematic way. Activity Guidelines The preamble to the · To act with honesty and sincerity on the basis of Management Sumitomo’s business philosophy and in keeping with Principles shows the the Management Principles corporate vision: “We · To comply with laws and regulations while maintaining the highest ethical standards aim to be a global · To set high value on transparency and openness organization that · To attach great importance to protecting the global constantly stays a step environment ahead in dealing with · To contribute to society as a good corporate citizen change, creates new · To achieve teamwork and integrated corporate strength through active communication value, and contributes · To set clear objectives and achieve them with enthusiasm Sumitomo Building Annex, where Nippon Kensetsu Sangyo’s head office was located broadly to society.” Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 14 Core Competence and the Medium-term Management Plan Establishing “A Growth Scenario on a New Stage” by Leveraging Our “Integrated Corporate Strength” With the medium-term management plan, FOCUS’10, we are striving to create “new value” as stated in our Management Principles by leveraging our integrated corporate strength—our core competence. Creation and Provision of Diversified “Integrated Corporate Strength,” the core compeValues to Meet Customer Demand tence of the Sumitomo Corporation Group Our Integrated Corporate Strength is the source of the Strategic and Organic Integration competitive advantage (core competence) of the Sumitomo Corporation Group as we pursue our businesses in a wide variety of fields. Our strategic and organic integration of the Logistics Solutions IT Solutions robust “business foundation” and diverse, high-level Market Intelligence & “functions” of Group companies, combined with the efforts Information Gathering Financial Services and Analysis Business Risk of each and every Group employee, helps us respond to the Development Management various needs of our customers. At the same time, we Cont inual Enhancement of Functions create new value by always thinking one step ahead of Integrity Intellectual Capital global change. This capacity is what we call our “Integrated Corporate Strength.” Global Network Global Relations Bringing our Integrated Corporate Strength to bear and Co n actively building businesses that truly contribute to the nt i ti o nu a l Stren Fo u nda growth and progress of a wide range of industries in different gthening of the Business regions, the Sumitomo Corporation Group will continue to make even greater contributions to the stable and continued growth of the world economy and global society. Medium-term Management Plan FOCUS’10 A Mediumto Long-term Perspective In the medium-term management plan FOCUS’10 estabRespect for Individuality and Diversity lished in 2009, we aim to create “A Growth Scenario on a New Stage” to meet the requirements of the next 10 years. Solid Earning Pillars Leveraging of Our Integrated Corporate Strength Reinforcement of Operational Soundness and Efficiency FOCUS’10 Fundamental Principles and Qualitative Targets FOCUS’10 Quantitative Targets Targets and Plan Outlook Fundamental Principles (as of April 1,2009) (as of April 1,2010) • Promote medium/long-term growth by • Net income ¥115.0 billion ¥315.2 billion enhancing value-creation capability while (FY2009) (two-year total) FY2009:¥155.2 billion(Result) reinforcing soundness and efficiency FY2010:¥160.0 billion • Promote company-wide growth by leveraging the diversity and strengths of our businesses • Risk-adjusted Return Ratio* Around 10% Around 11% (two-year average) Qualitative Targets • Steady execution of selective & focused • Risk Asset Plan (two-year total) growth strategy Amount increasing • Thorough reinforcement of soundness and over two years(gross) ¥200.0 billion ¥260.0 billion efficiency Decrease ¥100.0 billion ¥100.0 billion • Development of human and organizaAmount increasing(net) ¥100.0 billion ¥160.0 billion tional dynamism to enhance value• Total Assets As of end of FY2010 are at the same level creation capability as of end of FY2008 • Free Cash Flow Positive (two-year total) * Risk-adjusted Return Ratio = net income/risk-adjusted assets (maximum possible losses). It is an indicator of profitability against quantified risk. 15 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 CSR in Action Creating new value and aiming for sustainable growth together with society Theme Achieving Prosperity and Realizing Dreams in Indonesia 1 by Meeting the Rapidly Rising Demand for Electricity Building diverse electricity infrastructure Theme Achieving World-class Mining Operations and Supporting 2 Sustainable Development of the Local Community San Cristobal Mine Project in Bolivia Theme Creating and Developing New Businesses 3 into the Next Decade Becoming a leading environmental business operator and major contributor to creating a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society Theme Utilizing Our Integrated Corporate Strength 4 to Promote Social Contribution Activities Worldwide Because of its integrated corporate strength, the Sumitomo Corporation Group is involved in a wide range of social contribution activities around the world Theme Locally-rooted Social Contribution Activities 5 under the Initiative of Local Employees CSR activities of the Sumitomo Corporation China Group Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 16 1981 Siguragra hydropower plant (73 MW×4) 1992/1995 Muara Karang combined cycle power plant (100 MW×3/ 185 MW×1) 2006 Tanjung Jati B coal fired power plant (662 MW×2) Theme 1 Achieving Prosperity and Realizing Dreams in Indonesia by Meeting the Rapidly Rising Demand for Electricity Building diverse electricity infrastructure Of all the ASEAN countries, Indonesia, a country with the world’s fourth largest population of approximately 230 million, has achieved significant economic growth. As a long-standing player in the Indonesian market, Sumitomo Corporation has contributed to meeting the ever-growing demand for electricity in the country by involving itself in many construction projects for power plants, ranging from large-scale thermal power plants to hydropower plants, and geothermal power plants that utilize the nation’s abundant geothermal resources. What kept us motivated to complete these projects were the strong relationships of trust developed over many years with our Indonesian partners and stakeholders, and our passion for contributing to the development of the Indonesian economy through our business, which is consistent with Sumitomo’s business philosophy. Supporting the development of power sources in owned power company. Initially, we supplied power Indonesia since the early days of economic station facilities and equipment as well as power cables development to PLN, acting as an export agent for Japanese power As part of our overseas operations strategy, Sumitomo generation equipment manufacturers. From the 1970s, Corporation entered the Indonesian market in the late however, we started to undertake the development of 1950s, at a time when, except for Japan, which was in the small-scale power stations. midst of its rapid growth period, economic development had Using these experiences as a stepping stone, from the just begun in Asian countries. late 1970s to the 1980s, Sumitomo Corporation joined the In the course of exploring business opportunities in Asahan Project, led by the Japanese and the Indonesian Indonesia, the staff in our Jakarta office started to realize governments and a consortium of Japanese corporations, that development of the infrastructure for power generation to construct a large-scale hydropower plant and operate was essential to the development of the economy of the an aluminum smelting business using the electricity country. With this realization in mind, we contacted PT. generated by the new plant. The project is praised as Perusahaan Listrik Negara ( PLN ), an Indonesian statethe foundation stone of the modernization of Indonesia 17 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 2000/2009 Wayang Windu geothermal power plant (Unit 1: 110 MW×1/ Unit 2: 117 MW×1) Sumatra Sulawesi Papua 2007/2009 Lahendong geothermal power plant (Unit 2: 20 MW×1/ Unit 3: 20 MW×1) Java Thermal power plant 1993/1997 Tambak Lorok combined Geothermal power plant cycle power plant (119 MW×3/ 100 MW×3 +200 MW×1; 188 MW×1) Hydropower plant The dates indicate the years construction was completed. even now, as indicated by the fact that this power plant is governmentand PLN-led scheme for power plant featured on the country’s paper currency. Our participation construction projects was stretched to its limit, given the in this historic project provided a positive tailwind for us to size of the national budget. To address these problems, the establish a strong position in Indonesia’s power generation government decided to use foreign-affiliated Independent infrastructure market. Since then, we have been engaged Power Producers (IPPs). in a number of power plant construction projects, many Against this backdrop, Sumitomo Corporation was of which were financed by Japan’s official development selected as a contractor of many power plant construction assistance (ODA) loans. projects because of its well-timed project plans leveraged on Today’s steadfast trust in the relationship between its excellence in market/business intelligence and sourcing, Indonesia and Sumitomo Corporation is a result of our the characteristic strengths as a trading company. We also steady and persistent efforts over many years since then. became one of the pioneers in constructing geothermal power stations utilizing Indonesia’s abundant geothermal Electricity demand in Indonesia (GWh) resource. Starting with the project of Gunung Salak 400,000 geothermal power plant in 1995, we have built up a track record of geothermal plant construction projects. 300,000 In September 1995, we were also selected as the successful bidder for a construction project for one of the world’s largest coal-fired power plant at that time: the 200,000 Tanjung Jati B coal fired power plant (TJB). The project, organized by a Hong Kong-based IPP named CEPA, had 100,000 been making smooth progress... up until 1997, when a totally unexpected incident occurred. 0 The currency crisis in Thailand spread widely throughout 2008 2009 2010 2014 2017 (Year) Asia. Since the Indonesian economy was hit hard by the Forecast Source: Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources crisis, the project hung on the verge of cancellation. Overcoming the Asian currency crisis Becoming a contractor to one of the world’s Affected by the currency crisis, the value of the Indonesian largest coal-fired power plant rupiah plummeted. The lenders joining the syndicate for the Due to the Suharto administration’s policy of attracting project pulled the plug on the deal altogether; the Indonesian foreign investment in the late 1980s, many Japanese and government decided to freeze this IPP project because of other foreign companies scrambled to set up factories the remote possibility of the project’s economical viability. in Indonesia. Together with the country’s increasing This was due to the terms of the contract in which the population, the influx of foreign plants caused a rapid price of electricity was to be contractually set in dollars; increase in electricity demand, resulting in a serious power and CEPA, the project operator, also decided to withdraw. shortage. Another problem was that the existing Indonesian Suspending the project seemed the only option. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 18 Theme 1 Achieving Prosperity and Realizing Dreams in Indonesia by Meeting the Rapidly Rising Demand for Electricity When construction was halted, two years had already the project—a finance lease scheme—in a bid to bring the passed since the beginning of the construction process. project back on track. Under the newly proposed plan, Nearly 70 percent of the civil work was already completed Sumitomo Corporation would construct the TJB with a loan and the equipment and facilities were already ordered. from the lenders headed by the Japan Bank for International We did not want to render all that progress futile. More Cooperation (JBIC). After construction, we would continue our importantly, we did not want to disappoint the people of involvement in TJB through local project company PT. Central Indonesia, who had been longing for the completion of the Java Power (CJP) by leasing out the power plant to PLN. new power plant. Our enthusiasm drove us to repeatedly call on the government to resume the project. Our new proposal opened a way We initially suggested that PLN purchase the power plant, to resume the project which subsequently turned out to be unfeasible because the Under our new scheme, the lease fee would be collected state-owned company suffered financially due to the currency every six months, and the fee level would be determined crisis. Then, we came up with a new business scheme for based on the prevailing local market rates for electricity and fuel prices. This meant that PLN did not have to incur Scheme for the finance lease of TJB massive initial investment costs and could pay the lease fee from the revenues for the electricity generated at the Indonesian Support PLN government (maintenance, operation, plant. In addition, the ownership of the power plant facilities fuel supply) would be transferred to the lessee virtually without charge Guarantee after completion of the 20-year lease period. In short, the proposed deal was very attractive to our Indonesian JBIC Leasing Paying the power plant the lease fee partners. Financing The other important feature of the scheme was that, unlike an IPP project where only electricity is supplied, CJP the power plant itself was on lease. The operation and maintenance of the power station and the procurement Sumitomo Corporation of fuel were done by PLN in cooperation with CJP, which Construction of the power plant would gradually transfer know-how to a local power generation operator. Turbine Boilers Chimney Civil work Having agreed on this “win-win”proposal for both generators Sumitomo Corporation and its Indonesian partners, resumption of the project was agreed among the parties in Column Meeting a growing need for geothermal power generation Using the steam generated by underground heat, geothermal power to be affected by weather conditions. Accordingly, geothermal power is generation emits far less CO2 than conventional thermal power considered to be a source of stable electricity supply. generation, which involves the combustion of fossil fuels. Another Indonesia has the world’s largest resources of geothermal energy. advantage of geothermal power generation is that, compared with other Promoting geothermal power generation is expected to contribute to the renewable energy sources such as wind and solar power, it is less likely effective use of domestic resources. While the nation’s current total power generation capacity with the existing geothermal power plants is approximately 1,200 MW, the government announced a plan to increase this capacity level to 9,500 MW by 2025. Steam-water Steam Advanced technologies are required to construct geothermal power separator plants, including the development of steam turbines resistant to corrosive Volcano impurities contained in steam drawn from deep in the Earth. Backed by Cooling the technological excellence of Japanese manufacturers, Sumitomo Steam tower Corporation has been involved in many geothermal power station projects Turbine condenser around the world. In February 2010 we signed a contract for our eighth Rainwater Steam Water Electric geothermal power plant project in Indonesia: the construction of Ulubelu well generator geothermal power plant with a total capacity of 110 MW. With this latest Heated water pump contract, geothermal power stations delivered by Sumitomo Corporation Heated water and steam Reinjection well account for about 50% of all geothermal power-generating facilities Reinjection well Underground completed or under construction in Indonesia. We intend to continue to volcanic layer Indonesia has many volcanic regions, where promote the wider availability and greater use of geothermal power, and abundant geothermal energy exists. High-temperature steam is extracted from a thereby contribute to sustainable development in Indonesia and in turn, Magma reservoir volcanic layer deep under the ground in these conservation of the global environment. areas to generate electricity. 19 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 2001, four years after the project was suspended. We then power generation (approximately 10,000 MW) should be went through a set of complex negotiations and procedures, raised to around 40 percent. exercising our integrated corporate strength, enabled We have been engaged in developing a range of by mobilizing a wide variety of our skills, including legal, power sources in Indonesia, including thermal, hydro and accounting, tax, finance, and risk management functions. As geothermal, for more than 30 years. Utilizing our extensive a result, construction restarted in 2003 and the project was experience and achievements to date, we will continue successfully completed in 2006. to strive to develop the electricity supply infrastructure for further economic and social development in Indonesia. Sumitomo’s business philosophy propelled us to resolve a quandary Stakeholder’s Voice The currency crisis plunged some 30 IPP projects into suspension. Among them, only just a few projects, including Looking to Sumitomo Corporation as a very TJB, were resumed. To bring the TJB project back to life, in important partner in achieving a stable addition to the negotiations described here, we also needed to maintain the construction site, power generation facilities supply of electricity and equipment in an appropriate manner during the five-year Due to the high growth of the electricity interruption period, which entailed significant labor and costs. demand in Indonesia, electric power development and improvement in the If we had focused on short-term profitability, withdrawal electrification rate are very important from the project when it was suspended would have been especially on Java Island, where the the sensible option. However, we were not pursuing shortpopulation is concentrated. The Tanjung term profit; we always pursue value, as our business Jati B coal fired power plant is a philosophy teaches us, not only for our company but also strategically important power plant on the Java-Bali Grid, which will share more than for society as a whole. Our aspiration was to help achieve 11% of the power generation after prosperity and realize the dreams of Indonesia through the completion of Units 3 & 4. Mr. Basuki construction of power stations, which are indispensable Sumitomo Corporation, the contractor Siswanto General Manager for the development of Indonesian society. That passion— for the plant construction, and CJP, the local Unit Business TJB project company who manages this TJB PT PLN (Persero) which reached and resonated with the Indonesian people— project under a unique finance lease and the strong relationship between us and our Indonesian scheme, are our very important partners and partners developed over many years through our operations we are all in the same boat. Over the leasing in the country propelled all stakeholders to work together to period of over 20 years, we would like to contribute to society by overcome the difficulties. providing a stable supply of electricity. Continuing to support social and economic development in Indonesia, while keeping an eye Sumitomo Spirits on its future power needs After recovering from the currency crisis, the Indonesian First-hand observation of Indonesia’s economy has been growing constantly. As a result, continuous development gives me great pride electricity demand in the country has been increasing by 9% in my work each year, causing a chronic shortage of power. I was stationed twice and spent a total of 13 Meanwhile, in 2008 it was decided to double the years, more than half of my professional life, capacity of the TJB power plant, reflecting local recognition in Indonesia. This is the second time for me of the power station’s stable power generation capabilities, to work in this country. When I started my and its effective business scheme, as well as Sumitomo first assignment in Indonesia in 1993, the Corporation’s longstanding diligent and sincere commitment. country was still at the early stages of economic development and the electricity To fulfill the expectations of the local people, we have been supply system was not developed enough, making our utmost efforts to complete the construction work, with frequent blackouts. In the 17 years aiming to bring the additional units into operation in 2012. since then, I came back to the country to see that the many past projects I Kazushi With its world-class expertise and experience in Matsunoki geothermal power generation, Sumitomo Corporation participated in are supporting local General Manger economies and society. It gives me a great Tanjung Jati B is also expected to play an important role in the Second sense of pride and a unique pleasure. We Project Department Crash Program that the Indonesian government announced would like to continue operating our in 2009. This program, designed to accelerate the business with integrity in Indonesia to keep development of power resources in the country, specifies a smile on the face of the local people. that the share of geothermal power in the country’s total Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 20 After a successful business turnaround using approximately 50% of the exports of the entire mining sector our expertise as an integrated trading company, in Bolivia, and 11% of all Bolivian exports. The company Bolivia’s largest mining company has been has also created some 1,200 jobs in direct employment and contributing to the nation’s economic about 3,000 jobs in indirect employment. MSC’s annual development procurement of goods and services from local suppliers in The San Cristobal Mine in Bolivia, in operation since August Bolivia amounts to tens of millions of dollars. 2007, is one of the largest mines—the sixth largest by zinc As these statistics demonstrate, MSC plays an important concentrate production and the third largest by volume role in the Bolivian economy today. Another notable feature of trade—in the world. The mine covers 2,024 square of the company is its emphasis on maintaining good kilometers, an area comparable to the size of Tokyo. We, relationships with its stakeholders. To ensure a harmonious Sumitomo Corporation have participated in this mining relationship between workers and management, the project since its planning phase in 2006, and have been company led the efforts to organize a labor union, and involved in the management of the local mining company became the first Bolivian mining operator to sign a multi-year Minera San Cristobal (MSC). union agreement. The mining business at San Cristobal faced very difficult times from the beginning. Ore production at the mine did Project overview not go as smoothly as originally planned, which took its toll Location Department of Potosi, in the southwestern part of Bolivia on the financial performance. The situation was exacerbated At a height of 3,800 to 4,500 m above sea level by the falling metals prices affected by the outbreak of the Mineral resources 224 million tons (as of Dec. 31, 2008) global financial crisis in the fall of 2007. Proven & Probable Zinc: 3.2 million tons, lead:1.2 million tons, In response, Sumitomo Corporation started to reserves silver:406.9 toz. strengthen its support for the project in the middle of 2008 Mining concession area 2,024km2 by injecting funds and assigning additional personnel. We Expected mine life 16 years (until 2023) Initial production August 2007 also acquired all the shares in MSC in March 2009, and Ore processing capacity 40,000 tons per day (planned processing have been striving to rehabilitate the business of this whollycapacity) owned subsidiary, making full use of the expertise in running Mining method Open-pit mining business enterprises that we have built up as an integrated Number of employees Approx. 1,200 trading company. Number of indirect Approx. 3,000 employees MSC’s fiscal 2009 exports of zinc and lead concentrates Major clients Europe, Asia (including Japan) (silver is also included in both concentrates) represent Theme 2 Achieving World-class Mining Operations and Supporting Sustainable Development of the Local Community San Cristobal Mine Project in Bolivia During the three years since its launch, our project at the San Cristobal Mine in Bolivia has grown to boast world-class management quality, a testament to which includes the recent obtainment of certification for three international management standards (quality, environmental, and occupational health and safety). Through this project, Sumitomo Corporation has been able to make a significant contribution to the development of the Bolivian economy. At the same time, we have also been actively supporting the development of the local community toward a sustainable future. In this section, Takahiro Izuta, General Manager of the San Cristobal Project Department introduces the journey that the mining project has gone through to date and where it is heading and how. Takahiro Izuta Corporate Officer General Manager San Cristobal Project Department 21 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 World zinc concentrate production (As of 2009; in metallic volume; source: statistics by a UK survey agency) 2nd Red Dog (USA) 7th Brunswick (Canada) 1st 3rd Rampura-Agucha Antamina (India) (Peru) 5th Mount Isa 4th 6th San Cristobal (Bolivia) (Australia) Century (Australia) The world’s third largest by volume of trade Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 22 Theme 2 Achieving World-class Mining Operations and Supporting Sustainable Development of the Local Community Simultaneous obtainment of international Business operations incorporating full health, certification for quality, environment, and safety, and environmental measures occupational health and safety management Even before obtaining certification, MSC had been taking systems into account worker health and safety, environmental As part of its business restructuring, a range of concerns, and the well-being of local residents and improvements were implemented or are in progress, community during its mine development and operational including a senior management reshuffle with a new CEO stage in accordance with the Equator Principles*1 and the brought in from Sumitomo Corporation, strengthening of relevant national legislation. management systems and internal control, enhancement For example, MSC assesses the mining site’s impact of training systems and other employee development on the environment, including air quality, water level and programs, and many more. the quality of the wells, soil quality and noise levels on a In line with Sumitomo’s business philosophy: “People regular basis and reports the results of the assessment make the enterprise,” MSC places particular emphasis on to the Bolivian government every six months. In addition, the development of human resources. Indeed, two million the company is working to recycle a greater amount of dollars were invested in a wide range of employee training the water used during its operations, particularly in the programs in both fiscal 2009 and 2010. Example training mineral processing plant, so as to mitigate and reduce the programs include computer-based training courses for all environmental impact of this project and achieve sustainable plant operators to improve their skills by reaffirming their use of resources. understanding of the basics of safety and other operational For occupational safety, a Safety Training Observation processes, as well as training courses for operator training, Program*2 has been introduced, in which managers observe greater teamwork and more effective leadership, and IT employees while they are working to identify and analyze workshops. unsafe actions and behavior—the cause of 96% of work Another notable initiative at MSC is its company-wide injuries. Then the managers and employees discuss the efforts to obtain internationally recognized management safety risks and hazards identified and agree on the actions system certification toward achieving its aspiration to to be taken to rectify unsafe acts and eliminate unsafe become a “world class Bolivian mining company.” As a result conditions. The results of implementing those measures are of careful visualization of the business processes and further shared among all employees to improve overall safety in the strengthening of management systems and internal control, workplace. MSC obtained ISO 9001 (quality management systems), To ensure workers’ health, MSC carries out frequent ISO 14001 (environmental management systems), and health tests, monitors the blood lead levels of its workers OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety management through periodical examinations, and has established a systems) certification simultaneously in May 2010. medical center with emergency care facilities in the San There are few mining companies which have Cristobal village, which employees and their families can certifications for all the access 24 hours a day. The medical center also provides three standards in the greater access to enhanced medical service for the local world, let alone in Bolivia. community, since the clinic located on the medical center’s This fact alone is an premises is open to local residents, who now no longer eloquent indication of the need to travel some 100 km to receive medical treatment. world-class management quality of MSC. Medical Center Safety training ITSC on-site training Monitoring water level and quality Simultaneous obtainment of certification for three international standards 23 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Reverse trade show for suppliers Dialogue with local residents Students studying at their elementary school Aiming at self-driven, sustainable local computer network facilities that offer web-based, distancecommunity development through active support learning programs, college scholarships for high-achieving for infrastructure improvement and human high school students, and cooperating in corporate training resources development programs at universities. In addition, MSC established Making positive contributions to sustainable development of a technical training center, the San Cristobal Technical the areas surrounding the mining site and Bolivian society Institute (ITSC), in 2009, the opening ceremony of which is one of the main themes that we have been working on in was held, attended by Bolivian President Evo Morales. this project. In addition to economic contributions such as ITSC’s curriculum is designed to nurture true professional paying taxes and creating jobs, MSC has been conducting technicians with advanced skills, rather than merely teaching a variety of support activities so that the neighboring the skills necessary to work at MSC, so that graduates will communities will be able to develop continuously on their also be able to work for other companies after the closure own even after the mine has closed. of the MSC mine. MSC would like to contribute to the longSupport for sustainable development in the local term development of Bolivia by producing high-performing community started with building and improving industrial and alumni, who will play an important role in their workplace residential infrastructures and facilities when developing the and in Bolivian society, making the most of the leading-edge mining site. Utilizing these social infrastructures, as the next technologies and engineering they learned at the ITSC. step, MSC has now started to focus on improving skills, Moving forward, MSC will continue to strive for greater services and other non-material elements. Through the San value from the mining project by exploring more ore reserves Cristobal Foundation, established with an initial endowment and improving concentrates’ quality. At the same time, MSC of two million dollars when the San Cristobal village was will intensify its collaborative efforts for sustainable growth in relocated, MSC established an electrical and mechanical Bolivia through active dialogue with local communities. engineering staffing agency, donated greenhouse facilities *1 Equator Principles : A set of action principles that financial institutions will for agriculture and buses for commercial sightseeing tours follow when they assess and manage environmental and social risk in project financing in accordance with relevant IFC and other standards so and opened internet cafes. MSC supports the operation of as to avoid or reduce any negative impact the project may impose. the staffing agency it created, including the development of *2 Safety Training Observation Program (STOP) : A program originally training programs for technicians. The manpower agency developed by US-based DuPont. has some 80 to 100 registered technicians on a constant basis, and its client base has expanded to include non-MSC Stakeholder’s Voice companies. MSC also focuses on developing local parts and Becoming a professional with universally materials vendors by organizing so-called “reverse trade shows” for local suppliers, which are the opposite to valued skills traditional trade fairs in that MSC exhibits what it wants I am taking the Industrial Mechanics Training to purchase in the hope of sourcing those products from Course at the ITSC. The course offers students the knowledge (e.g., steel material local businesses. types and properties) and skills (e.g., In addition, MSC sits on a local advisory committee welding, lathe processing) they need. consisting of representatives of four neighboring villages On-site training at MSC will be scheduled to provide support for the formulation of community-driven later in the course. The cost of studying at ITSC, including tuition, course fees and local development programs, the development of new on-site training fees, are covered by a project plans, the operations of community associations, scholarship from MSC. and communication between local communities and the My ambition is to acquire advanced skills Mr. Franz government with regard to supplying power and other largeas an industrial mechanic and become a top Ramos scale projects, among others. professional who can use his skills at any Citizen of San company. I am confident that studying at the Cristobal village Another key focus area in the support activities MSC ITSC will serve as a major stepping stone provides is education and human resources development, towards that goal. I hope that many people the driving force for the continuing self-development of local will study at the ITSC and play a major role communities. Representative activities include constructing in developing a prosperous future for Bolivia. a new building for a local elementary school, which has Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 24 Theme 3 Creating and Developing New Businesses into the Next Decade Becoming a leading environmental business operator and major contributor to creating a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society We launched the New Business Development & Promotion Division to create, develop and establish new business that will help build a low-carbon, recycling-oriented economy and establish a major source of revenue for our environmental and new energy operations in the future. Targeting the sustainable development of society and business, the division aims to create and nurture new business mainly in the areas of photovoltaic power generation, environmental recycling and next-generation batteries, which will contribute to both profitability and environmental conservation. 25 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Creating new business that will become a major made with the potential integration of the photovoltaic source of revenue for our environmental and new power generation business and the next-generation energy operations in the future batteries business, and information on leading-edge In FOCUS’10, our medium-term management plan for the technologies originally obtained by the Strategic Venture period starting in fiscal 2009, we have declared that we at Investment Department has provided useful insights for Sumitomo Corporation will draw “A Growth Scenario on other departments. We will see greater synergies created a New Stage” into the next dacade and aim to become in the future as our operations under the new business a value-creating company, which can translate changes structure move forward. in the business climate into opportunities for growth. The New Business Development & Promotion Division was Developing profitable businesses that are also created as a specific initiative toward this goal. good for the environment will bring The “New Business” in this new division’s name refers sustainable growth for both our business and to business areas that have promising potential for future society growth. They are business areas that will help solve the While many people may tend to associate corporate challenges of environmental and new energy issues, which environmental activities with social contributions such are considered essential in building a sustainable, lowas community clean-ups that take place outside carbon, recycling-oriented society. We believe it is our of business, we believe intrinsically that corporate mission to establish new business models in these new environmental activities should be carried out through our business areas and grow them into core businesses that business activities, as the Sumitomo Corporation Group will generate strong revenue, and—as Sumitomo’s business Environmental Policy states. In other words, environmental philosophy teaches us—these activities must benefit not activities should be truly sustainable practices which only our own businesses but also society and the nation. generate business profits while simultaneously helping to solve environmental problems in society. Consolidating and reorganizing our existing Otherwise, corporations will eventually face difficulty in environment and new energy businesses under a continuing their business, which also means they will no new division longer be able to contribute to building a sustainable society. Environment and new energy business is a growth area, With this recognition in mind and with our unwavering and the market size is expected to grow several times larger commitment to sustainable development with society, each over the next 10 years. Although we have been involved one of us at the new division will always seek appropriate with various projects and activities in this area already, we solutions rather than an easy response to the issues we may realized that in order to speed up our activities in this market face. We will work in unison to create and develop business effectively, it is important to shift from the previous style that can help create a truly affluent society in a harmonious where projects and businesses were carried out separately relationship with the natural environment. by each business unit to a consolidated and company-wide approach. The shift has enabled us to take a bigger view of the entire value chain in assessing the future and growth potential of our business, and identify and capture business and investment opportunities without delay. For this strategic reason, environment and new energyrelated operations undertaken by various business units were pulled out and consolidated into a new, crossfunctional, company-wide organization—the New Business Development & Promotion Division. Under the new division, the four departments: the Solar Business Department, Hiroaki Mizobuchi Environmental Solution Business Department, Battery Executive Officer General Manager Business Development Department, and Strategic Venture New Business Development & Investment Department, create and nurture new business Promotion Division from a mediumto longterm perspective by collaborating closely with each other and leveraging the experience and expertise accumulated to date. The fledging division was assembled by putting together employees who had been engaged in environment and new energy-related business in various business units, which has allowed members of the division to reaffirm the promising future and growth potential of the target market and share the same direction and mission within a short period of time. The anticipated collaboration among different departments within the division has started to generate tangible results. For instance, good progress has been Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 26 Theme 3 Creating and Developing New Businesses into the Next Decade CASE 1 Creating a market for second-life uses of lithium-ion batteries in a lowcarbon society Striving to create and expand the market for Expanding the possibilities of lithium-ion second-life uses of EV-mounted lithium-ion batteries in building a low-carbon society batteries In addition to their uses in EVs, lithium-ion batteries are Expectations for electric vehicles (EVs) powered by electricity expected to play various roles in building a low-carbon instead of gasoline have been rising. This is because society. essentially they are “zero emission” vehicles and can Examples of expected applications include electricity contribute to solving environmental problems such as global storage facilities for a smart grid.* This next-generation warming and the depletion of energy resources. power supply system must be able to store excess electricity To create greater demand for EVs, effective secondin response to fluctuations in power demand. Due to their life uses for lithium-ion batteries mounted on EVs is crucial. longer life and higher energy density, lithium-ion batteries Generally, lithium-ion batteries retain some 80% of their initial are also expected to be used as back-up power supplies, capacity after five years of use under normal conditions. replacing traditional lead-acid storage batteries. Our mission This means that these used batteries still can be used for a is to establish an effective business model where reusable variety of purposes. Given the fact that a lithium-ion battery lithium-ion batteries can be made available for such secondis the most expensive of the EV’s components, creating life use applications. an actively trading market in used lithium-ion batteries with The Sumitomo Corporation Group has been operating capacity remaining for second-life uses will make EVs a a wide range of businesses related to lithium-ion batteries, more affordable choice and help increase demand. from the procurement of the raw materials (metal resources), To seize this acknowledged business opportunity, to the manufacturing of the components (e.g., electrolytes, Sumitomo Corporation, together with Nissan Motor which anode materials), and even to the leasing of EVs. With will launch its EVs on the Japanese and US markets from this latest addition of our 4Rs strategy, our value chain for December 2010, announced its “4Rs” strategy to reuse, lithium-ion batteries has been expanded and intensified. resell, refabricate and recycle batteries from EVs. We aim to Going forward, we intend to cultivate a market for use this strategy to cultivate the second-life use market for reusable lithium-ion batteries by leveraging the depth of our used lithium-ion batteries from various angles. consistent business portfolio in this field and the breadth of our operations, which are typical of an integrated trading company. In this way, we would like to promote greater use of EVs and ultimately help build a low-carbon society. *Smart grid : The next generation power grid that aims at electricity demand/ supply optimization by using information and communications technology (ICT). 4Rs for lithium-ion batteries Reuse Refabricate Norihiko Nonaka Second-life uses for Repackaging to meet General Manager batteries with large client needs Battery Business Development remaining capacity Department Recycle Resell Recovery of raw Resale for various purposes materials Repair/ Stabilizing output levels of replacement parts renewable energy 27 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 CASE 2 Establishing a waste home appliance recycling business in China to build a recycling-oriented society Recycling home appliances is a solution to two Recyclable Resources (Green Angel) established a new problems—worsening environmental pollution and joint company in Tianjin City, China to recycle consumer soaring metal prices electronic and home appliances. Spurred by its rapid economic growth, China’s demand The new company will take advantage of the respective for home appliances has increased to the highest level in strengths of the three participating companies: Dowa Ecothe world. In recent years, consumers actively purchasing System’s technologies and know-how in recycling consumer upgraded or newer models to replace existing appliances electronic and home appliances, Green Angel’s network of have resulted in large volumes of waste home appliances. waste collection stations and its system for collecting waste These waste home appliances were not necessarily disposed home appliances from electronics retailers in Tianjin City, of in the proper way and environmental pollution caused by and Sumitomo’s know-how in business operations in the the resulting effluent has become a public concern. Chinese market. Waste home appliances have also been attracting The launch of the new company was agreed in the attention for another reason. Those end-of-life products fourth Japan-China Energy Conservation Forum held in contain rich amount of metal resources which can be Beijing in November 2009, fitting in well with the Japanese recovered by appropriate processing. They are so-called government’s policy of promoting cooperation between China “urban mines.” and Japan on energy saving and other environmental initiatives. Reflecting growing environmental awareness and This establishment of the joint company marked the first entry soaring metal prices, the recovery of metal resources from by a Japanese integrated trading company into the Chinese waste home appliances has been growing worldwide lately. consumer electronic and home appliances recycling market. In China, the Regulations on the Collection, Disposal and We have been building a strong partnership with the City Management of Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment of Tianjin since we opened our office in the city 30 years ago. (a Chinese equivalent to WEEE) will come into effect in When it comes to environmental efforts, the municipality January 2011 to encourage the proper disposal of waste and Sumitomo Corporation jointly formed an Environmental home appliances. Protection Committee in 2006 to undertake a wide range To capture this business opportunity, Sumitomo of study projects. This cooperative relationship with the city Corporation has teamed up with Dowa Eco-System. in government served as the groundwork for the launch of launching a recycling business for consumer electronic the new company. As Tianjin is known as one of the most and home appliances in China. Our business partner is environmentally conscious cities in China, operating an a member of the DOWA Group, which has abundant environmental and recycling business in the city will give us experience in the recovery and recycling of metal resources. a tremendous advantage in expanding operations to many other locations in the country in the future. Building upon our Expanding our recycling operations throughout successful experience in Tianjin, we would like to make a China to other Asian countries to become a foray into other locations throughout China and other Asian Japan-based leading recycling business operator countries, and eventually become a Japan-based leading In May 2010, Sumitomo Corporation, Dowa Eco-System, global recycling business operator. and Tianjin City Green Angel Collection and Reuse of Business operations leveraging the strengths of three companies Silver, aluminum, Hideki Kanaoka copper, etc. Use Deputy General Manger Environmental Solution Business Department Sumitomo Corporation Know-how on business operations in the Chinese market Dowa Eco-System New Company Green Angel Technologies and Recycling consumer Local waste know-how on electronic and home collection network recycling and system appliances Recycling Collection Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 28 In Europe·CIS·Middle East·Africa In Japan • Supporting Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre (UK) 1 • Supporting the Junior Philharmonic Orchestra 5 • Supporting Centrepoint to help young homeless people (UK) • Promoting “barrier-free” movies 6 • Supporting Thames 21 Litter Trap to keep the River Thames • Cooperating in vocational training for people with disabilities litter-free (UK) 2 • Forest improvement activities by Summit supermarkets • Helping children with disabilities to attend school (Romania) • Participation in and sponsorship for local cleaning activities and • Supporting Japanese speech contests (Russia) various events 7 • Supporting indigenous people as part of the timber business with • Organizing events for local residents hosted by J:COM cable TV Terneyles (Russia) company and many commercial complexes of other Sumitomo • Cooperating with the Japanese School in Teheran for its school Corporation Group companies across Japan festival (Iran) • Apparel trade-in recycling program at Barneys New York • Supporting improvements to the educational infrastructure for specialty stores 8 children (South Africa) 3 • Cooperating in workplace tours and work experience programs • Supporting land mine removal (Angola) for students and local residents • Donating books for teacher training (Madagascar) • Supporting the Table for Two Meal Program • Supporting education and health care improvements for the local • Donating clothes and other goods to social welfare facilities and community as part of the Ambatovy Nickel Mine project bazaars to support international students (Madagascar) 4 • Supporting environmental NPOs and NGOs through donations to Keidanren Nature Conservation Fund and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) 1 • Supporting Japan Platform (JPF), an international humanitarian 3 organization • Blood donation campaigns to support the Japanese Red Cross Society • Collection and donation of used stamps, prepaid cards and PET bottle caps to support philanthropic activities 4 6 2 Theme 4 Utilizing Our Integrated Corporate Strength to Promote Social Contribution Activities Worldwide Because of its integrated corporate strength, the Sumitomo Corporation Group is involved in a wide range of social contribution activities around the world As we work to further strengthen our relationships with local stakeholders, the Sumitomo Corporation Group, a global organization, conducts social contribution activities aimed at addressing these social issues in many countries and regions around the world, respecting the unique features and conditions present in different areas. We view these activities as not limited to social support activities such as volunteer work or offering charity but as much more diversified. The Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Basic Principles on Social Contribution Activities OBJECTIVE We, as a global organization, will work on social issues through our business activities and social contribution activities with the aim of building a sustainable society by implementing the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Management Principles and Activity Guidelines. ACTIVITIES We will engage in social contribution activities aimed at developing the next generation of human resources who will drive the sustainable development of society, and contributing to local communities in areas we do business all over the world. We will also take part in various activities as a good corporate citizen. APPROACH We will perform and seek to continuously improve our activities with modesty and high aspirations and endeavor to maintain a high level of transparency while strengthening our relationships with all our stakeholders. 29 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 In Americas • Supporting the Center on Japanese Economy and Business, • Donations to the Metropolitan Museum of Art (US) 11 Columbia Business School (US) 9 • Donations to the Japanese American National Museum (US) • Donations to an organization supporting the development of a • Donations to United Way of New York City (US) treatment for leukemia and other incurable illnesses (US) • Supporting educational and infrastructure improvements for the • Donations to the Lincoln Center (US) local community as part of the San Cristobal Mine (silver, zinc, • Support for organizing Japan Day, an event to showcase lead) project (Bolivia) Japanese culture (US) 10 • Contributions to relief funds for large scale natural disasters • Donations to the American Museum of Natural History (US) (Chile, Haiti) 11 8 10 9 15 7 5 13 12 14 In Asia·Oceania • Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship to help college students in • Supporting education and health care improvements for local Asia (various Asian countries) 12 communities as part of the Tanjung Jati B coal fired power plant • Helping children in poverty-stricken areas in Yunnan and Anhui project and the Batu Hijau Mine (copper, gold) project (Indonesia) provinces finish school (China) • Japanese language education and culture learning for junior high • Internship programs for college students in Guangzhou school students (Vietnam) province (China) • Donating school uniforms and school supplies to local elementary • Courses bearing the Sumitomo Corporation name at Tsinghua schools (Myanmar) 15 University, Nankai University, and Hanoi National Economics • Supporting a local rugby team (New Zealand) University(China, Vietnam) 13 • Contributions to relief funds for large scale natural disasters (China, • Supporting programs of study tours to Japan for Chinese Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Pakistan) university students (China) • Supporting Japan-Korea Exchange Festival (South Korea) 14 • Supporting educational and infrastructure improvements for local communities as part of overseas industrial park development projects (the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam) Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 30 Beijing Tianjin Theme 5 Shanghai Locally-rooted Social Contribution Activities under the Initiative Guangzhou of Local Employees CSR activities of the Sumitomo Corporation China Group Corporate social responsibility (CSR) has been drawing growing attention in China, a country experiencing continuous rapid economic development. Against this background, the Sumitomo Corporation China Group launched its CSR committee dubbed “Virtuous Cycle” in May 2009. The committee formulated the overall policy for the Group’s social contribution activities, which emphasizes developing the next generation who will shape the future of the country. Based on this policy, its group companies in China are actively promoting their locally-rooted social contribution activities, in which locally hired employees are playing leading roles. This section introduces how they as a good corporate neighbor give back to the local communities in which they operate. CSR Committee members Fu Xiao Jiong Chen Eve Shanghai Guangzhou General Manager Section Manager Administration Department of East China General Affairs & HR Section, Administration Unit of East China Administration Department of South China Administration Unit of South China Han Jian Ping Ye Peng Beijing Tianjin Section Manager Section Manager General Affairs Section, Planning & Administration Section, Administration Department of North China Administration Unit of North China Administration Unit of North China The experience of supporting earthquake victims Scholarship, which were established in 1996 to provide inspired employees to do more for society financial support for college students in China, Vietnam, As part of its social contribution activities in Asia, the Indonesia, Thailand, and other nations. In conjunction with Sumitomo Corporation Group has been supporting these programs led by our Head Office in Japan, locallythe development of future leaders in Asian countries. rooted social contribution activities have been actively Representative programs include Sumitomo Corporation promoted in China recently on the initiative of locally hired Educational support for poverty-stricken areas in Anhui Educational support for poverty-stricken areas in Yunnan Educational support for poverty-stricken areas in Anhui 31 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 employees of the Sumitomo Corporation China Group through a wide range of social contribution activities. And companies. such interaction with society will help us achieve our own Such employee-driven activities originated and evolved growth,” said Fu. from a single event: support for victims in the region hit by the Great Sichuan Earthquake in May 2008. Wishing to reach Focus on developing future leaders in China out to the victims of this unprecedented disaster, locally After extensive discussions, the CSR Committee developed hired employees in the Sumitomo Corporation China Group the basic policy of the Sumitomo Corporation China Group’s suggested they take their own action to solicit donations social contribution activities. Specifically, they decided to for the quake victims, in addition to the company’s financial focus for the time being on support for human resources contributions. In response, fund-raising activities were carried development for future generations, and to ensure that many out in their group companies in China, and a larger-thanemployees can participate in these activities. expected number of employees made donations. As a “Considering the fact that elementary and junior high result, donations equivalent of approximately eight million yen school education-related issues in poverty-stricken areas of were offered to support the recovery from the catastrophic China, such as the inability to cover educational expenses earthquake. and the shortage of schools and teachers, has been “Through that fund-raising activity, we realized that many worsening, we decided to focus on educational issues first. employees wanted to help people in need and wanted to It was also suggested and agreed that our activities will contribute to society. This recognition propelled us to create not be completed only by providing support; we should a mechanism to provide opportunities for more employees communicate and interact with support recipients and to join social contribution activities. That’s why the Sumitomo related stakeholders actively, and this in turn will lead to Corporation China Group CSR Committee (CSR Committee) enhancement of our corporate value,” said Fu. was established in May 2009,” says Fu Xiao Jiong, deputy chairman of the CSR Committee and an employee of Promoting interaction with local communities in Sumitomo Corporation (Shanghai). addition to financial support The CSR Committee’s Chairman Fuminori Naganuma Under this basic policy, the Sumitomo Corporation China follows, “The CSR Committee is mainly comprised of Group has stepped up its CSR activities. In addition to the locally hired employees who have experience in CSR programs in collaboration with Head Office in Japan, such activities in China, while Japanese expatriates like as ongoing operation of Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship myself support their activities. The Committee is a and the courses bearing the Sumitomo Corporation name steering committee in nature and therefore its roles and at Tsinghua University in Beijing and Nankai University in responsibilities are the development of activity policies Tianjin, as well as educational support for poverty-stricken and progress management. Specific programs are areas in Yunnan province, the China Group companies planned and implemented by each group company under have implemented their own programs, which include the initiative of its locally hired employees.” educational support for poverty-stricken areas in Anhui In addition, to raise awareness of the importance of CSR province by Sumitomo Corporation (Shanghai), and training activities across the Group, the CSR Committee came up programs for college students by Sumitomo Corporation with a nickname for itself: Virtuous Cycle. (Guangzhou). “The name ‘Virtuous Cycle’ reflects our commitment to In the efforts to support education in Anhui province, creating a virtuous cycle where we, as a for-profit corporation financial contributions from Sumitomo Corporation operating in China, not only fulfill our responsibilities to society (Shanghai) and its employees were offered to elementary, by paying taxes and creating employment opportunities, but junior high school and high school students in need. In also maintain harmonious relationship with Chinese society addition, desks, chairs, lockers, computers and other and contribute to the sustainable development of society equipment were also donated to local schools. Course bearing the Sumitomo Corporation Training program for college students name at Nankai University Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship Course bearing the Sumitomo Corporation name at Tsinghua University Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 32 Theme 5 Locally-rooted Social Contribution Activities under the Initiative of Local Employees “To make our support relevant and effective, our Continuing and rooting CSR activities employees visited Anhui province to understand the as an integral part of business educational and living conditions there and identify local About one year has passed since the CSR Committee, needs. On a later day, we invited local teachers and Virtuous Cycle, launched its social contribution activities in students to visit Shanghai to meet with our employees. China with two key objectives: ensuring active employee Most of the students had never come to a big city like participation and operating locally-rooted activities. Shanghai, one of the fastest growing cities in the world. During this period, the circle of employees participating I remember they said ‘I want to study hard and work in in these activities has been expanding at a steady pace. Shanghai’ with their eyes beaming!” said Fu. This movement has also helped increase staff motivation. Meanwhile, they also received positive feedback from Many group employees say they are proud to be a local college students who participated in the internship member of a company which is actively engaged in social training program organized by Sumitomo Corporation contribution activities. (Guangzhou), including comments like “I was able to learn Fu says, “The important thing is that we in the a lot of things which I cannot study at college, which has Sumitomo Corporation China Group will continue social broadened my horizon,” and “I was impressed with the contribution and other CSR activities as an integral enthusiasm of the lecturers and employees, and their high part of our business activities, not as a one-off event or level of professionalism.” passing fad. To this end, we would like to create as many opportunities as possible for active interaction between our employees and people living in the locations where our activities are taking place, so that more employees can join the activities with a sense of ownership and our network of CSR activities will expand even further.” Activity example 1 Activity example 2 Educational support for poverty-stricken areas in Anhui Training for college students Many children in poverty-stricken areas in Anhui cannot In Sumitomo Corporation (Guangzhou), 23 college students afford to go to school. In December 2009, donations from (including seven Sumitomo Corporation Scholarship Sumitomo Corporation (Shanghai). and its employees were recipients) received a three-day training course in December offered to a total of 70 elementary, junior high school and 2009. Those students were selected from 200 applicants high school students with financial difficulties in the province. who were recommended by three target local colleges. They In addition, the company’s used desks, chairs, lockers, obtained a better understanding of the Sumitomo Corporation computers, and other equipment were also donated to local Group’s Management Principles and the trading business schools. In February 2010, teachers and students in Anhui through many activities such as lectures on the basics of were invited to their office in Shanghai to attend seminars business and business practices, discussions with Sumitomo and a gathering of its employees. Corporation (Guangzhou) employees in the frontline of the trading business, a tour of their distribution center. Sumitomo Spirits Stakeholder’s Voice For the sake of children’s innocent smiles Kick-starting my career with training at I joined the educational support program for Sumitomo Corporation poverty-stricken areas in Anhui in December As the saying goes, “A man can show 2009. It was my first participation in social tremendous growth even within three days”; contribution activities since I joined the the three days at Sumitomo Corporation company. In that province, there are many (Guangzhou). has given me a lot of children who have to drop out of school inspiration and insight for my future career. because of poverty, and I wanted to be of Through the training with nine divisions, I some help to them. When we visited the was able to learn about and was impressed site, we were deeply impressed with the with the company’s advanced risk children there, wearing innocent smiles on management and performance evaluation their faces while they were struggling in Ding Yan Min systems, and management style placing Mr. Luo Xi difficult economic conditions. Their smiles Logistics Department utmost respect for the employee, which Student of Sun Yatof East China sen University inspired me to support this activity more so helped me to realize what constitutes the Sumitomo that a greater number of employees join us Corporation corporate culture and business philosophy in supporting those children. (Shanghai) Ltd. of Sumitomo Corporation. I feel honored and privileged to have met many talented people through this precious opportunity. 33 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Strengthening the Foundations for CSR Activities Development of human and organizational dynamism to enhance value-creation capability Corporate Governance System Internal Control and Internal Audit Risk Management Compliance Environmental Management Human Resources Management Greater emphasis on human resources development and workforce diversity Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 34 Corporate Governance System We believe that the ultimate goals of corporate governance with a committee based system of corporate governance. are “improving management efficiency” and “maintaining However we believe that the best way for us to improve the sound management” as well as “ensuring management effectiveness of our corporate governance is to maintain our transparency” to achieve the first two goals. Based on this existing corporate auditor system while enhancing and belief, we are working to establish a corporate governance reinforcing it through auditing from diversified external system that serves the interests of shareholders and all viewpoints and with opinions and advice from additional other stakeholders. external advisors. Based on “Sumitomo’s business philosophy,” we have established the Sumitomo Corporation Group’s Management Principles and Activity Past Initiatives to Strengthen and Guidelines, and work to enforce these principles and Enhance Corporate Governance guidelines among all officers and employees, in order to share the basic values that must be respected by the To date, we have strengthened and improved our corporate Sumitomo Corporation Group, including compliance with governance system through initiatives covering many points, laws and regulations. From the perspective of maintaining such as optimizing the size of the Board of Directors, setting sound management, we have developed a system for term limits for the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the ensuring compliance with laws and regulations by President and CEO, shortening the terms of Directors, establishing a Compliance Committee and introducing a establishing advisory bodies, strengthening the corporate “Speak-Up System” for internal reporting, among other auditors system, introducing the executive officer system, and measures. Guided by the belief that management itself must appointing external advisors. conduct its duties with high ethical standards, we have Our approach to corporate governance is embodied in clearly stated in the “Sumitomo Corporation Corporate the “Sumitomo Corporation Corporate Governance Principles,” Governance Principles” that in principle, the Chairman of the which can be accessed from the following web page. Board of Directors and the President are each limited to http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/company/ terms of up to six years. governance/detail01.html In 2009, we established the Sumitomo Corporation Corporate Governance Principles Reform Review Committee, including members from outside the company, Features of Our Corporate Governance and discussed a range of topics such as the appointment of System external directors. Nonetheless, we determined that at this time, our current management structure is the most Under the former Commercial Code, since April 2003, reasonable system from the standpoints of further Japanese companies have been able to adopt a company strengthening and enhancing corporate governance. The Company’s corporate governance system General Meeting of Shareholders Election/ Consent to a submission of proposition for election of Election/ Election/ Dismissal Corporate Auditors and for election of Accounting Auditors Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal Deliberation/ Remuneration Reporting Directors Corporate Auditors (Collaboration) Committee Accounting Auditors Board of Directors (Chairman Board of Corporate Auditors of the Board of Directors) Audit Report Assistance Advice/Proposals Accounting Election/Dismissal/ (Collaboration) Audit Corporate Auditor’s Audit External Advisors Supervision Administration Department Important Company-wide Committees* Management Council President and CEO Internal Auditing Department Internal Audit Internal Control Committee Loan and Investment Committee Business Units Compliance Committee Domestic and Corporate Group Overseas Offices Information Disclosure Committee Subsidiaries and Associated Companies CSR Promotion Committee * Management Council: Exchange of opinions and information on basic policy and important matters related to management Internal Control Committee: Management and assessment of overall Internal Control, and planning, implementation and promotion of basic policies related to Internal Control Loan and Investment Committee: Deliberation of important matters, such as investment and financing Compliance Committee: Enhancement of Group compliance focused on “maintaining sound management” 35 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 However, we will continue to study the most appropriate Prosecutor General and a former President of the Tokyo corporate governance system for Sumitomo Corporation. High Court) and one is an accounting expert—ensuring an auditing system that incorporates a diversity of perspectives. Framework for “Improving Management The three external auditors possess a high degree of Efficiency” and “Maintaining Sound independence, such as by satisfying the conditions for Management” independent officers stipulated by the listing rules of Japanese stock exchanges. Directors and the Board of Directors Optimization of Size of Board of Directors Ensuring Audit Effectiveness We halved the number of Board members from 24 in 2003. As Corporate Auditors attend meetings of the Board of of July 2010, the Board has 12 members. Through this Directors and all other important internal meetings, to obtain optimized Board of Directors, which oversees the operations of the information necessary for proper auditing. Corporate the business and serves as the Company’s decision-making Auditors also meet the Chairman of the Board of Directors body concerning key management matters, we aim to facilitate and the President and CEO every month to exchange substantial and active discussion as well as to promote greater opinions on material issues regarding management policy efficiency and effectiveness in the decision-making process. and auditing. Moreover, the Corporate Auditor’s Administration Department is assigned to assist Corporate Limiting Terms of Directors Auditors, so that the auditing system functions effectively In June 2005, the terms of Directors were reduced from two and without hindrance. years to one year. We aim to clarify the responsibility of management among members of management each fiscal Collaboration between Internal Auditing Department year. This, in turn, helps ensure fast reaction times to and Accounting Auditors changes in business conditions. To ensure audit efficiency, Corporate Auditors interact closely with the Internal Auditing Department, receiving reports on Limits on Terms of the Chairman of the Board of internal audit plans and their results in a timely manner. In Directors and the President and CEO addition, Corporate Auditors exchange information with and In principle, the positions of Chairman of the Board of monitor the auditing activities of the Accounting Auditors Directors and the President and CEO are clearly defined and through regular meetings. By attending audit review separated in order to ensure mutual supervision and both meetings with the Accounting Auditors and observing positions cannot be held simultaneously by one person. In inventory audits, the Corporate Auditors constantly work to principle, the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the improve audit efficiency and quality. Furthermore, Corporate President and CEO are each limited to terms of six years. Auditors attend meetings of the Internal Control Committee, These limitations on the tenure of top management help and request reports on the status of internal control systems minimize the possibility of governance problems. from other departments responsible for internal control, along with their cooperation on audits. Establishment of the Advisory Body to the Board of Directors Introduction of an Executive Officer System With the aim of enhancing the transparency and objectivity of We have introduced an executive officer system with the aim decisionmaking processes with regard to the remuneration of clarifying the responsibilities and authority for execution of Directors and Executive Officers, we established the and strengthening the monitoring function of the Board of Remuneration Committee. Functioning as an advisory body to Directors. We currently have 39 Executive Officers selected the Board of Directors, no fewer than half of the Committee by the Board of Directors. Of these, 11 Executive Officers members are from outside the Company. The Remuneration also serve concurrently as Directors, including seven who Committee is in charge of studying remuneration and bonuses are also General Managers of Business Units. In this way, of directors and executive officers, and reports the results of we aim to prevent gaps between decisions made at Board its studies to the Board of Directors. of Directors meetings and the execution of those decisions. Corporate Auditors and the Board of Appointment of External Advisors Corporate Auditors Management Council members meet with outside Enhancement of Corporate Auditing Framework specialists employed as external advisors to incorporate To further strengthen external views within the corporate outside perspectives into our management. In this way, auditing framework, we added one external auditor in June external advisors provide us with advice from diverse 2003, bringing the number of external auditors to three out perspectives on various themes related to management of the five members on the Board of Corporate Auditors. Of issues. External advisors also give speeches and lectures these three, two are legal experts (a former Public in their respective areas of expertise, such as leadership Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 36 Corporate Governance System and career development, to employees at various levels Disclosing Various Information within our organization. Our corporate website provides various materials that may be useful in making investment decisions in a timely manner. These materials include financial results, yukashoken System for Ensuring Management houkokusho (Japanese annual securities reports), Tokyo Transparency Stock Exchange filings and related documents of various meetings. We also disclose information on a broad range of Basic Policy on Information Disclosure Group-wide topics through such means as feature articles To bring an accurate understanding of the Company’s on projects that we operate around the world. Moreover, we management policies and business activities to all our issue an Annual Report, Report on Responsibility and stakeholders, we shall strive to make full disclosure, not Sustainability and SC News, our public relations news limiting ourselves to the disclosure of information magazine, and endeavor to ensure proactive disclosure. required by law but also actively pursuing the voluntary disclosure of information. Investor Relations In addition to working to enhance the disclosure of Communicating with Shareholders and Other information on our website, in order to ensure direct Investors communication with shareholders and other investors, we Encouraging the Execution of Voting Rights hold quarterly meetings attended by management to provide at the General Meeting of Shareholders information on our financial results for analysts and We send out a Notice of Convocation to shareholders institutional investors. For overseas investors, we periodically three weeks prior to each regularly scheduled General visit the United States, the United Kingdom, and other Meeting of Shareholders. For the convenience of overseas countries in Europe and Asia to hold one-on-one meetings shareholders, we also provide an English-language with investors in each region. In addition, in fiscal 2004 we translation of the notice on our website. We have allowed began regularly holding meetings with individual investors in our shareholders to exercise their voting rights via the Japan. In fiscal 2009, we held such meetings in five cities, Internet using personal computers since 2004 and via the with a total of 1,350 individual investors attending. Internet using mobile phones since 2005. In 2007, we While increasing management transparency, we aim introduced the Electronic Voting Platform operated by to strengthen our relationships of trust with shareholders Investor Communications Japan, Inc. (ICJ), a joint venture and investors. instituted by Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. and others. The new platform allows institutional investors sufficient time While working to strengthen and enhance our corporate to thoroughly examine the propositions to be resolved at governance structure and systems, from the perspectives the meeting. of “improving management efficiency” and “maintaining sound management,” we will continue to further strengthen internal auditing, risk management and compliance, to further improve the effectiveness of internal control. Message from an Outside Corporate Auditor I have observed corporations from many different angles through my 30 years of experience in judicial circles. At the same time, I have increased my understanding of not only the economic roles of corporations, but also the extent of their social roles. Sumitomo Corporation conducts a diverse array of businesses globally, and has provided me with an opportunity to make practical use of my experience in this regard. Sumitomo’s business philosophy, which has been handed down the generations within the Sumitomo Group for more than 400 years, states the following: “Always practice sound management; never pursue easy gains.” I believe that this principle has become Sumitomo Corporation’s greatest support when conducting business. I participate in meetings of the Board of Directors, where I ask questions and raise various points from an external perspective. For example, I might ask about the status of compliance or whether necessary Akio Harada information is being provided to stakeholders. Sumitomo Corporation welcomes the fresh perspectives that Lawyer Appointed as outside are introduced by being questioned about matters that, in its view, may be obvious, and always replies corporate auditor in sincerely. In addition, the willingness to point out issues and hold active discussions has been enhanced, even 2005 among directors. As an outside corporate auditor, I would like to influence management from a broad perspective that encompasses the social role of corporations, in order to support the sustained growth of Sumitomo Corporation going forward. 37 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Internal Control and Internal Audit The Sumitomo Corporation Group has strengthened its Fulfillment of Legal Requirements internal controls in order to retain the trust of all its In recent years, due to social demands, legislation stakeholders. requiring companies to constantly improve and monitor their internal control systems has been passed under the Japanese Company Law and the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. We have treated meeting these legal Internal Control obligations as an opportunity to further reinforce our internal control program, which we had implemented The Sumitomo Corporation Group is formed of seven ahead of the enactment of this legislation. Our efforts in Business Units as well as regional organizations in Japan and this area are ongoing and not transitional. overseas. The Business Units, organizations and group The Japanese Company Law, which came into effect in companies collectively work together in broad business fields. May 2006, calls for companies to establish “systems It is essential that we provide a uniform standard in operational ensuring that the execution of duties by directors conforms quality at these businesses, irrespective of their business to legal regulations and their Articles of Incorporation as well sector or region. This standard must also meet the as systems ensuring that business processes are handled expectations of our stakeholders. appropriately.” Having previously established various From this perspective, we launched our Internal Control systems and frameworks, the Sumitomo Corporation Group Program in 2005 to perform a comprehensive evaluation of the fulfills the requirements of this law. status of internal controls using a standards-based checklist. To comply with the internal control reporting rules This Internal Control Program checklist covers approximately stipulated in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, 350 points pertaining to general operations that should be which took effect on April 1, 2008, we are tracking and common across the Group, including risk management, evaluating our internal controls with regard to the reliability of accounting and financial controls and compliance. financial reporting, as required by the law, through the To ensure that this checklist assessment is conducted effective application of Internal Control Program results and effectively, we make concerted efforts to educate all our its promotion structure. For the fiscal year ended March 31, officers and employees, including those at Group 2010, the second fiscal year that the law applies to, as a companies, on the essential fine points of internal controls result of evaluations and subsequent improvements, as in that must be verified. the first fiscal year, we found our internal controls related to In August 2010, we launched a fully redesigned Internal financial reporting to be effective and received an unqualified Control Committee. The new committee is responsible for the opinion from the accounting auditor upholding the results of management and evaluation of overall internal control across our assessment. the entire Sumitomo Corporation Group and the development Through the aforementioned efforts and measures, the and implementation of basic policies on internal control. While Sumitomo Corporation Group aims to continuously improve the committee promotes group-wide activities, business units the quality of its operations. and regional organizations in Japan and overseas are implementing their own internal control activities in place of the previous group-wide, comprehensive checklist assessment . Internal Audits These “Internal control activities” specifically refer to the planning, implementation, evaluation and improvement of our internal control systems and processes. Each organizational The Internal Auditing Department, which reports directly to unit carries on these activities continuously on a daily basis the President, was established as an independent with timely and optimal support from its Planning & organization to monitor company-wide operations. Internal Administration Department, contributing to the sustainable audits are performed at all organizations within the growth and development of the Group. Company and Group companies. The internal audit results are reported directly to the President every month, and reported regularly to the Board of Directors. The Internal Auditing Department helps to raise the quality of organizational management by evaluating the effectiveness of risk management, controls and organizational governance processes. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 38 Risk Management In order to cope effectively with the diversifying risk the Loan and Investment Committee for thorough environment, we have built a risk management examination, and if such investments significantly framework by developing our risk management underperform the original business plans, Value-Up plans approach from a micro to a macro perspective, and shall be formulated and executed with the support of the shifting our focus from “minimizing losses from Committee. When the performance of investments fall individual transactions” to “maximizing corporate short of required standards after a certain period from their value.” This framework is strongly linked to the inception, we have an Exit Rule that shall designate those management plan, playing a critical role in supporting investments as “Investments to withdraw from.” the efficient management of our corporate resources. Managing Credit Risks We have incorporated our original credit rating model, the Sumisho Credit Rating (SCR), to assess our customer’s The Purpose of Risk Management credit risk. The authority level to provide credit exposure to customers depends on the assigned credit rating, and the In response to the shift of our risk management focus from risk weight ranging from 1.5% to 50% is set for each rating “probability of losses” to “probability of discrepancy between criteria. A higher ranked officer’s approval is required to the plan and the actual results,” we have set the following provide credit to lowrated customers, with larger Riskthree items as the purpose for our risk management activities. adjusted Assets being calculated. This consideration 1. Stabilize Performance: Minimize discrepancies between the plan provides each Business Unit with an incentive to reduce the and the actual results amount of credit extended to customers with low credit 2. Strengthen Financial Base: Maintain Risk-adjusted Assets within ratings. We are expanding the scope of the SCR system to the buffer (shareholders’ equity) subsidiaries and associated companies to enhance Group 3. Maintain Corporate Reputation: Fulfill CSR requirements and wide credit risk management. preserve corporate reputation Managing Market Risks We set limits on contract balances as well as the maximum Risk Management Basic Policy amounts of allowable losses for six months or a full year for commodity and financial instrument transactions. At the same time, we constantly monitor the potential amount of We classify our risks into two categories: Quantifiable risk loss, (Value at Risk (VaR)—an estimate of potential risk or in and Non-quantifiable risk. Quantifiable risk is defined as case the total figures of realized and unrealized gain/loss are “Value creating risk,” where we proactively take to gain the negative at the time of monitoring, the total of VaR and the return. Our policy is to maximize the risk-adjusted return relevant negative figures), to ensure that the potential while maintaining Riskadjusted Assets within our buffer. Nonamount of loss falls within the maximum amounts of quantifiable risk is defined as “Value breaking risk,” which allowable losses. In addition, we conduct liquidity risk only generates losses when it surfaces. We are building a management for each product on an individual futures framework that prevents or minimizes the probability of this market basis in order to be prepared in the event that it risk to materialize. becomes difficult to close positions due to shrinking liquidity. The Financial Resources Management Group undertakes both the back and middle office functions in order to completely separate those functions from the Business Risk Management Framework Units, thereby enabling us to maintain the soundness of internal checks. Managing Quantifiable Risks Managing Investment Risks Managing Concentration Risks Once an investment is made, it is often difficult to make a As we are operating globally and engaging in a variety of withdrawal decision and the loss impact is usually business fields, we need to ensure that the risks are not significant in scale. To manage the investment risk, we excessively concentrated in particular areas. In order to have in place an integrated framework covering the entry avoid overly concentrated exposure in certain countries and process to the exit process. For the entry process, we regions, we have in place a country risk management carefully select investments that exceed the hurdle rate, a system. In addition, in order to avoid the excessive threshold for the rates of return on new investments relative concentration of resources in any specific field and maximize to the cost of capital. In case of new investments for our corporate value, we refine our business portfolio at a large-scale, important projects, cases are put forward to meeting held in December each year. 39 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Managing Non-Quantifiable Risks enable us to quickly identify the occurrence of losses in Non-quantifiable risks are those that must be borne, but order to suppress loss accumulation and prevent the for which we cannot expect returns. These include contagion effects that lead to secondary losses. These litigation and other legal risks, operational risks such as initiatives include devising ways to quickly identify the cause clerical mistakes or fraud acts, and natural disaster risk. of losses and share such information among top Some of these risks involve events that rarely occur but management and related departments. We have compiled a could have a critical impact on our operations once they database of such loss information that allows for the arise. Our basic policy is to prevent or minimize the systematic analysis of the causes of loss-incurring events. probability of these risks to materialize. Accordingly, we These analyses are used as training materials for employees periodically assess non-quantifiable risks on a global and as part of various educational programs. Through this consolidated basis. We do this through a range of knowledge feedback process, individual employees can initiatives to strengthen our internal control across the upgrade their risk management capabilities, supporting the Group under the leadership of the Internal Control prevention of the same kind of loss events. Committee as well as through independent activities by our business units and regional organizations in Japan and overseas. Based on the assessment result, we continuously search for a more efficient and effective Eyeing the Future of Risk Management organizational structure and procedures to improve the quality of our business operations. Over the past decade, Sumitomo Corporation has created a formidable risk management framework by studying advanced methods and processes. Our goal is to Embedding the Sense of Risk implement the best practices in risk management while Management maintaining the flexibility to adapt to changes in the business environment. The surrounding environment is Although we have been constructing the best possible risk continually changing, however, and new business models management framework to cope with diversified risks, we that we could never have imagined are emerging on a daily cannot completely prevent the incurrence of loss in the basis. Responding to changing circumstances in a timely course of business activities only by the framework itself. We and effective manner, we continually upgrade our risk are putting our efforts into implementing the initiatives that management under the direction of top management. Quantifiable Risks Non-Quantifiable Risks Fraud or illegal Investment risks Credit risks Market risks Legal risks IT system acts by management management risks or employees Risk Management Framework Risk Improve materialization operational Investment Risks quality • Group management policy • Qualitative requirements applying to Group companies Database on the ENTRY MONITORING EXIT incidence of loss • Investment entry standards • Investment exit standards (Hurdle Rate) (Exit Rule) • Loan and Investment “Value-Up Support” system Utilize Committee experience Credit Risks Market Risks Concentration Risks • Utilize the Sumisho Credit • Manage maximum losses • Implement a country risk Rating (SCR) model across based on Value at Risk management system Education Planning, the Group (VaR) methodology • Pursue risk-adjusted asset implementation, • Periodically conduct back testing • Conduct liquidity risk and portfolio management of • Nine rules of trading risk management evaluation and management individual business lines • Separate and control front, • Seven rules of investment improvement of middle and back office functions • Various training materials / internal control Review Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 40 Compliance Positioning legal and regulatory compliance as a basic premise for all corporate activity, Sumitomo Corporation is Compliance Training and Education building a compliance structure in accordance with clearly defined policies. In maintaining strict adherence to this compliance structure, we are ensuring our existence as a Employees have access to the latest version of the going concern and securing our credibility and status. Compliance Manual and other manuals detailing applicable laws and regulations on the Company’s intranet. We also offer various training programs and educational activities on Policies and the Reporting Structure of compliance, including: programs for specific groups, such as Corporate Compliance employees, managers and corporate officers new to the Company; seminars provided by each Business Unit; seminars It is our policy that both officers and employees should never targeted at all officers and employees; and seminars for risk transgression in pursuit of profit for the Company. In order overseas offices and Group companies. We also make use of to promote compliance, Sumitomo Corporation established various domestic and overseas conferences for compliance the Compliance Committee under the direct supervision of the education. In addition, we hold e-learning compliance seminars President and CEO. The Compliance Committee is responsible open to employees from all levels and plan to continue these for preparing the Company’s Compliance Manual and seminars for new and other employees. Such e-learning is distributing it to all officers and employees. The Compliance also held at Group companies. Manual covers the following 19 Guiding Principles to ensure the Company’s bottom line: “If there is even a trace of doubt, don’t do it.” If a potential compliance problem is detected, we Speak-Up System continuously encourage our employees to report it to their supervisors or the relevant departments immediately, so that the best countermeasures can be implemented swiftly. If an employee becomes aware of a possible compliance problem, he or she can pass the information along the chain of command. In addition, the “Speak-Up System” was introduced to allow individuals to report a potential problem directly to the Compliance Committee. Outside legal counsel Guiding Principles and our Corporate Auditors have been included as additional Business Activities points of contact to further augment the system. Although, in • Observing Antimonopoly Laws principle, reporting individuals are asked to identify themselves • Security Trade Control so that they can be updated on the outcome of their cases, • Customs/Controlled Items Company rules state that both the identity of such individuals • Compliance with Applicable Laws and the nature of the information provided are kept • Respecting and Protecting Intellectual Property Rights confidential, and that no negative repercussions will redound • Prohibition of Unfair Competition • Information Management on the reporting employees due to such reporting. The • Preservation of the Environment Compliance Committee is responsible for handling all the • Overseas Business Activities information it receives in an appropriate manner. Corporate Citizen as a Member of Society • Prohibition on Giving Bribes Speak-Up System Diagram • Prevention of Unlawful Payments to Foreign Governmental Officials Speak-Up Feedback • Political Contributions Investigation and Compliance Committee appropriate • Confrontation with Antisocial Forces response based on results Maintenance of a Good Working Environment • Respect for Human Rights* • Prohibition of Sexual Harassment Legal Counsel Corporate Auditors • Prohibition on Abuse of Authority Personal Interest Reporting Individual • Insider Trading • Conflict of Interest • Proper Use of Information Systems * Based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 41 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Environmental Management The Sumitomo Corporation Group is committed to contributing to the sustainable development of the world Environmental Management System in through sound business activities that take into account the Sumitomo Corporation Group global environmental issues. The Group has obtained certification for the ISO 14001 standard and has been promoting environmental management activities in accordance with this standard. Environmental Policy We have also introduced a “multiple-site system,” under which activities at multiple sites and organizations are centrally Throughout its 400-year history, the Sumitomo Group has managed in accordance with a single set of environmental pursued industrial development that co-exists with local policies, with the president of Sumitomo Corporation at the communities and the natural environment. Using the top. As of June 2010, more than 15,000 employees at all experience it has built up over this long period, the Sumitomo Sumitomo Corporation business sites in Japan as well as 31 Corporation Group has been working on environmental group companies have participated in these environmental preservation through its business activities. management activities. All group companies carry out environmentally sound management under a common environmental policy, including Our environmental policy, environmental management system, targets and achievements, internal and those participating in the Group’s environmental management external environmental audits, environmental system based on the ISO 14001 standard, in order to reduce accounting, data on the environmental impact of office activities are accessible at: our environmental impact and improve environmental http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ conditions through our business activities. society/environment/ Sumitomo Corporation Group Environmental Policy The Sumitomo Corporation Group recognizes that environmental not only in Japan but also overseas and abide by any agreements issues are global in scale and are long-term matters affecting undertaken by Group companies. future generations. As a global organization, the Sumitomo 3. Caring for the natural environment: Corporation Group, through sound business activities, will strive To protect the natural environment and preserve biodiversity. to achieve sustainable development aimed at symbiosis between social and economic progress and environmental preservation. 4. Efficient use of resources and energy: With this as its basic policy, the Sumitomo Corporation Group To be mindful of the finite availability of resources and energy strives to achieve environmental management in its commercial and strive to use them both efficiently and effectively. trading, business development, and investment, etc., based on the guidelines stated below. 5. Contributing to building a recycling-oriented society: To endeavor to help build a recycling-oriented society by I. Basic Policy reducing waste and reusing and recycling resources. The Sumitomo Corporation Group recognizes that environmental issues are global in scale and are long-term matters affecting 6. Promotion of business that contributes to environmental future generations. As a global organization, the Sumitomo preservation: Corporation Group, through sound business activities, will strive To utilize our integrated corporate strength to promote to achieve sustainable development aimed at symbiosis between businesses and projects that contribute to environmental social and economic progress and environmental preservation. preservation and to reduce the impact of society on the natural environment. II. Basic Guidelines In pursuing its diversified business activities both within Japan 7. Establishment of environmental management: and overseas, the Sumitomo Corporation Group shall comply To use an environmental management system to prevent with the following guidelines, and, through cooperation between environmental pollution and to set environmental objectives and its Group companies, work to achieve the aims of its basic targets which are regularly reviewed and continuously upgraded. environmental policy. 8. Disclosure of the Environmental Policy: 1. Basic stance with regard to the environment: To communicate this Environmental Policy to all people who are To attach great importance to protecting the global environment working for or on behalf of the Sumitomo Corporation Group, as as a good corporate citizen in keeping with the Sumitomo well as disclosing it externally. Corporation’s Activity Guidelines. 2. Compliance with environmental legislation: June 22, 2007 To strictly observe legislation related to environmental matters President and CEO, Sumitomo Corporation Susumu Kato Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 42 Environmental Management 1. Promote business operations that help create a recyclingMajor Activities in 2009 and oriented society. Environmental Targets for 2010 2. Monitor and reduce the electricity and gas consumption in all offices in Japan. Environmental objectives, targets and achievements for 2009 3. Raise employees’ environmental awareness through semiare listed below. In addition to the existing targets, the nars on environmental conservation and other programs. following four targets are chosen for 2010. 4. Disseminate related information by the ISO Office (Environment & CSR Department). Environmental objectives, targets and achievements for 2009 Management Objective Target Achievement Level (January to December 2009) Area · Acquisition of carbon credits under the Kyoto Mechanisms: Reached the targets in terms of approval from the Japanese government but failed to meet the Improve the environment Promote projects to reduce targets in terms of UN registration due to their longer-than-expected verification processes. Environmental through business operations. greenhouse gases. · Gathered information on the post-Kyoto framework through participation in COP15, etc. business · Held explanatory meetings for group companies including overseas offices (four times). Expand environmental Expand businesses utilizing renewable · Started commercial operation of solar power generation business in Spain and wind power business. energy sources. generation business in China. · Continuously assessed the environmental impact of overseas mine developments and Carry out environmental impact domestic regional development projects. Assessment of Reduce environmental assessment and soil pollution surveys. · Completed historical review or soil survey of 67 sites (out of 100 sites) that are subject to soil environmental impacts of business pollution surveys. impact operations. Reduce electricity and gas consumption in · Reduced electricity consumption of Head Office by 1.4% from the previous year by using the all offices in Japan. energy-saving mode of the air conditioning systems and other energy-saving efforts. Prevent accidental spills or Confirm that safe transportation and · Confirmed that transportation and storage companies are conducting appropriate safety leakages of hazardous appropriate education are conducted by training. Ensured proper management of ledgers on the transportation and storage of Hazardous substances during transport or transportation and storage companies. poisonous and hazardous materials and items. Confirmed the receipt of MSDSs. Confirmed substance storage. the occurrence of zero accidents. management Increase the level of chemical substance · Conducted monitoring activities in accordance with applicable laws, such as the Chemical Comply with chemical control. More actively encourage Substance Control Law and the PRTR Act. substance regulations. consignees and suppliers to participate. Establish and implement a specific energy · Continuously worked to improve energy consumption efficiency, which is required by law in conservation plan for transportation as a our capacity as a “specified consigner.” We fell under this category because our total Logistics Promote energy conservation cargo owner. domestic cargo transportation in fiscal 2009 amounted to 375 million ton-kilometers. management in logistics. Encourage domestic carriers to achieve · Our energy consumption efficiency during fiscal 2009 was 2.51 kl / thousand tons (crude oil efficient transportation and evaluate equivalent), a 0.2% improvement from the average of the last four years. their performance. · Held a seminar on waste disposal contracts with external lecturers in November, which was Improve employee training on the Waste attended by 117 participants (29 people of them also attended an on-site workshop at the Disposal and Public Cleaning Act. waste disposal facilities). Proper disposal of waste Legal in accordance with the · Held a joint waste management seminar with Sumisho Global Logistics Co., Ltd. in January (in Improve management systems within compliance Waste Disposal and Public which over 500 people participated). Held a waste management seminar for employees of group companies often disposing of waste Cleaning Act Metal Products Business Unit in November (in which some 90 employees participated). materials. Carry out stricter site · Improved each department’s waste management system by preparing/upgrading their inspections, and share information with respective waste management manuals and taking other actions. other group companies. PI CK U P PI CK U P Recycling vegetable and fruit waste Promoting energy conservation in Harumi Summit collects and recycles vegetable and fruit waste Triton Square generated by its supermarket stores. Harumi Triton Square is an office, commercial and residential In this initiative that was introduced in 2002, complex, which is the location of many business offices including our waste produce is picked up by dedicated garbage head office. As the primary manager of energy consumption in the trucks and composted at a recycling center near the farm. complex, our group company Harumi Corporation is working to The resulting compost is used to grow vegetables, make Harumi Triton Square a sustainable community by monitoring which are sold at a Summit supermarket. the complex’s total environmental impact and introducing energy Some of the waste collected is also processed into conservation activities. In response to the enforcement of the Revised lightweight soil alternatives, and some is fermented and Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation in fiscal the gas emitted is used to generate electricity. 2010, Harumi Corporation organized a task force jointly with facility As of August 31, 2010, 66 management companies in the stores participated in this complex and building design recycling program. consultants. Under the initiative of We will continue to work to the task force, owners, tenants achieve further waste reduction. and management service companies are working together to Recycling truck reduce greenhouse gas emission The first corporate tenant meeting from the complex. to improve energy conservation 43 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 In its Environmental Policy established in 1999, the Sumitomo Corporation Group adopted the following basic policy: “The Sumitomo Corporation Group, through sound business activities, will strive to achieve sustainable development aimed at symbiosis Initiatives for between social and economic progress and environmental preservation,” and included Biodiversity the following principle of caring for the natural environment in the basic guidelines of the policy: “To protect the natural environment and preserve biodiversity.” Accordingly, we are working to maintain and preserve biodiversity in the course of our business activities. Batu Hijau Copper and Gold Mine Project community and NGOs that was established through Sumitomo Corporation and its business partners have been dialogue and cooperation. carrying out the Batu Hijau mine project (Indonesia), one of the world’s largest copper and gold mines. We have Terneyles Timber Project positioned the following four priorities as social responsibilities Sumitomo Corporation has built strong bonds of trust with that must be fulfilled by business operators in the course of OAO Terneyles, an integrated forestry company in Russia. core business activities: (1) minimize impact on the natural Based on the shared belief that sustained business environment and ecosystems, (2) eliminate the negative development is not possible without considering the natural impacts at an early stage, (3) make dedicated efforts environment, the two companies are working together to towards ecological improvement and conservation, and (4) develop a sustainable timber business. provide dedicated support for community development. While communicating and cooperating closely with the local Forest Protection Activities government, communities and NGOs, we are working to The forest areas owned by Terneyles in the far eastern preserve the natural environment and ecosystem, alongside Russian Maritime Province are among the rarest in the world. our mine development and mining operations. This is because both softwoods and hardwoods grow in the same area, and many of the trees are more than 100 years Examples of Activities old. In order to sustain business far into the future without • We minimized the development area, and achieved “zero” depleting these precious resources, we have adopted a wastewater emissions to rivers through the installation of logging method called “ribbon cutting” or “strip felling,” in facilities for recycling wastewater from the mine. which parent trees left intact on both sides of the logged • In an effort to achieve the early natural restoration of area can drop seeds to promote the natural regrowth of existing indigenous species in the mine area, we developed forests. In addition, because it takes approximately 100 years our own land preparation and reforestation technology to restore logged land to its natural state, we limit the annual optimal for local conditions through a large-scale, eightamount of harvested timber to approximately 1:150 of total year study, and are conducting immediate restoration and forest reserves in order to ensure that the amount of forest reforestation work even before the closure of the mine. growth exceeds that of the harvested timber. • In order to protect a rare species of parrot that lives around the mine area, we took steps to prevent poaching (through Boosting the Population of Amur Tigers public relations and educational activities, as well as In recent years, Russia has seen a dramatic decline in the blocking access roads, etc.) and to plant nesting trees, number of endangered Amur tigers due to large-scale forest based on a mutual understanding with the local development and illegal logging. However, the WWF (World government and community that was established through Wide Fund for Nature) has reported that the number of Amur dialogue and cooperation. tigers is increasing in forest areas owned by Terneyles thanks • In order to protect the environment of neighboring regions, to its strict self-regulation on the logging of Korean Pine, we conducted programs including the protection of the which is considered to be at the bottom of the food chain of spawning of endangered marine turtles and restoration of the Amur tigers. coral reefs, based on a mutual understanding with the local The yellow-crested cockatoo, a rare species of parrot, is being protected Protecting the forest habitats of endangered Amur tigers Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 44 Human Resources Management Greater emphasis on human resources development and workforce diversity At Sumitomo Corporation, we are working on the Facilitating an Understanding of the Management development of human and organizational dynamism to Principles by Offering Training Programs Specific to enhance our value-creation capabilities as a qualitative target Career Levels under our current medium-term management plan, FOCUS’10. To ensure the professionalism of Sumitomo Corporation As part of this HR strategy, we are aiming to develop our employees and their DNA are inherited by, and embodied in human resources and to allocate the diverse talents of our our employees, special sessions designed to give a deeper employees, with four key objectives: further development of understanding of the Management Principles are offered as individual capabilities, enhancement of organizational human part of career-level-specific training programs at Sumisho resources management, group-wide human resources Business College (SBC), together with talks and lectures by development, and further focus on the development of global our senior management. talent. This fiscal 2010 report features our new HR programs—selected under the key themes of “mediumand Strategic and Systematic Human Resources long-term” and “global”—which are the strategic and wellDevelopment of Management Candidates planned measures to attract, retain, develop and utilize For the sustainable growth of our Group, it is important to human resources, the players in our CSR activities. develop and implement human resources strategies and measures that are consistent with the latest management strategy in place. To this end, our Human Resources Department and business units work in tandem to attract, Further Strengthening Human Resources retain, develop, and utilize appropriate human resources Development Programs to execute specific business strategies in a strategic and well-planned manner based on our mediumand long-term To Practice Our Management Principles Based objectives. We aim to increase the diversity of our personnel on Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy in the in terms of their experience and personal values, and to Course of Day-to-day Operations focus on the development of young employees to improve Employees at Sumitomo Corporation are expected to have a the capabilities of the future mainstay of our workforce. good understanding of our Group’s Management Principles and Activity Guidelines, and practice the SC Values.* To Job Rotation to Give Greater Diversity to Employees’ help employees renew their recognition of the underlying Experience and Values business philosophy of our company through their hands-on From fiscal 2009, job rotation training has been introduced experience, and practice our Management Principles in their as part of company-wide human resource development daily operations, we are working to develop and improve programs. This training allows employees up to middle related systems and measures. management level to rotate between business units and * SC Values: Nine specific requirements to ensure all employees share the corporate group functions and interact with staff members in values set out in the Management Principles and Activity Guidelines. other business units and departments. These employees can Visits to the Besshi Copper Mine to Experience experience different assignments in different departments, Sumitomo’s Business Philosophy Firsthand covering both front office and back office operations. The Visiting the Besshi Copper Mine, the origin of the Sumitomo purpose of this training is to develop employees who have Corporation Group, has been a regular training event since wide business experience in a strategic and well-planned fiscal 2006. It aims to provide participants with an opportunity manner and thereby further increase the number of highto realize one of the teachings of Sumitomo’s business caliber employees who are qualified to fulfill management philosophy: “Benefit for self and others, private and public positions. This is an immediate priority for us as we are interests are one and the same” and to ensure that the shifting toward a groupwide management focusing on our business philosophy is passed on to younger employees. operational performance on a global consolidated basis. Strengthening Human Resources Management in each Business Unit At Sumitomo Corporation, under the company’s overriding principles of self-management and self-responsibility, each business unit implements its own strategic human resources management programs, such as job rotations between different business units within the same division and its own training programs tailored to its business characteristics. Business units conduct their own staff training and education in order to ensure their mediumand long-term strategic HR needs will be fully satisfied. We also promote strategic Visit to the Besshi Copper Mine 45 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 personnel allocation and training across the company. For example, each business unit formulates its succession plan to systematically train a new generation of mainstay workforce for consistent future growth. In addition, we work to ensure the best person is appointed to the right position globally. Accordingly, key positions at overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are assumed by qualified locally-hired employees, who we believe will facilitate the expansion of business projects under the initiative of local organizations, and this turn will strengthen our capabilities for revenue generation on a global scale. Developing Future Executives at Sumisho Business College Offering long-term training programs for selected participants, such as the training courses for future executives, for business leaders, and for business creators, Training for locally hired employees overseas SBC supports each organization’s efforts for the strategic and systematic development of its future management the development of global taleat, we are encouraging the and business leader candidates, who are expected to localization of human resources to strengthen our global demonstrate strong leadership in achieving sustainable operations. As part of this effort, we conduct training growth of our company. programs for our locally-hired employees working at overseas subsidiaries and associated companies. Each year, approximately 200 overseas employees take training courses designed specifically for their career levels (staff in charge, managers and senior executives) at Head Office in Japan. At the training, participants learn more about Sumitomo’s business philosophy and the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Corporation Group, in order to pass on the corporate DNA and strengthen their sense of unity. They also receive information on the Group's management directions and strategies, and attend “skill-up” seminars on a variety of themes and attend joint programs with Head Office employees. Going forward, in addition to refining and expanding these training courses at Head Office, we will implement more regional-based training courses in order to strengthen our human resources capabilities across the entire Group worldwide. We will also develop a mechanism for global, group-wide staff allocation based on our mediumTraining future executives and long-term strategy. Developing a Wide Variety of Human Resources Human Resources Development Fund for Developing Worldwide to Adopt to Shifting Paradigms Future Global Business Capabilities To operate a successful global business in a wide variety of In fiscal 2010, a new fund for human resources development business areas today when a major paradigm shift is taking was established in a bid to facilitate our efforts to attract, place in terms of the global power structure, and industrial retain and develop talents who will play vital roles in structures, we must train and develop our employees achieving our mediumand long-term growth strategies worldwide in a way that ensures they have the diverse set of of business units and divisions. The fund is used for our values and professional expertise for their business area and strategic and systematic HR training programs to develop market location. talents with excellent global business capabilities, by sending many employees overseas. We place particular emphasis Promoting Human Resources Development across on the training of Chinese, Russian, Spanish, Portuguese the Entire Group and other languages, because seizing opportunities in In line with the major objectives of our HR strategy: groupthe growth markets of emerging countries will become wide human resources development, and further focus on important business objectives of our Group in the future. Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 46 Human Resources Management Greater emphasis on human resources development and workforce diversity In addition, we are also planning to invest aggressively in in our talented personnel. The facility will also provide a human resources development from mediumand longmultipurpose and versatile space, supplementing Head term perspectives, including sending employees, primarily Office functions. In the building, we expect to see our those in managerial positions, to business schools abroad Group employees from around the world, irrespective of to acquire the latest management literacy and build a organization or country, meeting for detailed discussions on network with international executives, bringing locallythe future visions and strategies of our Group. hired employees of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies to Head Office, and implementing international exchange programs for young employees. Promoting Workplace Diversity Developing Global Business Capabilities at Sumisho Business College Creating New Value through Employee Diversity To facilitate further development of individual capabilities Sumitomo Corporation has always been proactive and through off-the-job training, SBC offers a variety of training responsive to society’s and employees’ employment-related programs—300 courses annually—ranging from mandatory needs, including diversifying workers’ needs and preferences basic courses for all employees to seminars on more across society, shortening overtime hours, empowering advanced technical topics and leadership development. female workers, extending employment periods, SBC supports employees in improving their language encouraging a work-life balance, and employing other and communication skills to function on the international nationalities. We will continue to build a culture and systems business scene. For example, it offers intensive English that encourage workforce diversity so that employees with courses, newly introduced in fiscal 2009, and follow-up different background can deliver their best performance and online English conversation courses for young employees. bring new value to their respective workplace and contribute to the sustainable growth of our Group. Attracting, Retaining, Developing and Utilizing Diversified Human Resources Our recruitment policy focuses on the applicants’ abilities and motivation without discriminating on gender or educational background. We also welcome many mid-career workers, as well as new graduates, in our company every year. The numbers of female and international employees have also been increasing. Employees who wish to keep working Intensive English course even after reaching the retirement age of 60 can use the Re-Employment Program to extend their employment. Workplace diversity has also been promoted on a global scale; for instance, executives of our overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are appointed to responsible Online English conversation course positions in the Group and locally-hired overseas employees have come to Japan to work at Head Office. In addition, the New Training Center for the Development of Global Careers Advisor Program has started to help all employees Business Capabilities realize their full potential. In each business unit, a career In 2012, a new training advisor (CA) who has extensive experience in the company is center will be established assigned to support each employee’s career development. in Ginza, Tokyo. The new building will serve Encouraging a Diversity of Working Styles as a training center to We believe that supporting each and every employee to develop global talented have a fulfilling professional and personal life will drive the personnel and as a strategic company forward and create new value. multipurpose facility. As a Encouraging our employees to have a good work-life training center, we will use balance also means respecting various values and lifestyles. the building to strengthen In turn this has actually contributed to enhancing the our human resources company’s value-creation capabilities and allowing individual development across the employees to achieve prosperity and realize their dreams. entire Group worldwide New training center in Ginza and to encourage diversity (rendering) 47 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 Activities that Enable a Good Work-life Balance At Sumitomo Corporation, various measures to enable a Column good work-life balance have been discussed, developed and Launching the KENPOS website to support implemented on an ongoing basis under the leadership of employees’ health the Work-Life Balance Promotion Project Team, a companyIn March 2010, we opened a new intranet website, KENPOS, to wide committee. These measures aim to remove or mitigate encourage our employees to take action to keep healthy and to employees’ concerns and difficulties, creating a vigorous keep doing it. and comfortable workplace, and to raise employees’ Through the website, employees can use points awarded to awareness through training programs and other tools. In them for walking or doing other exercise to win health gadgets or spring 2010, all employees received a copy of a pamphlet on make donations for the fight against cancer and other purposes. work-life balance, which introduces what kind of programs On the “diary” section of the website, participants can share their experiences and keep each other motivated. The program are available in the company and how our employees are has inspired employees to become more health-conscious. Just trying to achieve four months after the website was launched, membership of a balanced life. the KENPOS program has grown to more than 60 percent of We will continue employees and the number of monthly steps participants have to take additional logged on their pedometers has increased on average by more steps to help each than 1,000 steps. workplace and employee achieve a better work-life balance which in itself will lead to the sustainable growth Triton Sukusuku Square, childcare facility on company premises of the company. Safeguarding Employees’ Physical and Mental Well-being Staying healthy both physically and mentally is a prerequisite to a good work-life balance. We opened the Koriton massage room in 2008 to provide employees of Sumitomo Corporation Group companies with a relaxing and refreshing therapy for their body and mind. We also opened the SCG Counseling Center in 2005 to support employees’ KENPOS website mental health management. The center is functioning as a convenient place to receive counseling, with several hundreds of visits by employees every year. The center provides mental health care for employees on overseas assignments and their accompanying families through counseling and other services, thereby helping them stay healthy physically and mentally in unfamiliar environments. Work-life balance support systems Target Systems and actions Leave Annual leave, refresher leave, special leave for overseas assignments, volunteer leave Changes to working styles Time management Flextime, ban on late night work, time management training sessions Health management (mental and physical) SCG Counseling Center, Koriton massage room Matrimonial leave, spouse’s maternity leave, maternity leave, sick-child leave, childcare leave, shorter working hours for employees Support for pregnant and parenting employees with young children, Triton Sukusuku Square (childcare facility on company premises), discounted baby-sitting services Support for employees with family care needs Leave to look after a sick family member, family care leave, shorter working hours for employees with family care needs Career support Career Adviser Program, personal leave system for employees whose spouses are transferred overseas for work Awareness-raising WLB seminars, WLB help desk, pamphlet on WLB, mental health seminars Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 48 Third-party Review In essence the main processes introduced in the dialogue are: kyosei *, creating opportunities to achieve long-term and mutual prosperity, partnership, building relationships of trust based upon a clear understanding of the values and goals and the ability to make oneself understood in turn, and global perspective, grasping the wider picture from a variety of perspectives and taking the initiative to learn, change and grow. The dialogue sets the direction of the overall report and Professor Scott Davis also provides a framework by which it can be evaluated. Professor of College of Business Rikkyo University Kyosei, partnership and global perspective This report represents the latest stage in the Sumitomo The five themes introduced in the report are well designed, Corporation’s (hereafter Sumitomo) steadily developing balanced and highly legible yet given in great detail. The strategy for implementing CSR management and first three are clear examples of the remarkable extent to enhancing communication with stakeholders. In previous which Sumitomo integrates local and social goals into the reports Sumitomo has outlined its conceptualization of its design of its operations. In each of the first three themes the responsibilities to society as a business based upon closely exposition of how kyosei, trust based partnership and a global defined values (report for 2008), and stated its strategic plans perspective is built into the long-term design, operation and for the betterment of society by developing opportunities for evaluation of each of these very different business initiatives creating economic and social value (report for 2009). Going is clearly explained and well presented. What is even more further, this report introduces the reader to the systems and remarkable here is that these three examples of Sumitomo’s processes by which Sumitomo translates its values into implementation of business for the benefit of society are also ongoing business concerns designed for the betterment three of the most vital business initiatives for ensuring of society. the future of Sumitomo itself as a business. This clearly shows In the report for 2009 President Kato stated that the the extent to which Sumitomo's contribution to the wellbeing social and economic changes we currently face represent of society is defined in and achieved through its core a paradigm shift under which further economic growth and business activities. prosperity will only be possible if industry develops the abilities Of all the themes, however, the most remarkable is the needed to resolve the environmental degradation, resource fifth wherein the activities of the CSR Committee established shortages and social problems facing us on a global scale. by Sumitomo employees in China are described. The work In this report he explains what these abilities are and how being done by the members of Sumitomo in China deserves Sumitomo is developing them as an organization working special praise. Few Japanese corporations can boast of CSR in collaboration with its partners around the world. Going initiatives of this quality within their national headquarters – beyond a unilateral statement of values and goals, President let alone in one of their overseas operations. I look forward Kato uses his dialogue with young Sumitomo employees to to reading in future reports of the unique initiatives being explain these abilities, illustrate the importance of developed in China and of how these achievements are being sharing Sumitomo's values in their development and used to promote other inter-regional CSR initiatives. locate them within the ongoing process of business innovation and change. 49 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 The next ten years futures and realize what they each call “dreams.” When compared to many other firms, trading companies often Sumitomo has produced yet another excellent CSR report seem to require greater degrees of trust from a wider range this year. This report will surely enhance the understanding of partners in more divergent regions in order to succeed. of Sumitomo as a responsible business and the extent of Perhaps this is because corporations like Sumitomo are its commitment to contributing to its many stakeholders. In essentially engaged in creating whole markets – in changing the next CSR report I look forward to reading an outline of the way resources are utilized, knowledge is generated and Sumitomo's own dreams for the future – an exposition of its applied, and partners interact in order to enhance value vision for the next ten years, its goals for contributing to the creation, productivity, and promote further development. regions in which it will operate, the changes that it will strive Sumitomo is in the business of innovation. As shown in the to implement, the partners who will collaborate with it, the examples from its businesses in Indonesia, Bolivia and Japan, abilities it must develop, and the milestones by which it will Sumitomo brings together partners to work to create better measure its progress. * In this context “kyosei” refers to an ongoing and sustained relationship of interdependence and co-prosperity between two or more parties. Going beyond the concept of a “win-win” relationship, kyosei includes an emphasis on long-term and inclusive development to the benefit of all. Response to the Third-party Review We thank Professor Scott Davis for his important growing together with society. We recognize that this review of Sumitomo Corporation Report on is the ideal pattern for the operation of the Sumitomo Responsibility & Sustainability 2010. This is the third Corporation Group. issue for which we have received a review of our report Professor Davis also advised us to include the from Professor Davis. dreams that the Sumitomo Corporation Group This year’s report reflects his review of the last envisions for the next 10 years. We are well aware that issue, along with opinions and advice we have received the contents of this report must keep changing both in from various stakeholders through surveys and by other depth and range in order to best describe the progress means. To compile this issue, we focused on reporting of our CSR measures and activities. The specific items specific examples of our measures to implement the Professor Davis pointed out in his Third-party Review Management Principles of the Sumitomo Corporation will be fully examined and incorporated into our future Group so that we can spread a deeper understanding activities as well as used in compiling the next issue of of our ideas and activities on CSR to our readers. For this report. the Group, CSR means implementing our Management The Sumitomo Corporation Group will continue to Principles. The three items mentioned in the review: promote CSR, always keeping our corporate vision in “kyosei”, “partnership” and “global perspective” are the the forefront of our minds, and report our activities to most important elements in our CSR measures. Each our stakeholders through the Sumitomo Corporation and every employee must always keep these ideas in Report on Responsibility & Sustainability. mind when they are working on their projects across a wide range of fields. As Professor Davis correctly points out, “trust” is the most important keyword in pursuing our business Takashi Kano activities globally and in a variety of fields. With that Chair of the CSR Promotion Committee trust, we can build partnerships and create new Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, value to offer to society, gain more trust and keep General Manger, Corporate Planning & Coordination Group Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 50 Company Information Company Profile (As of March 31, 2010) Company Name: Sumitomo Corporation Consolidated Shareholders’ Equity: 1,583.7 billion yen Establishment: December 24, 1919 Fiscal Year End: March 31 Number of Employees: Number of Consolidated Subsidiaries: 566 (overseas: 420, domestic 146) 5,100 (72,030 including consolidated subsidiaries) Associated Companies (Equity Method): Headquarters: 1-8-11 Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8610, Japan 221 (overseas: 168, domestic: 53) URL: http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ Total: 787 companies Organization General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors (Chairman: Chairman of the Board of Directors) President and CEO, Executive Officers Transportation & Construction Human Resources, Metal Products Business Unit New Industry Development & Infrastructure Business Unit Company-wide Committees* Mineral Resources, Energy, Overseas Subsidiaries and Domestic Subsidiaries and General Products & Media, Network & Lifestyle Internal Auditing Dept. Financial Resources Corporate Planning & Chemical & Electronics Offices Offices Cross-function Business Unit Real Estate Business Unit Retail Business Unit Systems Business Unit General Affairs & Legal Group Business Unit Management Group Coordination Group Business Units Corporate Group * Company-wide Committees: CSR Promotion Committee, Global Environment Committee, Internal Control Committee, Compliance Committee, Information Disclosure Committee, IR Committee, Human Resources Development Promotion Committee, Work-Life Balance Promotion Project Team, Value Integration Committee, Loan and Investment Committee, Medium-term Management Plan Promotion Support Committee, and others. Financial Highlights (Billions of yen) Fiscal 2006 Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Gross Profit 857.7 934.5 935.2 779.5 Results of Net Financial Income (23.0) (27.6) (21.5) (12.8) Operations Equity in Earnings of Associated Companies, net 70.3 56.9 90.0 76.1 Net Income 211.0 238.9 215.1 155.2 Total Assets 8,430.5 7,571.4 7,018.2 7,137.8 Financial Position Shareholders’ Equity 1,473.1 1,492.7 1,353.1 1,583.7 at Year End Interest-Bearing Liabilities (net) 2,913.3 3,247.6 3,186.8 2,781.8 Shareholders’ Equity Ratio (%) 17.5 19.7 19.3 22.2 ROE (%) 15.2 16.1 15.1 10.6 Ratios ROA (%) 2.8 3.0 2.9 2.2 Debt-Equity Ratio (net) (times) 2.0 2.2 2.4 1.8 Note: For more detailed information on financial issues, please refer to our Annual Report. http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ir/ 51 Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 For any inquiries or comments regarding this report, please contact: Sumitomo Corporation Environment & CSR Department 1-8-11, Harumi, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8610, Japan Phone: +81-3-5166-8691 Fax: +81-3-5166-6310 Email: environment-and-csr@sumitomocorp.co.jp URL: http://www.sumitomocorp.co.jp/english/ Report on Responsibility & Sustainability 2010 52 This report is printed on paper made in part from domestic pulp (70%), including pulp from thinned wood and domestic conifer wood (at least 15%). Published in November 2010 Printed in Japan
