Sustainability Report ‘10 6 years of experience and specialization …50 important and demanding customers globally with over 500,000 employees in total 5000 Executives from 25 countries trained High expertise and innovations in Sustainability [Type text] Table of Contents The Nature of the Business............................................................................................... 3 CSE Worldwide Activities ............................................................................................... 4 CSE Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact................................. 5 Policy Review ................................................................................................................... 6 Stakeholder Mapping........................................................................................................ 6 Our Corporate Partners ..................................................................................................... 7 CSE Sustainability Stories with significant impact .......................................................... 8 Human Rights ................................................................................................................. 11 Labour............................................................................................................................. 13 Environment ................................................................................................................... 15 Anti-corruption ............................................................................................................... 19 CSE Future Objectives ................................................................................................... 20 Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) ....................................................... 20 Background Information................................................................................................. 23 Making this CoP available to stakeholders..................................................................... 23 Evaluation Form of our Sustainability Report 2010 ....................................................... 24 2 The Nature of the Business CSE is a global Sustainability (CR) strategic advisory and training organization with offices in Chicago, Brussels and Athens. CSE works in more than 20 countries with private and public sector clients, including FT500, for the integration of Sustainability (CR) within their operations and has extensive experience in the areas of Sustainability (CR) Strategy, Reporting, Carbon footprint and Supply Chain Management. CSE is a leading training provider to more than 5000 Executives and has partnerships with leading global institutes including Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), CDP, myclimate, Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA). Our international specialists and consultants provide clients unique and advanced services to achieve stakeholder value across operational and organizational frameworks. Contributing to the formation of Sustainability (CR) trends worldwide, CSE assists organizations and institutions to produce positive impacts and value through a vast array of services. CSE Services Life Cycle Assessment & Carbon Footprint Certified Professional Training Green & Social Cause Related Marketing Sustainability (CR) Strategy & Reporting Sustainable Supply Chain Management Sustainability Verification & Assurance CSE Team: Executives & Advisors Nikos Avlonas, Founder & President CSE Louis Christopher, Chief of Marketing & Development for CSE North America Demetria Giannisis, Strategic Sustainability Advisor for CSE Aglaia Ntili, Business Development Manager CSE Nick Andrews, member of the advisory board of CSE North American George P. Nassos, member of the advisory board of CSE North America Bjorn Fischer, advisory Board of CSE globally Elena Sarri, CSR Strategy & Reporting Manager CSE Marina Alonistioti, Carbon Footprint Strategy Manager CSE 3 CSE Worldwide Activities CSE operates globally, and its activities include projects, conferences, workshops and other initiatives in the areas of CR and Sustainability. 4 CSE Statement of Continued Support for the UN Global Compact Looking back over the past year, we are really proud to have met our commitment to globalize sustainability, by including new services to our portfolio and expanding into new areas. Our flexible working structure has enabled us to meet our targets, expand and exceed customer expectations. Our long-lasting partnerships are becoming stronger while new collaborations are providing valuable insight for further expansion. CSE has embraced the UN Global Compact and endorsed its 10 Principles since 2008, referring to Human Rights, Labour standards, Environment and Anti-corruption and is committed to behaving in a corporate responsible manner. We have incorporated the UN Global Compact and its Principles in our policy, and operations, while at the same time they are promoted through all our services to all the markets we have active presence, proving they are a vital component of our strategic direction. Within the same rationale, CSE is a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Silver Education and Training Partner in the USA and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Certified Training Provider in Greece. This Communication on Progress (CoP) forms an integral part of our commitment and is a statement of our progress, our achievements and our goals for the future. Transparency is a fundamental part of our activities and we ensure that information pertaining to the economic, social and environmental impact of our operations is accessible and available to all our stakeholders. This report covers the period from January 2010 to December 2010. The following pages provide a detailed presentation of our commitment to each of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. Our policies, processes and management systems in place as well as our actions and targets for continuous improvement are outlined here. We hope you will find this report motivating and informative and as we strive to become better, we look forward to any comments and suggestions you might have. Nikos Avlonas – Founder and President of CSE 5 Policy Review In order to ensure the quality of company services and products, CSE has adopted a Stakeholder Code of Conduct. Through the code, all stakeholders, internal and external, are committed and engaged to ensure the policies reflect both company and individuals by signing the code. The Stakeholder Code of Conduct includes the commitment of our organisation and our employees in reference to human rights, working conditions and labour standards, the environment and to anti-corruption. Since 2006, CSE has implemented a Green Office Policy that aims to reduce waste generation, through the implementation of office recycling initiatives, to reduce levels of direct and indirect CO2 emissions, through energy saving reduction practices, and to offset those emissions. VISION An advisory network comprised of specialists with international experience, CSE provides a meeting platform and an advisory panel, acting as a key Promoter and Coach with the objective of increasing Sustainability and Excellence within Organizations, Society and Governments. The overall objective of CSE is to create positive impact and added value for all stakeholders across the Triple Bottom Line. MISSION CSE is committed to globalizing sustainability by advising and educating organizations, institutions and governments to reconsider business models and adopt sustainability strategies that produce positive impact and high stakeholder value. CSE commitment has led its leadership to be distinguished as a Top Thought Leader for Trustworthy Business Behaviour in 2010 by Trust Across America. Walk the Talk… CSE publishes an Annual Sustainability Report Based on UNGC Principles since 2008. Stakeholder Mapping Due to the fact that our organization operates in countries worldwide, our network of stakeholders works in the same extension. Our stakeholders exist worldwide and cover a wide range. The Primary Stakeholders of CSE (shown on the Figure 1 below) are: Employees Affiliates Clients Suppliers 6 Partner organizations Media: They affect the company’s sustainability via the promotion of our brand image. Most importantly, they are the primary tool of showcasing CSE competencies and best practices Other organizations with similar Activities Community: o Local Community (Location of CSE Premises) o International Community: Countries in which CSE carry on activities Figure 1: CSE Stakeholders’ Mapping Our Corporate Partners 7 CSE Sustainability Stories with significant impact CSE has extensive and comprehensive experience in the design, implementation and promotion of Sustainability (CR). To gain a more practical understanding of the CSE methodology, please refer to our Sustainability Stories, accessible in our website (www.cse-net.org). BSH Ikiakes Syskeves A.B.E. As the use of the Home Appliances has a high Carbon Footprint, B/S/H Ikiakes Syskeves A.B.E. wanted to calculate the emissions from the use of its appliances and offset them for the first 5 years of their use. CSE was responsible for measuring the Carbon emissions and offsetting them. In order to calculate the GHG emissions for the use of the B/S/H home appliances, information has been used concerning the energy consumption of each home appliance according to the manufacturer specifications, the yearly average use and their average life expectancies. The calculations for the GHG emissions were made for the use of the following home appliance by PITSOS, one of BSH’s brands: PITSOS appliances are certified as climate neutral for their use for 5 years. Coca Cola Hellas – FIFA World Cup In 2010, the FIFA World Cup took place in South Africa. FIFA, in collaboration with Coca Cola, had decided to make a tour of the authentic FIFA Trophy in 84 countries. On the 9th of April the trophy reached AthensGreece. Coca Cola Hellas wanted to calculate the GHG emissions and offset the three-day visit of the authentic FIFA Trophy in Greece.. CSE supported FIFA to create the ‘’ Climate Neutral FIFA Trophy ‘’. Coca Cola Hellas, sponsor of the FIFA WORLD CUP, in collaboration with CSE, has certified the threeday visit of the Cup to Greece as Climate Neutral. The calculations of the emitted Greenhouse Gases included the transportation of the TROPHY, the press conference that took place on the 10th of April and the event itself that took place on the 11th of April and was attended by 10.000 people. 8 The offsetting of the GHG emissions was made through myclimate. The carbon offset projects lead to a reduction in CO2 emissions, while making a significant contribution to sustainable development in the respective regions. myclimate carbon offset projects fulfill the highest standards. Hellenic Petraleum Hellenic Petroleum wanted to take inventory of the GHG Emissions occurring from its operations at its HQs. CSE performed the necessary calculations to determine the energy consumption of the Hellenic Petroleum main office buildings. CSE based its calculations on the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard. Data collected included information on corporate travel, usage of corporate cars, electricity consumption, commuting and paper consumption. In addition, CSE proceeded to perform an energy audit of the building. An energy audit is an inspection, survey and analysis of energy flows for energy conservation in a building, process or system to reduce the amount of energy input into the system without negatively affecting the outputs. The results of GHG Emissions Inventory determined the most energy consuming operations. Furthermore, by conducting the energy audit, CSE was able to suggest actions towards minimizing the GHG emissions and the cost from energy consumption. GAEA GAEA was ambitious to make its Olive Oil products Carbon neutral. In addition to the measurement of the products’ Carbon Footprints, CSE also measured their Water Footprints, the first of its kind worldwide. Calculations were conducted for olive oil that is produced in the regions of Lasithi, Crete and Messinia, Peloponnese, with the support of CSE and Christos Zoumides, Water Footprint expert and Research Fellow at the Department of Environmental Management at the University of Technology in Cyprus. The Water Footprint (WF) of a product is the volume of freshwater used to produce the product, measured over the full supply chain. The objective is to measure the WF of all the processes entailed when manufacturing/producing a product. 9 Medline Medline wished to measure its carbon emissions and reduce and offset them. CSE conducted a Life Cycle Analysis of Medline’s products and services and provided the company with marketing support. CSE made the calculations needed and the verification for the creation of the Carbon Footprint study. For the calculations of the Carbon Footprint, CSE performed the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) of the Polypropylene Plastic, which included: production and transportation of the raw materials, transportation of the final product, energy consumption, packaging, waste management and generally all procedures that were needed to create the product. Additionally CSE created all Marketing Material and supported the Communication Strategy for the creation of the first Carbon Neutral product. Athenian Brewery (member of Heineken Group) For its second sustainability report Athenian Brewery faced the challenge of exceeding stakeholder expectations by providing a comprehensive sustainability report based on International Standards, and improving its sustainability performance. CSE guided the Athenian Brewery during the process of improving its Sustainability performance and provided support in prioritizing, selecting, writing and presenting the Sustainability Report according to the GRI G3 guidelines. On completion of the report, CSE provided external assurance for the Sustainability Report and evaluated the extent to which the content of the G3 guidelines were used. In addition, CSE conducted training on Corporate Social Responsibility for the management team of the Athenian Brewery. CSE supported its client further in its sustainability journey and carried out an organization wide survey in order to evaluate the degree of employee satisfaction in terms of Corporate Social Responsibility strategy and actions. Furthermore, it created a manual to assist Athenian Brewery in selecting and managing future CSR programs. 10 Human Rights UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuse Our commitment or policy We place tremendous value on supporting and respecting human rights, deriving from our established Code of Conduct, according to which we operate and collaborate with our stakeholders.  We are committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  We have a strong stand on ensuring that our organisation, inlcuding its employees, suppliers and customers as well as all our stakeholders are not complicit in human rights abuses.  We are committed to treating people with respect, courtesy, honesty and fairness and respecting different values, beliefs, cultures and religions.  It is of great importance to us that employees and affiliates work in a safe and healthy environment.  We apply these commitments to our own operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers in all the countries we operate.  We adhere to strict compliance, and will continue to do so, with all relevant Greek laws and the laws of all the countries in which we operate, including those relating to human rights. Description of our processes or systems To practise our commitments, we established and follow processes and systems which derive from the context of the CSE Stakeholder Code of Conduct. First of all, we ensure that our employees are aware of their own human rights and are not complicit in human rights abuses, while at the same time promoting their role to help the protection of other people’s human rights. As an advisory organisation, CSE additionally advises and assists its clients to manage their own responsibilities in this area. CSE is an international organisation, operating in countries of different cultures and different laws. Therefore, we are committed to respect and operate according to the laws of each country, while at the same time ensuring that the operations of our clients are respectful of global ethical standards. Our Actions to implement these Principles Since CSE is an international organization with offices in Europe and USA, we comply with the European Union and US laws, in reference to human rights. We further ensure that our 11 stakeholders and suppliers based in countries of the European Union and USA comply with the same laws. In reference to our engagement with suppliers and partners, who originate and operate in countries outside the European Union, we assure that all relevant (legal, operational and financial) documentation is provided, which proves the ethical viability of the organisation with respect to human rights. We conduct regular (annual) assessments, analyzing various focus areas relevant to our suppliers and partners policy vis-à-vis their employees, their community and the environment in which they operate. More specifically, we request of our suppliers to meet standards for Sustainability (CSR) or international guidelines (e.g. SA8000, UN Global Compact, EFQM Framework for CSR, GRI). 12 Labour UN Global Compact Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment and policy CSE strives to be an equal opportunity employer. More specific, we are committed to:  Not discriminating in respect of gender, color, religion, culture, education, social status, ethnic belonging or national origin, or any other status.  Providing employee support mechanisms  Respecting privacy clauses per employee  Ensuring fair remuneration.  Fair, objective, impartial and transparent recruitment, promotion and procurement procedures. We apply this commitment to our own operations, within our field of influence and through our work with our customers and all our stakeholders. Furthermore, we seek to make partnerships with like-minded organizations. Description of our processes or systems In order to turn our commitment into practice, we operate processes or systems to inform, guide and enact this commitment by ensuring that CSE supports the elimination of discrimination and investing in its employees through training and workshops. Our processes include:  Commitment of CSE towards its employees and affiliates (Stakeholder Code of Conduct)  Commitment of CSE towards assuring the optimum performance of employees by clearly communicating all relevant company information and procedures (Induction Manual)  Sustainability Policy Our Actions to implement these Principles In CSE, we support a multicultural environment and make no discrimination in terms of gender, religion and nationalities. CSE operates also with the assistance of affiliates, who originate from diverse educational, racial and religious backgrounds. Depending upon CSE needs for advisory services, for the projects we handle, we collaborate with an international network of 13 experts, based in different regions across the world. We are a very diverse team, having members of five (5) different nationalities. CSE welcomes interns in its workplace. Our interns come from different educational, racial and religious backgrounds. A guide has been developed that outlines the key information interns need (induction manual). Furthermore, on-going weekly coach-mentoring sessions are being run by their line manager. We recognize the importance of employee development and understand that the knowledge and skills of our employees are the company’s most important assets. According to CSE HR policy, we offer partial funding for Certified Trainings (part-time mode) to our employees after at least 18 months of co-operation, giving them the opportunity to extend their knowledge level, encouraging employee development. Moreover, CSE takes an active role in enriching employees’ knowledge and understanding of CR and sustainable development. The implementation of in-house training workshops provides a concrete part of CSE innovative and practical application of Sustainability (CSR) practices and methodologies. 14 Environment UN Global Compact Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment and policy CSE is a member of the UN Global Compact, a fact that underlines our precautionary approach, the undertaking of environmental initiatives and the use of environmentally friendly technologies. We are extremely committed to continually improving our environmental performance, preventing pollution and acting beyond the compliance of all applicable laws and regulations. According to our Green Office Policy, which is in effect since 2006, CSE priority is to reduce waste and direct and indirect CO2 emissions. This is achieved through the implementation of office recycling initiatives and complemented by the offsetting of emissions that cannot be avoided. More specifically, we: Initiate efforts towards reporting environmental standards of our organisation and encourage all our stakeholders to do the same. Consult with stakeholders regarding the development of common environmental activities. Are educators in matters regarding conservation and recycling, and communicate the aim of our efforts to stakeholders, clients and suppliers. Manage our remaining CO2 emissions through involvement in carbon reduction and neutralizing activities. Exercise more environmental consciousness when making purchases. Work to minimise our use of energy Ensure all employees are aware of this policy so that it is implemented effectively Promote environmentally friendly technologies to our clients, aiming to minimise their energy use. Develop our products and services in a more environmentally friendly manner. Promote the environmental conscious lifestyle to employees both at office and at home Description of our processes or systems CSE operates processes or systems to inform, guide and enact this commitment in order to turn them into practice. 15 Our processes include:  Stakeholder Code of Conduct  Sustainability Policy  Keeping records of energy, water and paper consumption  Following methods to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 outputs  Offsetting our CO2 emissions  Sustainability Report Our Actions to implement these Principles CSE keeps records of energy, water and paper consumption, business travels and ways of transport in order to measure our CO2 emissions. In parallel to our offsetting activities, we are dedicated to an environmental management strategy with the goal of minimising our environmental footprint and continuing to offset our emissions in order to maintain our status as a climate neutral organisation. According to our Sustainability Policy and our Stakeholder code of conduct, CSE takes actions such as:  CSE has implemented an office recycling scheme in which signatories of CSE Stakeholder Code of Conduct dispense waste material accordingly. Bins for paper, plastic, glassware and metals have been placed in our office premises enabling easy access to recycling. Furthermore, all recycled material is disposed in recycling bins placed by the Municipality in the neighbourhood where our offices are located.  CSE has installed environmentally responsible software to its printing utilities that save ink, paper and reduce operating cost. For the period between January 2010 and December 2010, we have printed 18.153 pages using this software and we achieved to reduce our CO2 emissions by 90 kg.  CSE proceeds with environmentally friendly printing that uses sustainable paper stock and no harmful solvents. The corporate brochures are printed on 100% recycled paper.  CSE uses compost bins in its offices, in order to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills and produce a nutrient-rich food product for the garden. The Compost bin helps improve soil structure, maintain moisture levels, and keep the soil's PH balance in check while helping to suppress plant disease.  Where possible, CSE has agreed to purchase more environmentally friendly office supplies as opposed to their nocuous counterparts.  In order to track its most energy-consuming sources of its headquarters, CSE has installed an energy-consumption tracking system. This system enables CSE to cut its operational cost and hence reduce its carbon footprint. Regarding its water management policy 16  CSE has installed faucet aerators so as to reduce its water footprint. Water footprint is a newly coined word introduced in 2002 by UNESCO-IHE and refers to the environmentally friendly water management.  CSE has installed a mechanism in its toilets consisting of a plastic container inside the toilet cistern that reduces water consumption for each flush.  As a result of these actions, CSE achieved a significant reduction on the water consumption. The scope of CSE environmental policy not only takes actions to reduce its impact in the environment, but also to inform and set an example to the stakeholders and the communities in which we operate. For that reason, we publish our actions, KPIs, and results, through the production of a regular annual sustainability report. Due to the nature of our organisation, our aim is to promote sustainable business practices via the dissemination of environmentally and socially conscious products and services. The overall objective seeks to inject sustainability into our clients’ corporate culture and help them achieve sustainable operations via the provision of cutting-edge products, which reduce cost and ameliorate the organisation’s environmental and social footprint. CSE is a Climate Neutral Organisation annually certified by the Swiss organisation, myclimate. The resulting Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions, originating from the operation of CSE offices and the implementation of corporate sponsored events and workshops, were offset in myclimate carbon offset projects (renewable energy projects in developing countries). Raising Awareness at the Community Level 1. Following the successful year of 2009, during 2010 CSE hosted a number of roundtables connecting corporate leaders with expert insight so as to navigate the challenges and opportunities related to sustainability issues. The most sustainability-minded business leaders gathered in order to achieve transformative leadership on the sustainability agenda and create added-value for their organisations. The Roundtable Events complemented CSE main events, i.e. the Certified Sustainability (CSR) Practitioner Workshop. The CSE workshops are certified by the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment (IEMA), and are designed for all professionals responsible for the management of Sustainability (CR), Marketing, and Public Relation activities, General Managers, Public Relations Managers and Sustainability and Environmental Professionals enabling them to advance their Sustainability (CSR) understanding, acquire the skills and knowledge that will bring added value and authenticity to their company, and to earn an official business qualification. To date, CSE, as a top provider of specialized trainings in CR and Sustainability, in more than 12 countries (Greece, UAE, USA, Spain, Kenya, Cyprus, Slovak Republic, Switzerland, Kuwait, Turkey, Egypt, Qatar, Hong Kong, Ecuador, Malaysia, Mexico), has trained more than 5.000 professionals from all industry sectors, such as Retail, Finance, Heavy Industry, Energy, Food & Beverages, Infrastructure, Telecommunications, Government, Construction, Conference and Event Organizers, Construction, Pharmaceutical/ Cosmetics, NGO, Academia, Chemical 17 Industry, Transportation, Real Estate, Media. CSE has certified 158 Sustainability (CSR) Practitioners, since January 2008. 2. Nikos Avlonas, one of the Founders and President of the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) was named one of 2010’s 100 Top Thought Leaders in Trustworthy Business Behavior by Trust Across America, a program of Next Decade, Inc. which is dedicated to unraveling the complexities of trustworthy business behavior. After 2 years of research, Trust Across America narrowed the list focusing on professionals who ‘collectively represent a group that can genuinely transform and reverse the cycle of mistrust in business’. 3. Green Academy Initiative: CSE has proudly launched the Green Academy in an effort to promote Green Entrepreneurship and accelerate the development of emerging Niche Startups whose activities are based on principles of the Triple Bottom Line and Sustainability. Green Entrepreneurship will be the key to solving the economic and environmental challenges and will provide new jobs for the next generation of professionals. It will drive environmental and economic growth and produce a new wave of business that can support significant portion of a country’s wealth and job-creation opportunities. CSE has designed various tools to help young professionals and entrepreneurs start a Green Business. 18 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment or policy CSE is an organisation that promotes social responsibility and is committed towards all its stakeholders to working transparently. We have a zero tolerance policy towards corruption in all its forms and do not condone illegal activities such as bribery, fraud or theft. Our commitments are described in CSE Stakeholder Code of Conduct. In particular employees or associates: Are against any illegal acts such as bribery, fraud, theft, money laundering or stolen property. Report any fraud or corruption that they become aware of In addition, we apply this commitment to our own operations, within our field of influence, our clients in any country we operate in and to the activities of all our stakeholders that are connected to ours. Description of our processes or systems Our operational processes to inform, guide and enact the commitment above are described in our transparency policy and include:  External Audit  External Advisory Board Our Actions to implement these Principles We introduced the new CSE Stakeholder Code of Conduct. Part of this code refers to anticorruption in general and more specifically, to the commitments of all our stakeholders towards eliminating corruption and supporting transparency. Every 6 months we undertake an Internal Audit, which is implemented by an independent third party. Via this process we assure that all members of the CSE Team abide and operate in line with the formulated procedures, policies and processes. We support transparency and integrity in any possible way, through our projects, which operate in an international level As such, we have worked with many governments, like Executive Dubai Council, to create a Transparency and Integrity Model. 19 CSE Future Objectives CSE aims to meet its goal for delivering consistent and outstanding services to its clients. CSE aspires to contribute to the global discussion around reconsidering Business models and moving therefore from the shareholder to stakeholder perspective. In a challenging and dynamic environment CSE is setting the standards for ethical behavior that is responsible and measurable yet outstanding. CSE is adopting and utilizing new Strategic Tools and mechanism to continue Walking the Talk in the global arena. New technological advancements are new becoming powerful tools for communicating achievements and best practice to the organizations that want to lead with their Sustainability Initiatives. CSE is not only using those tools, but in a proactive way is creating the tools that will meet future needs. Sustainability Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) Below you can see the CSE Key Performance Indicators (KPI’s) which are measured and assessed on an annual basis. Employees Gender Educational Level 20 Environment Energy Consumption 2009 2010 2011 Target Electricity 10274 KWh 11322,5 KWh 9623.7 KWh* (KWh) Water (liters) 159 m3 136 m3 136 m3 Target not achieved (due to the expansion of operations by CSE North America) Achieved target *Annual Reduction 15% Office Energy CO2 emissions (annual) = 12,96 tonnes Business Travel 2008 2009 2010 Commercial Air 92180 km 55336 km 45581km Travel (km) Automobile – petrol 14640 km 9680 km 5224km (km) Public Transport 18200 km 43560 km 46000km (km) Achieved target **More use of public transportation Commercial Air Travel emissions (annual)= 24,45 Tonnes Commuting emissions (annual) = 5,85 kg Paper Consumption 2008 2009 2010 Virgin (reams) 76 reams 32 reams 10 reams Recycled (reams) – 6 reams 10 reams Achieved target 21 CSE has taken an active role to promote CR and Sustainability in conferences and events internationally, but also to promote progressive thinking for Sustainable Development. Countries Number of Speeches per year Brussels 1 Greece 4 Netherlands 1 UAE 1 USA 5 Malaysia 1 Mexico 1 TOTAL 14 22 Background Information CSE North America 8770 West Bryn Mawr Suite 1300 Chicago, IL 60631 CSE Athens Office 23 Zirini Str., Kifissia, 14562, Athens, Greece CSE Brussels Office Stephanie Square, Avenue Louise 65, Box 11, 4th floor 1050 Brussels -Belgium Contact Name Nikos Avlonas Contact Position Founder and President Contact Tel. no +30 210 80 85 565 +1 773 867 8647 +32 (0) 2 53 57 817 Submission Date 26 August 2011 Membership Date 28 May 2008 Number of Employees Fourteen (14) employees Sector Consulting Services and Training Making this CoP available to stakeholders Our CoP (Communication on Progress) will be made available: To all CSE employees through our intranet To other stakeholders including members of the public and customers through: CSE website The UN Global Compact Website Established online sites showcasing Sustainability Reports. Scope of the Annual Report The report covers the period January 2010 December 2010. Communicate Directly with Our Team We greatly value your thoughts and comments on our report. Should you require any additional information, please contact Elena Sarri via email at csr@cse-net.org 23 Evaluation Form of our Sustainability Report 2010 We invite you to fill in the following questionnaire in order to continuously improve our Sustainability (CR) practices and strategy and thus achieve maximum commitment to our stakeholders. All the data collected from the evaluation form will be used solely for internal purposes by our managing group of Sustainability (CR) Strategy. Which of the following stakeholder categories do you belong to?  Affiliate/Staff  Local community  Society  Shareholder  NGO  Media  Other category How do you rate the following sections of our Sustainability Report? Excellent Satisfactory Sufficient Bad 1. CSE and Sustainability (CSR) 2. Concern for Human Resources 3. Concern for Society 4. Concern for Environment 5. Future objectives and Planning How would you evaluate our main methodology for the production of our Sustainability Report? Are there any other areas that you would suggest to be added or to be elaborated in our next Sustainability Report? Please feel free to comment or make suggestions. Thank you for your cooperation. 24
