UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 1. Schaffner Energy Efficiency and Reliability The Schaffner Group is an international leader in the development and production of solutions which ensure the efficient and reliable operation of electronic systems. The Group's diverse range of offerings includes EMC components, harmonic filters and magnetic components as well as the development and implementation of customized solutions. Schaffner components are used in energyefficient drive systems and electronic motor controls, in wind power and photovoltaic systems, rail technology, machine tools and robotics as well as in power supply systems for a wide range of electronic devices in sectors such as medical technology or telecommunications. For the automobile industry Schaffner develops and produces both EMC and power quality components for electric drive systems in vehicles and for the charging infrastructure, as well as components for comfort and safety electronics. Schaffner provides on-site service to customers around the world through an efficient, global organization and makes ongoing investments in research, development, production and sales to strengthen its position as international market leader. 2. Statement of Continued Support “Schaffner is a global corporate citizen with Swiss heritage. This heritage comes with strong principles to protect the rights of the individual, to preserve the environment, and to conduct business according to high ethical standards. Our whole organization strives to treat all of our employees with equal respect. We are mindful that we share a responsibility to provide opportunities for individuals and contribute to the well-being of our communities. I personally am committed to apply such principles equally in each location where Schaffner is represented. This is why I whole-heartedly support the principles of the UN Global Compact.” Alexander Hagemann Chief Executive Officer 3. Actions 3.1 Human Rights and Labor (Principle 1 – 6) The Schaffner Group strives towards a non-discriminatory company culture based upon responsibility and respect, which builds upon the talents of its global workforce. It is the policy of the Schaffner Group to treat all current or potential employees fairly and without prejudice. Schaffner is committed to eradicating any unfair or discriminatory practices should they occur. All employees will be given the opportunity to progress within the Schaffner Group regardless of their gender, marital or parental status, ethnic or national origin, sexual orientation, religious belief, political affiliation, age (subject to contractual retirement age), or disability. 110427_UN Global Compact_WTL rev_Hgm.doc Page 1 of 3 UNGC COP Team Luterbach Actions Target Action Results All units of the Perform global check-up of all local employment Start with the first Schaffner Group must contracts. Global Human Resources Management check-up according to comply with the (GHRM) checks all Management Units (MU) the Code of Conduct Group's policies for randomly. If necessary external experts shall promoted by the human rights and labor approve the contracts, rules and regulations. Electronic Industry laws according to the Production Units (PRU) 2011 Citizenship Coalition UN Global Compact. Other units 2012 (EICC): China and Thailand: Done and approved Germany and Hungary: Planned during next 3 months All units should have a Define standards and GRI indicators for employee Test-run of first yearly employee review such as: internal templates in review according to Fluctuation rate Switzerland defined standards Key Age and gender overview Performance Indicator Education overview (KPI) /Global Training KPIs Reporting Initiative Performance and succession planning (GRI), internal overview templates etc.) Implement the standards in all units: PRUs 2011 Other units 2012 3.2 Environmental Management Actions taken to reduce energy consumption and CO2-emissions 3.2.1 Energy Consumption Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce electricity • Implement server virtualization by eliminating 50% savings in consumption for IT server hardware with high energy consumption electricity hardware at Luterbach • Replace old printers and copy machines with facility state-of-the-art, energy-saving models • Generally reduce printers and copy machines by eliminating excessive equipment 110427_UN Global Compact_WTL rev_Hgm.doc Page 2 of 3 UNGC COP Team Luterbach Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Reduce energy • New building at European Logistics Centre with 10% electricity consumption at all economical and efficient insulation system 25% gas Schaffner facilities • New building at Schaffner Shanghai with 10% electricity economical and efficient insulation system 3.2.2 CO2-Reduction Recently completed actions Target Action Results Reduce energy Replace existing heating system (oil heating) with Present heating consumption for a CO2-neutral system with usage of energy system is 100% CO2heating system at produced in combustor system provided by a neutral Luterbach facility district heating network (KEBAG) Planned actions Target Action Expected Results Reduce CO2-emission Reduce transportation in general 5% CO2-emission 3.2 Anti-Corruption Neither the Schaffner Group nor any of its employees shall make illegal or improper payments or bribes and will refrain from participating in any corrupt business practices. Neither Schaffner nor any of its employees may accept payments, gifts or other kinds of remuneration from a third party that could affect or appear to affect their objectivity in business decisions. Planned actions Target Action Expected Results No corruption cases Analyze business units for risks related to Analysis done by July within the Schaffner corruption 2011 Group Define and implement an anti-corruption policy Final policy ready by August 2011 The anti-corruption policy has to be an integrated part of all employment contracts All employment agreements to be All current employees have to sign the policy added by the end of Local units must conduct training sessions 2011 All current employees must have understood and signed the policy by the end of 2011 110427_UN Global Compact_WTL rev_Hgm.doc Page 3 of 3 UNGC COP Team Luterbach
