Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 1 Sustainability Report 2010 Sustainability Report 2010 3 In its Sustainability Report COPEINCA presents the main indicators for the past 4 years. In them one can see the change experienced in the company between 2007 and 2008 and the growth and consolidation both nationally and internationally. COPEINCA continues along this route in search of excellence and committed compliance with national environmental regulations and those of the sector. Main indicators 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of employees 1363 2344 2038 1620 Number of Plants 6 10 6 6 Vessels 32 64 64 30 Net Sales (USD) 96,746,022 232,550,000 210,765,000 233,042,000 Total Assets (USD) 1,644,856,269 706,910,000 689,837,000 492,274,000 Total liabilities 1,174,229,469 366,914,000 323,131,000 310,260,000 Total equity 470,626,800 339,996,000 366,706,000 182,014,000 Tons of Fish Meal produced 84,913 169,473 176,723 104,498 Tons of Fish Oil produced 24,486 35,866 36,821 20,786 COPEINCA Raw Material Anchovy (MT) 334,614 758,117 766,885 445,370 at a glance… Materials Bags (units) 1,082,971 3,041,488 3,542,174 2,083,183 Antioxidant (Kg) 44,291 156,650 110,771 62,613 Resources Diesel 2 (gallons)1 533,615 4,032,696 3,786,310 2,724,576 Residual Petroleum (gallons) 3,343,811 7,433,771 7,628,047 4,563,464 Electrical Energy (GJ) 21,485 23,231 32,353 29,232 Water (m3) 220,669 215,226 256,020 207,492 CO2 Emissions 48,436 134,255 135,379 87,781 Accident Statistics Total Accidents 40 173 137 100 Days Lost 1,436 4,455 13,596 2,545 1 During 2007 the consumption of Diesel by our Fleet was not recorded completely as we were going through a stage of purchases and acquisitions. With effect from 2008 all the consumption is recorded in our system. Sustainability Report 2010 5 1. Letter from the CEO |8 2. Mission, Vision and Values | 10 3. About COPEINCA | 12 a. Management 2010 b. Good Corporate Government Practices c. Risk Management 4. Sustainable development for COPEINCA | 18 a. Main risks and opportunities b. Main challenges in terms of Sustainability c. Our Stakeholders 5. Social Management | 26 a. Communities b. Suppliers c. Clients 6. Economic Management | 40 7. Environmental Management | 44 8. Labor Management | 56 Index 9. Annexes | 66 a. Glossary b. 2010 Sustainability Report´s Validation c. GRI Index d. We value your opinion e. Contact Sustainability Report 2010 7 I am very pleased to present the Fourth Sustainability Report for COPEINCA. This document represents our commitment to the Millennium Goals and the Global Compact which we have been subscribed to since 2007. In the first place I would like to comment on the successful placement of COPEINCA bonds on the international market, for 175 million dollars at the beginning of February. The operation exceeded all our expectations. This bond, which impacted positively on our country’s image permitted us to carry out the short term investments needed to improve our operational efficiency and comply with the highest environmental standards. In this way we can position ourselves as the most efficient and profitable company in the sector. We are currently the second fishing company in the country and, notwithstanding the moderate appearances of the Niño and Niña phenomena’s, we have demonstrated the strength of our operations and have continued with our investment projects. We ended 2010 with more than 75% of our fleet equipped with a modern refrigeration system and 80% of our plants prepared to produce 100% of our fish meal by indirect drying and very high quality. We perform our work always with the objective of minimizing accidents both in the fleet and in the plants. In this regard during 2010 we have managed to considerably reduce the number of these accidents and the working days lost as a consequence of these accidents. We know that our employees have played a fundamental role in the excellent business we have experimented in 2010. As a result, we have initiated the Ability Development Program for all our organizations leaders, with which we reinforce teamwork, quality and compliance with results and above all, leadership. At the same time we have launched the Quality of Life Program, oriented towards balancing the labor commitments and the family life of our employees. In social aspects we created COPEINCAs Volunteer Program in order to generate an interaction space between our employees and the community and within which we began, in the month of April, the Eco-business School Program. I am certain that all this will increase the number of volunteers next year and everyone will be infected with the energy and enthusiasm of the students with whom they have shared their achievements. Finally, I would like to share with you COPEINCA’s commitment to the Global Compact. We were able to 1.Letter participate for the first time in the United Nations Yearbook, which assembles the world’s best sustainability practices that are promoted by means of the Compact. In June the Global Compact Leaders’ Summit was celebrated, organized by the United Nations and we were able to promote the principles of the Global Compact and the Millennium Goals in the different meetings and dialogue tables in which we participated. This serves from the CEO to ratify our commitment with the initiatives we have adopted and consolidates Social Responsibility as a transversal part of our organization. We invite you to revise the goals and objectives we have set for the future. Our conduct does nothing more than confirm the commitment of the company towards a profitable business, that, in the medium term guarantees us environmentally friendly technological investments in order to counteract the impact of our operations. We will continue to be committed and on route to achieving the sustainability of the resources and of the business. I would like to thank each of our employees who make it possible for us to be a sustainable company in time with the vision and the energy to become better every day. Cordial greetings Samuel B. Dyer Coriat Sustainability Report 2010 9 Values In COPEINCA we value and In COPEINCA everyone works recognize people. We offer good towards achieving the best treatment and relationship both performance standards and inside and outside the organization. innovation to contribute to the achievement of the company’s objectives. In COPEINCA we are open to hear In COPEINCA we take responsibility 2.Mission, different points of view recognizing for our acts and always consider the and learning from our mistakes and triple result, economic, social and promoting self criticism. environmental. vision and values Mission To produce and sell fishmeal and fish oil Vision with efficiency, quality To be the world leader in and responsibility. the production of fish meal and fish oil. Sustainability Report 2010 11 With the release of this Fourth Sustainability Report 2010, COPEINCA reaffirms its commitment to report the business economic management, integrated with the social and environmental results recorded during 2010 COPEINCA is concentrated in the production of fishmeal and fish oil covering completely the value chain, from the capture of the fish to the final distribution. The company a. operates anchovy vessels that fish off the coast of Peru and process the raw material in six 2010 processing plants situated along the coast. The anchovy (Engraulis ringens) captured, in addition to that purchased from third parties, is processed under the highest standards Management of quality, ensuring a superior level of fishmeal. With the release of this Fourth Sustainability Report 2010, COPEINCA reaffirms its commitment to report the business economic management, integrated with the social and environmental results recorded during 2010. From now on, management information and the results obtained will be presented annually. Based on the Global Reporting 3.About Initiative (GRI), the Global Compact principles and the Millennium Goals, this document contains information on the plants of Bayovar, Chicama, Chancay, Ilo, Chimbote and Huarmey, in addition to the administrative office in Lima. COPEINCA COPEINCA is a public limited company, established in accordance with Norwegian b. legislation. As a company listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange (OSE), we are subject to the demands of corporate government established in that country and must therefore publish Corporate an annual statement of our performance throughout the year on this subject, according Government to the Norwegian Code of Corporate Government Practices. For more information please obtain the document through the following link: Practices http://www.copeinca.com.pe/website/content/pagina1.php?pID=544. Sustainability Report 2010 13 COPEINCA holds the conviction that, in order to Brief summary consolidate and develop as a leading company, it must The maximum administrative authority in observe enterprise objectives and ethical principles that our organization is the Board of Directors, whose mission is to look out for the must be applied in its relationship with clients, suppliers, interests of the shareholders, and ensure enforcement of the company strategies in shareholders, employees and with society in general. order to achieve established objectives. This Board is conformed by 4 Shareholder Directors and 4 Independent Directors including the Chairman of the Board who does not occupy an executive position within the organization. The independent members were invited to form part of the Board after examining their professional careers and personal contributions in activities related to the industry, both nationally and internationally. COPEINCA has implemented an integrated system of risk management in order to c. The current Board has been maintained preserve the integrity of its resources, increase its competitive advantage and guarantee since 2009 and comprises the following the continuity of the business in light of the different internal and external risks to which Risk members: the company is exposed. Risk management is a process that is carried out by the Board, Management by management and by all employees in general in accordance with the company Risk Kristjan Davidsson, Chairman Administration Manual and based on the COSO ERM methodology. Samuel Dyer Ampudia, Vice Chairman Mimi Berdal, Director COPEINCA holds the conviction that, in order to consolidate and develop as a leading Luis Dyer Ampudia, Director company, it must observe enterprise objectives and ethical principles that must be Piero Dyer Coriat, Director applied in its relationship with clients, suppliers, shareholders, employees and with Sheyla Dyer Coriat, Director society in general. Ethics and integrity ensure the credibility of all the stakeholders Marianne Elisabeth Johnsen, Director and the company expects all its employees to maintain the highest standards in these Iván Orlic Ticerán, Director principles. Honesty, dignity, respect, loyalty, integrity, efficiency, transparency and awareness of The main committees held by the company ethical principles are the greatest values that direct COPEINCA’s relationship with its are: public. • Audit, Control and Risks. In 2010, the company performed two biannual processes to identify and evaluate strategic • Human Management, Ethics, Corporate risks in which it did not identify corruption as a critical risk due to the low level of impact Government and Social Responsibility. and the probability of occurrence; consequently there has been no general training on the • Strategies, Acquisitions and Finance. subject. Notwithstanding this, all company personnel receive the Code of Conduct and the Internal Working Rules (RIT) manuals where the ethical behavior that is demanded Each year the Board evaluates its own by our employees is specified. performance related to the previous period by means of the publication of the annual Additionally the company has an Anonymous Communication Line located on its web report, the financial statements and the site (www.copeinca.com.pe), which allows any employee, supplier or client to denounce sustainability report. This evaluation acts contrary to this Code and the Internal Working Rules, or any unethical behavior in includes de performance of each general that could involve company employees. committee, as well as that of each of the directors. Sustainability Report 2010 15 Risk Management System COSO ERM is a risk management model, accepted around As part of the Board’s commitment to corporate government practices, COPEINCA has implemented a Risk Management System under the COSO ERM methodology that the world that assists companies to achieve their strategic positions us as one of the leading companies in Peru in implementing this tool. objectives, efficiency and efficacy in their operations, COSO ERM is a risk management model, accepted around the world that assists confidence in their financial reports and compliance with local companies to achieve their strategic objectives, efficiency and efficacy in their operations, confidence in their financial reports and compliance with local and foreign laws and and foreign laws and regulations. regulations. MEYCOR COSO Software for internal control and risks In the second half of 2010, COPEINCA implemented this software for internal control and risks (MEYCOR COSO) that permits the decentralization of its administration in the With this tool the various areas can better identify the actual controls that mitigate risks; areas of the company, identifying the threats that could affect our meeting the strategic self evaluate them and propose improvement plans, as well as obtain indicators of our objectives of the projects and processes to be carried out. risk management effectiveness in each company process. The MEYER COSO software will allow us to decentralize the administration of risks and controls MEYCOR COSO as well as obtain indicators of the effectiveness of the INTEGRATED SYSTEM OF RISK MANAGEMENT ISRM company’s risk management. Management of Loss Events Maintaining Follow-up Indicators Risks in Processes Whistleblower / Strategic Risks in (Internal Control) Anonymous Risks Projects communication Line Management of Risk Statistical Analysis Exposure Maps RiskAnalysis Statistical Audit Management Analysis Sustainability Report 2010 17 COPEINCA contemplate in all its decisions the three grand axes of economic growth, social development and environmental conservation, striving to communicate and put into practice the principles and values of social responsibility in all its processes, operations and areas of the company transversally. Five years have gone by since COPEINCA decided to bet on Sustainable Development as an intelligent way to do business. Now more than ever, it firmly considers that to guarantee business sustainability it is essential to ensure compliance with ethical principles and respect for people and the environment. Consequently, COPEINCA acts in accordance with the challenges that establish social responsibility policies, the Millennium Goals and the principles of the Global Compact of which it has been a member since 2007. This brings the company to contemplate in all its decisions the three grand axes of 4.Sustainable economic growth, social development and environmental conservation, striving to communicate and put into practice the principles and values of social responsibility in all its processes, operations and areas of the company transversally. Development for COPEINCA The identification of the main risks and opportunities of the business is vitally important for company development. Every year, during the strategic management sessions, the strategic objectives and the specific indicators by area are determined and the risks, opportunities and main impacts are redefined for the corresponding year’s management. a. Principal risks and opportunities Risks • Volatility in the prices of fuel. • Locating the biomass. • Variation in fishmeal and fish oil prices. • Effects of climatic changes that affect the size and the volumes of the fish. Sustainability Report 2010 19 Affiliations Opportunities • Modernization and conversion of equipment to produce steam dried fish meal. During 2010, the company was affiliated to • Environmental demands through the Ministry of the Environment. the following: • Construction of fishing vessels with greater capacity and state of the art technology to conserve the quality of the anchovy better. • Peruvian-American Chamber of • Leadership in the fishing sector in aspects of sustainability. Commerce (AMCHAM). • National Fishing Society (SNP). • Peruvian – Nordic Chamber of Commerce. • Huarmey development table. • APROCHICAMA. • APROSECHURA. During 2010, COPEINCA has worked on the basis of the challenges of the sustainability • APROCANCAY. b. policies. The programs and activities carried out were designed to achieve satisfaction in • APROCHIMBOTE. Main challenges each of our stakeholders. • APROSUR. in terms of • • Exporters Association (ADEX). International Fishmeal and Fish Oil Sustainability Organization (IFFO). • Fish, Oil and Meal World. • China Feed On line. • Oil World – Ista Mielke Gmbh. SUSTAINABILITY STAKEHOLDERS ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS CARRIED OUT IN 2010 GOALS AND CHALLENGES 2011 AND 2012 • Veritrade LTDA. CHALLENGES • Intrafish. • Implemented management system based on the OHSAS 18001 standard in all plants. • All plants with OSHAS 18001 certification. • Goed – Global Organization for EPA and • Quality of life program • Employees • Management skills program • Increase Working Environment in 3% DHA Omega 3S. WELLBEING OF OUR • Nearby communities • Implement 360º performance evaluations. • Annual training plan • Implement SR Culture in all APROs. • Auq – Technopress. EMPLOYEES AND THE • Investors • Leaders of Communication and Change program • Shareholders • Increase volunteers by 25% • Dun & Bradstreet SAC. COMMUNITY • Leadership with APROs • Advise 7 Eco-businesses schools. • COPEINCAs Volunteer Program • Complete 100% of investment plan • Shanghai JC Intelligence Co. Ltd. • Eco-business School Program • Achieve “0” accidents in plant and fleet. • Internal communication channels: Magazine “El Anzuelo”, Incasite, Suggestions Box etc. PROFITABLE • Reduce maintenance costs and expenses and equipment Awards • Environment • Cleaner production standardization by 5% ENVIRONMENTAL • State • Technology change 100% steam dried product • ISO 14001 certification in all plants MANAGEMENT (CARE FOR • Investors/Shareholders • Implementation of emission and effluent control program. THE ENVIRONMENT AND • 3rd party fleet • 100% efficiency in PAMA project In 2010, COPEINCA received various • Implementation of the ISO 14001 management system • Implement Marine Stewardship Council certification PROTECTION OF RESOURCE) • 100% compliance with environmental norm. awards and recognitions from the following institutions: • Develop own brands • GMP and BASC certification • Increase production of Prime and Super Prime fishmeal. QUALITY ASSURANCE AND • Clients • Prepare studies of Omega 3, 6 and 9 to strengthen products and • Obtain Eco–labels on products. • Prize for progress in safety, from the manufacture own brands. • All plants with IFFO certification. PRODUCT • Suppliers • Build own vessels with advanced cooling technology so as to improve • Develop suppliers in zones we operate in. Insurance Company MAPFRE. TRACEABILITY quality of raw material • 75% clients satisfied • Best practices of Corporate Government, • Maintain fish meal and oil prices in top 2 of market. from the Lima Stock Exchange. CREATION AND • Virtual program of Eco-business school program • Develop and explain “New COPEINCA culture” • Valuable support for the employees in • Participation in the SR technical sub-committee of the National Fishing Society PROTECTION OF • Employees • Participation in the Sustainable Development Committee of AMCHAM. • Develop shared and sustained leadership the Eco-Business School Program which SHARED VALUE • Nearby communities • Participation in SR Committee of Peruvian Nordic Chamber of Commerce • Participate in fairs and forums in RS matters • Participation in SR fairs. is conducted by the Institute for the • Participate in SNIP projects under Law 29230 in Chicama and Chimbote. Promotion of Sustainable Development • Perform reputation study with main Stakeholders (IPES). • Media • Investors/ • Annual Publication of Sustainability Report and UN progress reports (COP) • Maintain B+ application level in Sustainability Report under validation • Support and leadership in the REPUTATION aligned to GRI, Millennium Goals, and principles of Global Compact. of independent 3rd party and GRI. Shareholders • Publication of SR management based on Global Compact principles in UN Responsibility Committee of the Peruvian MANAGEMENT • Financial • Establish Dialogue Table with different Stakeholders Institutions Yearbook. • Maintain Company Profitability – Nordic Chamber of Commerce. • Achieve EBITDA of over US$80.00 Sustainability Report 2010 21 c. All the information contained in this report covers those indicators in social, environmental and economic approach that are truly important for COPEINCA and its main Stakeholders, as EMPLOYEES COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS Materiality of the has been identified through the Benchmark of Sustainability Reports of leading companies CLIENTS Sustainability in Sustainable Development, as well as international and national fishing companies that report based on the GRI indicators. At the same time in the 3rd Sustainability Report 2008 Report – 2009 a survey was included at the end of the document that collected suggestions and 3rd PARTY FLEET SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SHAREHOLDERS concerns on the contents of the document that help to report information that is relevant for STATE PRESS FINANCIAL a determined Stakeholders and which has been developed in this document: • Progress in investment projects to achieve quality standards very much higher than the sector. • Sustainable social management programs focused on community welfare mainly in health and education. • Health campaigns for the prevention, diagnosis and toxicological examination of diseases. • Actions to be implemented to fight the effects of climate change and its consequences on • Nutritional programs at work sites. marine resources. • Development of management skills programs. • Programs or certifications implemented in order to avoid or minimize accident indexes in • Management system based on the OHSAS 18001 standard that contemplates the the plant and above all during periods of fishing. development of activities in all work centers under occupational health and safety schemes. • Investment in collaborator training programs. • “Starfish” useful vacation program for the children of employees. • Annual Training Plan. • Quality of Life program. • Daily Communication channels: (Incasite, suggestions inbox, e-mail); communications channels The company considers it fundamental to relay on the support and evaluation of each d. Stakeholder with which it relates. Consequently, in 2004, an initial identification of all every 3 months (El Anzuelo magazine); annual communication channels (labor climate surveys). Stakeholders stakeholders was carried out by all managers to determine the influence and impact Shareholders of each of them, this exercise was complemented by an specific image evaluation of • Board Meetings. COPEINCA carried out by Conecta Asociados to identify the main companies, institutions • Shareholders’ Meetings. and communities that are impacted by or impact on COPEINCA. Since then, all activities • Information on the value and the composition of shares, published on the web site. considered some stakeholders described on the next page, however other stakeholders • Open and direct channels with the company General Management and the Vice identify are expected to be included in 2013 as a working policy for them is not implemented. President of the Board resident in Peru. Every year a research study is performed on the attitudes and perceptions held by these • Periodic visits by the General Manager and the Financial Manager. groups, to understand their opinions and viewpoints regarding corporate performance, • Daily Communication channels: (Incasite); annual communication channels (image as well as to execute the necessary measures to improve the management of COPEINCA. and perceptions surveys). Employees Clients COPEINCA contributes to its employees’ quality of life by promoting programs that offer • GMP + B2 Certification. tranquility and human satisfaction, and place emphasis on: • Visits by commercial management to the main clients in their countries of origin to learn Sustainability Report 2010 23 of their needs. At the same time when the clients visit Peru, they receive personalized communication media both national and international in written press, radio and television. attention and are invited to visit COPEINCA installations. • Meetings with specialized reporters in the sector. • Annual evaluations of client satisfaction. • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys); Daily Communication • Daily Communication channels: (e-mail); communications channels every 3 months channels (local media in Lima, Chimbote y Tacna). (virtual bulletin); annual communication channels (satisfaction evaluation). Financial entities Suppliers • The financial entities perceive COPEINCA’s performance as favorable, positively • The implementation of a tool that permits the integration and exchange of information evaluating the financial soundness, the good financial management, the professionalism with suppliers of goods and services. of the management teams, as well as the management strategies and the investment • The generation of a favorable impression among suppliers due to the volume of production decisions of our production units. and sales, financial strength, corporate management and compliance with obligations. • The absence of current or potential conflicts that could affect commercial relations • The business relationship that the suppliers develop with COPEINCA permits them to between COPEINCA and the financial sector. fortify their performance due to their compliance with the standards and demands that • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys). exist in the international market. • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys). Third Party Fleet • This Stakeholder complements COPEINCA’s production, generating bigger and better Communities business opportunities (raw material and employment) in third party fleets. • Implementation process of the ISO 14001 standard aimed at preventing and minimizing • Specific outfitting of third party fleets. environmental impacts in neighboring communities, as well as in the quality of life of the employees. • Creation of an area of Raw Material Planning and Storage, that coordinates and directly • Development of Eco-business Schools’ Program controls the movements of our own fleet, as well as the purchase (prices and amounts) of • Creation of COPEINCA volunteer program to strengthen links between employees and fish from the third party fleet. the community. • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys). • Active participation in Fishmeal and Fish Oil Producers’ Associations in order to • Investment in vessel implementation of third party fleet in order to accede to European markets. promote activities that favor the communities and the artisan fishermen. • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys). The interaction with every stakeholder is different. The principal channels of participation with the employees are: the suggestions inbox, satisfaction surveys and the communication and change Government leaders’ program with a permanently interaction. Annually surveys of satisfaction are carried out • Periodical and open information channels on COPEINCA activities with the main for the clients. During the shareholders’ meetings carried out every 3 months approximately, the Associations of the sector and government entities. principal suggestions are gathered to take them to the practice inside the management of the • Annual communication channels (image and perceptions surveys). company. Finally with the suppliers, communities, state, media, financial institutions and third parties fleet of, carries out the annual study of perceptions at the expense of an external consultant Media • Corporate Affairs Manager maintains a constant and permanent contact with the principal Sustainability Report 2010 25 This years COPEINCA has actively participated in the Global Compact. Since 2010 the company´s best practices related to the 10 principles are published in the United Nations’ International Yearbook. Throughout the year 2010 social management has been maintained under the scheme of the sustainability challenges described above. Various programs have been implemented a. in order to comply with the objectives of the Social Responsibility policy. Programs are Communities carried out with the support of partners or strategic allies, coordinating directly with COPEINCA activities for the wellbeing of the different Stakeholders. Commitment to external initiatives The Global Compact COPEINCA was the first Peruvian fishing company to present a Sustainability Report. This report was audited in 2005, and subsequently the company has presented reports for the periods corresponding to 2006 – 2007 and 2008 – 2009, as can be seen on the company’s web site. These reports reflect the main indicators that show COPEINCA’s environmental and social performance, as well as the programs and activities carried out 5.Social within the framework of Social Responsibility. Management The document is prepared on the basis of international indicators such as those of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Millennium Goals and the principles of the Global Compact. As a result, and thanks to the efforts of all our employees, from the first of COPEINCA’s “Communications on Progress”, the United Nations classified the Sustainability Report presented as notable, which has been a great encouragement for the company and motivation to continue with the firm challenge of constantly improving to satisfy the needs of our Stakeholders. To access this information please enter into the following link: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COP/analyzing_progress/notable_cops.html. This years COPEINCA has actively participated in the Global Compact. Since 2010 the company´s best practices related to the 10 principles are published in the United Nations’ International Yearbook. In June 2010, COPEINCA participated in the World Leaders Summit held in New York in which we learned and exchanged relevant information with regard to the strategy of the multinational companies. Sustainability Report 2010 27 RS TODOS • 33 educational institutions trained. • 2,598 hours of training given. During 2010, the second stage of the project took place. Formally, a public event was • 10 educational institutions benefited directly. organized in order to communicate in more detail the conclusions and recommendations • 210 students benefited directly and 7000 indirectly. reached during the preparatory working stage which took place during 2009. We hope • More than 3000 families benefited. that, in this way, we can achieve a more extensive communication of this responsibility • 105 hours of volunteer work. activity and perform the necessary follow up to the recommendations produced during • 5,727 dollars invested. the two previous stages of preparation and communication. Throughout this period the printing of the materials will be ensured to communicate them APROs Management and a mechanism will be established to follow up the recommendations that appeared in One of the strategic allies in sustainable development in each port where COPEINCA the previous stages. The mechanism will be a proposal agreed by promoters and partners operates is the Association of Producers of Fishmeal and Fish Oil (commonly called of the project. APROs). With the APROs the objective is to strengthen the social responsibility and environmental care activities that the company carries out. Following the 2009 and 2010 commitments, the project continued its development in Cajamarca, Piura, La Libertad and Arequipa, receiving support from four large sources: Through the Image, Communications and Social Responsibility Committee of the National civil society, (NGO’s, unions, etc.), educational entities, private companies and the State. Fishing Society (SNP), a Strategic Planning Manual was prepared to serve as a guide to The more representative common agreements were: establish a diagnosis, define an social responsibility policy with guidelines, sustainable schemes and common values, as well as other management and differentiation elements. • Strengthen the Regional Promotional Nucleus. Throughout the year several meetings were held to approve the communication and • Define and establish specific social responsibility (SR) objectives and activities in each region. implementation of the guide in all the APROs so that they can constitute themselves as • Develop the communication actions and the company positioning. corporate entities. • Create a platform that permits group reflection, the sharing of interregional information and the exchange of strategies. With the support and coordination of the National Fishing Society a management model • Establish a SR week or month for a national campaign. was produced for the APROs, defining guidelines to establish these associations as • Recognize and incorporate other initiatives in the ESR process. corporate bodies. Unanimously each APRO has a presidency led by a fishing company in • Raise regional information in order to know the situation, detecting resistances that the zone. In the case of COPEINCA we assumed the presidency of APROSECHURA and serve as sensitivity indicators generated by the ESR process. APROCHIMBOTE, as well as participating actively in APROCHICAMA, APROCHANCAY and APROSUR. EcoBusiness School Program Generation of value – Direct and Indirect Economies This initiative began in 2010 with the Sustainable Development Promotion Institute (IPES) which designed the enterpriser program of environmental education addressed to young The indirect economic impact constitutes an important part of the economic influence students during their last cycle of secondary school. Academically supported by the that COPEINCA exerts in the context of sustainable development. While the direct Ministries of Education and Environment, the objective is to strengthen young people’s economic impacts and the market influence tend to center in immediate consequences capacities to identify reality, understand the functioning of the market and understand of the monetary flows towards stakeholders, the indirect impacts include the additional the procedures and challenges that imply building, managing and administering an effects generated by the money circulation in the economy. COPEINCA therefore is a economic business undertaking an environmentally friendly manner and developing participant and socioeconomic change agent within the radius of influence where its leadership and managerial skills to this end. operations are carried out, proven by the creation of new business in the different zones. During 2010 a total of 10 new enterprises have been recorded close to the company plants, The efforts of this initiative led the company to promote COPEINCA Volunteer Program to especially: motivate the participation of employees. To do this, groups of 4 or 5 persons were formed • Restaurants to support each school in the development of their business plan, and make their Project • Stores a profitable alternative in time. This was a virtual consultancy by means of the web page • Lodgings designed especially for this initiative. Additionally, periodical visits were carried out to In addition to generating indirect economic value, COPEINCA has a direct influence on strengthen the close communication between both parties. the economy through infrastructure investments, with an impact that goes beyond the scope of the direct business operations. In this aspect we include social assistance and These are some of the program’s achievements: equipment, activities that in 2010 added up to 26,477 dollars. Sustainability Report 2010 29 Employees Experience Amor a Manos Taking part in the volunteer program for Eco-Business was an amazing and enriching Eco-business Limpias experience for my group and me. School Program in ARENA – I know that many volunteers singed up thinking that it was a way of helping the boys and Santa Clara girls from different lower income neighborhoods but we never imagine all the lessons volunteer day and experiences they gave us. My group worked really hard with the girls who decided to recycle all plastic materials (PET) into “Echo bags”. Seeing the illusion in these girls, dreaming, creating and finding solutions to everyday´s difficulties involved us as volunteers reminding us that as human beings we can always reach our goals especially when it comes to giving or sharing. I strongly believe that it is possible to achieve much more with little time and commitment that simply donating material goods. I feel happy to have known these girls, leaders of our community and role model. Maria Elena Olmos, The volunteer program in COPEINCA started in 2010 science the Eco-business School Investors Relations Analyst program was launched. With this first initiative, employees were aware of the need in different cities in Peru and wanted to share a special moment with children of lower income neighborhoods. So, the “Amor a Manos Limpias” activity was programmed and coorganized with the Nordic-Peruvian Chamber of Commerce and other affiliated companies. “I was glad to participate in this activity; the idea was to share a special morning full of teaching spaces and recreational moments with more than 350 children. The best part is that as it was a Christmas time, all children were especially happy as all year´s studying sacrifice was rewarded with this sharing activity. All volunteers spend a great morning and we had the opportunity to make 350 kids happy” Annia Vargas, Environmental System and Industrial Security Coordinator. OHSAS 18001 As an objective in the Strategic Plan, during 2010 COPEINCA worked intensely at the certification implementation of the Security and Occupational Health Management System based on the international norm OHSAS 18001, first in all the fishing processing plants of Ilo and Chicama but with the aim that by 2012 all plants would be certified. The operational controls are realized every day by the safety area, relying on the support of the different headquarters of the plant and always led by the superintendent. Moreover, these security requirements are also demanded for contractors as they receive inductions, deliver their IPER table to prevent risks of accidents and occupational diseases in their own employees as part of their Security and Occupational Health Management System. Jaime Pinedo, Corporate Chief of Industrial Security Sustainability Report 2010 31 b. The Logistics Management, continuing with the interaction of purchases on the E-biz Latin This year there has been an increase in international platform, has integrated on-line facilities during 2010 so that suppliers can pre-register Suppliers their invoices, obtain their tax retention documents and establish the programming of purchases related to the equipment implementation in all their respective payments. COPEINCA fishing plants, due to the operational efficiency In this way the purchasing processes, the stores, accounts and treasury are integrated in processes carried out in 2010. the following activities: • Supplier registry (implemented). • Price contest (under trial). • Quotes. • Comparative charts. • Requests for purchase. Purchase of Materials • Confirmation of receipt of merchandise, registry and visualization of invoice status. The buying process is established with different national and international suppliers. • Programming and confirmation of payment. This year there has been an increase in international purchases related to the equipment • Printing of tax retention certificates. implementation in all COPEINCA fishing plants, due to the operational efficiency processes carried out in 2010. With which the following benefits are obtained: Porcentage of National and International Purchase • Reduction in supply costs. • Reduction in the purchasing cycle. 99.5% 97.4% 92.0% 2008 • Less use of paper. • Reduction in manual charge for invoices. 2009 • Reduction in the emission process for retention certificates. 2010 • Reduction in telephone calls and e-mails to consult suppliers. • Increase in the level of service to our internal clients. • Improvement in commercial relationship with suppliers. We are currently developing the technical coordination so that the logistics operator 2.6% 8.0% 0.5% JOVIZA can register the supplier’s dispatch note and its visualization in the SAP module. National International Sustainability Report 2010 33 c. During the past year, due to the Chilean Earthquake, we were faced with high peaks All the COPEINCA plants are approved for operation by the in the sales price of fishmeal reaching US$ 2,000 per ton (historically the highest price Commercial ever). There was also a reduction in the fishing quota from 3.5 million tons to 2.5 million Peruvian Fishing Technology Institute (ITP) in accordance Management tons for the second 2010 period, between April and May of 2010. With this reduction the with the requirements and conditions established in the demand increased and transactions were agreed at levels of around US$ 1,900 per ton. Even though the prices did not drop to the levels that were operative 2 years ago (US$ 800 Sanitary Standard for fishing and aquaculture activities. and 900 per ton) they did fall and stayed between US$ 1,600 and 1,700 per ton. Additionally, all plants hold certifications for BASC, GMPB2 Around April, there was another occurrence that took the prices down and this was the and the IFFO Standard news of the delay in the aquaculture season in China, the principle consumer of fishmeal in the world and the main buyer from Peru. In September and October 2010, when normally 50% of the new season’s fishmeal has been sold, the producers had not managed to sell the production, due mainly to the delays in China. The European markets also began to Fish Oil replace fishmeal in their formulas and therefore require less volume of the product than previously. Is the fat content of the raw material (anchovy), extracted during the fishmeal production process by the presses, it is centrifuged to separate water from the oil before polishing Finally the pre-sales for 2010-II began almost with the November production, before being the product in order to extract solids (lipoproteins) and water. This product is known as informed that La Niña phenomena would affect fishing. Later it was confirmed that the crude fish oil and has a high content of essential fatty acids (Omega 3). season would be suspended temporarily and that the quota would only be around 38% of the usual figure. With this suspension of the 2010-II season, Peru experienced another Fish oil does not have a specific expiry date that accompanies the product nor does it price peak reaching US$2,000 per ton, dragging in its elevation the prices of the fishmeal contain additional substances such as the antioxidant of the fishmeal. Its quality depends, that was already in China. In spite of these occurrences, Peru did not reach these prices. among other things, on the use it is given and will also depend on the product parameters at the time of shipment, such as acidity, anisidine and peroxides among others. The lower the percentage of these parameters, the slower the solidification and therefore a better Main Products quality of oil is obtained. The production date appears on the export documents. Fishmeal Certified Operation Fishmeal is protein concentrate based on fish (anchovy) presented in a powder form and All the COPEINCA plants are approved for operation by the Peruvian Fishing Technology used for animal feed. There are two types of fishmeal depending on the drying process: Institute (ITP) in accordance with the requirements and conditions established in the Sanitary Standard for fishing and aquaculture activities. Additionally, all plants hold • Steam Dried Fishmeal (SD): this is dried by transmission of heat without the flame certifications for BASC, GMPB2 and the IFFO Standard and for 2012 the certification with contacting the product. ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 will be completed; currently only the plants of Chicama and • Flame Dried Fishmeal (FD): this is dried by direct fire with the calorific action of the Ilo are certified with this norm. Finally, and depending on the destination, an additional flame in contact with the product. license or registry of the company and the plant is requested to allow entry into a specific territory, as is the case of China, Taiwan and Russia among others. Commercially speaking the life time of fishmeal is one year; however fishmeal with longer periods must include an antioxidant in a dose of between 500 to 600 ppm. The production Approximately 90% of the raw material caught by the company is refrigerated immediately date is printed on the bag and the brand is also included at the time of production. after capture and during the voyage to the processing plant by means of the RSW system There are markets (like China) that demand, in addition to the pre-printed brand, special (Refrigerated Sea Water) with which the vessels are equipped. In this way the highest indications on the bag including product quality specifications (protein, TVBN, histamine, standards of raw material freshness are guaranteed which means top quality fishmeal salt and sand) as well as the plant registration number. with high protein and low levels of TVBN and histamine. In Europe there must be a warning that the product is not apt for human consumption As explained above, in order to export the fishmeal and fish oil, there must be certain and does not contain remains of mammal bones. For all shipments, especially bulk export documents that accredits the specifications of the same and the methods used shipments, where bags are not used and therefore no production date indicated, this to obtain the results, ensuring therefore the quality not only on behalf of the company must appear on the Pre-shipment Surveyor’s Report, which is a certificate issued by a but also by an independent third party. The documents that indicate origin and detail the specialized company. quantity shipped, the packing and the containers used must also be included. Sustainability Report 2010 35 The basic documents for export are the following: Main Fishmeal destinations in 2010 Pre-Shipment Pre-Shipment Certificate Meal and Oil (Surveyor) Non dangerous cargo certificate Meal (Surveyor) China 31% Others 14% Cholera Certificate Meal (Surveyor) Instructions to Surveyor Meal and Oil (Copeinca) Instructions to Customs Agent Meal and Oil (Copeinca) Dangerous Goods Declaration (Format IMO) Meal (Surveyor) Denmark 5% Preliminary ITP Project Meal and Oil (Surveyor) Vietnam 11% Post Shipment Certificate of Origin Meal and Oil (Chamber of Commerce) Chile 6% Sanitary Certificate Meal and Oil (ITP) Peru 7% Germany 9% Certificate of Analysis Meal and Oil (Surveyor) Taiwan 8% Japan 9% Packing List Meal and Oil (Surveyor) Bill of Lading Meal and Oil (Shipping Company) Commercial Invoice Meal and Oil (Copeinca) Main Markets Main Fish Oil destinations in 2010 The main market for fishmeal is China with a total purchase of 51,647 tons during 2010 (38.01% of total share), followed by Vietnam, Germany, Japan and Taiwan with 13.89%, 11.04%, 10.34% and 9.05% respectively. Although China continues to be the main buyer of Others 4% Peru 38% fishmeal in 2010 its international share fell as a result of increases in other markets, such Norway 3% as Vietnam and Japan and the delay in the aquaculture industry experienced by China Belgium 13% itself. The main fish oil market during 2010 was the local one with a 37.96% share, followed by Denmark with 25.42% (one of the main ports of entry to Europe). Chile and Belgium also stand out with respective shares of 16.42% and 13.22%. It is important to note the growth Chile 16% in Chile after the 2010 earthquake and its reduction in fishing quotas, it is hoped the Denmark 26% increase will be maintained during 2011. Sustainability Report 2010 37 The sales distribution, in terms of international delivery, is mainly concentrated in sales In comparison to the year before, the survey showed an under FOB and CFR incoterms and is as follows: improvement of +8 points in the general perception of the Sales distribution according to delivery terms company. A t the same time COPEINCA is perceived as Top 3 by 66% of the clients evaluated (+4 points compared to the year before). 2008 44.70% 44.00% 41.79% 2009 38.38% 2010 26.60% 26.50% 22.10% 23.30% 12.11% 6.60% 7.72% 6.20% CFR EXW FOB FAS Distribution Channels 59.2% Fishmeal sales in 2010 were directed mainly to the animal feed plants which increased their 2008 volume share from 42% in 2009 to 46% in 2010, followed very closely by sales to traders 48.5% 2009 at 43.63%, a similar percentage to the previous year. In the case of fish oil, the refineries 45.1% maintained their share at 4% compared to 5% in the year before. It should be mentioned that 2010 many of the local sales of fish oil go to refineries that export it to different markets. This is 32.5% 27.6% 27.6% the case of two local buyers who appear in the list of principle Peruvian exporters but buy locally. 16.2% 13.2% 12.5% 9.8% 7.7% 0.0% Agent Broker Direct Representative Client Profile 49.3% 2008 46.0% 42.3% 43.1% 43.6% 2009 Client Satisfaction Surveys 2010 For the second consecutive year a client satisfaction survey was carried out through on33.9% line interviews. Ipsos Apoyo, consultancy company selected for this survey, guarantees total confidence to the clients with their responses. Requests were sent to 74 clients around the world and 56 replied (76%). The sample included final clients, traders and importers 14.0% of fishmeal and fish oil as clients whose main intermediaries are representatives and 9.4% brokers. The survey evaluated 7 attributes: re-purchase recommendation, quality of the 6.3% 5.2% 2.8% 4.1% relationship, client attention, service, product quality, execution of dispatch and quality 0% 0% 0.03% of service in delivery of documents and product. In comparison to the year before, the Animal Feed Plant Importer RefineriesT rader Pharmacies survey showed an improvement of +8 points in the general perception of the company. At the same time COPEINCA is perceived as Top 3 by 66% of the clients evaluated (+4 points compared to the year before). With regard to distribution channels, during 2010 sales were channeled directly, increasing from 48% to 59% with respect to 2009. The sales through representatives and brokers The survey also permitted the identification of opportunities for corporate improvement. were 28% and 13% respectively maintaining a similar share as that of the year before. As a result, for 2011 it is planned to continue with the evaluation so that the information These results are based on a strategy of establishing long term relationships focused on obtained can be of greater value for the company and can produce bigger and better product quality and the security of a constant offer. results for our clients. Sustainability Report 2010 39 The issue is going to allow COPEINCA to carry out in the short term, the necessary investments to improve operational efficiency and continue to comply with environmental standards and the new quota regulations. Consequently it will become the most efficient and profitable company in the sector, progressing with this towards the vision of consolidating itself as a world leader. One of most outstanding aspects during 2010 has been the successful placing of bonds on the international market. In February, COPEINCA issued bonds for US$ 175 million in a successful operation where the demand superseded all expectations on being over6.Economic subscribed five times with an equivalent of US$ 700 million. This was the first Peruvian corporate bond issued in 4 years since a Peruvian company performed an operation of this type, achieving a positive impact on the country’s image in the international marketplace. Management The issue is going to allow COPEINCA to carry out in the short term, the necessary investments to improve operational efficiency and continue to comply with environmental standards and the new quota regulations. Consequently it will become the most efficient and profitable company in the sector, progressing with this towards the vision of consolidating itself as a world leader. At the same time, with the issue of this bonus the company could orient its financial obligations to more competitive terms and conditions, as well as achieving positioning in the group of companies with the highest standards of quality in the world. Sustainability Report 2010 41 Sustainability 1. Calculations Base 2010 value (thousands of dollars) As to the establishment of “annual goals “ to minimize residues, Report 2010 Net Sales Income for operations 233,042 -1,540 consumption (as a general rule in the ( )does not have goals ( ) complies 51 75% ( ) cumplies 0-50% (x) complies 76-100% Corporación EBITDA 76,227 production/operation) and “increasing the efficiency in the use of Pesquera Inca Gross payroll 30,741 natural resources, the S.A.C 2. Internal Social Indicators Value $ % of (thousands of dollars) Gross payroll % of EBITDA company:” COPEINCA Food provision 668 2.17% 0.88% 5. Operation Body Indicators 2010 Other Social Constributions (EsSalud, SENATI, IESS) 0.00% 0.00% Number of employees at the end of the period 1,629 Accident medical insurance, other 138 0.45% 0.18% Number of admissions furing the period 161 Ocupational health and safety 0.00% 0.00% (medicines, in-plant physician, etc) Number of employees unde contract 688 Number of students on apprenticnship 14 Education 0.00% 0.00% program Culture 0.00% 0.00% Number of employees over 45 years 261 Professional training and development 235 0.76% 0.31% Nurseries 0.00% 0.00% Number of women working in the 103 Profit participation 523 1.70% 0.69% company Other contributions to employees 122 0.40% 0.16% Percentage of executive positions 31% Attentions to employees 104 0.34% 0.14% occupied by women Gifts for employees 0.00% 0.00% 6. Data related ti the company citizenship 2010 Outfits for employees 91 0.30% 0.12% Transportation for employees 355 1.15% 0.47% Total number of work accidetns 100 (76 en Flota y 24 en Plantas) Total Internal Social Indicators 2,236 7.27% 2.93% Social and environmental projects ( ) The board of (x) The board and ( ) In agreement the managers with all Value $ % of % of developed for the company are defined by: directors employees 3. External Social Indicators (thousands of dollars) Gross payroll EBITDA (x) The board Safety and Health standards in the workin ( ) In agreement and the with all ( ) All Education 24.3 0.08% 0.03% environment are defined by: managers employees Culture 0.00% 0.00% With regard to the unionization freedom, ( ) does not get (x) ipromotes Health and sanitation 0.00% 0.00% the right to collective barganing and the (x) follows ILO invloved and follos ILO Sports 31 0.10% 0.04% internal representation of the workers, the standards standards Struggle against hunger and 0.00% 0.00% company, food safety The health and safety programs consider: ( ) The board of ( ) The board of (x) all employees Donations (health, evironment and 74 0.24% 0.10% directors directors citizen security) ( ) The board of ( ) The board of (x) all employees Profit or results participation considers: directors directors Other 0.00% 0.00% Total contributions to society 129.3 0.42% 0.17% In selecting the suppliers, the ethics, ( ) are not ( ) are (x) are required 3rd Category Income 3,988 12.97% 5.23% social and environmental responsibility suggested standards adopted by the company: condidered Non-domiciled Income 2,541 8.27% 3.33% Total External Social Indicators 6,658 21.66% 8.73% With regard to the participation of the ( ) does not ( ) supports (x) organizes Value $ % of % of employees in voluntary and social action considered them and 4. Environmental Indicators (thousands of dollars) Gross payroll EBITDA work programs, the company: encourages Investments related to company 4,855 6.37% 2.08% Total number of consumer claims and In the company in INDECOPI* In the courts production obervations 0 0 0 Expenses in environmental training 17 0.02% 0.01% Percentage of claims and observations In the company in INDECOPI* In the courts attended to or solved: 0 0 programs 0 Expenses in external programs and/or 30,420 39.91% 13.05% 7. Aditional data projects Total environment-related 35,292 46.30% 15.14% *INDECOPI National Customer Defense and Intelectual investments Property Institution Sustainability Report 2010 43 During 2010, COPEINCA managed to consolidate itself as the second Peruvian fishing company with a total production of more than 106,000 tons of Fishmeal and 26,000 tons of fish oil. During 2010, COPEINCA managed to consolidate itself as the second Peruvian fishing company with a total production of more than 106,000 tons of Fishmeal and 26,000 tons of fish oil. Despite the fact that it was a difficult year, due to La Niña and El Niño phenomena that brought about a reduction in production almost 50% lower than a normal year, the company has confirmed the soundness of its operations, has obtained a positive cash flow and has continued with its investment plan that will convert it into the most profitable company in the sector. To achieve this objective, the company has initiated the building of 3 vessels that signify a landmark in the national fishing industry. The differentiation is due to the form and fishing possibilities that the refrigeration system installed provides, from the catch to the processing plant. These vessels as well as the plant and fleet investment plan are going to permit us to become more efficient and to raise our standards of environment protection. The installations will be “friendly” and will comply with the most demanding certifications in environmental care (ISO 14001), as has occurred in the Chicama and Ilo 7. plants where we have implemented ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Additionally, all the company’s plants currently have IFFO responsible supply certification and GMP + B2 for nutritional safety. Environmental Management For 2011, COPEINCA, due to its investments and the efficiencies achieved expects to substantially improve the quality of its products and, as a consequence, the profitability of its business, as well to contribute to the care of the environment and the preservation of the anchovy biomass. COPEINCA has acquired the Diamante fishmeal processing plant located in Chancay, the equipment and machinery will permit an increase in the processing capacity. Something similar took place in Chicama where part of the facilities was sold permitting COPEINCA to stay with a processing capacity of 60 ton/hour that was transferred to another plant. Sustainability Report 2010 45 a. More than US$30 million were invested in technological projects; US$17 million has More than US$30 million were invested in technological been directed invested in environmental improvements. This innovation process and Principle technological change will permit COPEINCA to become a point of reference for the sector projects; US$17 million has been directed invested in environmental from the middle of 2011. environmental improvements. This innovation process and investments technological change will permit COPEINCA to become a point of reference for the sector from the middle of 2011. b. The materials detailed in the following chart form part of the products used, in addition to the anchovy, which is the main raw material: Used materials Data Production Raw material Recycled materials 169,473 176,723 2006 Percentage of 2007 recycled bags 3,542,174 126,757 2008 104,499 2009 3,041,488 2006 2010 2007 74,024 2,083,183 2008 49.6% 35,866 36,821 1,566,824 2009 24,486 40.4% 20,196 20,786 1,082,971 2010 45.6% 758,117 766,885 447,284 Feashmeal (Ton) Fish Oil (Ton) 333,517 334,616 10.2% 9.7% 156,650 110,771 51,471 44,291 62,614 In 2009 there was a significant drop in the use of antioxidant (AO) in the productive Raw Material Anchovy (Ton.) Bags (Unit.) Antioxidant (Kg.) process: the reduction was from 0.92kg AO/ton of fishmeal to 0.62kg AO/ton of fishmeal which implies a better use of our resources. This year the same effect is registered due As can be seen in the chart Production Data below, during 2010 COPEINCA felt the mainly to the climatic conditions and the quality of the fish that reduces the re-processing presence of the El Niño and La Niña phenomena along the Peruvian Coast producing and therefore the consumption of this material. With regard to second use bags that were a significant reduction in the anchovy catch, that at the same time was reflected in the mainly discarded after bulk shipments, are now recycled and re-used which meant that consumption of materials used within the productive process. in 2010 45.6% of them were sold. Sustainability Report 2010 47 Energy Generation In each plant energy improvements identified within the COPEINCA’s productive process principally uses diesel 2 for the diesel generators and residual petroleum (bunker) for the plant. Diesel 2 is also used by all the fishing fleet. Cleaner Production Program (CPP) were implemented in The indirect energy (non renewable) consumed comes mainly from the public network of order to continue with operational improvements for Hidrandina, EDELNOR and Electro Sur. energy efficiency. Energy Generation (GJ) 2006 2007 1,155,725 1,100,906 2008 2009 2010 657,139 556,512 495,202 522,511 474,918 375,991 20,338 21,486 23,231 32,353 29,232 76,178 73,639 In each plant energy improvements identified within the Cleaner Production Program (CPP) were implemented in order to continue with operational improvements for energy Residual 500 Fuel Electricity Energy Diesel 2 efficiency. In the summary chart below the activities and progress made are shown. As can be seen in the “Energy Generation Chart”, consumption has fallen in relation to 2009 Plant Project Progress due to a reduction in the national catch during the last months of 2010. The emissions of greenhouse gases are also directly related to these low energy consumptions recording a Plant convertion to Steam Dry with a production capacity of 170 ton/hr 75% total of 87,781 tCO2e in 2010 which, compared to the 135,379 tCO2e in 2009, is a significant Bayovar Implementation of steam recirculation 100% Instalation of washing towers. 100% reduction. PAMA Project Closed circuit unloading system 75% Plant conversion to Steam Dry with a production capacity of 160 ton/hr 100% In parts of the production process, such as dryers, coolers, and the stick water plant, Installation of washing towers and steam recirculation system. 100% Chicama other gaseous emissions have been monitored since 2009. First stage of PAMA project. 100% Replacement of aquotubular boilers by pyrotubular boilers 100% Plant conversion to Steam Dry with a production capacity of 250 tont/hr 75% Equipment investment for oil and fat treatment 100% Chimbote First stage of PAMA project executed Average concentrations (mg/m3) 100% New 4 stage pyrotubular boilers installed 100% Particulate Hydrogen Sulfide (H2S) NOx** SOx** Installation of washing towers. 100% Material Changed positive displacement pumps for vacuum pumps. 100% 2009 2010 2009 2010 First stage of PAMA project implemented 100% Huarmey Plant SD FD SD FD SD FD SD FD 2009 2010 2009 2010 Changed 2 aquotubular boilers of 600 and 500 BHP capacity for one 1,000 100% BHP 4 stage pyrotubular boiler Steam Dry conversion with increased production capacity from 80 to 168 75% Bayovar 7.2 82.275 NM NM < 0,009 0.01 NM NM 118.2 NM 0.8 NM ton/hr. 100% Chicama 25.34 436.73 16.36 SE 0.045 ND 0.13 SE 228.6 53.59 861.8 307.9 Installation of three 4 stage and one 3 stage pyrotubular boilers. 100% Implementation of HLT system to recycle third stage drying gases. Chimbote ND 169.85 11.85 SE N 0.019 0.99 SE 227.8 247.5 1034.3 1749.5 Chancay Installation of vacuum pump system 100% Huarmey NM 851.32 NM NM NM ND NM NM 229.6 NM 862.6 NM Raw material reception system relocated. 100% Chancay* 6.835 8.125 0.61 ND 190.2 NM 632.2 NM Pipe system for transfer of raw material without contaminants was 100% Ilo NM NM 28.2 NM NM ND NM 214.4 NM ND installed Steam recirculation system was installed 100% N.M No monitored Source: N.D Undetectable concentration MONITORING REPORT ON ATMOSPHERIC Steam recirculation system being installed 70% S.E No emissions EMISSIONS, AIR QUALITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL Ilo Solids recovery, oil and oil polishing system installed. 100% * Neither Chancay nor Ilo have FD line NOISE Inspectorate Services Perú S.A.C. ** The boilers were the sources monitored to obtain these emissions Sustainability Report 2010 49 As part of its environmental commitment, COPEINCA has implemented a series of As part of its environmental commitment, COPEINCA initiatives in all its plants in order to reduce the use of energy and positively contribute to the environment: has implemented a series of initiatives in all its plants in order to reduce the use of energy and • In Bayovar, campaigns were carried out to encourage electrical energy savings during the close seasons, at weekends or periods when there is no fish, reducing also electrical positively contribute to the environment. consumption during the day. Among our employees we introduced a campaign for the responsible use of computers, switching them off when not used for periods in excess of 30 minutes and replacing the classical screens with more efficient energy use LCDs. The air conditioning equipment has been replaced by modern equipment with less consumption. • In Chicama, there is continuous maintenance of lighting and fluorescent energy savers. The analogical screens have also been changed to digital obtaining a considerable and the security service guards perform controls to ensure that all electronic devices saving in electrical energy in addition to performing programmed maintenance on the does not remain switched on. 30 screens were changes for slim screens with less equipment and the air conditioning so that they are in perfect working order. electrical consumption • En Huarmey, there have also been sensitization campaigns among employees and the • In Lima, computer equipment has been changed for new modern and slimmer efficient handling of lights operated during night by the security service guards. technology, recording consumption reductions from 70 W to 20 W, a saving of more than 50%. All our printers have also been changed for lower consumption models and • In Chancay, with the new plant extension project being executed, the reactive energy in terms of lighting we continue to use fluorescent lighting and saver bulbs. was reduced by means of the installation of a battery of condensers that permitted a substantial saving for the company. At this site there was a migration of monitors towards more efficient digital systems. • In Chimbote, the illumination installations are efficient and they are being extended to The main sources of water that supply the plants come from the public network, from c. large tanks and our own wells. However, since 2009 we are also using river water, mainly all areas of the plant. The air conditioning is installed at 60% which produced savings in electrical energy. All the old monitors have been changed for flat screens and all in the Chimbote plant, which has increased in 2010 as can be seen in the following chart. Water employees have been asked to use electrical and electronic devices responsibly. Consumption • In Ilo, we are working with all personnel to make them aware of the need to save energy Sustainability Report 2010 51 Water Consumption by source (m3) A large percentage of the water that goes into the 2006 productive process is re-used in the boilers (clean condensate) while dirty concentrate is used to 2007 154,785 2008 clean equipment, obtaining in 2010 a total of 19.2% of 131,558 128,647 2009 recycled water. 107,442 98,022 100,502 2010 83,233 84,069 55,885 61,406 55,798 35,740 15,245 8,400 736 Pub. Net Water Tank Water Well Water River Water Consumption Consumption Consumption Consumption The use of pumping water begins with the ecologic TRANSVAC bomb, where the relation No source of water has been affected significantly by its extraction. Moreover, and thanks of water/raw material is maximum 1:1, resulting in a lower volume of water to be treated to the improvements implemented in 2010, water consumption was recorded at 207,492 than with traditional pumps. The recovery of solids follows larger than 0.5 o 1mm m3, 19% less than that recorded in 2009. A large percentage of the water that goes into the depending on the plants, the Trommels or the rotary drums. These solids are stored and productive process is re-used in the boilers (clean condensate) while dirty concentrate is subsequently returned to the process together with the raw material. used to clean equipment, obtaining in 2010 a total of 19.2% of recycled water. At the end of 2010, 853,696 m³ was poured back into the ocean, 57% less than in 2009. The recovery of fat is performed in flotation cells where micro bubbles carry the fat to the surface. The resulting effluent from this process still has fats and solids, which is why it is taken to a foam collection tank. This foam is heated so that it can then pass on to a separation of solids process and a fat separation process by a centrifuge operation. The solids recovered are added to the fishmeal manufacturing process and the oil recovered is stored. The final effluent is sent to the ocean by means of an underwater piping system. Total water re-used (m3) The main concentrations are shown in the following chart: 426,955 2006 2007 346,225 2008 2009 255,241 2010 Average Fat and Oil BOD5 Total Suspended 175,205 175,449 Solids (TSS) Plant 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 58,510 36,199 39,772 Bayovar 3,061 2,995 28,597 28,698 13,717 14,983 11,926 8,005 Chicama 3,719 1,323 28,805 13,136 14,253 6,930 Clean condensate used in Dirty condensate used for Chimbote 4,593 2,040 38,109 21,573 15,642 10,569 Boilers equipment cleaning Huarmey 2,099 1,932 22,792 16,264 10,345 14,457 Chancay 3,440 1,633 20,483 8,475 7,016 7,148 Ilo 5,144 943 14,170 3,950 7,325 2,597 The industrial effluents consist of water for unloading raw material which is used as a Units: mg/lt. means of transporting the fish from the dock to the plant. Before, the blood water – from the storage of raw material in the wells-, formed part of these effluents. However at present, this is reintroduced into the productive process as it contains high protein values As it can be seen, the improvements and efficiencies implemented since 2009 are and does not contaminate the ocean when discharged. reflected in the significant reduction in concentrations of oils, fats, suspended solids and BOD5 that are monitored regularly by an accredited external laboratory. Sustainability Report 2010 53 d. In order to manage the dangerous and non dangerous solid residues there is a Corporate Solid Waste Procedure that governs the management of the residues generated in all plants to safety land fills where they are dumped so as not to cause an environmental impact. The useable dangerous residues, such as batteries and oil, are recycled by a Solid Waste plants. In the graph below, the total waste generated by the company can be seen. An Solid Waste Commercialization Company (EPS-RC) giving value by means of specialized increase in non dangerous solid waste was registered in 2010 as well as in dangerous treatment. solid waste due principally to the waste generated by the implementation of different projects at all the sites. In the case of non dangerous solid waste, if they are handled by the Municipality they are managed through the corresponding institution and if they are industrial and re-useable they can be subjected to different types of treatment: Solid Waste (Ton) • Internal recovery: metal cylinders, bags of salt, rubber tires, and discarded plastic 2006 sheets, pieces of wood. 2007 • Sale to third parties; scrap, PVC buoys, pieces of netting, fishmeal bags, wooden 2,437 2,226 residue, fish oil residues, organic process residues. 2008 2,111 • Internal or external donation: cardboard and paper remains, glass residue air filters. 2009 1,447 2010 As an efficient company COPEINCA seeks to obtain a maximum reduction in volumes of 885 solid residue generated and at the end, that these residues receive treatment, as occurs in 75% of the cases at present: 104 144 151 13 11,926 8,005 14 Re-use percentage of Solid Residues The management of solid waste begins with segregation in different devices distributed Sales 85% at various points in the plant. After segregation, if the residue is dangerous, it is taken to a temporary store for dangerous residues that has all safety measures installed demanded by national legislation. Donation 1.4% Subsequently solid waste that cannot be used are disposed through the Solid Waste Service Company (EPS-RS) which is authorized by the Municipality and registered in the Disposal 10.8% General Direction of Environmental Health (DIGESA). The residues are taken from the Recycled 2.6% Internal re-use 0.2% Sustainability Report 2010 55 The challenge for 2010 was to align all the employees to work practices that would lead COPEINCA to becoming a world leader in the production of fishmeal and fish oil. The challenge for 2010 was to align all the employees to work practices that would lead COPEINCA to becoming a world leader in the production of fishmeal and fish oil. Consequently the general management decided to begin a Leadership Skills Development Program, better known as DHL. The program was selected as a special need to orient the company leaders toward one single and unique style of managing people, identifying four key leadership competences that will have to be developed together with the employees under their charge: • Transformer leadership • Development of teams • Continuous improvement • Orientation towards results These four competencies are worked through a series of workshops, individual and group coaching sessions implemented by the human management together with the support of JML Consultants. In the first stage, 360º surveys were carried out with the employees so that the performance of the leader participating in the program could be evaluated. Later, with the official opening of the program the first workshop of transformer leadership took place with the team of managers. In the second stage the workshops and coaching 8. Human sessions were covered more deeply and finally, in the third stage, surveys were carried out with all the employees in order obtain the program’s results and their impact on day to day work. Management Quality of Life Program COPEINCA began the Quality of Life Program in September 2010. The main objective is to provide an working environment and companionship for all the company’s employees. a. The human management, through the social management area, focuses on the needs of Main human employees in terms of physical, emotional and affective health (family integration). management The quality of life at work covers all the efforts we can make in order to improve all employees’ motivation. This idea seeks to implement personalized transcendental programs motivation programs with the objective of generating physical, social and emotional welfare for all employees and their families. Consequently, in order for the program to be successful, it is fundamental to be able to rely on the best attitude of each employee in order that, as is occurring, the best results are obtained. Sustainability Report 2010 57 Occupational Health COPEINCA promotes a safe and healthy working One of the first programs implemented during 2010 was occupational health in which a series of measures and actions aimed at maintaining, improving and repairing the health environment in such a way that not only are the rights of people in their working, social and personal lives were implemented. The program of personnel not affected but also, promoted and includes planning, organizing executing and evaluating activities related to safety and hygiene and preventive medicine, with the objective of creating a healthier and safer developed among all employees. working environment for all employees. At the end of the program an area designated for the filing of our employees’ clinical histories will be implemented. This is an essential tool needed to finalize the ISO and OHSAS certifications. Additionally the company will subscribe agreements with specialized centers for the benefit of personnel: like gyms, educational and recreational facilities for the family, centers to relax, optical services among others. interpersonal relations as well as the communication abilities of each leader, through 12 hour immersion training courses. By the end of 2010, the program is working with 139 The medical evaluations of the employees were taken by Millenium Service Company, a leaders in the whole organization. specialized supplier contracted by means of a public bid, coordinated with the logistics area, following a timetable established for each plant. Leaders of Communication and Change COPEINCA promotes a safe and healthy working environment in such a way that not b. only are the rights of personnel not affected but also, promoted and developed among In 2009 the COPEINCA Network of Communication and Change Leaders was created. In this network, a group of employees performed the work of informing and communicating all employees. Consequently we work with a management policy that indicates that Human Rights, information to all the company areas and levels, through the receipt of concerns, all members of the company should develop on the principle of equal conditions and diversity and opportunities and, as a result, have access to the same benefits and remunerations promoting good relations and transmitting interesting news. The network helped in the improvement of the working environment, the welfare of the employees and to catalyze according to their position within the company’s hierarchy. During 2010 no specific equal and resolve obstacles or internal communication difficulties by means of a satisfactory training in Human Rights was carried out and yet we have not identified discriminatory opportunities handling of the company’s official information. practices or actions within the organization. The network is supported directly by the human management area and supports the With regard to child labor, COPEINCA has specific conditions detailed in the Internal general management in divulging aspects that are related to the welfare and development Working Rules RIT) in which it is specified that in order to work in the company all of COPEINCA´s employees. In 2010 The First Meeting of Leaders of Communication and employees must meet a series of conditions, one of which is that of being at least 18 Change was held and managed by Eco Consultants. The main objective was to strengthen years old. This is why no processing plant or office was identify as a potential risk for child labor. Sustainability Report 2010 59 c. COPEINCA’s policy of labor benefits is directed at all This code has been applicable since 2009 and is the document that indicates the The Code of guidelines or principles that the organization expects of its employees. The Code serves employees and particular efforts are made in the Conduct as a reference for the acts and behavior of all COPEINCA members. Its objective is to company leaders occupying management, superintendent guarantee the company’s good reputation and promote among all the employees a commitment to integrity and excellence. or chief positions. An anonymous channel of communication has been implemented by which all employees can inform and record any incompliance or fault to the Code of Conduct. The employee’s recruitment process depends on the RIT requirements. On recruiting, the most important element is to find an ideal collaborator for the position to be filled. d. This person may or may not come from the zone where the work will take place, however At the end of 2010 the company had a total of 1,620 employees, significantly less than Employees 2009 due to reductions of workers in the fleet area that represent a high percentage of the COPEINCA recognizes the importance of the person being near to his/hers family and this criteria is considered at the time of recruitment. The search process is performed in total number of company employees. the work zone and nearby, in case no qualified person is found the search is extended to zones further away and could even be performed outside Peru. Details of Collaborators by 2010 In the Chancay, Chimbote and Huarmey plants, COPEINCA has labor unions that in 2010 represented a total of 8.95% of the company’s labor force. These unions are plant unions Practising Students 0.86% Superintendents / Heads 3.77% Managers 0.62% and do not belong to external labor organizations. Plant Staff33.15% Office Staff 18.77% COPEINCA’s policy of labor benefits is directed at all employees and particular efforts are made in the company leaders occupying management, superintendent or chief positions. e. The benefits are revised periodically to ensure they are up-to-date, remain competitive Labor benefits Crew 42.84% and effectively respond to new situations and challenges that the company faces. Among the main benefits we have: • Food In general terms, the entry of personnel corresponds to a selection process to cover • Fishing Incentive vacant positions. The turnover of crew is due to the fact that many vessels were discarded • EPS Health Insurance in order to have a lower number of more efficient units. • Life Insurance • Personal transport vehicle • Fuel, maintenance, general insurance and 3rd party insurance. • Loans 2010 • Stock options CATEGORY ENTRIES LOSSES • Schooling Managers 1 1 • Transport of personnel to the plant Superintendents/ Heads 2 0 • Complementary all risk insurance and pension Office Staff 48 62 • Lap top Plant Staff 91 46 Crew 4 494 The remunerations offered by COPEINCA are considerable higher than the minimum Practicing Students 15 22 wage in Peru which in 2010 were held at S/. 550.00. The company’s employees record a Total 161 625 minimum wage that is 62% higher than the legal minimum. f. As part of the COPEINCA’S professional formation process, each year a training plan The areas of production and quality and research receive is prepared and carried out based on information received from each manager. After Skills completing the format to raise training needs for each area, priorities are determined more training hours, as well as more specialization in development for each formation in order to place priorities on the more relevant and which fit into the technical matters, as a result they are assigned a larger operational plan of the corresponding area, as well as the budget assigned for training. percentage of the budget. All areas of the company have a special budget for this, although some areas have more than others in response to the company’s strategic plan. The areas of production and quality and research receive more training hours, as well as more specialization in technical matters, as a result they are assigned a larger percentage of the budget. As for the production areas, each plant has its own budget, which is administered directly by the Superintendent and reported to the of human management area. As part of the Leadership Skills Development Program (DHL), in 2010 COPEINCA focused g. on performance evaluations directed especially to managers, superintendents, section During 2010 a total of S/. 235,000 have been invested, representing 29,672 hours of training. heads and supervisors of all the units that have personnel under their responsibility. By the Performance end of 2010, a total of 122 employees have been evaluated. Evaluations For the year 2011 the development of the evaluation program will continue as well as the Total Hours Training Per Capita monitoring of progress programmed for each leader. In special cases referring to the incorporation of personnel, during the program development, only leaving reports will be 2008 applied. 126.3 117.5 2009 2010 91.5 h. 65.1 60.1 The BASC certification promotes the implementation of a self-management program 46.0 44.5 based on the principal of better practices and continuous improvement that guarantee the 27.9 34.7 37.8 security of international commerce. In order to verify the conformity of the Management Security and occupational 24.0 19.6 11.2 12.0 System for Secure Commerce – BASC, a systematic process of evaluations is established, through audits that lead later to the certification which lasts one year. A work plan and a health 1.6 specific timetable are currently being developed to carry out BASC evaluations at all the sites including Lima. Sustainability Report 2010 63 By decision of top management and progressively, a base line diagnosis has been As can be seen in the table, during 2010, accidents in the plants have increased by 118% established for the implementation and verification of an Integrated Management System with regard to 2009. This is mainly due to the fact that throughout this year a greater (OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001) for all the company plants from 2010 onwards. For 2011 the number of investment projects have been carried out in the plants, leading to a greater plants of Ilo, Chicama, Bayovar and Chimbote are expected to hold these international number of accidents. Despite this however, the days lost in the plants are significantly certifications. Additionally a special budget has been assigned for the improvement of the lower than in previous years meaning that accidents were less serious. security structure at all sites. In accordance with Supreme Decree Nº 009 – 2005 – TR, COPEINCA has a committee for health and safety at work comprising company management representatives and representatives of the workers, with an equal participation percentage. The worker These campaigns are fundamental in COPEINCA’s labor management due to the influence they have on the employees and their physical, mental and social well-being and the fact j. representatives are elected by means of a vote among employees from the plants and the fleet. that they lead to the full development of the individual. Training The programs are grouped in three types: campaigns in Finally, in coordination with human management, annual safety training programs have been established and are communicated by the mural newspapers, Incasite and El Anzuelo occupational magazine. • Preventive: in order to avoid risks and the development of diseases. health and safety • Promotional: to improve living conditions, productivity and work. • Occupational: to detect, control, monitor and prevent future diseases. The main problems in which intervention is necessary to prevent, control and monitor i. In the following chart the results of the main indexes of accidents are presented. are the work accidents and the occupational and regular diseases of the employees. The Accident high index of medical days off produces important losses for the company and, in the long term, affects the employee. In 2010 strategies have been developed to reduce work Statistics 2007 2008 2009 2010 accidents, in coordination with the insurance companies who have the responsibility of Accidents in Plant 15 39 11 24 carrying the company’s human risk, by the end of 2010 92% of employees have been Accidents de Fleet 25 134 126 76 evaluated in occupational health. Days Lost in Plant 353 719 466 390 Days Lost in Fleet 916 3,736 13,130 2,155 Sustainability Report 2010 65 CFR (Cost and Freight): COPEINCA delivers when the merchandise is on board the vessel in the port of shipment. a. The cost of transporting the merchandise to the agreed port of destination is also the Glossary responsibility of COPEINCA. However, the risk of loss or damage to the merchandise, as well as any other additional cost due to events occurring after delivery, is the responsibility of the client. The term CFR demands the customs dispatch of the merchandise for export. COSO This tool is recognized all over the world to provide orientation on fundamental aspects of organizational government, company ethics, internal control, company risk management, fraud and the presentation of financial statements. EXW (Ex Works Agreed place): COPEINCA delivers when it places the goods at the disposal of the buyer at our premises or at another agreed place. FAS (Free Alongside Ship): The seller delivers when the merchandise is placed alongside the vessel in the agreed port of shipment. This implies that the buyer is responsible for all costs and risks of loss or damage to the merchandise from that moment. The term FAS requires the seller to dispatch the merchandise in Customs for export. FOB (Free On Board): The merchandise is placed on the vessel by the dispatcher free from all expenses, the buyer being responsible for freight, Customs and other expenses. GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): A pioneer organization in the preparation of sustainability indicators, recognized and used throughout the world. COPEINCA is committed to the application and continuous 9.Annexes improvement of this indicators. ISO 9001: A Standard that specifies the requirements for a good quality management system that can be used for internal application and certification. The current version has been adopted as a model to follow in order to obtain the corresponding quality certificate. ISO 14001: An International Standard that establishes how to implement an efficient environmental management system. It has been conceived to administer the delicate equilibrium between profit maintenance and reduction of the environmental impact. With the commitment of all the organization it permits the achievement of both objectives. ISO 26000: The International Standards Organization (ISO) has decided to take on the development of an international standard that will provide guidelines for Social Responsibility (SR). It will not be a certifiable standard. It will assist organizations to take on the management of SR, respecting the cultural, social, environmental and legal differences and the conditions for economic development. It provides a practical guide towards making SR operative, identifying and obtaining the commitment of the stakeholders, and reinforcing Sustainability Report 2010 67 the credibility of the reports and complaints presented about SR.   b. Millennium Goals:  2010 In the United Nations Millennium Summit of the year 2000, all the member states undertook together to carry out actions to advance along the road for peace and human   Sustainability development. The Millennium Statement led to the approval of the Eight Millennium June 30, 2011 Report´s Development Goals, which are: 1) Eradicate Extreme Poverty and hunger. 2) Achieve Universal Primary Education. 3) Promote equality among classes and the autonomy of Corporación Pesquera Inca S.A. La Victoria Validation Lima the woman. 4) Reduce infant mortality. 5) Improve maternal health 6) Combat HIV and AIDS, malaria and other diseases. 7) Guarantee the sustainability of the environment. 8) From our consideration: Form a World Development Association. This letter aims to perform the Third Party Checked to confirm compliance with the Level B of the 2010 Sustainability Report of Corporacion Pesquera Inca SA, according to the requirements of the Global Reporting OHSAS 18001: Initiative (GRI). These standards constitute a series of voluntary international standards applied to the management of safety and occupational health and are based on the norms BS8800 of Our external verification was based on a detailed review of the report according to the outlines of the Guide for the Development of Sustainability Reporting from the GRI G3. The conclusions of this analysis will be developed in this the British Standard. letter, included the following points: Global Compact: • The overview of the alignment with the principles of GRI for the development of sustainability reports. The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative of ethical commitment directed • The confirmation of the grade B, according to the fulfillment of the reported performance indicators necessary to achieve that level. towards the companies of every country so that they take on, as an integral part of their • Recommendations for improving future reports. strategy and operations, ten principles of conduct and action in Human Rights, Work, Environment and the Fight against Corruption. The objective is to promote the creation In the following lines we develop our conclusions: of a global corporate citizenship that permits the conciliation of interests and processes of corporate activity with the values and demands of civil society, as well as with United 1. Alignment with the principles of the GRI Nations Organization projects, the sector international organizations, the unions and the The 2010 Sustainability Report complies with the principle of Materiality for several reasons. In addition to NGO’s. providing relevant information on its overall performance, the report clearly explains the key impacts, risks and opportunities of the company from the standpoint of sustainability. It also notes that suggestions have been SAP: compiled in order to report relevant information for a particular stakeholder. Is the world’s main supplier of corporate software for the delivery of products and services. On the other hand, the report offers a wealth of information on environmental performance; we nevertheless It helps to speed up innovation and applications for the company under the concepts of consider that the contents of management with communities need more precision about the scope, description of growth and the creation of value. interventions and the results obtained. TVBN (Total Volatile Basic Nitrogen): As for the management of the value chain, we believe it is necessary to know whether the practices of sustainability and human rights that the company describes are being extended to their suppliers or not. In the Is an index that specifies product freshness. Peruvian fishing industry, a responsible management of suppliers should not be limited to the management of purchasing indicators. The 2010 Sustainability Report complies with the principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness as it lists all of them and notes that the organization regularly conducts studies to identify and to determine their impacts and understand their perceptions and attitudes. It also lists the issues that have been incorporated into the report, after having collected the information expectations of the stakeholders consulted through a survey. The report is also aligned with the principle of Sustainability Context because it explains the outlook and approach of the company in relation to the integral action. As well, it addresses the relationship established between the challenges of sustainability of the company, its stakeholders, activities and goals. On the principle of Completeness, it would be important for future opportunities to point out the magnitude of the company’s performance, including key indicators of the behavior of third parties or suppliers. It is also expected that the section on community issues specifies the scope of each of its interventions and the areas where they are developed.  Sustainability Report 2010 69 Index of Basic contents of the GRI c.  2006 Global reporting   In Accordance Initiative (GRI) Index Mandatory   Self 2. Compliance with the necessary indicators to confirm the application level B Declared Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured The 2010 Sustainability Report of Corporacion Pesquera Inca SA develops all the profile information and management approach of the organization as well as 63 performance indicators, 40 of which are Third core and 23 are additional. Party Checked Optional According to the GRI guidelines, to meet the application level B the organization must report a minimum of 20 core performance indicators and at least one from each dimension (economic, environmental, human rights, labor practices, society and product responsibility). Therefore, the analysis allows us to confirm that the 2010 Sustainability GRI Report meets the level B. Checked 3. Opportunities for improving future reports Due to the importance of certain aspects of the industry which Copeinca belongs to, and the relevance of certain stakeholders, we believe there are some key aspects to consider when developing this publication. The table presented below indicates the location of the contents of the GRI indicators.  We think it is imperative to report the management of the value chain more fully due to the high impact it has in the activity, as the fleet of third parties does. While the management of social responsibility starts with the internal standards, sometimes the wider impact of the exercise is produced through these actors.  It is necessary to know the company's position on relevant issues for the industry and the sustainability of the Considerations regarding the indicators reported fishing resources, such as the quota law. This content is clearly related to the sustainability issues described in the Indicator World report. Indicator Pages Compact Observations Scope  The topics related to social management must also be addressed more fully, specifying impact, scope and Principles scale. Also, the section on APRO can pick up these issues with greater emphasis, if the management Strategy and analysis of community relations of the company is being channeled through them.  We recommend the organization to gather up and highlight more case studies with concrete stories that 1.1 4 Statement of continuous support illustrate how social responsibility has been introduced and managed by the organization. 1.2 10,11 a. Main Risks and Opportunities Responde is a consulting firm specialized in the promotion of social responsibility and reputation management, and Organization profile was not involved in drafting this sustainability report. After the arguments presented, we can confirm that the 2010 Sustainability Report of Corporacion Pesquera Inca SA qualifies to meet the application level: 2.1 6 a. 2010 Management 2.2 20 c. Commercial Management 2.3 Annual Memorandum (page 29) B: “Third Party Checked” 2.4 53 2.5 We operate only in Peru; in the departments of Piura (Bayovar), La Libertad (Chicama), Ancash Sincerely yours, (Chimbote and Huarmey), Lima (Chancay) and Moquegua (Ilo) 2.6 53 Annual Memorandum (page 13) 2.7 20 c. Commercial Management 2.8 2 2.9 28 7. Environmental Management 2.10 12 Jorge Melo Vega Castro General Manager Report parameters 3.1 6 2010 3.2 2008-2009 3.3 6 Anual 3.4 53 3.5 10,11 b. Main challenges in terms of Sustainability c. Sustainability Report Material  Sustainability Report 2010 71 Considerations regarding the indicators reported Considerations regarding the indicators reported Indicator World Indicator World Indicator Pages Compact Observations Indicator Pages Compact Observations Scope Principles Scope Principles 3.6 6 Environmental performance indicators 3.7 There are no limitations EN1 29 8 3.8 We have no subsidiaries EN2 29 8,9 3.9 We report on the basis of GRI protocols EN3 30 8 3.10 6 a. 2010 Management EN4 30 8 3.11 28 Environmental Management EN5 31 8,9 3.12 47 EN6 31 8,9 3.13 This year´s report was verified EN7 31 8,9 by Responde (see letter). EN8 32 8 EN9 32 8 Governance, commitments and engagement EN10 32 8,9 EN11 8 4.1 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN12 8 4.2 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN13 8 4.3 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN14 8 4.4 6 From 1 to 10 Annual Memorandum (page 62) Annual Memorandum (page 62) EN15 8 4.5 6 From 1 to 10 EN16 30 8 4.6 6 From 1 to 10 Annual Memorandum (page 62) EN17 8 4.7 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN18 30 7,8,9 4.8 5 From 1 to 10 EN19 8 4.9 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN20 30 8 4.10 6 From 1 to 10 b. Good Corporate Government Practices EN21 33 8 4.11 7 7 Risk Management EN22 35 8 4.12 16 From 1 to 10 Communities EN23 8 There were no significant spills 4.13 12 From 1 to 10 EN24 8 4.14 13 d. Stakeholders EN25 8 4.15 13 d. Stakeholders EN26 30 7,8,9 4.16 13 d. Stakeholders EN27 28 8,9 4.17 11,13 c. Sustainability Report Material EN28 8 88.9 UIT (1peruvian UIT = S/. 3600 or US$ 1285) GRI PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EN29 8 Economic performance indicators EN30 26,28 7,8,9 EC0 26 1,4,6,7 6. Economic Management Labor practices and decent work performance indicators EC1 26 6. Economic Management 8. Labor Management LA0 37 1,3,6 EC2 26 7 We do not yet have a detailed report that sets out said financial consequences; however we expect LA1 39 We still do not have all the indicator details required by the indicator; however we are working to have more information in the medium term. towards this for the 2011 Sustainability Report. EC3 40 We still do not have all the indicator details No financial aid from the government is received LA2 40 6 required by the indicator; however we are working EC4 towards this for the 2011 Sustainability Report. EC5 40 1 There is no written or approved policy yet. LA3 40 EC6 19 EC7 39 6 LA4 40 1,3 There is no specific collective agreement signed with any collaborator (union member or not). For EC8 18 all employees we observe the code of conduct EC9 18 manual or the RIT. Environmental performance indicators LA5 3 EN0 28 7,8,9 7. Environmental Management LA6 42 1 h. Occupational Safety and Hygiene LA7 42 1 h. Occupational Safety and Hygiene Sustainability Report 2010 73 Considerations regarding the indicators reported Considerations regarding the indicators reported Indicator World Indicator World Indicator Pages Compact Observations Indicator Pages Compact Observations Scope Principles Scope Principles LA8 42 1 h. Occupational Safety and Hygiene PR5 20 c. Commercial Management LA9 1 Safety and Occupational Health matters are We are affiliated to the World Compact the 42 PR6 20 logo of which is printed on our fish meal bags. dealt with on the basis of BASC y OHSAS 18001 certifications. There have been no incidents recorded PR7 LA10 41 related to marketing communications. LA11 37,41 PR8 1 COPEINCA guards client information, only General Management, the Assistant General Manager and LA12 42 The development and performance of 35% of all the Commercial Manager have access to it. Proof employees have been evaluated. of our fidelity is the absolute absence of claims regarding violations of our client’s privacy. LA13 6 1,6 b. Good Corporate Government Practices PR9 We do not carry out marketing communications, LA14 1,6 publicity, promotional activities or sponsorships. Human Rights performance indicators HR0 37 1,2,3,4,5,6 References HR1 1,2,3,4,5,6 HR2 1,2,3,4,5,6 The requirement or indicator is reported completely. HR3 38 1,2,3,4,5,6 The requirement or indicator is partially presented and/or only qualitative information is presented. HR4 38 1,2,6 No discrimination incidents were recorded 1,2,3 No information on the requirement or indicator is presented. HR5 HR6 38 1,2,5 HR7 38 1,2,4 No site has been identified as a risk of being the origin of episodes of forced or non consented work. HR8 1,2 HR9 1,2 We have not recorded any incidents of violation of the rights of indigents. Society performance indicators SO0 10 10 4. Sustainable Development for COPEINCA SO1 16 We still do not have all the indicator details required by the indicator, however we are working towards this end for the next report. SO2 7 10 100% of sites analyzed SO3 7 10 c. Risk Management SO4 10 There were no incidents of corruption SO5 10 We do not participate in Lobbying activities SO6 10 We do not contribute money to political parties. SO7 We do not have monopolistic practices. SO8 936.14 UIT (1peruvian UIT = S/. 3600 or US$ 1285) and 14 non-monetary sanctions. Product responsibility performance indicators PR0 20 1,8 c. Commercial Management PR1 20 1 c. Commercial Management. We still do not have all the indicator details required by the indicator, however we are working towards this for the 2011 Sustainability Report. PR2 1 There were no incidents of legal non compliance with voluntary codes. PR3 20 8 c. Commercial Management The product information on the package and the PR4 8 label correspond to standard regulations. Some destinations require the product to bear additional information and if it is not presented there is a risk that the product will be rejected by Customs at the destination. During 2010 only one such case occurred. Sustainability Report 2010 75 d. Sustainability Report 2010 Corporación Pesquera Inca S.A.C. e. We value It is important for us to receive your opinion, please complete this small survey and send Corporate Affairs Manager Contact your opinion it to our offices at Calle Francisco Graña 155. La Victoria. By fax to 2134030. By e-mail to: Francesca Carnesella Figuerola pamayo@copeinca.com.pe E-mail: fcarnesella@copeinca.com.pe Telephone: 213-4000 extension 4242 1. Indicate the Interest Group that best fits your profile Address: Calle Francisco Graña 155 La Victoria Lima – Peru. Community State Collaborators Press Supplierss Finantial Sector 3rd Party Fleet Shareholders Clients 2. This document contains COPEINCA´s financial, social and environmental performance. How would you classify each performance according to the contents of the report? Poor Regular Good Very Good Economic Social Environmental 3. How would you evaluate our report according to the following aspects? Poor Regular Good Very Good General opinion Quality of contents Interest of contents Wording and language Design 4. What additional comments or suggestions can you give us to improve it? 5. Should you like to continue receiving similar documents from the company please give us you contact information Name and Family Name: Adress: Town/City: Province: Country: Telephone: E-mail: Sustainability Report 2010 77 Graphic design: Carla Franco / Ursula San Miguel Photo: Centro de la fotografía / Alex Bryce / Gonzalo Olmos Sustainability Report 2010 79 Sustainability Report 2010
