Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Special Feature The Citizen Group’s CSR Initiatives Across the Globe Message from Management Aiming to be a group of companies that sustain steady growth by responding flexibly to change CITIZEN HOLDINGS CO., LTD. Internal Audit & CSR Department at Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Tel: +81-42-468-4776 Fax: +81-42-466-1280 Website: http://www.citizen.co.jp/english/ Published: June 2011 Citizen is a registered trademark of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Citizen aims to pursue its corporate social responsibility (CSR) with the participation of all employees as a “corporate group contributing to and striving to be respected by the citizens of the world.” We asked Citizen Group employees all over the world.What does CSR mean to you? An English translation of this message is available in the online edition of the Citizen Group CSR Report. Editorial Policy Citizen Group CSR Report online Editorial Policy 2 Base of CSR The aim of this publication, CSR Report 2011, is to provide all of our stakeholders with a straightforward outline of the Citizen Group’s Japanese: Message from Management 4 Corporate Governance 14 business activities and the Group’s approach and initiatives in relation to its social responsibilities. First, the report features http://www.citizen.co.jp/social/index.html The Citizen Group 6 The Citizen Group’s CSR and Risk Management 15 employees from all over the world holding up cards answering the question “what does CSR mean to you?” This gives employees English: Citizen Products and Technology in Use Here, responsible for CSR a visible presence and creates a real feel for our Citizen and Society http://www.citizen.co.jp/english/csr/index.html There and Everywhere 8 18 approach to CSR, based on the participation of all employees. Citizen and its Customers The Special Feature reviews the Citizen Group’s past CSR Citizen and its Shareholders and Business Partners 20 initiatives in its business activities and showcase CSR activities currently underway on a global scale. Organizations covered in the report Citizen and its Employees 21 Although designed to make the Citizen Group’s CSR activities known to the general public, this report also serves as a guide for Economic and social data: 85 domestic and overseas Citizen Group companies Special The Citizen Group’s CSR Citizen and Local Communities 24 every employee in the Group, to help them understand and carry out CSR activities. Environmental data: 31 domestic and overseas Citizen Group companies To provide details of the Citizen Group’s activities in a more Feature initiatives across the globe Citizen and the Environment straightforward manner, we have since last fiscal year been offering Period covered by the report The Citizen Group’s Environmental Management 26 this publication as a digest while featuring extensive details of all our initiatives on our website. Fiscal 2010 (April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011) Reviewing the history of the Citizen Group’s CSR initiatives across the Eco-Drive Watch – Design for the Future 30 For full details of the Citizen Group’s CSR activities, please refer Some data from fiscal 2011 is also included. globe and showcasing its ongoing activities in different parts of the world to our website (see the URLs on the right). 10 Third-Party Comments 31 Response to Last Year’s Third-Party Comments Guidelines Referenced In fiscal 2010, One Akiyama remarked that she hoped to see the Group, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 (GRI) as a global enterprise, stepping up its overseas initiatives as quickly as Front cover Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2007 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Participating in the UN Global Compact possible, not least in the interests of risk management. In response, this report has a special feature on our international CSR activities, presents Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment, Japan) Assistance at an environmental Having signed up to the United Nations Global Compact some of our CSR activities outside Japan and provides an in-depth workshop CITIZEN HOLDINGS coverage of risk management efforts. Ms. Akiyama also commented that in April 2005, the Citizen Group as a whole strives to she wanted to see some more in-depth evidence of the results of Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. offered cooperation uphold, respect and put into practice the Ten Principles and assistance to an event held at the Tanashi schemes and initiatives aimed at creating an environment in which Date of Publication outlined therein. We have set out specific guidelines Forest of the University of Tokyo, located in the employees can put their skills to the best possible use, rather than just based on the spirit of the Global Compact in the form of city of Nishitokyo. Titled “The Arts of the Forest the basic details, to learn how schemes were used and whether they June 2011 (Previous report: June 2010 / Next report: June 2012) our Guidelines for the Implementation of the Citizen Group & the Sea – Welcome to the Small Universe of helped increase levels of pride and motivation amongst employees and Code of Conduct and will make every effort to rigorously Insects,” the event provided participating to see more feedback from employees themselves. This year’s report Disclaimer children of employees of Tokyo Works with an has more pages featuring employees to show specific examples of our This CSR report includes future projections based on the information available enforce the spirit of the Global Compact in the future. opportunity to think about biodiversity through initiatives. when the report was written. The actual results of activities documented may creatures close to them. differ from such future projections. 2 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 3 Message from Management Aiming to be a group of companies that sustain steady growth by responding flexibly to change outperforming its plan in terms of financial results, until growth in a bid to give back to the Citizen Group’s posting a loss due to the earthquake at the end of the stakeholders. The driving force behind that aim comes period. The disaster had a significant impact on our from the aspirations of all employees and their sense of business outcomes, but nonetheless on a full-year basis fulfillment. I want each and every member of the Citizen net sales and operating income surpassed projections. Group to feel proud and motivated and to have a real Fiscal 2011 does not allow for optimism in view of the sense of fulfillment, which will enable us to create new deterioration of the circumstances surrounding value and become a corporate group capable of sustained procurement, energy supply shortages, slumping market growth. sentiment, and other unpredictable changes in the environment. I am delighted to present the completed Citizen Group CSR Report 2011. The entire Group is committed to Towards a streamlined and flexible continuing its CSR activities. I look forward to your structure that can adapt to understanding and support of the Citizen Group in the environmental change future. June 2011 The disaster struck just after we had finally moved beyond Mitsuyuki Kanamori the worldwide financial crisis that began in 2008. The President and CEO circumstances surrounding business will be harsher and Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. more varied than ever. These changes have made us realize that we have many challenges to address. To adapt to any change in the operating environment, we Citizen Group Corporate Philosophy Seeking the earliest possible recovery of must build up our own business standing. Our Relief for victims of the all those affected by the Great East medium-term management plan has not changed: we still Great East Japan Earthquake For the citizen Contributing to and striving to be Japan Earthquake need to strengthen our corporate foundations and pursue To assist victims of the disaster respected by citizens of the world a growth strategy. Indeed, we understand that we need to to return to normal life as soon We extend our deepest sympathy to all those affected by do this with an accelerated and more exhaustive as possible, the Citizen Group Citizen Group Vision To create new value and establish a group the Great East Japan Earthquake and our sincere wishes approach. has contributed a donation of capable of continual, sustainable growth for the earliest possible recovery. All employees of the 100 million yen through the based on compact precision technology Japanese Red Cross Society and reliable quality Citizen Group were unharmed, but we sustained signifiStriving to become a group capable of and offered a total of 3,000 cant damage at some of our production and sales sustained growth Objective of the Citizen Group Medium-Term electronic clinic thermometers Management Plan (FY2010-2012) premises. As a result of efforts and the cooperation of all To further reinforce corporate foundations to the Fukushima Red Cross staff, operations were almost back to normal by April. Our aim is to fundamentally improve our corporate and to strive to achieve new growth Hospital. During fiscal 2010, the Citizen Group was steadily capabilities on a long-term basis and maintain sustainable 4 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 5 The Citizen Group Devices and Components Harnessing world-leading compact, precision With devices becoming increasingly compact and offering ever more advanced capabilities, there is a technology to continually offer true value and need for precision technology that combines lowpower consumption with outstanding reliability. We fulfill people’s expectations and aspirations provide LEDs, crystal units, automotive parts, and other devices and components for services and Crystal units systems that are crucial to society, based on Based on the Citizen Group’s corporate philosophy of business we aim to create a wide range of products based compact, ultra-precision machining, low-power “contributing to and striving to be respected by citizens of on the concept of combining technology and beauty. We consumption, and other technologies infused with the world,” we operate a wide array of businesses supply parts essential to downsizing, higher precision, and the Citizen DNA. Automotive parts worldwide, drawing on the Group’s accumulated ultra-small, low-power consumption in the devices and components LED lighting ultra-precise, low-power consumption technologies in the sector while helping the electronic products sector offer watch sector. greater convenience and comfort. As part of our industrial Our “Micro HumanTech” approach is alive and well in machinery business, we provide high-speed machinery Electronic Products each of our businesses and products. As part of our watch capable of processing parts to micron precision. We harness the compact, precision, low-power consumption technology developed by the Citizen Group in the watch sector to offer commercial printers and other Watches and Clocks electronic equipment for professional use in a wide range Wrist digital blood pressure monitors of businesses. Our electronic clinic thermometers, digital blood pressure monitors and other healthcare devices incorporate the concept of universal design at an early Based on the concept of combining technology with beauty, we blend stage in the interests of ease of use for all. We will the latest technology with exquisite beauty to create new value. continue to provide support to help people to lead easier, Line thermal label printers Without that concept, there would be no Citizen watches. Our goal is more convenient and more comfortable lives. Thermal printers to keep on manufacturing watches that are loved by people the world over, driven by the continual pursuit of new beauty and cutting-edge technology. We continue to refine and improve our watches with the aim of providing new value that will captivate all those who wear them. Industrial Machinery Drawing on the expertise and technology we have developed for the equipment and Eco-Drive radio-controlled watch machinery used to manufacture watches, we develop and supply industrial machinery that is essential to grinding. Constantly aiming to Corporate Profile enrich our product lineup, to enhance our Name Capitalization services to customers, and to build a business Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. ¥32,649 million (as of March 31, 2011) model for creating new customer value, we Establishment May 28, 1930 Employees 22,981 (consolidated; as of March 31, 2011) offer total solutions that transcend standalone Location of Head Office 6-1-12 Tanashi-cho, Nishitokyo, NC automatic lathes NC automatic lathes Sales ¥284.9 billion (consolidated; FY2010) products. Tokyo 188-8511, Japan Representative Mitsuyuki Kanamori, President and CEO Listing Tokyo Stock Exchange, 1st Section Other Products Sales by Business Category Sales by Region Number of Employees by Region Consolidated; FY2010 Consolidated; FY2010 Consolidated; as of March 31, 2011 We plan, manufacture, and sell jewelry products, including bridal jewelry under the brand name Something Blue. We Watches and also produce and sell automated and Clocks 48.2% ¥ 284,9 22,981 Devices and billion labor-saving system devices for the Components 25.5% ¥ 284,9 amusement industry, and the food billion Electronic Products 7.7% service industry. We also operate Industrial 13.3% bowling alleys and other leisure services. Machinery Japan 38.1% Europe 10.7% Japan (31 companies) 8,706 37.9% Asia 31.2% Others 1.4% Overseas (54 companies) 14,275 62.1% Bridal jewelry Other Products 5.3% Americas 18.6% A bowling alley 6 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 7 Citizen Products and Technology in 4 LCOS* (Digital still camera) PN liquid crystal (Digital still camera) Compact switch (Digital still camera) 5 Marriage Ring Scratch resistant 6 Sports timer High visibility magnetic 7 Automotive Components Use Here, There and Everywhere Manufacturing Incorporated in Liquid crystal rings that keep reversal displays, essential components for use electronic view used to display their shape during marathon in ABS brakes, Used for broadcasts airbags, engines, finders that are focus area shutter more compact and within etc. Citizen’s wide ranging business activities make it an integral part of society. slimmer than viewfinders switches, etc. Citizen products and services play a crucial role behind the scenes of our day-to-day lives. optical versions LED backlight unit * Short for “Liquid Crystal on Silicon,” LCOS are LCD panels that use silicon substrates. (Car navigation) Used in the development of 25 Publication 1 Watch 2 Quartz Crystal Devices 3 LED (Lighting) slimmer, energy saving car navigation Publishing technical books Eco-Drive watches (Home Electronics) Low-energy systems chiefly in fine arts and history first watches to be Reference signals used to consumption, long and running the book granted Eco-Mark ensure that electronic life, mercury free, section in the museum shop certification in equipment is functioning environmentally 11 of the Tokyo National 1996 correctly friendly lighting Museum and elsewhere 8 Electronic View Finders 8 (Camcorders for 9 professional use) 24 Zirconia ceramic parts for High resolution optical communicator viewfinders capable (Optical Network) of catching even Used in connectors for fiber fast movements optic cables during sporting 4 events 25 23 5 9 Time control system Highly reliable Liquid Crystal Display (Gas meters) Clocks fitted to Durable specifications buildings or other exterior surfaces, even at high 10 often cherished as temperature and humidity symbols representing the local area 22 Electronic dictionary Used to store Japanese 10 LCOS* (Projector) and bilingual 20 Used in video Japanese-English engines due to high dictionary data and definition and medical, health-related 6 3 picture quality and general information * Short for “Liquid Crystal on Silicon,” LCOS are LCD panels that use silicon substrates. 21 Digital 12 7 11 Combustion Pressure thermometer Instant readings Sensor (Ship) approximately Fitted inside engine every 30 seconds cylinders to measure Softer tip for more combustion comfortable fit 2 pressure inpatients’ armpits 1 Digital blood 16 pressure 12 Self-service ordering system 19 monitor Enables restaurant Easy to use health 17 customers to order management support tools with 13 from menu touch screens at their clear displays tables 24 20 Leisure Facilities 14 13 POS Thermal Printer Providing Used to issue multipurpose 21 receipts, coupons entertainment and tickets venues, from ice rinks to culture 15 schools 22 23 19 Wave Plate 18 14 Photo Printer Optical Disk Drives) Enabling easy photo printing at An optical device locations such as used in Blu-Ray supermarkets and optical pickups photo stores Submount (Optical Disk Drives) 18 Quartz Crystal Devices LED (Mobile Phones) Electronic Paper (Mobile Phones) 17 Glass substrate 16 Digital Pedometer 15 NC automatic Measuring Coreless Motor, A ceramic (Mobile Phones) Used for key World’s first electronic (Hard Disk Drives) Easy operation for lathe instruments Gear Head, Encoders substrate with high lights, camera Processed from glass by precision measurement while walking or Machinery Instruments Used to produce paper keypad, harnessing Used in radiation flashes and cutting, polishing, and cleaning for jogging to help maintain and used to grind used to regular signals in the memory capabilities electronic performance backlights on state-of-the-art hard disks used in improve health metal to make accurately time with actions and flexible properties of microscopes, mounted with laser mobile personal computers, portable high-precision measure when on standby electronic paper radiotherapy and diodes for phones, etc. music players, and car navigation components small equipment, optical disks systems components robots, etc. 8 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 9 The Citizen Group’s As the world economy grows, the globalization of the corporate sector is gathering momentum. Since its founding in 1930, the Citizen Group has always approached its business from an international perspective. Today, Special our overseas business accounts for more than 60% of our sales and employees and we have 54 overseas subsidiaries. Not Feature CSR initiatives across the globe surprisingly, then, the Group is steadily globalizing. Accordingly, our CSR activities have also become more international, especially since we signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2005. The report looks back at the history of the Citizen Group’s CSR initiatives across the globe and showcases ongoing activities History of CSR activities in different parts of the world in the special feature section. Inauguration International assistance Corporate philosophy Environment Completion of the first wristwatch Technical assistance in watch making Launch of the Citizen of the Year The solar-powered Eco-Drive for India annual award scheme becomes the first wristwatch to be granted Eco Mark certification This is the first mechanical wristwatch In response to a request from the Indian Citizen of the Year is an annual award scheme that gives recognition to produced by Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. government for assistance in watch making in citizens who inspire local people and contribute to the development, At the time, the market was shifting 1960, we signed a technical assistance happiness and all-round enhancement of their local communities. Back in 1995, before the word “eco” became from pocket watches to wristwatches. agreement for plant exports. From then until Prompted by a lack of wide-ranging recognition for deserving citizens, the commonplace in Japan, we came up with the Sales began to grow around 1932. the fifth agreement in 1980, we offered scheme was set up in 1990 to mark Citizen’s 60th anniversary, tying in name “Eco-Drive” for Citizen’s range of With several revisions to improve its technical guidance for India’s domestic perfectly with the spirit of company’s name. As well as Japanese citizens, watches fitted with solar cells. structure, the wristwatch was production of manual and automatic spring commendations have also been given to Ever since becoming the first watches to be manufactured until around 1957. drive watches and quartz watches. foreign citizens who have made a granted Eco Mark certification in 1996, our Meanwhile, we entered into personnel contribution to their local communities in Eco-Drive watches have continued to lead the exchange with India, as we accepted a large Japan. The scheme has even received solar-powered watch market. number of trainees from India and dispatched coverage in the press and on television. a significant number of engineers. Eco Mark Certification Number Social contribution Human resource development Internationalization Handing down techniques Release of Japan’s first wristwatch for A CITIZEN WATCH engineer wins the Signing the United Nations Global A CITIZEN HEIWA WATCH employee visually impaired wearers gold medal in the mechanical drawing Compact is honored by the Minister of Health, category of the 12th World Skills Competition. Labour and Welfare as a Modern In 1960, we released CITIZEN Shine, Japan’s first wristwatch for visually We signed the United Nations Global Compact, after pledging to the Master Craftsperson. impaired wearers. In 1967, we The World Skills Competition is an international competition aimed at Secretary-General of the United donated 215 of these watches to promoting vocational training and exchanging international friendship. In Nations to support its objective, to Joined Heiwa Tokei Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (now Citizen Heiwa Watch visually impaired people in 29 the mechanical drawing category, the competition included three difficult introduce its ten principles in Co., Ltd.) in 1967. different countries with the aspiration challenges and lasted 30 hours. corporate activities and to play a Subsequently worked on everything from the assembly of movements to of assisting the United Nations in Contestants were reportedly proactive role in actively fulfilling our finished products over a period of 43 years. In 2005, she was the only promoting world peace and happy to receive rice balls during responsibilities as a corporate citizen. member of staff to be selected as a “Super-Meister,” representing the friendship. In 1975, to commemorate the competition. During a break, This move is of great significance in highest level of skill based on the our 45th anniversary, we offered a contestant from Germany the sense that we have pledged to Company’s regulations. In FY2009, watches to all 10th to 12th graders, pointed out an error, part of the address CSR issues through received a Modern Master Craftsperson numbering around 5,000, studying at congenial atmosphere that domestic and overseas business award from the Minister of Health, schools for visually impaired students contributed to international activities as an advanced CSR Labor and Welfare. all over Japan. friendship. company. 1930 1931 1955 1956 1959 1960 1960 1960 1962 1962 1962 1963 1964 1964 1964 1965 1967 1970 1971 1973 1975 1980 1980 1983 1983 1988 1990 1990 1993 1995 1996 1998 2000 2003 2004 2005 2005 2007 2009 The first wristwatch (10 1/2 ligne) is The Parashock is released as Japan’s The Parawater is released as Japan’s The CITIZEN Shine is released as Japan’s Thirty CITIZEN Shine watches are donated A state-run watch factory is completed in A CITIZEN WATCH employee wins gold in The Tanashi Table Tennis Team wins the A Certificate of Company Contributing to The Tanashi Factory wins an Excellent Via the United Nations, 215 CITIZEN Shine A CITIZEN WATCH employee wins gold in The CITIZEN Quartz crystal oscillation CITIZEN Shine watches are donated to 5,000 The Citizen Group becomes the official The fifth agreement is signed for technical The Tanashi Works wins a Nationwide The Citizen of the Year annual award Wristwatch models with ten-year warranty The solar-powered Eco-Drive becomes the A pure holding company structure is A CITIZEN HEIWA WATCH employee is An agreement is signed on technical The CA-10 electric adding machine and The Cincom D16 NC automatic lathe is The Environmental Policy is published. The world’s first multizone Radio-Controlled Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. is established. Wristwatch exports commence. A partnership is formed with the Bulova The CL Series lamps are released as the The CT-20 thermometer is released as the Environmental Report 2000 is published. The business license award scheme is The Citizen Group signs the United Nations CSR Report 2005 is published. The refreshing leave scheme is introduced The Citizen Group Code of Conduct is India. timer for the 14th Ohme Marathon. Since Safety Management Award from the first watch for visually impaired wearers. to the school for visually impaired students honored by the Minister of Health, Labour introduced and the company name is All Japan Table Tennis Championship for Exports is received from the Minister of watches are donated to visually impaired and permanent repair service are released Watch Company to commence full-scale the mechanical drawing category of the 12th the watch repair category of the 20th World 10thto 12th-graders in schools for visually Excellent Advanced Business Establishment first wristwatch to be granted the Eco Mark completed. world’s first electronic clinical thermometer assistance (plant export) to India. then, the Citizen Group has been serving as scheme is launched. first completely waterproof wristwatch. developed. electronic wristwatch is released. introduced. put into force. A partnership is formed with Director-General of the Tokyo Labour first wristwatch with an anti-shock system. and put into effect. and Welfare as a Modern Master Global Compact. CITIZEN Shine watches are donated to the Watch is released. operated by Thailand’s welfare and assistance to India (quartz clock technology). world’s first chip LED lamps. changed to Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. the CR-10 electric cash register are released. Hong Kong-based Gilman & Co. to start official timer for road races in Japan and exports to the United States. Corporate Teams for the first time. International Trade and Industry. under the brand name of The CITIZEN. persons in 29 countries around the world. certification. Skills Competition in Spain. Standards Bureau. World Skills Competition in Ireland. impaired students across the country. with an IC sensor. Award from Nikkei Inc. Nagoya School for the Visually Impaired. Craftsperson. education foundation for the blind. full-scale exports to Southeast Asia. overseas. 10 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 11 Special The Citizen Group’s CSR Initiatives Across the Globe Feature North America China America Asia Walking for health Donations to Jewelers for Children and the environment Europe Germany A donation to the South America Gold Kraemer Foundation Taiwan Supporting the Taipei Marathon Since 2007 , Citizen W , atch (China mpany of America organizing annual wal ) Co., Ltd. Citizen Watch Co do na tio ns king activiti has been off eri ng Walk for th e Environm es called “W Inc. has long been t en alk for Hea ildren, a charity tha event includ es tree plan t” in different parts of Chi lth, to Jewelers for Ch su ffe ring ting and a na. Each GmbH for ch ild ren issues. For FY 2010, th workshop Watch Europe provides support on environm 2010, Citizen undation, ses and abuses. Mountain in the province e event took place at C ental In November ld Kr ae m er Fo from serious disea including pe of Jilin. Abo hangbai fe re d a do na tion to the Go ild re n with ople from ut 20 walke of pports ch outside the rs took pa dation that su d Nations company. rt, a German foun to th e Un ite ilities, as well as hasing Mexico physical disab eans of pu rc (UNICEF) by m es (HK) Ltd. China Children’s Fund h of Citizen Watch Donations to Luz de Vida, s. The Taiwan Branc Christmas card i Maratho n as offi cia l timer. a facility for children with China phoenix activities supports the Taipe India pediatric cancer Thailand Tree planting Acceptance of interns es es out S.A. De C.V. donat endently carri cepted Citizen De Mexico, ou Ltd. indep iti Co., Ltd. ac de Vid a and other on G ua ng zh pr od uc tion Royal Time C n two watches each year to Luz Citizen Precisi structural and riods of be tw ee World Environme nt Day, ion s. They are S initia tiv e as part of its l five S’ s (seiri, interns for pe em ploy new , which was the private-sector sup po rt org ani zat a Seve nist of the orig ina ur months to On June 5, 2010 planting to go ven S’s cons weeks and fo dia) Pvt. Ltd. co nd uc ted a tre e rs and the proceeds innovations. Se o additional s and s (In of young sold at charity bazaa sh itsuke) and tw m universitie Citiz en W atc he re. The numb er h foo d and clothing iso , se ike tsu, an d ee d. graduates fro e Ayutthaya Puram in Bangalo providing street chi ldr en wit seiton, se manners) and sp sc ho ol s in th exercise at K. R. Ec oDr ive wa tches g the medical treatm ent of e saho (good vocational ed the number of as well as to fundin S’s, which ar land. trees pla nte d ma tch region of Thai India. pediatric cancer . released across Action towards meeting the United  Offer toothbrushes to underprivileged  United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) Tokyo Office’s campaign children in the Philippines Nations Millennium Development Goals for saving mothers’ lives As a United Nations Global Compact participant, the Citizen Group takes part in various events held in Japan with a view to meeting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). What are the Millennium ting hunger, Development Goals event for eradica A charity walk World” took (MDGs)? nger: Walk the entitled “End Hu of th e World auspices Eight goals to be met by the o Works Staff members place under the e Japan s in the Toky from 34 Citizen FP ) an d th international community by 200 employee Group Food Programm e (W Officers and k to st an d up companies partic the World Food Programme 2015, developed by integrating g a lunch brea ipated in the ini tiative to Association for gathered durin ld w id e co or dinated offer a total of 3,0 75 toothbrushe . Twenty eight members of the international development rty in a wor s to Hello on June 6, 2010 against pove Alson, which is to ok part in the goals adopted in the United ign. a group offering free medical the Citizen Volun teer Club cts in cooperation Nations Millennium Summit in actio n ca m pa treatment in po or villages in the We offered produ Philippines. event. an ks Mo ther” Message September 2000 and earlier to the “Th rs’ Day. summits  End Hunger: Contest on Mothe Icons : UNDP Brazil  STAND UP TAKE ACTION Walk the World These activities provided us with opportunities to turn our eyes to global issues and to think about what we each can do to serve the society. 12 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 13 Base of CSR Corporate Governance The Citizen Group’s CSR and Risk Management Basic Approach Roles of the Auditors and Establishing the Citizen Group Code of Conduct The Citizen Group endeavors to improve business value the Board of Auditors As part of the Citizen Group’s transition to a pure holding companies implement CSR activities based on the Groupand contribute to society through sustained corporate The Citizen Holdings Board of Auditors consists of three company system in April 2007, we set out the Citizen wide corporate philosophy of “contributing to and striving activities in harmony with the local community and the members, including two independent outside auditors (as of Group Code of Conduct to enable all Group company to be respected by citizens of the world” and their own global environment, under the business philosophy of March 31, 2011). directors and employees act based on a shared awareness responsibilities, maintaining respect for company-specific “Contributing to and Striving to be Respected by the In addition to checking the execution of directors’ duties with regard to stakeholders and fulfill their social factors such as operational and regional characteristics, Citizens of the World.” It is with this goal permanently in in general through activities such as reviewing important responsibilities to even greater extent. Individual Group history and corporate culture. mind that we strive to reinforce corporate governance, in documents, monitoring the company’s operations and recognition of the importance of ensuring management finances and attending meetings of the Board of Directors CITIZEN GROUP CODE OF CONDUCT transparency and effectively supervising management from and other bodies, auditors are also responsible for auditing WE WILL OBSERVE ALL LAWS AND COMPANY REGULATIONS AND various different angles. the implementation and management of internal control WILL ACT ACCORDING TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT. systems. In keeping with a corporate philosophy stating that Citizen contributes to and strives to be respected by the citizens of the world, we will: The Citizen Group Full-Time Auditor Coordination 1 Provide our customers with products and services that demonstrate our concern 6 Ensure a safe and pleasant working environment and encourage the Committee, which consists of full-time auditors from Citizen Roles of the Holding Company Holdings and individual operating subsidiaries, is there to 2 for safety, quality, and the environment. Engage in fair, transparent and open competition in business transactions, and development of our employees’ abilities and energies while respecting their characters, individuality, and diversity. and the Subsidiaries ensure that auditing capabilities are consistent between maintain healthy relationships with our suppliers and government regulatory 7 Respond to anti-social behavior by individuals and organizations in a decisive Citizen Holdings and operating subsidiaries and makes every authorities. manner. 3 Work to communicate with the general public, taking the initiative in making 8 Value and respect the different cultures and customs of foreign countries, and We have clarified the scope of responsibility and authority effort to share information regarding auditing policies on corporate information openly available, while at the same time practicing contribute to the development of local communities. of Citizen Holdings and each of the subsidiaries that make behalf of the Citizen Group as a whole. responsible data management. 9 The top management of the Citizen group recognize that implementing this up the Citizen Group. Citizen Holdings is responsible for 4 Recognize that environmental issues are a common concern of mankind and a Code of Conduct is their personal responsibility, and that they must take the developing management policies to optimize Group-wide crucial issue for management in terms of the survival and activities of the lead not only in enforcing it within the company, but in conveying it to our management and to make effective use of resources to Internal Control System 5 company, and engage these issues in a voluntary, proactive manner. Value symbiosis with local communities, and strive to contribute to society as a business partners and suppliers. In addition, they must always be conversant with opinion within the company and outside it, develop an effective internal boost corporate value. Individual operating subsidiaries in good corporate citizen. system for compliance with the Code of Conduct, and work to ensure a turn operate independently based on the nature of their Having set out a basic policy on the establishment of thorough adherence to corporate ethics. segments, in the interests of smoother management and internal control systems at Citizen Holdings, we are now Effective April 6, 2007 increased profitability. Operations within the framework working to further enhance our internal control systems. of Citizen Holdings, in areas such as human resources, To ensure proper and effective execution of the internal finance, R&D, intellectual property management and brand control system and reliable financial reporting, J-SOX The Citizen Group’s CSR and Risk Management Promotion Base of CSR management, have been configured so as to ensure that Internal Control System Coordination Committee meetings operating subsidiaries’ policies coincide with Group-wide are held with the participation of relevant personnel from Structure policies. Citizen Holdings and its consolidated subsidiaries. In collaboration with outside audit institutions, we work to The president of Citizen Holdings has overall responsibility to key issues to the Group, we have set up committees Citizen and Society constantly improve, operate and evaluate our internal for the CSR activities and risk management in the Citizen with Group companies to plan and execute measures. control system. Group. Immediately under the president, the CSR Individual subsidiaries carry out activities to raise Roles of the Directors and To cater to the diverse range of needs anticipated as Committee consists of representative members of Citizen compliance awareness. They offer CSR education based the Board of Directors part of the internal auditing process, the committee also Holdings, developing and proposing strategies and policies on their own educational framework designed according coordinates with auditing offices at operating subsidiaries for the Group. to the level of their employees. We also organize separate The Citizen Holdings Board of Directors consists of nine and internal auditing managers at key subsidiaries. As an executive body, the Group CSR Promotion educational CSR and compliance sessions for eligible Citizen and the Environment members (as on March 31, 2011), including two outside Committee consists of supervisory personnel in charge members of staff at all Group companies as part of training directors (registered as independent officers in accordance of CSR selected at operating subsidiaries. Individual for new recruits and induction training for new managers with systems operated by Tokyo Stock Exchange). subsidiaries have their own CSR committees. With respect and new directors. Citizen Holdings Corporate Governance Structure The Board of Directors determines management Shareholders’ Meeting policies and other important items for Citizen Holdings CSR Promotion Framework Appointments and dismissals and the Citizen Group, and supervises the execution Policy planning, deliberation and making President of Citizen Holdings/Head of CSR for the Group of directors’ duties. The presidents of key operating Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee subsidiaries are also appointed as part-time directors Decisions, Appointments Proposals and Appointments Citizen Holdings CSR Committee to enable decision-making from a comprehensive and dismissals recommendations advice and and dismissals recommendations perspective, taking into account the views of individual CSR and Risk Management companies. Accounting Corporate Ethics Hotline Promotion Office Internal Audit & CSR Department In addition, the management of the Group reflects audits Auditors Audits Board of Directors Independent the opinions of outside directors with abundant business Board of Auditors Accounting Auditor experience in corporate management and related areas. Appointments, dismissals and Implementation Citizen Group CSR Promotion Committee (operating subsidiaries) We have also established the Nomination Committee and supervision Remuneration Committee—consisting of outside directors Reports President and CEO Group Management Each subsidiary Committee and the president— to provide advisory support. Internal Audit Department Coordination Committee Information Security Committee Internal Audit & J-SOX Internal Control System Coordination Committee Security Trade Control Committee CSR Department CSR Committee Corporate Ethics Hotline Environmental Management Committee Trade Secret Management Internal audits Direction and supervision Committee (New) Committee on Appropriate Subcontracting Subsidiaries For more detailed information, please refer to our website. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Base of CSR > Corporate Governance Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Base of CSR > Citizen Group CSR/Risk Management 14 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 15 Base of CSR CSR Targets and Initiatives disasters; third, introducing CSR standards for purchases; Basic Approach to Overseas Risk Management and fourth, promoting social contribution activities. On the Risk Management Fiscal 2010 initiatives basis of these challenges, individual companies set CSR Fundamentally, operating subsidiaries should be in charge We are working on risk management for the purposes of of overseas risk management. In fiscal 2010, we began For fiscal 2010, we defined four major challenges: first, activity goals and took steps to meet them. The following properly controlling risks that may impede the realization by seeking to understand the circumstances in China strengthening overseas CSR activities; second, developing explains some of our overseas activities and our actions of our Corporate Philosophy, the accomplishment of and marshaling issues. In China, there are challenges of business continuity plans (BCPs) for use in the event of related to the BCPs. management plans, and the fulfillment of our social coping with risks associated with changes in different responsibility to achieve sustainable growth in corporate laws, regulations, and systems and risks in personnel CSR targets and results during fiscal 2010 and issues for the future (excerpts) A: Target achieved B: Target mostly achieved C: Issues remaining D: Not implemented value. management policies, including labor issues. In view of Code of Conduct CSR targets Company Results Rating Initiatives and issues for the future management strategies, we share three points with the Risks involving the Group are classified into two types: 1. Product safety Proper actions on business continuity plans l The division model conducted activities mainly in intangible aspects to meet requests from customers. l Expansion of activities in the division model to the whole strategic risks and operational risks. The strategic risks relevant departments to address business risks. These company and quality l Adopting an advance plan as a division l With respect to the development and proposal of business continuity plans for the entire company, manuals and procedures l Addition of power generators to the investment plan for the are dealt with by the Management Committee and by are: first, the system for information gathering and sharing model CITIZEN SEIMITSU A following fiscal year l Developing a medium-term plan for were prepared. l Revision of business plans, manuals and procedures in view of the Operational Management Committee, whereas the at Chinese works (risk of information inadequacy); second, the entire company l A medium-term plan was drawn up for full implementation in the following fiscal year. the issues on earthquake control measures operational risks are addressed by all companies in the the system for responding in the event of emergency (risk 4. Environmental Energy efficiency improvement at factories LED lighting was introduced to the entrance, lobby, corridors for Addition of LED lighting as soon as devices developed by CITIZEN Group in an organized manner. of slow emergency response); and third, the system of management l A target of raising the LED lighting ratio CITIZEN ELECTRONICS visitors, reception room, meeting rooms, and offices. It now C to 50% Subsidiaries in China constitutes around 20% of all lighting in the new works. ELECTRONICS arrive minimal necessary day-to-day management as a function 8. Contributions Executing CSR activities at China-based l Education with a focus on safe operations was provided in line l Safety: Removal of latent dangers in the workplace of the headquarters or head office on the Japan side (risk plants in a bid to win respect from local with the quality education activity for a million employees run by to overseas l Welfare: Introduction of a housing reserve scheme of information confusion). local communities communities l Employees’ safety l Observation of laws CITIZEN TOHOKU Subsidiary in China the local government, leading to an 18% reduction in workplace injuries. l Action for clean production will be continued. A l Environment: Continuation of clean production activities (for reducing the generation of grinding dust) Promotion of Risk Management l Production and quality improvement activities (for boosting l Efforts on environmental improvement l The subsidiary was honored with a cash award under the customer confidence) Pengcheng Jianfei initiative of the local city government. Business Continuity Compliance with laws and regulations l Environmental regulations: Readiness for wastewater and 8. Contributions and response to institutional reforms atmosphere regulations and measurement of environmental to overseas local l Compliance with environmental indicators and action on normal wastewater control and on We have developed Basic Risk Management Rules. In the Plans (BCPs) regulations (wastewater, atmosphere, CITIZEN SEIMITSU reducing wastewater to zero. l Continued enhancement for compliance with laws, regulations, communities etc.) Subsidiary in China l Import and export regulations: Somewhat insufficient in balance B and systems executive section, the Group CSR Promotion Committee l Compliance with import and export control regulations (international trade control) l Institutional risks: Purchasing of labor insurance in consultation monitors the operational risks of individual companies in l Response to institutional risks with governmental authorities the Group to determine whether they should be addressed We are working to develop business continuity plans by individual companies or by a Group-wide committee (BCPs) to prepare for natural disasters, specified as a high or equivalent body. A proposal is then made to the CSR priority risk in the risk evaluation carried out by individual Summary of fiscal 2010 and issues for the future Committee. Risks referred by the Group CSR Promotion Group companies. Given that actions vary from company Base of CSR For fiscal 2010, we focused our efforts on the four major Group-wide levels in a sustained effort to produce positive Committee are considered by the CSR Committee. to company depending on local conditions, the scale and challenges. For fiscal 2011, we will continue to improve results. The resources needed to deal with the risks are then structure of their businesses, and other circumstances, coordinated within the Group. If necessary, proposals are individual companies studied suitable plans and began We have continued to foster a culture of reporting and made to the Group Management Committee. taking action. Meanwhile, the Group is studying actions Internal Reporting System have also had an external hotline in place since 2008 to During fiscal 2010, risks were analyzed and evaluated that are difficult for individual companies to take on their Citizen and Society enable employees to file reports anonymously. mainly at individual subsidiaries. They studied their own own for reasons of resource efficiency. We have set up a Corporate Ethics Hotline in accordance The fiscal 2010 CSR awareness survey shows that actions for the following fiscal year. With regard to business Priority actions in BCPs in the event of natural disaster with Internal Reporting System Rules for prevention or around 75% of employees were aware of the Corporate continuity plans (BCPs) for use in the event of disasters, include, first, clarifying the chain of command; second, early detection of legal violations or misconduct stemming Ethics Hotline. When asked if they would use the regarded as a high priority risk for the Group, individual clarifying the functions of the head office and other key from dishonest actions and for improvement in the levels Corporate Ethics Hotline, 18% said that they would not companies took their own actions. We will review common workplaces; third, making information public; fourth, of self-regulation. Our Internal Reporting System Rules use the service, with a further 47% remaining unsure. The issues to develop the BCPs. As trade secret management, backing up information systems; and fifth, supplying Citizen and the Environment state that the reporting party’s privacy must be respected. most common reason given was “That depends on the a Group-wide initiative will commence in fiscal 2011. products and services. To address these issues, Group They also state that the subject of the report must be given case,” followed by “I am not convinced that my privacy companies act according to their own order of priority. In the opportunity to refute claims made against them and would be protected.” With these findings in mind, we will their actions, priority is placed on ensuring and confirming Basics of the Risk Management Process that the reporting party must not be subjected to unfair make every effort to further publicize and improve the the safety of human lives. treatment. reliability of our hotline service in the future. 1 Risk management policy Learning from the delays in confirming the status of (determination of objectives and other aspects) employees and their families in the wake of the earthquake TOPICS Act in March 2011, we have introduced a safety confirmation 6 Development of a risk management plan (consideration of system designed to enable rapid confirmation of the safety Plan 2 Results of CSR Awareness Surveys processes from the identification of risks to the response) of Group employees and their families and for providing Review by the person with the In an effort to ascertain the level of awareness of CSR and corporate ethics within the Citizen Group, we have been quick instructions. conducting a CSR awareness survey targeting employees at subsidiaries (including temporary employees) every year. 3 Execution of risk management greatest responsibility in the [No. of respondents] FY2009: 6,605 out of 9,031 (73.1% response rate) Do (execution of response measures) FY2010: 6,651 out of 8,677 (76.7% response rate) organization Q.1 Have the CSR activities strengthened Q.2 Are you aware of the Corporate Ethics Q.3 If you detected any legal violation, 4 Evaluation of risk management performance and Check your commitment to complying with laws? Hotline? would you call the Corporate Ethics Hotline? effectiveness of the risk management system 5 Remediation and improvement of the risk management 2009 8% 37% 44% 8% 3% 2009 68% 32% 2009 42% 42% 16% system 2010 8% 38% 43% 8% 3% 2010 75% 25% 2010 35% 47% 18% They have strengthened it significantly. They have strengthened it. Not sure. Yes No Yes Don’t know No They have not strengthened it very much. They have not strengthened it at all. 16 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 17 Citizen and Society Manufacturing based on customer feedback Interview Customer feedback helps create technologies that open the future. CITIZEN WATCH Our products reflect the many different comments for freedom from cumbersome battery replacement. from customers. The Attesa is characterized in that it Despite difficulty in ensuring the balance between is made of titanium. More than 20 years have passed design appeal and functional utility, we endeavor since it hit the market. We are one of the very few to meet the demands of customers in every detail, manufacturers to have continuously mass produced visible and invisible, ranging from surface treatment to general industrial products made of titanium. Then, structural design. The point is to build real credibility becoming one of the first companies to start our and offer products that bring greater satisfaction by initiative to protect the environment, we paid attention responding to customer needs. We will continue to to the abundance of titanium reserves and to the seek technical innovation, harnessing our accumulated non-allergenic properties of this metal. To answer expertise and constantly maintaining a sincere attitude Citizen and its Customers customers’ needs for attractive watches that do not cause metal allergies, we created a sharp line and a towards our customers. gorgeous mirror finish using titanium, a material that is notoriously difficult to process. The Direct Flight radio control, which corrections Inquiries to the Customer Service Desk for time differences simply by turning the stem, Basic Approach to Complaints Purchase Technical Ad-related Others and the Eco-Drive feature, which transforms light Customer Satisfaction inquiries inquiries inquiries into electric power energy to eliminate the need to Jindai Yamakawa 58,879 Manager 60,000 regularly replace batteries, have been developed to Development Center Customer satisfaction forms the basis of everything we 48,102 48,281 meet customer needs for simple operations for time Technical Development 50,000 do here at the Citizen Group. We constantly strive to 42,446 42,669 difference correction, for trouble-free time setting, and Division provide products and services that offer top quality from 40,000 the customer’s perspective and take on board customers’ 30,000 comments to help us develop products and improve our services. 20,000 Attentive care for customer satisfaction through products CITIZEN SYSTEMS JAPAN Base of CSR 10,000 Efforts to the Citizen Systems Japan released a new digital technology so that the TR-10 could work well while 0 pedometer called the TR-10 in the fall of 2010. jogging. Customer Service Desk 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Conventional pedometers incorporating acceleration Customers who used their pedometers early in * The massive growth in the number of inquiries in fiscal 2010 is attributable to our sensors began emerging around 2005. They count the morning or after work requested a display screen Citizen and Society decision to include the number of inquiries received by a subsidiary, Citizen Customer In order to continually improve customer satisfaction, we Service, in addition to that of the Customer Service Desk. the number of steps by monitoring waveform signals that was visible in the are currently implementing a range of initiatives designed generated while walking. dark. Consequently, the to comprehensively enhance the quality of our operations However, they are unable to correctly count steps TR-10 is equipped with at Citizen Watch Co., Ltd., including after-sales services while jogging, because the act of jogging produces a backlight. In addition, as well as product capabilities in areas such as quality, violently swinging waveforms. Many users wanted the conventional models had functionality and design. New initiatives in fiscal 2010 teach rudeness ability to count steps accurately when they jogged a drawback in that sweat Citizen and the Environment include: first, the introduction of a text analysis tool called use band and walked. We refined the waveform processing and rainwater got inside Text Mining to analyze customer comments gathered above the device, corroding by the Customer Service Desk and create a system to address MAIL PRODUCT the internal circuit board. A waterproof test for the TR-10 better convey them to relevant departments; and second, number XC We upgraded the dripa survey of customer satisfaction, with watch repair buy proof feature of conventional models to a waterservices as core business of the service center. The survey send CITIZEN proof feature for the TR-10, to attain a structure more confirmed that 86% of the customers were satisfied with resistant to water and sweat. our repair service. We aim to improve our services to boost product watch These improvements have differentiated the TRthe satisfaction level. band customer 10 from its competitors, adding extra product value. It is clear proof of the importance of customer feedback Results of the survey on satisfaction with watch repair to product development. At Citizen Systems Japan, the Customer Service, Quality Assurance, and other Text Mining Reception of the From left to right in the photo: sections work together, exchange opinions and step The map has been drawn by analyzing inquiries made to up studies in an effort to product enhanced products. Service Center Yasuhiro Kiuchi our Customer Service Desk to represent the connection Manager, Planning Office Consumer Devices Division We will continue to manufacture products with care Results Polite 86% of the between words and how often they are used. Inquiries Yasuhiro Hayashi to detail, so that survey on Rather polite 7% satisfaction are classified into repair, operation methods, parts General Manager, Engineering Division we can constantly with watch Normal 4% replacement, and product purchase. Numerous inquiries increase customer repair Rather unfriendly 2% Yuichi Nishizawa on operating methods and adjustments reflect market Manager, Quality Assurance Office satisfaction. Unfriendly 1% TR-10-GR needs for user-friendly watches. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. 18 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and Society > Citizen and its Customers Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 19 Citizen and Society Citizen and its Shareholders and Business Partners Citizen and its Employees CITIZEN TOHOKU’s nursery room Bakke Citizen and its Shareholders Citizen and its Business Partners Mid-Career Recruitment (16 Major Group Companies) Respecting Diversity Dividend Policy Basic Approach to Purchasing FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Group Policy Male 51 14 29 At Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd., we calculate the “ratio of We regard building strong relationships with our suppliers We consider it to be the Citizen Group’s duty as a Female 10 11 27 return to shareholders” based on the combined total to be one of our top priorities here at the Citizen Group company to respect individuals, embrace diversity, and Total 61 25 56 of dividends and share buybacks as a percentage of and aim to work together so that we can grow hand create an environment in which employees can thrive. consolidated net income. Ever since fiscal 2005, when in hand as business partners. To achieve this, we try we first introduced this policy, we have continued to work to extend the policies developed by individual Group Recruitment Activities Promoting Employment of towards an average ratio of at least 30% for each period companies to our business partners through day-to-day We hire new graduate recruits on a regular basis and People with Disabilities Base of CSR of three to five years. We try to determine dividends so communication, while listen to them in terms of market experienced mid-career recruits from a long-term We actively employ people with disabilities based on our as to strike a balance between reflecting the company’s trends and suggested improvements in quality, pricing, perspective at all Citizen Group companies. We also have basic policy of “working together.” Our employment rate consolidated performance and maintaining stable and delivery of supplies purchased. Our aim is to create an a scheme in place whereby employees on fixed-term at 16 major Group companies for workers with disabilities dividends. environment in which supplies can be purchased on the contracts can be promoted to permanent employees, stood above the statutory rate for fiscal 2010, as specified basis of shared understanding by both parties. depending on factors such as their level of enthusiasm in our statutory report (as of June 1). We will continue our Citizen and Society and capabilities. When recruiting personnel, we focus on focus on employing more workers with disabilities and Open Shareholders’ Meetings individual skills, aptitude and drive, in an effort to ensure increasing the scope of eligible job opportunities in the Committee on equal opportunities and diversity. future. To enable more shareholders to attend, we always hold Appropriate Subcontracting Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd’s annual shareholders’ meeting in New Graduate Recruitment (16 Major Group Companies) Employment of People with Disabilities a large-capacity venue with easy access, avoiding days on The Committee on Appropriate Subcontracting focuses at 16 Major Group Companies FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Citizen and the Environment which other major companies are holding their meetings. on education and auditing. Its education has two forms: FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 To make it easier to exercise voting rights, we have basic education and practical education. It has so far Male 91 100 68 provided an electronic voting platform for institutional trained cumulative total of 338 personnel. For auditing, the Female 32 34 19 Employment 1.58% 1.69% 1.86% rate investors since our shareholders’ meeting in 2007. We try Committee conducted internal audits of ten companies, Total 123 134 87 to structure meetings so that shareholders can easily voice while seven companies were audited by their internal * Rate of employment as of June 1, 2010 their opinions and ask questions through initiatives such as bodies. In collaboration with Group companies, we will these, thereby ensuring that meetings run smoothly. continue our ongoing compliance efforts. TOPICS FUJIMI Honored by Yamanashi Prefectural Mental Health Association Assessment from Outside Organizations Efforts at Group companies Fujimi Company, a subsidiary of Citizen Seimitsu, received an award from Yamanashi Prefectural Since 2004, Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. has been CSR Procurement at CITIZEN Mental Health Association in November 2010 for its initiative in employing workers with disabilities. On selected for inclusion in the Ethibel Sustainability Index the occasion of boosting production traditionally outsourced to homeworkers in May 2005, Fujimi by Belgian socially ELECTRONICS accepted five mentally disabled workers as trainees. At first, there was difficulty in choosing suitable responsible investment (SRI) To extend its CSR philosophy and the Citizen Group duties, setting up the working environment, and facilitating exchange. Over time, however, all adapted Code of Conduct to the whole supply chain, Citizen assessment company Ethibel well to perform their assignments. In December 2006, the subsidiary was registered as a business Electronics has revised its supplier approval rules, creating the CSR Procurement Guidelines, which cooperative in the social adjustment training program. Some trainees continue to work three years for seven consecutive years. contain new provisions for overall compliance added to after their training. During fiscal 2010, two trainees were accepted. Fujimi will continue to offer social the conventional green procurement provisions. participation support to workers with disabilities. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Business partners are requested to submit written declarations to observe the CSR Procurement For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and Society > Guidelines. This declaration has been added to the Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and Society > Citizen and its Shareholders and Investors / supplier approval audit criteria. Citizen and its Employees Citizen and its Business Partners 20 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 21 Citizen and Society Citizen and its Employees TOPICS CITIZEN TOHOKU Setting up an in-house nursing room In constructing a new landmark building for Citizen Tohoku in April 2008, we incorporated many different ideas with an eye to 100 years into the future, following the examples of Shimpei Goto, a local hero who gave us the name Citizen. One of these ideas is the nursing room called Bakke, which means in the Iwate dialect “butterbur sprout.” This embodies our dream and hope of Cultivating Human Resources Efforts at Group companies providing support for employees caring for children, while giving the children nursed there a chance to experience watch-making at the Watch School and perhaps grow to support the Group Policy nEncouraging capacity development future of our Company. As the nursing room is located next to the workplace, there is some Citizen Watch remains continuously involved in the watch school In the Citizen Group, individual operational companies exchange between children and employees. Staffed with two childcare workers to look after up initiative, aimed at developing employees’ skills and techniques in are responsible for developing human resources capable collaboration with other Group companies operating the watch to five children, the facility has few vacancies at the moment. In response to unmet needs, Children in the Bakke nursing of adapting to the business environment in accordance business. As many staff members undertake skill tests and internal consideration will be given to secure space and hiring childcare professionals. room with their respective policies. We have a comprehensive examinations each year, Citizen Watch was honored by the environment for human resource development with two Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a business excelling in TOPICS CITIZEN HEIWA WATCH training options. One is tiered training organized by Citizen occupational skill development in 2009, in recognition of its Now it is easier for men to take Holdings and the other is training organized by separate contribution to the expansion and promotion of skill testing initiatives. Male employees taking childcare leave leave for childcare purposes. I Group companies. took full advantage of it. The Company will continue to As part of its assistance in raising the next generation, Citizen Heiwa work on this initiative, which that leads Watch encourages male employees to take childcare leave. In the past, Human Resource not only to sophisticated watch male employees have been reluctant to take the leave because it was technologies but also to greater Development Program motivation among employees. unpaid. After the scheme was revised to ensure five paid days during Hideki Fujimoto Our aim is to train human resources to suit their working the leave, three male employees took childcare leave in fiscal 2010. Modules Section, environments, through basic human resource development Active efforts will be made to facilitate the involvement of male Watch Manufacturing Division Citizen Heiwa Watch Co., Ltd. at individual Citizen Group companies in combination nEmphasis on human relationships in the employees in childcare. with Groupwide tiered training organized by Citizen transfer of skills to the younger generation Holdings. Citizen Holdings organizes tiered training for Citizen Seimitsu places an emphasis on human relationships in its factors. The primary challenge for fiscal 2010 was to raise new employees, new managers and new executives from transfer of skills to younger workers and in human resource development. Long-serving employees with strong skills and Creating Healthy, the health level amongst employees. a Groupwide perspective. We also run the Citizen Business License scheme, techniques that need to be retained are acknowledged as Safe and Comfortable The practice of regularly doing exercises such as walking on the premises, walking stairs, and physical instructors and Meister (masters). The relationship between an which offers financial incentives to members of staff who instructor and a young employee under his or her instruction is Working Environments exercises during the lunch break was promoted as Midday have obtained national or public qualifications at Group registered as “a relationship between master and apprentice.” The Sports Club Activities in a manner that displays results companies such as Citizen Holdings and Citizen Watch, development of apprentices is regularly monitored and the team of in visible form in the workplace and boosts employee and are continually working to create a climate that is Initiatives for Maintaining master and apprentice report their activities in company-wide motivation. Two automated external defibrillators (AEDs) conducive to employee self-development. meetings. This practice promotes the transfer of skills and and Promoting Health were added to ensure that at least one of the three AEDs techniques and stimulates human resource development. The Citizen Health Insurance Society carries out activities is within three minutes reach from anywhere on the aimed at promoting good health amongst employees premises. After lifesaving training, 7% of the employees and the families who support them. It is endeavoring to are now capable of operating AEDs. Base of CSR increase the percentage of families undergoing regular TOPICS The Citizen Watch Group medical checkups. It also offers regular health advice to Double championships won in persons diagnosed with actual or potential metabolic watch-making skills competition syndrome in cooperation with individual premises. Uptake of Regular Medical Checkups and By nature, I love making things. I think that the appeal of In addition, it places emphasis on providing extensive Regular Health Advice (at 32 offices) Citizen and Society The 23rd National Watch Making Skill Competition took place watch-making lies in the sense of accomplishment I feel support covering families by encouraging the use of FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 in October 2010. A total of 11 contenders from six companies when I see a finished watch work after assembling every generic drugs, organizing health workshops open to in the Citizen Watch Group competed in the first and second single part. I was really happy that my long history of trial employees and their families, and providing Citizen Health Uptake of regular medica 77.2% 75.5% 75.6% categories. In the first category, Masamichi Nakano of Citizen and error gave me the confidence that enabled me to checkups(employee + family) Counseling Services that are available over the phone 24 Watch won first prize and Kenji Fuyama of Citizen Heiwa display my strength to hours a day. Rate of metabolic syndrome 10.4% 10.8% 11.5% Watch won third, whereas in the second category Naomi the fullest extent in the Shibuya of Citizen Tohoku and competition and Health and Safety Activities Citizen and the Environment Rate of predicted metabolic 10.4% 11.9% 11.8% Kunihiko Yamaguchi of Citizen produced such a good at our Tokyo Office syndrome Watch Miyota won first and third outcome. We continually explore measures and compile specific Uptake of regular health advice 66.9% 31.3% 36.4% prizes respectively. Winning a total action plans to ensure employees’ health and safety at of four prizes, the Citizen Watch Naomi Shibuya Assembly Department, our Tokyo Office, primarily through the Health and Safety Group will continue its efforts to Watch Division Committee. Accidents Occurring at 16 Major Group Companies develop the skills of every single Citizen Tohoku Co., Ltd. Safety activities depend fundamentally on FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 employee. eliminating risks in the workplace and on the ability of individual employees to detect and avoid dangers. We No. of fatal accidents 0 0 0 comprehensively improve safety standards via a dedicated No. of accidents resulting in by two hours for the purpose of nursing care. On other facility safety assessment committee and carry out risk 3 10 6 Promoting a Work-Life Balance fronts, we have extended the eligibility for our pooled leave assessments and workplace swap patrols to eliminate risk lost work time scheme, which is designed to support employees looking A Range of Schemes Aimed at after and raising children, until the end of junior high school TOPICS CITIZEN ELECTRONICS Creating Ideal Working Environments as a means of promoting flexible working. We flexibly manage work patterns to suit conditions in the Usage of Childcare and Nursing Care Leave Schemes China-based works certified with OHSAS 18001 workplace at Citizen Holdings, Citizen Watch, and other (16 Major Group Companies) Xunke Electronics Ltd., a manufacturing subsidiary based in the Chinese province of Group companies. In doing so, we make every effort to Guangdong, obtained OHSAS 18001 certification for occupational health and safety FY2010 Male Female Total create an environment in which employees can easily take management systems in February 2011. It has constructed and will control and operate its leave via a range of different schemes. Reduced work Employee Usage of Childcare system for managing occupational health and safety. Including not only tangible measures such 3 42 45 hours are available for employees raising children up to the Leave Opportunities as capital investment but also intangible initiatives that consider human factors, it is designed for end of the third grade of elementary school. Employee Usage of Nursing the prevention of diseases and accidents. Aiming to meet customers’ requests in addition to Employees are entitled to reduce their work hours Care Leave Opportunities 0 0 0 CSR requirements, Xunke Electronics will seek to embed this system in its operations. OHSAS training 22 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 23 Citizen and Society Welfare Towel Hat Workshop Donating wristwatch to those leaving the orphanage Citizen Tohoku held a towel hat workshop with Ms. Mikiko Yoshijima, winner of the 2009 Citizen of the Year, as instructor. The Citizen Volunteer Club donated a total of 69 wristwatch to Attracting 39 participants, the workshop enthusiastically crafted NPO Bridge for Smile. These towel hats, including 52 were both used and unused donated on a later date to the wristwatches collected from Palliative Care Department of employees and given the Iwate Prefectural Chubu maintenance by the Citizen Hospital. Customer Service prior to the donation. Assisting an Environmental Workshop Citizen Holdings Co., Ltd. Sports The Company provided support for an event held at Tanashi Forest Workshops by the Table Tennis Club Providing support for of the University of Tokyo, located in the city of Nishitokyo. The event the Japan Deaf Table Tennis Association Citizen Holdings’ Table Tennis Club has a 45-year history of was called “The Arts of the Forest outstanding performance. The club holds table tennis Citizen Holdings has been providing support for the Japan Deaf & the Sea – Welcome to the Tiny Citizen and Local Communities workshops around the country. In fiscal 2010, 19 workshops Table Tennis Association since Universe of Insects” (organized by took place at different parts of 2007. Citizen Systems Japan Wonder Art Production). Japan, attracting 1,796 donated thermometers that participants. vibrate to signal the temperature to the 33rd National Deaf Table Tennis Championship. Education CITIZEN OF THE YEAR Manufacturing Class Hands-On Workplace Experience Programs Citizen Holdings organized a Manufacturing Class for Kids with Citizen Group companies welcome junior high school children to What is Citizen of the Year? the participation of 41 elementary schoolchildren and parents in take part in factory tours for a hands-on workplace experience, Every year, we select deserving individuals the city of Nishitokyo. The Citizen Heiwa Watch employee and also accepts student honored as a Modern Master Craftsperson by the Minister of interns. As at March 2010, who inspire their communities and honor Health, Labor and Welfare in Citizen Tohoku had accepted a them for their actions and activities. Base of CSR 2009 acted as instructor, total of 1,545 participants in providing participants with a these programs from 48 watchmaking experience. schools. Citizen of the Year is an annual award scheme that gives recognition to citizens who inspire local people and contribute to the development, happiness and all-round enhancement of their local Citizen and Society communities. Prompted by a lack of wide-ranging recognition for deserving citizens, the scheme was set up in 1990 to mark Citizen’s Visiting Lessons to Educational Institutions Dispatching Lecturers to 60th anniversary, tying in perfectly with the spirit of company’s name. Shinshu Craftsmanship Workshops As well as Japanese citizens, commendations have also been given Citizen Tohoku is actively involved in a project run by the to foreign citizens who have made a contribution to their local Kitakami River Basin Manufacturing Network to offer visiting Shinshu Craftsmanship Workshops are held by the Nagano lessons at different schools. Young and midlevel employees Prefectural Watch, Jewelry and Glasses Commercial communities in Japan. The scheme has even received coverage in explore what students now Citizen and the Environment Cooperative, in cooperation with manufacturers and the Nagano the press and on television. want to learn and deliver Prefectural Government, in an attempt to develop mechanical lessons that are based on their watch repair skills. Two Citizen Heiwa Watch employees with Contributing to Local Communities Personal Achievement Civic Contribution experience and suited to Grade-2 Watch Repairer Protecting schoolchildren at a Correcting the prevailing theory that A decade of overcoming cancer and students’ needs. Certification are dispatched to crosswalk for half a century ant lions do not excrete, following cheering cancer patients and their the workshops to give On the day of an elementary school’s observation and experiments during families through his rakugo instructions to those hoping to entrance ceremony in 1961, a car hit a summer vacation performance pass the test for Grade-3 new student at a crossing. This accident He discovered yellow liquid coming from an Five years after surgery to remove his certification. prompted him to volunteer as a crossing ant lion while observing it during cancer, Mr. Higuchi gave a solo Environment guard. He has since stood at the independent research on summer vacation. performance of rakugo comic storytelling to intersection every morning to monitor the Wondering if it might in fact be urine, he an invited audience of patients and their safety of the schoolchildren. Spring 2011 studied it carefully but failed to reach any families who have supported and Preserving Biodiversity Solar Bear-Citizen Joint Donation of marked his 50th year of service. convincing answer. He finally made the encouraged him. Since then, Mr. Higuchi Solar Power Generation Equipment breakthrough following repeated has been offering a “Solo Performance in Since 2003, the Kitamimaki Works of Citizen Finetech Miyota experiments and observation. Appreciation of Being Alive,” giving hope has since been engaged in an initiative to preserve Citizen Watch is contributing part of sales of its solar-powered and courage each Shijimiaeoides divinus, a Eco-Drive products to the Solar year through the butterfly species designated as Bear Fund, and is helping to new comic stories endangered. Today, natural make solar power generation he creates. proliferation of this butterfly can equipment available to be observed as a result of these kindergartens and nursery Mr. Mr. Mr. efforts to preserve and grow schools across the country. In Morimatsu Ryoto Tsuyoshi Sophora flavescens, its larval fiscal 2010, three solar power Yoshida Yoshioka Higuchi food plant, on site. generation systems were Living in Living in Living in Aichi Prefecture Chiba Prefecture Chiba Prefecture donated under this initiative. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. 24 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Holdings > Citizen of the Year Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and Society > Citizen and Local Communities Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 25 Citizen and the Environment Environmental Management Example Initiative Environmental Management System Introducing Environmental Accounting Book We have established a group-wide environmental Scheme to Build Environmental Awareness management system to efficiently and precisely promote amongst Employees environmental management throughout the Citizen Group. We hold two meetings of the Group Environmental Based on the awareness that the sensitivity of individual employees Management Committee each year, bringing together is fundamental to action, Citizen Finetech Miyota runs an environmental managers at domestic offices to ascertain environmental accounting scheme. For fiscal 2010, the number of progress with activities at each company, review annual participants in the scheme surged to 433, or 61% of all officers and environmental management policies and common issues, employees. While keeping records of their household lighting, fuel and make decisions accordingly. The Citizen Group’s Environmental expenses, and other items, more and more employees are taking Our domestic production companies have obtained actions in their households, such as investing in solar power ISO 14001 certification and conduct environmental generation and other renewable energy, or switching from liquefied Management management based on the nature of their business. petroleum gas to utility gas and other sources of energy with At our overseas production companies meanwhile, reduced global warming potential, to reduce carbon dioxide we focus on initiatives that are crucial to manufacturing emissions. Meanwhile, an increasing number of employees are environmentally-friendly products, including green involved in the CO2 Reduction Action Campaign and the Shinshu procurement and chemical substance management, and Eco-Point Program run by the Nagano Prefectural Government. This continue to make steady progress in terms of ISO 14001 initiative allows participants to use their existing environmental certification. We also carry out activities aimed at reducing Citizen’s Vision for the Environment and Society, environmental impact at non-manufacturing companies, accounting books while Environmental Policies based on the nature of each company’s operations. becoming involved in local community activities. To encourage familyand We have revised the Citizen Group Environmental Policy By adding an environmental (ecological) dimension to Environmental Education and community-wide activities in line with our Vision for the Environment and Society in our existing efforts to manufacture products that are as 2025. We have also adopted the slogan “Small is Eco” in small as possible, we came up with the slogan “Small is Awareness Building Efforts that are vital to today’s an effort to capture the common purpose spanning all of Eco”, a principle that we intend to establish as a form of society, we will strive to In practicing environmental management, it is essential our Group companies. environmental value throughout the Citizen Group. that all Group employees are aware of the importance of increase the use of An awards ceremony under the environmental We have long since focused on improving productivity Evaluations:○: Achieved the activities. For instance, Citizen Holdings’ Tokyo Office environmental accounting. accounting scheme within the Citizen Group, revolving primarily around our △: Partly achieved incorporates environmental education into its training for Targets and Results for Fiscal 2010 Base of CSR × : Not achieved compact precision technology. From an environmental new recruits. It also provides Environmental Personnel Targets for FY2010 Results for FY2010 Evaluation standpoint, this is based on the equation “improving Training, Internal Auditor Training, and Environmental productivity = reducing environmental impact = generating 1. Downsizing Statutory Compliance Assessment Training annually for Environmental Risk Management profit”. Looking at it another way, you could regard We will minimize our impact on the Tokyo: Activities carried out to address 94 personnel working on the environment in each department. Our environmental risk management activities within this as environmental value, in terms of saving space, environment through production and technical innovation, reducing CO2 objectives Tokorozawa: Activities carried out to Production departments handling toxic, harmful, and other the Citizen Group cover areas such as compliance with resources and energy. We realized that we were already Citizen and Society emissions while generating profits. address 38 objectives hazardous substances conduct emergency drills. environmental legislation, management of chemical implementing fairly extensive environmental activities on a We will select environment-related Citizen Watch applies the concept of We have introduced the Citizen Business License substances contained in our products, waste and objectives from our business targets expected effect to calculations of the ○ daily basis as part of our manufacturing operations. (policy management): resource results of downsizing scheme, an original scheme that encourages and recycling governance and measures to combat soil and conservation, energy conservation, space saving, enhanced recyclability, supports proactive efforts to acquire public qualifications groundwater contamination. We aim to implement effective reduced chemicals consumption, increased operation ratio, etc. such as those for pollution control managers and energy measures at all Group companies based on information Citizen’s Vision for the Environment and Society in 2025 managers. exchanged via the Group Environmental Management 2. Creating new environmental value through Citizen Environmental Products Based on our philosophy of “Contributing to and Striving to be Respected Committee. Citizen and the Environment by the Citizens of the World,” we contribute to a citizen-based sustainable We will identify new environmental  No specific actions were taken. society in which people can enjoy life with a sense of security and fulfillment. possibilities through our products and  Some premises replaced hazardous Citizen offers products that are always close at hand and are good for people and the world. components. We will create new value of the chemicals and maintained chemicals management.  Overseas environmental certifications Business Activities and Environmental Impact Enacted July 20, 2004 Eco-Drive (watch). were obtained (Taiwan’s Green Mark Revised April 1, 2007 certification obtained in November We accurately ascertain the total input of energy and waste, for the Group and apply this knowledge to well2010). chemical substances, and total emissions of CO2 and planned activities to reduce environmental impacts. 3. Minimizing environmental risks Citizen Group Environmental Policy INPUT OUTPUT We will comply with worldwide Information on amendments to the Slogan REACH regulation, U.S. regulations, environmental legislation. ○ “Small is Eco” Chinese regulations, and other regulations was collected. We will comply with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, and specifically cut CO2 emissions from power and gas consumption by 1% per annum in principle. Japan 2,358,062 CO2 emissions Japan 94,198 BOD emissions Japan 43 Promoting downsizing 1 We will minimize environmental impact through production and Reduce CO2 emissions at Tokyo offices by 50% (11,800 tons) compared with Reduced CO2 emissions by 54% compared to fiscal 1999 (10,803 tons) ○ Total energy input (GJ) Overseas 1,062,238 (tons-CO2) Overseas 38,577 (tons) Overseas 19 technological innovation and reduce CO2 emissions whilst also generating FY1999 profits. Reduce CO2 emissions at Tokorozawa Reduced CO2 emissions by 17% ○ Water resource input (km3) Japan 1,676 Citizen Japan 6 COD emissions Japan 7 offices by 12.6% (10,900 tons) compared to fiscal 1999 (10,346 tons) NOx emissions (tons) Creating new environmental value through Overseas 1,998 Group’s (tons) 2 Citizen Environmental Products compared with FY1999 Promoting waste reduction activities Overseas 6 Overseas 79 We will identify new environmental possibilities through our products and Reduce and manage industrial waste at Tokyo offices Reduced 64% (100 tons) compared with FY1999 ○ Repeated use of water within Japan 384 business Japan 5 Waste generated Japan 6,967 components. the organization (km3) Overseas SOx emissions (tons) Reduce and manage industrial waste at Reduced 50% (85 tons) compared with 7 activities Overseas 5 (tons) Overseas 2,906 Minimizing environmental risks ○ 3 We will comply with worldwide environmental legislation (REACH Tokorozawa offices Achieve a 99% group-wide recycling FY1999 Chemical substances input Japan 574 regulations, US regulations, Chinese regulations, etc.) rate 99% ○ Japan 1,343 Waste land-filled Japan 22 (tons) Overseas 2,547 Water drainage (km3) Overseas 1,377 (tons) Overseas 1,790 Enhancing communication with local 4 communities through environmental and social 4. Bolstering communication with local communities through environmental and social contribution activities Containers and packaging Japan 619 Input and output data does not include environmental impact at the distribution/sales, usage or procurement stages. contribution activities Revised April 1, 2010 Undertaken as part of CSR activities ○ used (tons) Overseas 1,209 Period: April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2011 Scope: 21 domestic companies, 10 overseas companies For more detailed information, please refer to our website. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > Environmental Management / Business Activities and Environmental Impact 26 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen’s Vision for the Environment and Society / Environmental Policies Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 27 Citizen and the Environment The Citizen Group’s Environmental Management For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Reducing Hazardous Chemical Substances Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > Reducing Greenhouse Gasses Reducing Greenhouse Gasses Reducing Hazardous Chemical Substances Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reducing Usage of Amount of PRTR Substances Discharged and Transported We are vigorously pursuing energy conservation initiatives Hazardous Chemical Substances Transferred offsite Transferred to Disposed of by landfill Example Initiative sewage system at business premises that incorporate effective activities conducted on separate Having started to work on reducing the use of Released into soil at Released into Released into atmosphere business premises public waters premises to achieve efficiency and steady progress in substances such as chlorinated organic solvents and Installing solar panels (Tons) 300 reducing CO2 emissions. In fiscal 2010, our energy-derived chlorofluorocarbon alternatives (HCFCs) in fiscal 2003, we Citizen Seimitsu installed solar panels on the roof of the visitor 250 CO2 emissions reached 94,198 tons, up 12% from the managed to entirely eliminate all such substances in 2008. reception building of its head office in September 2010 as part 200 fiscal 2009 level. However, given that this emission figure The table below summarizes PRTR*3 substances reported is about 23% below our fiscal 2000 level, we managed to of its measures to reduce CO2 emissions. The panels are by the Citizen Group overall during fiscal 2010. Following 150 meet our goal of a 10% reduction from fiscal 2000, as set expected to generate 15,000 kWh of electric power per year. a legislative amendment and other events, the number of 100 in our medium-term plan. Going forward, we will introduce The entrance to the visitor reception building is equipped with a substances subject to reporting requirements increased 50 more efficient equipment, adopt energy-saving controls, display monitor that indicates sunshine duration, power output, from four to 11, while the volume handled jumped 2.8 fold 0 and take other actions. and other data. That demonstrates to visitors its environmental to 92.5 tons. 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) considerations in business operations. Other environmental investments include the replacement of absorption water Volume of PRTR substances released and transferred (Tons) Example Initiative Group-wide CO2 Emissions coolers with turbo refrigerators, which reduce CO2 emissions Volume released Volume transferred Electric power Gas Heavy oil Others (Tons-CO2) by 400 tons a year. Chemical Volume Released Released Released into soil at Disposed of by landfill Transferred Active Use of Chemicals Management System substance handled to sewage Transferred From fiscal 2011, our into into public business at business offsite 150,000 atmosphere waters premises premises system With regulations on hazardous chemicals being tightened 121,836 activities will aim at around the world, including Europe’s REACH regulation*4 and 120,000 112,289 reducing the Ferric chloride 33.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 30.0 110,503 1-bromopropane 16.2 3.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.2 RoHS directive*5, Citizen Systems Japan has build a system 97,753 83,779 94,198 environmental impact 90,000 Xylene 11.6 1.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.4 that manages chemicals contained in products. This system is and costs based on Nickel compounds 10.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 9.3 Methylnaphthalene 9.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 now being used for centralized control of information on 60,000 our medium-term Hydrogen fluoride and chemicals in product components and for calculating environmental policy. water soluble salts 4.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 30,000 chemicals content, and has made it possible to respond 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 2.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 Solar panels Toluene 1.5 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 rapidly to customer demand for environmental information. 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Inorganic cyanide compounds (except complex salts 1.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 and cyanates) Request for Green chemicals Base of CSR Lead 1.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Customers procurement Suppliers Chemicals information Benzene 1.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 management system Material Effective Utilization of 92.5 7.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 53.4 Provision of Total (database) Example Initiative safety data chemicals *3: PRTR Act sheet information Resources and Reduction of The Environmental Three-R’s and Officially called the Act on Confirmation, etc. of Release Amounts of Specific Chemical Substances in the Environment and Promotion of Improvements to the Management Thereof, this is legislation under The Citizen Group Waste Improvement Management Systems which the national government, businesses, and other institutions monitor, compile, and publish data on Citizen and Society emissions of hazardous chemicals into the environment from each source as well as on the presence of *4: REACH regulation Under a medium-term environmental target for fiscal hazardous chemicals in waste carried away from manufacturing premises. A European Union regulation on registration, evaluation, and authorization that has Promoting Waste Reduction Activities 2010-2012 of generating 500 million yen in profit from the been in force since June 1, 2007, and which imposes obligations to identify Our initiatives aim at eliminating rather than disposing of Three-R initiative, Citizen Seimitsu in fiscal 2010 undertook a Enhancing Products with controlled substances and to register hazard information on businesses handling chemicals at predetermined quantities. waste, in an effort to help build a recycling-based society. In fiscal 2010 we met our target of achieving a Group-wide number of environmental improvement activities in its manufacturing process and constructed a management Citizen Environmentally *5: RoHS directive A European Union directive for restrictions on the use of hazardous substances, system. To begin with, it erected an environmental three-R Friendly Products which has banned the sale of electric and electronic products containing six Citizen and the Environment recycling rate of 99% and completely eliminated garbage (a chemicals (lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated recycling rate of 99% or higher) at 17 domestic premises. management system for monitoring the environmental impact biphenyl (PBB), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs)) within the European The volume of waste*1 increased around 1,023 tons. For of its business activities. This system computes the volumes Expanding Our Range of Union since July 2006. and values of procured goods (or inputs) and of finished fiscal 2011, we will strive to achieve a goal of maintaining products (or outputs). Environmental improvement objectives Environmentally-Friendly Products a recycling rate of 99% or higher (zero waste) on a GroupExample Initiative are registered in the environmental improvement management We are taking steps to expand our lineup of eco-friendly wide basis. products. system to tally the effect of the efforts to improve the Only products that meet all of our assessment criteria, Development of the Cincom environment in terms of reduction volume and amount. including resource and energy efficiency, reuse and environmentally-friendly NC automatic lathe Group-wide Waste Production*2 During fiscal 2010, 98 objectives were registered in the system and the effect amounted to 67.8 million yen. Going forward, the recycling, long-term usability, environmental conservation Machine tools are sometimes known as the “mother” Recycled Land-filled Incinerated Recycling Rate environmental three-R and improvement management system (hazardous chemical substance management), the machines. As such, they can play a very important role in the (Tons) (%) will be effectively used to step up environmental improvement provision of environmental information and packaging, are environment from the perspective of lifecycle evaluation. When 10,000 100 certified as environmentally-friendly products. efforts. To meet Citizen Machinery developed the M32 VIII NC automatic lathe, 8,000 7,841 7,587 80 the target, the We launched a comprehensive initiative in fiscal 2005 7,379 the evaluation criteria included energy conservation and zero 6,647 6,967 activities will be INPUT OUTPUT to achieve our target of increasing eco-friendly products use of hazardous chemicals. Machine tools have numerous 6,000 5,370 60 extended to Procured Environmental three-R Finished as a percentage of new models to 100% by the end of goods management system products Environmental fiscal 2008. Since then, the number has been steadily motors and heavy moving parts. Citizen Machinery identified 4,000 40 encompass the Business impact reduction activities Electricity activities Industrial increasing. Since fiscal 2009, almost all of our new models the energy required for processing and visualized power company’s Fuels waste Gas Environmental General waste Environmental improvement have been eco-friendly. consumption in an effort to three data 2,000 20 Water management CO management In terms of compliance with REACH regulations and system completely cut wasteful 2 system Wastewater subsidiaries. Chemicals 0 2000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 0 (FY) Chemicals management the RoHS directive, meanwhile, we have introduced energy use. Zero use of system a dedicated management system and are managing hazardous chemicals was *1 Volume of waste = industrial waste + general waste *2 Waste production = industrial waste + general waste + valuable resources chemical substances accordingly. attained by studying each of the approximately 3,000 components. M32Ⅷ For more detailed information, please refer to our website. For more detailed information, please refer to our website. Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > Citizen Holdings > CSR Activities > Citizen and the Environment > 28 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Effective Utilization of Resources and Reduction of Waste Enhancing the Lineup with Environmentally-Friendly Products Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 29 Third-Party Comments Environmentally-Friendly Products On display at Tokyo Designers Week 2010 A company’s CSR report is more than a simple report outlining CSR – Environmental Design Exhibition initiatives. It represents a commitment to undertake initiatives that Taking part in an event that foresees the future from seek to put the company’s principles into practice. My comments One Akiyama the perspective of the environment and design this year are once again based on this same perspective. President of Integrex Inc. Tokyo Designers Week (TDW) is an urban design event organized by Design Association NPO. It is one of the few events in Japan with a 25-year history. At many different sites in Japan’s capital, exhibitions and events take place based on the year’s theme. The 2010 event started on October 29 and ran for six days under the theme of “The environment x design.” It was a success, attracting as many as 72,000 visitors 1 Positive points 2 Potential for the future improvements from around the world. The Citizen Group has maintained a highly admirable This year’ s report covers overseas initiatives in the One of the reasons for our participation in the TDW as an stance of involving all of its personnel in initiatives aimed Special Feature section. I hope to see more reports on exhibitor lay in the concept of the event, namely the environmental at putting into practice its corporate philosophy of initiatives for sharing the Citizen Group Corporate design exhibition, which matched the same corporate spirit that “contributing to and striving to be respected by the Philosophy as a foundation of activity promotion and more inspired us to offer the solar-powered Eco-Drive watch and other citizens of the world” in every aspect of its business examples of contributions to overseas local communities, environmentally friendly products. Under a slogan of “combining activities. as stated in Article 8 of the Citizen Group Code of This year’ s CSR report is the third with an opening Conduct, in addition to reports on social contribution technology and beauty,” we engage in product manufacturing that feature in which Group personnel around the world each activities in different countries. I also look forward to seeing creates design appeal, functionality, and environmental friendliness. display a board stating what CSR means to them. It also more faces and voices of overseas staff members being We had long had an aspiration to make our earnest stance widely covers examples of initiatives in Citizen and Society and featured, given that more than 60% of the people of the known to the public. Another objective of our participation was to in Citizen and the Environment. They show the personality Group are based overseas. further evolve our brand image inside and outside the Company. We of the individual employees featured and convince me The report also covers initiatives for business consequently decided to become part of the TDW for the first time and that the efforts of all employees to fulfill the Group’ s continuity plans in the event of natural disaster, since these to demonstrate our environmental efforts and our dedication to design. corporate social responsibility are real. are defined as a priority risk in the risk assessment at With respect to CSR targets and initiatives, the report Group companies. Going forward, it will be necessary to Combining technology with beauty and the environment explains that four challenges identified as future issues in review how these initiatives were executed in the process the previous year’ s activities were adopted as major of recovering from damage at some production and sales with design towards the future challenges for the current year and that individual Group premises caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake and Located in Omotesando, the Citizen Design Studio is so close to the TDW’s main venue Meiji Jingu companies set their own CSR targets and acted on what problems were identified. Gaien that it was chosen as one of the shop exhibition sites. On October 28, the pre-opening party was those. Their results, evaluation, future initiatives, and held before the exhibition became open to the public. On the subject of “The Eco-Drive Watch: challenges are presented. This indicates that the PDCA Potential of Design,” five in-house designers delivered presentations. During the period, six cycle is effectively practiced throughout the Group’ s collaboration watch models in commemoration of our 80th anniversary were also on display. Prior to the presentations, we organized an internal design competition and broadly invited design consistent activities. The special feature of this year’ s report focuses on global CSR activities. I am impressed to learn that social 3 Looking ahead entries. We chose five designs that earned particularly high marks from among more than 50 entries. contribution activities geared to local needs are underway In the wake of the Great East Japan Earthquake on March During the presentations, the five designers spoke about the ideas infused into their designs. We had in different countries and to read the comment that “These 11, the importance of the relationship between businesses anticipated that a direct presentation of their flexible and innovative thinking, which usually cannot be activities provided us with opportunities to turn our attention to global and society and of the role of businesses as corporate heard, would help create an enhanced brand image as well as let many people know about our approach issues and to think about what we each can do to serve the society.” citizens is greater than ever before. It is essential to to design. For example, the surface treatment technology using titanium and the solar power The report also suggests that specific initiatives are combine the strengths of businesses and people, of generation technology had already earned strong praise. The exhibition provided us with an undertaken and refined on the basis of feedback from businesses and communities, of different businesses, and opportunity to create excellent products by combining these technologies with design through stakeholders. For example, customer comments are of all players and to make them work together. I think that internal collaboration. incorporated into manufacturing. Relationships are built the philosophy of Sontoku Ninomiya is required. This with business partners through dialogues. And different Japanese moralist preached an idea of ichi-en yugo, schemes are reviewed for creating ideal working according to which good results come solely from the After participation in the TDW environments. state in which all things integrate into one, given that they Our display in the TDW enabled us to receive valuable comments from general customers, designers in As for environmental initiatives, the report refers to interact with one another. other industrial sectors, and others with whom we had little contact. It also renewed public awareness the target defined in line with the Citizen Group I hope that all individuals in the Citizen Group will think of our design dedication and efforts. We think the initial objectives behind our decision to participate Environmental Policy revised last year as well as results about what is needed and what they can do to build a and evaluation for fiscal 2010. It shows that the initiatives truly sustainable society and work together as a corporate were met. are steadily carried out under the slogan of “Small is Eco.” group, contributing to and striving to be respected by We are endeavoring to protect the environment through our products, including the solar-powered I find it unique to the Citizen Group that employees are citizens around the world. I hope also that the Citizen Eco-Drive. Essentially, people are part of the natural environment. Watches are familiar industrial involved in these initiatives based on the notion that the Group will continue its initiatives based on integration products that actually contact human skin, and as a company that offers such products, we should sensitivity of every single employee is essential to taking between business and people or between business and Yasuyuki Sakamaki always seek designs that appeal to human hearts. In other words, combining technology and beauty is action. This is, for instance, seen in introduction of the society. Creative Director, Design Center, the sole approach to combining the environment with design and to reaching future products that we environmental accounting scheme at a Group company. Marketing Headquarters should pursue. It is meaningless unless this action continues into the long term. Citizen Watch Co., Ltd. We will continually carry out initiatives like this in an effort to achieve further development. 30 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 Citizen Group CSR Report 2011 31
