Progress Report 2010 D S V CO P R EP O RT 2 011 GLOB AL COM PAC T Jens Bjørn Andersen CEO DSV A/S Message form the CEO In DSV we are highly committed to improve our CSR communicate and be transparent about our engagement, performance, and we believe that this positive approach commitment and progress on CSR activities. creates value for and is relevant to our business and reputation. Furthermore, we are convinced that our approach Global Compacts ten principles have formed the basis for to CSR will have a positive impact on the quality of our developing DSV’s CSR policy which during 2010 was distriservices and help our business to a continued growth in a buted to all group companies. This and other findings of our responsible way. work can be read on the following pages. DSV has always been aware of and acknowledges its social With this first COP report DSV wish to reconfirm its support responsibility as one of the world’s largest transport and to United Nations Global Compact initiative and urges all its logistics providers. We find it natural to take good care of cooperation partners to support this initiative too. our employees and the environment and to ensure that our work is based on an ethical business model. That is the reason why we joined United Nations Global Compact initiative Best regards in 2009. DSV A/S By joining this initiative, DSV has made a clear commitment Jens Bjoern Andersen to support and advance the ten principles of human rights, CEO labour standards, minimizing strain on the environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore it reflects DSV’s desire to join a universally respected and accepted initiative that provides a common framework for decent conduct and to assume our share of the responsibility for helping to solve the major global issues concerning the areas mentioned. We also believe that Global Compact represents a possibility for DSV to 2 DSV CO P REP O RT 2011 GLO BAL COMPAC T Corporate Social Responsibility cise influence through dialogue with and requirements of As DSV is one of the world’s largest providers of transport these subcontractors. In addition to improved competitiveand logistics services, corporate social responsibility (CSR) ness, these efforts, whether direct or indirect, also entail is essential to the organisation, and DSV has therefore less empty running and reduced environmental impact from opted to join the United Nations Global Compact. It seems each shipment. obvious to DSV to care for employees and the environment Various local activities have also been launched to reduce and to ensure that all corporate activities are based on an the environmental impact from the activities of DSV. ethical business model. Business ethics and anti-corruption Efforts are targeted at creating a strong basis for DSV’s apDSV has grown considerably in recent years, now offering proach to the individual principles. This work was formalised activities and services all over the world. This implies seand structured to a much greater extent in 2010, leaving veral business partners with very different cultural backDSV better equipped to continuously meet strategic chalgrounds, and therefore it becomes ever more important for lenges in a financially and socially responsible manner and to the Group to have a set of common values and guidelines. follow the national legislation of the individual countries and DSV considers it crucial that all its employees maintain a communities, also in future. high level of business ethics in their relations with customers, shareholders, suppliers, partners and public authoriThe CSR policy of DSV is based on the ten principles of the ties. DSV therefore made targeted efforts in 2010 to lay Global Compact. The ten principles are based on universally down principles of business ethics for DSV in its formal accepted principles and conventions within four main areas: Code of Conduct. human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corThe Code is based on the values of DSV and compriruption. Each of the general policies is further substantiated ses guidelines and expectations of the Group relating to by a code for each of the areas of human and labour rights, subjects such as anti-corruption legislation, legislation on environment and business ethics. competition and conflicts of interest, and general principles on good ethical conduct of all DSV employees, including The CSR policy and the individual codes give clear guidelisenior and middle managers. nes of good conduct in the daily work of both management and staff, and the documents also provide the framework Implementation of CSR policy for the way in which the organisation addresses CSR issues. In the autumn of 2010, the CSR policy of DSV was DSV makes targeted efforts within all areas of CSR, but communicated globally to all employees of the Group gives priority to areas relating to the core business of DSV. through the national managements of all subsidiaries, who The three most essential areas are: employees and working were responsible for presenting and sharing the CSR policy environment, environment and climate, and business ethics among their staff. Almost two-thirds of all subsidiaries have and anti-corruption. also opted to implement procedures on the introduction of new employees to the DSV Code of Conduct. Employees and working environment Our employees are an essential asset of our organisation, Outcome of CSR initiatives and it is crucial for the success and future of DSV that they All companies of the DSV Group made extensive work in experience job satisfaction and feel appreciated for their the autumn months to convey the CSR policy of DSV to work. their employees. Accordingly, 85% of all employees have The managements of all DSV enterprises are responsible now received information about anti-corruption procedufor observing the Code of Human and Labour Rights of res, and 80% of all employees have received information the DSV Group. They are moreover to partner with their about the Group’s human rights policies and procedures. staff to maintain a good physical and psychological working Moreover, 78% of all Group companies have evaluated naenvironment that contributes to general content and job tional policies and procedures and concluded that they are satisfaction. The managements are also responsible for in accordance with the new CSR policy of the DSV Group. taking initiatives intended to counter occupational diseases and prevent occupational accidents. Environment The Group emitted 3.2 million tonnes of carbon dioxide in Environment and climate 2010, which is almost the same as in 2009 despite increaDSV wants to assume its share of the responsibility for sing activity level. Developments in the individual divisions reducing the environmental impact of transportation. DSV and modes of transport applied by DSV show that DSV therefore constantly works to improve the geographical moves an ever increasing proportion of goods by aeroplabalance in the market and improve the capacity utilisation nes and container ships. Since 2008, the largest increase of the Group’s equipment. has been seen in containerised sea freight, and since this Most transports organised by DSV are, however, carried mode of transportation is among the least polluting, total out by subcontractors, and DSV can therefore mainly exercarbon emissions of DSV increased at a proportionally lower rate. Considerable cargo quantities are also moved by truck, 3 D S V CO P R EP O RT 2 011 GLOB AL COM PAC T Figurer til CSR afsnit årsrapport 2010 Year Road transport Sea transport Air transport Buildings 2008 1508 321 636 65 2009 1679 529 939 65 2010 1371 619 1154 77 but usually over shorter distances and consequently causing was lower in 2010 than the average rate of employee less carbon emissions. turnover of the DSV Group for the preceding seven years. Figure: Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) by activity The fairly high employee turnover level must be viewed in 2000 light of the integration activities following the acquisition of Koninklijke Frans Maas Groep N.V. in 2006 and ABX LOGI1600 STICS in 2008, to mention the major transactions. 1200 800 The rate of absence due to illness among Group employees was 3.4% in 2010, having been stable for some years. This 400 corresponds to an average of less than eight days’ absence 0 each year for each employee. The rate of absence saw Road transport Sea transport Air transport Buildings 2008 2009 2010 a slight decline among Solutions and Air & See staff, but Year Group Road Air & Sea Solutions increased 2008 slightly in the Road 3.1% Division. 3.2% Both hourly 1.9% workers 4.7% Figure: Total carbon emissions (tonnes) by activity and salaried 2009 employees 3.3% of the 3.1%Air & Sea Division 4.3% continue 2.4% to have the lowest 2010 3.4%rates of3.8% absence due 2.3% among all to illness3.9% The aggregate environmental impact is calculated by using Group employees. own data on the quantities carried and the environment Figure: Development in absence due to illness ratios reported by subcontractors to DSV. These data and 8% ratios are used to calculate the energy efficiency of the Group, a figure reflecting the emission of carbon dioxide 6% each time DSV moves one tonne of freight one kilometre by different modes of transportation. 4% The aggregate energy efficiency showed an improvement from 36.6 grams of CO2 per tonne-km in 2009 to 36.4 2% in 2010. It also has an impact on the aggregate energy efficiency that an ever increasing proportion of all transport 0% services are performed by container ships, which are less Koncern Road Air & Sea Solutions harmful to the environment. The ratios reported to DSV by 2008 2009 2010 its air freight suppliers also showed an aggregate improvement in energy efficiency. The subcontractors of the Road Figure: Development in absence due to illness Division reported continuous improvement in the level of emissions of carbon dioxide per kilometre driven; however, Unfortunately, the rate of occupational accidents did not as the average weight of a DSV shipment is decreasing, the remain stable at the same level as in 2009. The Group aggregate energy efficiency of the Division increased. saw an overall increase in this rate, which was caused by a combination of the large increase in the Road Division and a The Road Division is pursuing various initiatives to reduce minor increase in the Solutions Division, but also continued the environmental impact. An example is the various types reduction of the rate of occupational accidents in the Air of flexible trailers developed by the Division for a great & Sea Division. Group Management considers this increase variety of transport logistics. The use of flexible trailers is in the rate of occupational accidents serious. It intends to a great advantage in markets characterised by imbalance launch a comprehensive initiative in 2011 to reduce the to minimise the towing of empty trailers. The Division also number of occupational accidents among DSV staff. aims to create better balance in full-load transportation on the European continent to better utilise the trailer fleet of DSV. DSV willingly transports its customers’ freight by rail, thus transporting large quantities of freight by rail each year. Railways are usually the preferred mode of transportation at long geographical distances and when this solution fits customer needs and is competitive relative to the price of other modes of transportation. Employees After the considerable changes in staff in 2009, employee figures remained stable throughout 2010. The Group’s rate of employee turnover therefore dropped considerably from 33.5% to 22.7%, which reflects significant reductions in the rates of the Air & Sea and Road Divisions, but also an increase in the Solutions Division. The rate of employee turnover 4 DSV CO P REP O RT 2011 GLO BAL COMPAC T NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS AND INDICATORS OF THE GROUP Reference to 2008 2009 2010 GRI indicators 1 Emissions ('000 tonnes) EN16 CO2 emissions – Group 2,464 *3,212 3,221 CO2 emissions – Container shipping 321 529 619 CO2 emissions – Air transport 636 939 1,154 CO2 emissions – Road transport 1,507 *1,679 1,371 CO2 emissions – Buildings 65 77 Water ('000 m3) EN8 Total water use 310 317 Rate of employee turnover (%) LA2 Group 19.4 33.5 22.7 Salaried staff 17.4 39.7 18.8 Hourly workers 22.5 23.6 29,0 Absence due to illness (%) Group 3.1 3.3 3.4 Salaried staff 2.6 2.7 2.9 Hourly workers 4,0 4.3 4.4 Rate of occupational accidents (per million working hours) LA7 Group 11.4 7.6 11.3 Salaried staff 3,0 1.3 2.8 Hourly workers 23.5 18.6 25.8 Energy efficiency (g/tonne-km) CO2 per consignment – Group 43,0 *36.6 36.4 CO2 per consignment – Container shipping 8.4 9,0 9.2 CO2 per consignment – Air transport 762.3 775.4 762,0 CO2 per consignment – Road transport 67.9 *65.8 77.8 Quality management standard (%) ISO 14001 33 34 ISO 9001 67 71 OHSAS 18001 15 15 Anti-corruption (%) SO3 Employees who have received information about anti-corruption policies and procedures 85 Human rights (%) HR3 Employees who have received information about human rights policies and procedures 80 Implementation of CSR policies (%) Proportion of DSV entities which have produced a self-declaration of compliance with the CSR policy of the DSV Group 78 1. Reported in full or in part according to GRI G3 Non-financial highlights and indicators of the Group Emissions CO2 emissions from transport activities are calculated based on the average fuel utilisation ratios and CO2 emissions reported in respect of trucks owned by DSV and subcontractors in connection with the transportation of DSV freight, partly on data from DSV’s own traffic management systems, including data on the freight volumes carried to and from various destinations. CO2 emissions from buildings are calculated based on direct consumption of electricity, gas, oil and water at DSV’s own locations. Rate of employee turnover Number of employees leaving the Group during the year relative to the average number of employees calculated on the basis of monthly surveys of the actual number of employees at the end of the month. Rate of absence Number of days of absence due to illness relative to the number of working days during the year adjusted for maternity/paternity leave, agreed holidays and national public holidays. Absence due to illness is measured on the basis of wage/salary system records. Rate of occupational accidents Number of reported occupational accidents resulting in more than one day of absence per million working hours during the year. Energy efficiency Emissions from consignment relative to freight volume and transportation distance. Quality management standard Percentage of DSV enterprises certified according to ISO 14001, ISO 9001 or OHSAS 18001. Calculation proportionate to the number staff of the certified enterprises. Anti-corruption and human rights Number of employees of the enterprises that have informed its staff about the CSR policies and procedures of DSV that must be followed relative to the total staff of the Group. Implementation of CSR policy Number of enterprises that have evaluated whether they are following the CSR policy of the DSV Group relative the to total number of Group enterprises. Comments * A review of the fuel consumption and Euronorms reported by subcontractors of the Road Division for 2009 revealed incorrectly reported data. These incorrect data had some influence on the CO2 emissions calculated for the Division, and accordingly also for the Group, as well as various values for the energy efficiency of the Division and the Group. Comparative figures have been restated accordingly. 5 D S V CO P R EP O RT 2 011 GLOB AL COM PAC T UN GLOBAL COMPACT DSV POLICIES HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 • DSV supports and wants to observe internationally recognised human rights. Businesses should support and • DSV recognises and supports the equal rights of all human beings and is opposed to discrimination respect the protection of inand differential treatment at work and employment based on race, gender, sexual, religious or ternationally proclaimed human political orientation, ethnic or social background or other causes. rights PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3 • DSV recognises the right of all employees to form associations and to collective bargaining and wants a Businesses should uphold the constructive dialogue between employer and employees. freedom of association and the • DSV is opposed to all kinds of forced labour and employment. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • DSV does not hire children and recognises the international standards related to the minimum age of children/youths for various kinds of work. PRINCIPLE 4 • DSV recognises and supports the equal rights of all human beings and is opposed to discrimination Businesses should uphold the and differential treatment at work and employment based on race, gender, sexual, religious or political elimination of all forms of fororientation, ethnic or social background or other causes. ced and compulsory labour • DSV employees must have a written statement of terms and conditions of employment if so required PRINCIPLE 5 under national law. Businesses should uphold the • All DSV employees are paid at least the minimum wage or salary according to the applicable or agreed effective abolition of child local or collective bargaining agreement. labour • DSV observes applicable national law and agreed standards relating to employee working hours. PRINCIPLE 6 • The employees are among the most important stakeholders of DSV. A good physical and psychological Businesses should uphold the working environment at DSV is to contribute to content and job satisfaction, counter occupational elimination of discrimination diseases and prevent workplace accidents among all staff groups of DSV. in respect of employment and • All DSV managers are responsible for staff safety. In addition to giving instructions and verifying that occupation the instructions are followed, they must also create understanding of the required safety precautions. • Every single DSV employee is responsible for his/her own safety conduct and must accordingly observe safety rules and prevent accidents and injuries by acting in a considerate manner. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 • DSV has undertaken to create transport and logistics systems that reduce resource spending and Businesses should support a environmental impact as much as possible. Therefore the business concept of DSV is developed precautionary approach to and improved on a continuous basis to make the products and services of the Group reflect the environmental challenges environmental concerns at all times. PRINCIPLE 8 • DSV aims to have an open and constructive dialogue with public authorities, shareholders, custoBusinesses should undertake mers, subcontractors, employees and other stakeholders about environmental issues in relation initiatives to promote greater to the activities of the Group. DSV is aware of its responsibilities and will therefore always meet environmental responsibility authority requirements. • Subcontractors are selected on a commercial basis, which also includes an assessment of environPRINCIPLE 9 mental impact and social responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 DSV wants: Businesses should work against • to make all employees of the Group observe general principles of business ethics; corruption in all its forms, inclu• to support the work against bribery, facilitation payments, certain types of gifts, entertainment, ding extortion and bribery travel costs, etc.; • to provide guidance on charitable donations and rules on contributions to political parties and non-governmental organisations; • to prohibit staff and companies from engaging in cartel activities and to restrict membership of trade and industry organisations; and • to avoid conflicts of interest and related-party transactions. 6 DSV CO P REP O RT 2011 GLO BAL COMPAC T ACTIVITIES RESULTS1 HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS DSV joined the Global Compact initiative in 2009. The Code of Human and Labour Rights of the DSV Group was made available to all employees in 2010. DSV has prepared a Code of Human and Labour Rights, which has been communicated to all employees in informative brochures, at staff meet15% of all DSV companies are certified according to OHSAS ings, and through the intranet and/or shared computer drives. 18001. LABOUR STANDARDS LABOUR STANDARDS DSV joined the Global Compact initiative in 2009. The Code of Human and Labour Rights of the DSV Group was made available to all employees in 2010. DSV has prepared a Code of Human and Labour Rights, which has been communicated to all employees in informative brochures, at staff meetThe Group’s aggregate rate of employee turnover decreased ings, and through the intranet and/or shared computer drives. from 33.5% in 2009 to 22.7% in 2010. The rate of occupational accidents at DSV per million working hours increased from 7.6 in 2009 to 11.3 in 2010. 15% of all DSV companies are certified according to OHSAS 18001. ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT DSV joined the Global Compact initiative in 2009. The Code of Environmental Behaviour of the DSV Group was made available to all employees in 2010. DSV has prepared a Code of Environmental Behaviour, which has been communicated to all employees in informative brochures, at staff meetIn total, the Group emitted 3.2 million tonnes of CO2 in ings, and through the intranet and/or shared computer drives. 2010. DSV is committed to promoting responsible environmental conduct. The aggregate energy efficiency of the Group measured in CO2 emissions was 36.4 g/tonne-km in 2010. The Road Division of DSV has developed various flexible trailers to reduce empty running. Road Sweden continues its efforts to spread the DSV ECO product. ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION DSV joined the Global Compact initiative in 2009. The Code of Conduct of the DSV Group was made available to all employees in 2010. DSV has prepared a Code of Conduct of the DSV Group, which has been communicated to all employees in informative brochures, at staff meetings, and through the intranet and/or shared computer drives. All financial managers of DSV received information about the Code of Conduct of the DSV Group at a financial conference in 2010. 1. Further results are described under non-financial highlights and indicators on page 5. 7 DSV A/S Banemarksvej 58 2605 Brondby Denmark Tel.: +45 43 20 30 40 E-mail: csr@dsv.com www.dsv.com CVR No. 58 23 35 28
