ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL ECONOMIC Sustainable Development Report 2010/2011 eco.lyreco.com You’re our number One ! A WORD FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, of the poorest suburb of Rio de Janeiro called Duque de Caxias by promoting reading, When I joined Lyreco early in 2011, I was first environmental education, and investigation impressed by its core values: commitment to of local history. sustainability, management through diversity The Lyreco for Education program remains and respect for people. This is something I at a high level for the coming years with personally feel very close to and will work “Together for Togo 2011-2013” which aims to strengthen. to help 32,000 children in Africa. We also have dedicated plans to better involve our 2010 was a new year of development for Lyreco customers in the program. with the acquisition of office supplies companies in Finland, Switzerland, Spain and Portugal: n Our “Socially Responsible Procurement this, for sure, cements our GROW strategy. Policy” for the directly imported and ownAt the same time, we remain convinced that branded products, which was made official in this growth must take a sustainable approach October 2010. Ensuring respect for human to create long-term value. rights in our supply chain, Lyreco carries out As a result, a Group Sustainable Development Social Audits to appraise the conformity of strategy has been formalised, documented our suppliers on the basis of the international and now published within a dedicated webstandard SA 8000 (Social Accountability site for the first time. This key change took 8000). SA8000 focuses on child labour, forour longstanding Group Policies and core ced labour, health & safety, discrimination, values and created a targeted approach for disciplinary practices, working hours and the principles which had for years been part compensation. of Lyreco’s culture. The aim of this Sustainable Development n The implementation of the Lyreco Code report is to share our key initiatives. We have of Ethics, we have formalised the ethical accomplished many good things, but we still principles that we want to see applied by have to work to continue earning your trust Lyreco employees and our suppliers. In a and keeping our promises to you and the rapidly changing environment and in an communities we serve. We are dedicated to ever-growing business, we would like to upholding those promises every day. demonstrate our leadership and our sense of If I have to select from all our initiatives responsibility towards individuals directly or the 3 most important ones; they would be indirectly affected by Lyreco policies. as follows: Last but not least, I would like to thank all our n The 2010 “Lyreco for Education” program, stakeholders for their continued cooperation highly exceeded our expectations as the collecand actions so that we can together contribute tion result was above 277 K€ while the target for a sustainable future. was 150 K€. Keeping in mind children are our future and the future starts with proper Sincerely yours access to education, we are going to support the education of children in Brazil in one Philippe Martinez 2 OUR VALUES CONTENTS p2 .................A word from THE C.E.O. Businesses, p4 ................................... THE Business like families p5...................................... key figures or countries, p6-9 ........ Sustainable Development need values to p6............................. Sustainable Development work to. Sharing POLICY our values p7....................................... management system makes all of us PASSION EXCELLENCE p8.......................................... integrated system p9............................................DAILY management stronger as a team. P10-29................. OUR environmental actions Our values are p11................... our environmental approach simple enough, p12................................... green mini catalogue but are very p12.................... green products assessment important. p13.......................... first subsidiary to obtain fsc certification They are: PROFESSIONALISM RESPECT p14........................................ lyreco and ecover p15................................................. lyreco and 3m p16................................................ lyreco and bic p17............................................ small packaging SUSTAINABLE p17...................................... a wrapping machine for pallets p18..........................delivery: environmentally DEVELOPMENT p19-21..................car and van fuel reduction friendly vans WEBSITE & IDENTITY p22-23...............................infrastructure: new environmentalLY friendly HEAD OFFICE p24..............................................new warehouse p25-28........................................... power savings Making Lyreco's p29................................................................. waste Sustainable p30-41 .................OUR social actions Development p31................................... our social approach approach and p32-34........................................... the employees P35.................................SUpplier social audits strategy better P36-37............................. LyReco for education known. p38-41.........................................improvement of the working conditions Known as “Lyreco Eco”, our Sustainable Developp42-49....................... OUR economical ment Website aims at proactions viding a common platform p43.........................our economical approach to interested parties. It p44-45.......................... customer testimonials endeavours to showcase p46.......................... customer oriented tools practical elements of our initiatives and actions, and especially the p47............ development of virtual services Environmental, Social and Economic ones. p48....................................... recycling services The main goal is to increase the awareness of our stakeholders on to customers sustainability issues. Visiting our website eco.lyreco.com on a regular basis you will get our latest news, awards and recognitions, as well p49........................................ financial integrity as an up-to-date assessment of our certification body. At the same time, in order to strengthen and make consistent our p50-51............................... our awards communications linked to “Sustainable Development”, Lyreco has defined a dedicated “Corporate Sustainable Development Identity”. 3 THE BUSINESS «Your office... our world» 28 countries, one Lyreco One of Lyreco’s assets lies in the organisation L  yreco has a global vision and the appropriate and management model. The same policies, competitive advantages that large international organisation and management rules apply to companies are looking for when it comes to the all Lyreco subsidiaries. A unique information management of global purchasing portfolios system facilitates the sharing and consolidation of office supplies. of all these elements worldwide. Lyreco is one of the largest worldwide distributors of office supplies. Active in 28 countries (36 with Continuous improvement our partners), on 5 continents, Lyreco believes in is the rule offering every Customer the same superior All subsidiaries contribute to the continuous quality of products and services wherever improvement of the group model by sharing they are. new ideas and best practices. Sustainable Development takes advantage of these synergies from all areas of the business and group experts help by improving the group best practices. Lyreco Lyreco Partners: Askul OfficeMax Officepro Office Product Depot Waltons Speedsend 6 strategic alliances that strengthen Lyreco’s worldwide coverage with presence in Southern Africa, Egypt, New Zealand, Mexico, United States,Taiwan and Japan. 4 KEY FIGURES SALES FORCE Sales force Indicators • 5,000 sales people • 2,900 cars Areas for improvement • Increase communication on Sustainable Development with customers • Reduce environmental PRODUCT SELECTION impacts due to travelling Product selection Indicators • An average of 6,000 products offered by each country • 15 product families • 790 ‘green’ products i.e. 16.3% of the International common range • 100 ergonomic products i.e. 2.3 % of the International common range Areas for improvement • Continue to develop environmentally friendly products in our offering • Continue to raise consumer awareness on Sustainable Development and pay special attention to certified suppliers CUSTOMER • Define strict and formalised criteria for qualification as  « green » product. CUSTOMER SERVICE Customer Service Indicators • 25,000 calls/day • 58,000 orders/day • 293,000 lines/day Areas for improvement •R educe environmental impacts due to hard copy orders ORDER PREPARATION DELIVERY Order Preparation Indicators • 31 Distribution Centres: Delivery Indicators • 390,000 m 2 • 1,050 vans and drivers • 232,000 parcels prepared/day • 61,000 deliveries every day Areas for improvement Areas for improvement • Reduce Health & Safety risks • Reduce Health & Safety risks • Increase waste recycling • Reduce environmental impacts • Energy savings initiatives due to transportation 5 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT POLICY For Lyreco, Economical Development, Social Development and Environment Preservation are interdependent components which strengthen one another. T he key change Lyreco brought early in Social 2011 to our Group policies (applicable n Develop equality and social inclusion printo all our subsidiaries) is the clarification ciples, ensuring for instance internal mobility of our Sustainable Development Policy. and internal promotion. This is now formalised although the princin Develop our people thanks to a proper work ples were already for years a part of Lyreco’s environment in terms of Health and Safety, culture and values. and human resources programs (e.g. Lyreco Lyreco places Sustainable Development (SD) University, Lyreco Campus, Internal Opinion principles – that embrace sustainable economic Barometer, and Training Plans). growth, social inclusion and environmental n Contribute to the progress of our community, aspects – at the centre of its management, carrying out Lyreco for Education, Charity daily operations and projects. and Supplier Social Audit actions. In the delivery of our Sustainable DevelopLyreco has always considered people as the ment vision and policy Lyreco aims at: FIRST STRENGTH of the group. For us social development has always been a major Economic stake. n Support and push sustainable economic growth in all our countries. Environment n Promote innovation and adopt a pragmatic n Identify and evaluate opportunities to approach to sustainability, targeting efforts reduce environmental impacts in serving our on priority issues which have meaningful customers and take opportunities to enhance benefits for the environment, community the environment. and economy. n Ensure our operations and projects are maWork ethically with our suppliers and partners, naged in accordance with accredited quality and encourage them to apply a Sustainable (ISO 9001) and environmental management Development strategy. (ISO 14001) systems to include sustainability n Adopt a sustainable procurement & product priorities. approach. 6 All these actions clearly show the ambition of LYRECO: Together for a Sustainable Growth Sustainable Development MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Sustainable Development is the logical continuation of our long term consideration for Quality, Environment, Health and Safety matters. Quality Environment Health & Safety Sustainable ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS18001 Development 2002 Setting up of an Integrated System 2004 2011 Lyreco operates certified quality & environmental In 2004 Lyreco Gap Analysis versus ISO management system to ISO 9001 & ISO 14001 standards signed the 26000 (Corporate Social in the countries in which Lyreco is present Global Compact Responsibility Guideline). Initiative Consolidation and Roll-Out ISO 9001 is integrated across our business. of the best Sustainable It covers the areas of: Development initiatives. ISO 14001: A systematic approach to reducing our environmental impact. Human Rights Labor Standards Lyreco applies the principles of the OHSAS (Occupational Health and Safety Anti-Corruption Assessment Series) 18001 standard. Environment Preservation Internal and External Audits Continual Improvement process 7 Sustainable Development INTEGRATED SYSTEM To ensure the effective implementation of Lyreco’s organisation in all subsidiaries, Lyreco uses existing international standards in the areas of quality and environment. It is critical for our customers that Lyreco is certified for quality and environment management system (ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) in all the countries where Lyreco operates. Lyreco – SGS: a partnership for continuous improvement SGS certifies the Lyreco subsidiaries on standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 and attests that LYRECO is working with a risk management system at all levels: head office, subsidiaries and distribution centres. In 2010, Benelux was the 1st country certified by SGS on the FSC CoC (Forest Stewardship Council Chain of Custody) standard. This system allows the tracking of the FSC certified material through the production process from the forest to the consumer, including all successive stages of processing, transformation, manufacturing The Lyreco Quality, and distribution. Security and Environment nnn management system is totally integrated. INTEGRATED Health and Safety In line with our quality and environmental LYRECO SYSTEM management system, the H&S organisation is based on Lyreco’s guidelines referring to the OHSAS 18001 standard. Integrated quality, environmental and health & safety audits ensure organisation efficiency, in accordance with the local regulations. THE RULE is a preventative attitude. QUALITY ENVIRONMENT ISO 9001 ISO 14001 A unique certification body To ensure the consistency of the external audits and maintain unity, Lyreco has chosen SGS as the unique certification body for all its subsidiaries. HEALTH & SAFETY Audit feedbacks are shared with all subsidiaOHSAS 18001 ries and used for internal benchmarking and continuous improvement. 180 INTERNAL AUDITORS 8 Sustainable Development DAILY MANAGEMENT In Lyreco, it is the responsibility of every employee to take Sustainable Development into account in their daily activities. Lyreco uses its international organisation to ensure that all these actions are well organised, co-ordinated and consolidated, and that all the objectives are measured and achieved. Our Sustainable Development n Share his/her own / local experience within structure the QSE Community. Sustainable Development is co-ordinated n Support the countries as part of the impleby the Quality, Security and Environment mentation of the initiative. function (Q.S.E.) in each subsidiary. In line with the importance Lyreco puts in Regular Group Quality, these areas: Security and Sustainable n there is a Q.S.E. Manager in each Lyreco Development management subsidiary meetings n the Q.S.E. Manager reports to the Managing Regular Group Directors’ management meeDirector tings are held to analyse Quality, Security and Sustainable Development projects, actions, Monthly coordination results and to make decisions whenever In 2010, Lyreco sets up a dedicated Sustainable necessary. Development coordination in order to better gather, analyse, follow and share throughout A Sustainable Development the Group the experiences and best practireport committee ces in terms of environment / Sustainable To manage the Sustainable Development Development. Report, a Sustainable Development report 86 items have been identified in the first release, committee has been created and is in charge which concerned a wide range of topics. of: Among all those initiatives, Lyreco identified n Collecting and consolidating the information a “Top 10” list / key initiatives to implement from the subsidiaries in all our countries. n Checking the reliability of the informaOf those 10 projects, one leader has been tion appointed and given the following assignn Producing the Sustainable Development ments: report. n Gather advices / recommendations / tips to ease the implementation of the initiative. nnn 9 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS In the delivery of our Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims at: n Identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce environmental impacts in serving our customers and take opportunities to enhance the environment. n Ensure our operations and projects are managed in accordance with accredited quality (ISO 9001) and environmental management (ISO 14001) systems to include sustainability priorities. This means dedicated actions and programmes on Products, Packaging, Delivery, Waste Management, Carbon Footprint and Infrastructures. As examples, the following pages give you concrete Environmental actions either achieved in 2010 or that are scheduled to be done in 2011. 10 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS OUR ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH Initiatives span across our business. n Sustainable credentials Our Products n Green Product n Material Safety Data Sheet n Transit Our Packaging packaging n Environmentally Friendly Vans Our Delivery n Eco-Driving n Optimized Delivery Programmes n Recycled cartridges Our Waste n Recycled batteries n Sorting & Recycling n Power Savings Our Infrastructures n Our Buildings 11 OUR PRODUCTS INITIATIVE 2010 BENELUX GREEN MINI-CATALOGUE FOR INTERNAL CONSUMPTION OF OFFICE PRODUCTS A s part of our sustainable purchasing policy, Lyreco decided to set up a green minicatalogue for the internal consumption of office products last year. In doing so, Lyreco wanted to further promote the purchase of sustainable office supplies amongst our buyers in all departments. Lyreco set up a working group to analyse the technical aspects and identify the need for authorised exceptions. The working group defined the content of the green catalogue: the complete catalogue with a mandatory substitution list was uploaded. This means our buyers are automatically directed to compulsory green alternatives of our catalogue in OLO. Only if no alternative exists, the original product may be ordered. ding of the employees in how they contribute Communication was an important aspect to our sustainable policy. in this, as it increases the understannnn INITIATIVE 2010 GREEN PRODUCTS ASSESSMENT In 2010, Lyreco launched the project to formalise the accreditation that we give to products that have an environmental preference, assessing our products portfolio in line with criteria laid down in ISO 14021. Lyreco has selected ISO 14021 as being an international standard that brings a level of clarity to claims made about environmental benefits. It is this standard that Lyreco will use going forward to assess if a product is environmentally preferable to another one. ISO 14021 identifies 12 criteria that can be used to make a claim that a product is preferable: compostable degradable designed for disassembly extended life product recovered energy recyclable recycled content reduced energy consumption reduced resource use reduced water consumption reusable and refillable waste reduction Those claims raised by the suppliers can be: n independently assessed and therefore are supported by a certificate evidencing the claim n self-declared and therefore require evidence proofs In 2011, Lyreco will finalise this assessment by checking all the suppliers’ claims and work on the identification of those products in our 2012 catalogues. 12 OUR PRODUCTS OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS INITIATIVE 2010 BENELUX FIRST SUBSIDIARY TO OBTAIN FSC CERTIFICATION Lyreco is the first distributor in the Benelux market to be WOOD certified. Wood certification I n September 2010, Lyreco in Benelux obtained the FSC Chain of Custody certification following a certification audit by SGS (world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and Certification Company). For this, we implemented new procedures, mainly consisting of supplier certification and supplier SAWMILL documents (delivery notes, invoices) checks CoC by our product management, goods receiving certification and replenishment departments. On the other hand, developments were made in our IT system in order to put the FSC information on the Benelux delivery notes and invoices to our customers. The certification means Lyreco can guarantee our customers that the FSC products they PRODUCTION buy from us originate from a well-managed, CoC certified FSC forest. All FSC products and certification streams through the organisation are traceable and recognisable. Our customers will find this guarantee on the invoice: the FSC claim per product and Lyreco’s CoC (Chain of Custody) number will be mentioned. Lyreco is the first distributor in the Benelux market to be certified. More and more DISTRIBUTION customers are already requiring the FSC CoC information to appear on their invoices. A certification wide external communication plan further ensures our certification is a commercial advantage in the market. nnn CONSUMER FSC certification 13 OUR PRODUCTS 3 EXAMPLES OF SUPPLIER TESTIMONIALS Lyreco, first distributor across Europe for ecological cleaning Lyreco is the first and sole Office Supplies distributor to offer Ecover’s ecological washing and cleaning products across Europe. In 2007, Ecover opened its second ecological factory in France... ...with its green roof. A t Ecover, strict criteria are employed along n plant based ingredients and minerals; the way as guidelines for all business n quick and complete biodegradability; operations, from selecting suppliers and n minimum impact on aquatic life. raw materials, through production methods Ecover scientists are constantly innovating to full decomposition of the end products. and pushing boundaries to create new and With more than 30 years of experience Ecover more effective products that have a minimum proofs that sustainable entrepreneurship is a impact on the environment. feasible way to operate. Lyreco is following Ecover’s fantastic their lead to a bright future. Ecological factories new plastic Ecover products are manufactured in their Ecover is once again Effective washing and clean running, unique and world-famous leading the way with cleaning products ecological factories in Belgium and France. The its green innovations. Lyreco offers a wide range of effective and factories are crowned with a green roof where For its packaging, the ecological cleaning products to keep your plant vegetation grows creating a temperature company will switch offices spick and span. Doing your bit for the regulating and noise-dampening insulator to a 100% renewable, environment can’t be made easier. throughout the year. Both production sites reusable and recyclable comply with the external audited ISO 14001 plastic made from sugarcane and Ecover What makes Ecover products international environmental standard. is the first cleaning brand special? to use it. n effective cleaning with the power of nature; nnn 14 OUR PRODUCTS OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS Lyreco supports the launching of innovative sustainable products 3M makes sure to integrate sustainability into the evolutions of their products, as they successfully did with the Post-it® and Scotch® brands. This is why Lyreco decided to leverage these opportunities to the fullest extent. Post-it® and Scotch® ranges: Scotch® Magic™ 900: taking product lines that embody 3M sustainability a step further environmental commitment This new product range was launched with Both the paper used to make Post-it® noLyreco in 2010, and at the beginning of tes, as well as the wood pulp used to make 2011 was recognized by the European Office Scotch® Magic™ tape are sourced from paper Products Industry (OPI), winning the award mills that are certified for sustainable forest for ‘Best Product: Environmental friendly management. category’. Post-It® Notes and Scotch® Magic™ tapes 2011 also saw the launch of a new innovation are primarily manufactured locally for the in the range: a hand dispenser made out of European market in an ISO14001 certified 100% recycled plastic, of which 30 to 50% factory with on-going pollution prevention comes from post-consumer recycled compact actions and programs. disk cases. In 2011, as part of our on-going sustainability 3M’ long-term pledge to environmental improvement program, the Post-it® brand is stewardship is a perfect match to Lyreco’s complementing its range of recycled products sustainable commitment. with a dedicated “renewable resource” range nnn of recycled notes coming with a totally unique adhesive made of 67% plant based raw material. 15 OUR PRODUCTS Lyreco and Bic, a strong commitment to sustainability As one of the 4 permanent stakeholders selected by BIC, Lyreco contributes to the evolution of BIC’s Sustainable Development strategy. S ince the very beginning of the BIC nement label help consumers to develop Sustainable Development program, responsible behavior. It’s a tool to recognize Lyreco is part of the stakeholders. BIC high quality product with less impact on the has an annual meeting at Group levels between environment than the others. SD and QSE experts from both companies BIC receives this official eco-label mainly to share BIC results, future improvements to as a result of the company’s limited use of work on & vision on SD prospective. It’s an raw materials, the use of recycled materials, opportunity to define how BIC can better the long-lasting performance of its writing answer to Lyreco customers’ expectations instruments, and the resistance of its leads. on that growing subject. In France, we are launching a pilot project to see how we A barometer to measure could optimize the shipments & then to our improvements reduce the GHG (Greenhouse gas) emissions. About our Sustainable Development program, We have also shared some Lyreco customer’s Mario Guevara (CEO BIC) says: “It is a part visits to better understand their actual and of our strategy and is fully integrated, with future needs. a cross-functional approach, into the hearts So far, the main conclusion is to ease Lyreco’s of each Company division and department customer choices in terms of responsible team. Our Sustainable Development “barooffer. Third-party certifications remain an meter” provides a pragmatic way to monitor interesting solution. the Company’s commitment and also allows for fluid communications between all of our teams. The barometer gives us direction, a 3-year outlook and precisely reflects our progress.” A range of BIC® products is awarded Recently, some BIC® products obtained the official eco-label, NF Environnement, which is This indicator is an average of 10 other indidelivered by the French national organization cators (3 for our products, 3 for our operations for standardization, AFNOR. & 4 for our social responsibility). Using products that carry the NF Environnnn 16 OUR PACKAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS INITIATIVE 2011 SMALL PACKAGING Small packaging: before... ... and after. I n all distribution centers, thousands of The advantages will be numerous and imorders are received everyday. Most of them mediate: are prepared on conveyor belts and are n ecological impact with reduction of the packed in standard cardboard boxes. carbon footprint on the cardboard, using less However some of them represent small vopackaging material; lumes. Therefore the target is to use a more n ecological impact with reduction of the environmentally friendly packaging. carbon footprint on the transportation, using At the same time, a dedicated solution will be less room in the trucks and vans; set up so that the goods are kept well protected n rational packaging adapted to volume during the delivery process. delivered to the customer (better image); 5% of the parcels are concerned. n less waste. For one year in most of our European faciThis project will be operational simultaneously lities, this represents more than 760,000 m2 in most of the Lyreco subsidiaries. of cardboard saved, corresponding to 350 tons of C02. nnn INITIATIVE 2010 GERMANY A WRAPPING MACHINE FOR PALLETS As already existing in number of our locations, a wrapping machine for pallets has been settled at the Barsinghausen distribution center (Lyreco in Germany). On top of an improvement of the productivity, this new equipment offers numerous advantages: n social aspect with best working conditions for the shipping operators n better impact on the Environment with a lower consumption of polyethylene film n better constitution of the pallets allowing safer transfers n limited risks of pallet dislocation while transporting n less waste when de-filming process When Logistics emphasies Social and Environmental aspects. 17 OUR DELIVERY INITIATIVE 2011 ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY VANS Studies are currently made on two directions 100% ELECTRIC 100% GAS One ecological possibility is the use of electriThe other ecological possibility is the use of cal vans using batteries recharged during the NGV vans. NGV means Natural Gas Vans, night. therefore the same gas used at our homes. Those vehicles would only be used for dediThe main advantages are less pollution, less cated urban deliveries, as the batteries allow noise, and an available energy for many driving no more than 100 km per day. decades. The main advantages are a zero emission process, and no noise running movement. A positive test has been made in north of France in March 2011. During one month, However a key point is to take into account one Sprinter NGV has delivered orders for the way the electricity is produced in some customers located in city centers but also in countries. extra urban areas. A successful test has been made in Brussels for 2 weeks (end February/early March 2011) This option could only be developed in counwith a Daily Electric van. tries where gas refill stations are numerous, like they are in Italy or Germany. For 2011, the target is to add 6 electrical vans in our European fleets: n 2 in Benelux: 1 for Brussels, 1 for Utrecht n 2 in UK, for London city center n 2 in France, for Paris Iveco Daily Natural Gas Van Electric in Valenciennes in Brussels (North of France). (Belgium) (Design in test, not the final one). 18 OUR DELIVERY OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS 4 CONCRETE EXAMPLES OF CAR AND VAN FUEL REDUCTIONS BENELUX Transport being one of our significant aspects that have an impact on the environment, we define actions with our fleet coordinator and transport managers on a yearly basis in order to continuously reduce the pollution in the atmosphere. I n 2010, we launched an awareness campaign amongst our sales people, a campaign that is linked to an incentive and which has two objectives: n the reduction of the number of damages; n the reduction of the fuel consumption. We launched the campaign on the Marketing sales days in April 2010: our fleet coordinator presented the damage statistics of our fleet to create awareness, and the QSE manager An intermediate measurement at the end of made a presentation on eco-driving. 2010 shows a general reduction of the fuel The best 5 drivers (those with no damages and consumption by our sales fleet of almost 8% the best fuel consumption compared to the compared to the year before. theoretical norm of the car), will be awarded with an incentive mid 2011. Apart from the awareness campaign, the fleet As part of this action, we included in the coordinator closely follows the developments car policy that it is the responsibility of the on the market and does a yearly review of driver to check their tyre pressure once every 3 our fleet list, where the cars with lower CO2 months. An optimal tyre pressure can reduce emissions are preferred. In 2009, the average the fuel consumption up to 7% and the CO2 CO emission of our car fleet was 138 g/km; emissions up to 4.6 g/km. in 2010 we closed the year on 131.7 g/km: a On a regular basis, the fleet coordinator sends reduction of 4.5%. Every year we set a new out awareness mails with eco-driving tips objective in order to keep close to the market to those drivers with a significantly higher evolutions. consumption than the theoretical average. nnn 19 OUR DELIVERY SWITZERLAND AND POLAND The Eco Driving programme started a couple of years ago has been subject to ongoing continuous improvement. So far, it has consisted of: n Delivering regular refresher awareness n Presenting monthly statistics displaying the campaigns. fuel consumption depending on the turnover n Involving the Managers in the awareness and the number of deliveries. process and also when the individual fuel n Providing dedicated support highlighting consumption is higher than a reference per the golden Eco Driving rules that must be car type. followed by all drivers. n Communicating our actions and plans in our n Achieving detailed awareness campaigns Internal Newsletter, and also in external Local with dedicated training for the drivers of our Environmental Newspaper (Switzerland). sales and/or delivery forces. nnn SWITZERLAND Our on-going actions provide on-going savings. 2009 versus 2008: in average, 7% fuel saving per car fleet. 2010 versus 2009: in average, 5% fuel saving per car fleet. INITIATIVE 2011 In 2011 Actions go on as Mid of March Field Sales Representatives of Switzerland followed a dedicated Eco Driving Training. The key figures are as follows: n 50 Field Sales Representatives were involved; n The expected consumption saving is 3% to 5%; n The ROI (Return On Invest) would be reached in 2 months max. 20 OUR DELIVERY OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS POLAND Our on-going actions provide on-going savings. 2009 versus 2008: in average, 5 % fuel saving per car fleet. 2010 versus 2009: in average, 8 % fuel saving per car fleet. INITIATIVE 2011 In 2011 We are going to promote eco-driving by awarding people who save the most fuel/money. FRANCE During the last 3 years, the fuel consumption of our delivery van fleet has been reduced by 20%. This is not only due to the technical evolutions of the new diesel engines, but this good performance is also attributable to: n Our ambitious investment plan to keep quite new number of van fleet; n Dedicated eco driving sessions; n The key coaching of our delivery managers; n The setting up of “driving challenges” which reward the most safer and careful with fuel consumption. We also consider the simple reminder of the common sense eco driving rules which enables us to achieve 3% additional saving.Thanks to all those actions, our drivers are effective players of our environmental programmes. 21 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES GERMANY NEW ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY HEAD OFFICE Lyreco Germany moved into a brand new building with modern, environmental friendly technology. T he decision to move from a more than 20 year old building into a building with state of the art design has some enormous positive impacts on the environment. Ventilation System in the offices The ventilation system is one important innovation that saves energy. The new system measures constantly the CO2-concentration in the building. As long as there is sufficient oxygen in the office air, the system only controls the circulation while heating or cooling the air. This is more efficient than filling in fresh The whole new German headquarter was air during the whole day. built with big windows to use the daylight. The whole building contains 1419 m² glass. Ventilation System The reason behind it is to reduce the energy in the kitchen/restaurant needed for light. In the canteen there is an intelligent ventilation In the whole building modern lights were system too. It does not just turn on and off installed which use more energy-saving but regulates its power to a needed level. It bulbs. The new bulbs use 4 W less than the measures the quality of the air and increases old ones. or decreases its power. As a kitchen does not The lighting also adjusts the brightness to the always contain the freshest air this is a useful daylight and has a time controlled turn off and energy saving solution. and at some places a motion sensor to make Light concept sure that it is on only when needed. 22 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS With these actions, the energy consumption was reduced by 20%. In addition to the investment in some technical equipment to reduce the impact of the environment, we have also set up some programs related to the employees. Public Transfer In Germany the employees have the option to use a so called “Job-Ticket”. As a lot of Lyreco staffs use public transportation it is a way to save CO2 and to benefit them by letting them use this ticket for half of the normal price. And at weekends they are allowed to take an additional person for free. As a result of this great offer there are at the moment nearly 45% of the employees using this ticket. nnn 23 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES INITIATIVE 2011 NORWAY NEW WAREHOUSE AND INTEGRATED OFFICE Lyreco plans to move into our brand new building in Norway: a new warehouse and offices of a total of 7,891 m2. As part of that, Lyreco is committed to build this new building taking into account the 3 magnitudes of the Lyreco Sustainable Development approach: the environmental aspects, the social aspects and the economic aspects. I n accordance with the Norwegian Environmental regulation (one of the most demanding in the world), a lot of technical equipments and techniques will be used to reduce and optimise our energy consumption. Here are couple of examples: n Heating of the building will be ensured by using wooden pellet (*) for 80%, which will in addition come from a local sourcing. The remaining 20% will be from electricity mainly produced from water power stations: the “greenest source” to produce electricity. n The setting up of a “double flow ventilation system” will enable to reduce heat loss to renew ambient air. n Lighting, heating and external fenestration windows will be automatically adjusted thanks to a dedicated “building management system” so that the power consumption is optimised. n The use of “best in class” building materials * Wooden pellets are a ( ) and equipments (e.g. innovative glass windows renewable fuel made of / architecture: see the picture) to improve the ground, low-grade green insulation and be smarter footprint on the and dry wood and other environment. biomass by-products Generously installed windows will provide and wastes compressed daylight in offices and the warehouse, making into wood pellets. Wood pellets are considered to it possible to both save energy as well as giving to our “health & safety” requirements. be “CO2 neutral” by many the employees natural lighting. n A conveyor particle between the mezzanine environmentalists, which and the ground floor in order to minimise basically means that even On social aspects, our new building will manual handling of goods. though they do produce provide in addition to a new working At last, on the economic point of view, Lyreco CO2 when burned, the atmosphere improved working conditions expects to reduce operation and maintematerial was once part of a to our staffs as they will especially get: nance costs thanks to our new sustainable tree that lived on CO2, so the two factors cancel each n a proper cafeteria equipped with the new building. other out. equipments to make breaks more pleasant. We are now eager to have it operational. n a suitable and bigger cloakroom sticking nnn 24 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS 5 EXAMPLES OF POWER SAVINGS SWITZERLAND In the previous few years, the Energy Consumption of our Head Office has been reduced by 40%. Quick Win turn off all lights some times during the Many employees don't know how much 'night-period‘; electricity is consumed by a PC or a screen n Make a dedicated focus on the over used in a stand by mode. lighting; Thanks to a measure-device for electricity, it is n Reduce the running hours of the air-comvery easy to show the electrical consumption pressor machine located at the Coffee activity of the electrical-equipments. technical room; And with this “practical measure”, it was n Reduce the cooling at the IT Computer room easier to make employees aware and to level: 1 less degree saves 6% energy; encourage them paying attention to their n Forbid heating-systems at the employees consumption. office workplaces; The most common examples given are: n Set up “automatic turn-off ” switches for all n energy-saving light bulb = 12 W; copy-machines and coffee-machines, so that n PC & terminal in stand-by mode = 6 W. the electricity is switched off from 8.00 p.m. Other “explaining fields” are: copy machines, to 6.00 a.m.’’ printers, coffee machines, local air conditioning All in all, these actions enabled us to save equipments. 40% of Energy Consumption in our Head Office. Other actions Other Actions achieved in Switzerland: n Install a building control system, which nnn 25 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES INITIATIVE 2010 CANADA New lighting system enabling to save more than 30 % of energy consumption. F ollowing a complete upgrade of our facilities in Dartmouth (Canada), an independent Lighting & Energy Consultants company has audited our new lighting systems and provided the following outcomes: n Upgrading hardware has significantly improved overall light quality. n The energy consumption (kWh) has been significantly decreased as stated in the below figures: n Previous Annual energy consumption: 228,880 kWh; n After upgrade: 150,391 kWh; n Annual energy savings: 78,489 kWh/ Before… year; n CO2 reduction: 65,616 kg/year (equivalent to driving a fuel efficient mid-size car 305,052 km/year). nnn ...And After the Upgrade. INITIATIVE 2010 BENELUX As part of our energy reduction programme, we decided to rebuild the lighting system of our Distribution Centre in 2010. The action was fairly simple: we divided the lighting system in 3 zones. For each of these lighting zones, we added 2 extra lighting switches. This gives us the possibility to only switch on one or two thirds of the lighting, depending on the specific needs and the situation during the working day. Since the conversion, it has been noted that we have rarely found it necessary to activate all 3 zones. Of course, this action also involved some imperative measurements, in order to ensure each work station was sufficiently illuminated at all times. We have succeeded in reducing our electricity consumption in 2010 by 11% compared to the year before. 26 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS INITIATIVE 2010 SPAIN The new LED Technology is an important step in the quest for a green and brighter future. It is now used by Lyreco and will consequently strengthen our power saving programme. LED Technology – Pilot Phase Classical Neon tubes have been replaced by LED tubes at the Warehouse. Why LED tubes versus Neon Tubes? LED technology brings the following advantages: n Less energy consumption; n Long life lights (LEDS tube life is 10 times longer than neon tubes life); n Lower maintenance cost; n Less waste (thanks to the long life of LEDS); n No hazardous waste (as LEDS don’t contain mercury). In 2010, 205 neon tubes have been substituted by 205 LEDS tubes in a 900 m2 over a 25,000 m2 surface of our warehouse. We have the measured lighting in 20 points Replacement of part of the (in absence of natural light) before and after roof with new skylights LED tubes installation. In 2010, we have also replaced the roof of a The result was 4% loss in lighting, but we are part of the warehouse. above standards required by regulation. The advantages are: Now we are evaluating to expand the pilot n More natural Light; test to all warehouse surfaces. n Energy saving; n Improvement of work environment; If we substitute all the lights in a period of n Better lighting levels. 4 years, we will: Moreover, the new roof has allowed us to n Reduce the energy consumption of 70%; install a fire-break system. n Save 200,000 kWh/year (12% of total energy As this programme is quite recent, the saving consumption in the warehouse); figures will be provided in our next Sustainable n Avoid 4,700 kg of hazardous waste; Development Report. n Reduce the CO2 emissions of 1,700 tons of CO2. nnn 27 OUR INFRASTRUCTURES SCANDINAVIA To describe what Lyreco has done in Scandinavia in short words, it is as simple as common sense: when building the warehouse in Denmark we actually took for given that it was well planned for efficiency and electrical house holding. This was not fully the case. Warehouse lights Office sensors In the warehouse we have analyzed the We have in our new building in Denmark lighting and since we have daylight from sensors that light up the rooms when someone windows in the roof we found out that most enters it. These sensors have been modified so of the time we do not need all the lights that that they take just a little longer to light up we had installed so we have actually divided and they turn off the light a bit quicker after the lights in the warehouse into sections you have left the room then before. Quick of 6 « rows ». Every section is divided into fix, but efficient. 3 smaller sections. With an easy press of a button we can change from having just 2 Plans rows per section lit, which is mostly the case The future plans is to change all the fluorescent during summer. During winter we often have lights to more environmental friendly, but it 4 of 6 rows lit and on days where we need to is a large investment and it will be done in have extra strong light, for example during portions. maintenance we have all 6 rows lit. All-in-all, these “small” adjustments along Parking with communication to the staff about the In our parking lot we have of course several importance to turn off the computers when lamps lighting up the area. The light bulbs they leave, turn off the desk lamps and so on, in these lamps have been changed to « enviwe have actually saved about 24% energy per ronmental » bulbs, which gives good enough year, compared to our first year in our new light but saves us a large amount of energy building in Denmark.’ and money. nnn 28 OUR WASTE OUR ENVIRONMENTAL ACTIONS INITIATIVE 2011 WASTE: PRINT PRODUCTS ECO FEATURES L yreco promotes the use of print products internal documents. ECO features in the offices. Although Enabling the Toner Save mode can result in today information is most commonly more than 50% increase of printing capacity captured electronically, paper remains an by cartridge, compared to standard printing active part of a document's lifecycle. mode. Whenever printed documents are needed, Because Lyreco is committed to reducing its easy steps can be taken to reduce the amount environmental footprint, Lyreco encourages of paper used: its employees to be more efficient in the way n “Think before you print” attitude; they use paper, ink and toner. n Use double-sided printing on printers that have duplex capabilities; n Enable Toner Save mode for drafts or nnn 457 TONS OF PAPER SAVED IN CATALOGUE PRODUCTION Lyreco decided to print its 2011 catalogue in small format, the equivalent of 87.6% of a standard A4 format. A more convenient size to dispatch, carry and store, but also… tons of paper saved. 457 tons of paper saved in the last 2 years representing more than 600 tons of CO2 29 OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS In the delivery of our Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims at: n Develop equality and social inclusion principles, ensuring for instance internal mobility and internal promotion. n Develop our people thanks to a proper work environment in terms of Health and Safety, and human resources programs (e.g. Lyreco University, Lyreco Campus, Internal Opinion Barometer, and Training Plans). n Contribute to the progress of our community, carrying out Lyreco for Education, Charity and Supplier Social Audit actions. As examples, the following pages give you concrete Social actions either achieved in 2010 or that are scheduled to be done in 2011. 30 OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS OUR SOCIAL APPROACH Initiatives span across our business. Our People Our Community Culture Development Diversity n Health and n Lyreco University n Equality and n Lyreco For Education Safety and Diversity well being n Lyreco Campus n Other Community / n Internal Mobility Charity Actions n Code of Ethics n Employees Opinion Survey n Internal Promotion n Supplier Social Audits n Our Values n Job Description n Training Plan Continual Assessment Employee Opinion Survey, Code of Ethics 31 OUR PEOPLE THE EMPLOYEES With almost 10,000 employees worldwide in 2010, Lyreco is present on 5 continents. Offering not only a job but a career INITIATIVE 2010 From the first day a new employee joins Lyreco, he/she is supported by a comprehensive framework for training and learning. Launching n n Personal development programme; Leadership development programme; Lyreco Campus Specific training for employees identified Lyreco has launched successfully in n as high potential. 2010 an international program called Lyreco has its own business programme called Lyreco Campus. Lyreco Campus Lyreco University. The objective of Lyreco gathers the best students of each local University is to identify the top potentials Lyreco University and offers them an among employees in every subsidiary and Executive Education program in one of help them grow by granting them access the top French Business Schools. to extra training through a very dedicated programme. Very Lyreco People: only the best deserve the best The Very Lyreco People programme rewards the best employees worldwide. Each year, Lyreco recognises the best sales people in the group as Lyreco Campus well as the employees that best represent the Lyreco values of Passion, Respect, Excellence and Professionalism. In 2010, about 200 VLP from 29 countries had the great opportunity of being part of a trip to Vietnam. In 2011, the VLP have discovered Brazil. 32 OUR PEOPLE OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS Internal promotion: a reality All job opportunities are initially first displayed to Lyreco employees before external recruitment is sought. In 2010, 275 employees have been promoted and more than 500 have been upgraded in their Job. Lyreco also has a number of programmes designed to help develop employees, for example: n High potential programme: to detect future managers or future Managing Directors; n Replacement programme: to assist the supervisor in preparing promotions and managing turnover. EMPLOYEES Repartition men/women 2010 Managers Men 71 % Women 29 % Other categories Men 56 % Women 44 % Health and safety: a permanent concern In addition to the development of manual material handling training for our employees of distribution centres, Lyreco has also put in place delivery and road safety campaigns which are now basic actions. LYRECO acts proactively with the health and safety of its employees and visitors as a number one priority. INITIATIVE 2010 Training for Managers In 2010, 300 managers at Lyreco participated in a new training program especially designed for them. 200 days have been fully dedicated to them. This training reinforces our willingness to have the managers in the heart of our organizations and successes. Lyreco ensures that its managers have all the tools needed to efficiently fulfil their role within their teams.Over the next years, this dedicated program will also be opened to all employees who have a short term project to become a manager. At Lyreco, to manage is a real Job. 33 OUR PEOPLE LISTENING TO OUR EMPLOYEES Communicate and share Internal opinion barometer There are a number of communication channels Every two years each member of staff has the at Lyreco to maintain employee well being, opportunity to anonymously express their and to ensure that all employees are aware of thoughts on Lyreco, particularly on issues what is happening in the whole company. relating to work environment, communication n Internal magazines allow all staff to be and management. All results are analysed informed and involved. and handled by an external consultant to n Each month, an individual meeting between ensure anonymity and action plans are then the manager and his/her direct report is highly put in place to make Lyreco an even better recommended. place to work. n Once a year a personal meeting is organized between the manager and each of his/her direct nnn report for the annual appraisal review. n In the countries where the law does not organize the election of a group of representatives from each department, Lyreco encourages the “Voice of Lyreco” programme. This programme gives employees the opportunity to raise issues that affect them and gives a forum to provide suggestions for improvement to our processes, policies and procedures on a quarterly basis. n International meetings are regularly organised to share the best practices of each country 34 OUR COMMUNITY OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS SUPPLIER SOCIAL AUDITS Every year, Lyreco makes on-site audits to all of the factories from which Lyreco sources directly to ensure principles of the SA8000 standards are well applied. S A8000 is an internationally accepted being put at health or safety risks (fire safety social compliance standard. and electrical, mechanical and structural The seven areas Lyreco focuses on are: safety)? n Child labour; n Are there personal protective equipment used n Forced labour; to undertake any aspect of the work safely? n Health and safety; The check points corresponding to the above n Discrimination; n Disciplinary practices; n Working hours; n Compensation. Ultimately, lyreco wants to use our influence to help our suppliers to make continuous improvement of working condition in the developing countries. Focus on 2010 n Lyreco made official our “Sustainable Procurement Policy” for our Directly Imported Products. n 100 % of the factories producing our Directly Imported Products have been audited. n Minor non conformities have been found for 23% of the suppliers. Their sorting out will be checked during the next Lyreco audit. n Opportunities for improvements have been suggested for 47% of the suppliers. An opportunity for improvement is either an enhancement so that the social level of the supplier can improve (e.g. to stick to the best Health & Safety Conditions practices existing in the Market / Country) or a preventive action in order to prevent the “Health & Safety Conditions” pictures are arising of a non conformance. for instance: n Is there an early warning system in case of emergency? n Are there fire alarms on each floor and emergency lighting above exits? n Are the aisles clearly marked and passable? n Are emergency exit routes posted throughout the facility? n Are there fire extinguishers or other equipment on each floor and are they thoroughly inspected? n Are there emergency fire fighting proceWorking Conditions dures? The check points corresponding to the n Are first aid boxes supplied and trained above “Working Conditions” pictures are personnel available in the facility? for instance: n Are there any procedures in place to deal n Has the factory taken adequate steps to with serious injuries requiring medical prevent accidents and injury to health? attention? n Are systems in place to prevent workers nnn 35 OUR COMMUNITY Children are our future and the future starts with proper access to education. Having proper access to schooling ensures that children enter the education system, and benefit from appropriate care and nutrition, giving them a better chance to succeed in life. Mission Together with our employees To develop projects which improve education for All over the world, Lyreco gives the freedom to our children in developing countries. employees to organise internal events for Lyreco For Education. With great enthusiasm, our employees Commitments involve themselves concretely in this fascinating project Lyreco carefully selects and supports a non-government and set numerous fund-raising actions throughout organisation (NGO) fully dedicated to that cause. the year. Lyreco For Education supports at least one project during the year. LFE in 2010 In 2010, Lyreco partnered with CARE. Together, we had a project for education in Duque de Caxias, a suburb of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil. The objective was to not only give the children an opportunity to go to school and learn but also bring the Duque de Caxias community together with a sense of pride. Thanks to the fund-raised, we were able to give 3,000 children access to 4 nurseries and 7 primary schools. 64 teachers have been trained and parents are now aware of the importance of education. In addition, 3 kitchen gardens and 20 library spaces have been created. A selective waste collection mechanism has been set up. More than 85 reading circles and 75 games sessions about environmental issues have been organised with teenagers that have been specially trained to lead them. By training young people, they become the role models within their neighbourhoods. 36 OUR COMMUNITY OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS LFE in 2011 In 2011, Lyreco For Education decided to support a 3 year educational project in Togo with the Non-Governmental Organization AEA. AEA (Aide & Action) is a Non-Governmental Organization focused on advancing access to quality education throughout the world. Free from any and all political or religious affiliations, AEA has over 120 ongoing projects in more than 20 countries. Lyreco chooses the Togo because: n One of the poorest countries in the world: 62 people out of 100 live on less than 1.25$ per day; n 86 people out 100 live with less than 1.25$ per day in this region “les Savanes” in Togo; n Inefficient academic system; n Lack of teachers, equipment and «If a child goes instructional tools. to school, Our program To ease the access to the education a Nation grows.» for children and improve its quality in the region of “Les Savanes” in Togo. Our Objectives n To train teachers and school directors and to raise parental awareness about the importance of scholarships; n To build schools and toilets and to provide academic equipment and material; n To plan tutoring sessions and to organize sports events, pedagogical and instructional activities. We’ll strive to raise enough funds in 2011 to finance 165 Education Projects in 165 villages for 32,000 children aged from 7 to 12. If a child goes to school, a Nation grows. 37 HEALTH & SAFETY AND WELL BEING INITIATIVE 2011 4 EXAMPLES OF CONTINOUS IMPROVEMENTS OF WORKING CONDITIONS SALES FORCE MOBILITY 2011 is the year when Lyreco Field Sales Representatives will finally be able to work in a completely paperless environment. B y the end of 2011, Lyreco Field Sales representatives will be able to count on a complete system that will allow them to access, key in and organize the information of all their customers’ portfolios. In this way, they will be able to work even more professionally, to organize their activities in a more effective way and to react even faster to their customers’ needs. In addition to this, the time spent on administration up until now (usually in the evenings) will be greatly reduced and there will no longer be a heavy bag to carry around. The project started last year and the benefits are already being felt: n Price Offer tool: price offers can be created and sent directly to prospects and customers; n Partner Card tool: information can be completed and consulted while with the customer; n Cycle Planner/ Activity Management tool: daily activity and objectives can be managed and consulted at a glance; n Offline tool: prospect price offers and cards can be created offline. nnn 38 OUR HEALTH COMMUNITY& SAFETY AND WELL BEING OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS FRANCE An ongoing action plan covering warehouse and office activities. Warehouse More than ever Lyreco wants to keep our employees motivated and look for ways to make their everyday tasks easier. This is the reason why we launched in 2010 an analysis about the ergonomic aspects of the workstations in our warehouses. It was done in close connection with an external / specialised company. Suggested recommendations will be set up along 2011. Sales The working conditions for our internal sales staffs was also a key concern in 2010. This lead us to start a 3 year plan to completely renovate the office spaces. This large scale project is planned to bring higher levels of motivation and added efficiency. Customer Service Dedicated soundproofing devices were installed in our Customer Service offices. The aim was to reduce the level of noise pollution and make the work environment more enjoyable. nnn GERMANY A dedicated occupational safety specialist. I n 2010, Lyreco Germany tendered the new structure ensuring regular committee position of external specialist for occumeetings for occupational safety at all pational safety and made sure that there locations as well as regular inspections by our would be only one reference person for all occupational safety specialist. locations in Germany. Once this specialist As a result of this new concept, DEKRA (the was announced there were several issues to company responsible for our occupational be taken care of. safety) stated in their annual report the folFirst we had our non-stationary equipment lowing: “With respect to occupational safety, (everything with a plug) checked and regisLyreco Germany is managed in an exemplary tered with a code for each of them. That was manner. Deficiencies noted by the specialist performed not only in our headquarters but for occupational safety are rigorously followed in every German location. up and corrected which can be recognized by Also, the RDCs (regional distribution centhe safe, organized and clean appearance of tres) were included in the examination of the company.” occupational safety. Another innovation is the introduction of a nnn 39 HEALTH & SAFETY AND WELL BEING POLAND Lyreco supports the World Day and Initiatives for Safety and Health at Work. A pril 28th is declared the World Day for Safety and Health at Work in Poland and many other countries. The events of the Day form part of an international campaign for worldwide promotion of safe, healthy and dignified work. The campaign is especially designed to raise social awareness of ways to ensure health and safety at work. April 28th also has a long international tradition as a day on which employees and employers commemorate those who died or were injured during accidents at work, or came down with job-related illnesses. n The objective of Lyreco in Poland's activities on that day is to raise employee awareness concerning promotion and establishment of safe work culture, ergonomics, and the need to reduce the number of accidents at work. We have also scheduled a training session for Q3 2011, which is entitled Office work n For Q2 2011, we have planned to organise – threats and prophylaxis , addressed to office training for warehouse staff employed in workers performing administration, office and Sokolow. A film screening will be organised managerial jobs in Sokolow. on that day in the training room, devoted to safety during manual handling work and Our employees will find out how to organise forklift operation. Our employees will also an ergonomic workstation equipped with a become familiar with occupational risks desktop and laptop computer, what body for such positions as quality controller and posture is correct for computer work, as well warehouse worker. Finally, all attendees of the as what mistakes workers make when using session will have a chance to take part in a the computer. One of the training's focuses quiz and answer questions on health and safety will be prophylaxis, namely swimming, bike and ergonomics at work. The best contestants riding, and physical exercise. The practical will be awarded with special prizes prepared part of the training will tackle the topic of for the occasion. correct position when doing computer work, and exercises during work breaks. A quiz for attendees will be organised after the training concerning topics covered on that day. Best competitors will win prizes, such as fitness club and swimming pool season tickets. nnn 40 HEALTH & SAFETY AND WELL BEING OUR SOCIAL ACTIONS UNITED KINGDOM Re-carpeting and decorating at Head Office in Telford. D uring 2010, the QSE department lead n Health & Safety of all employees and the project to have the offices refitted contractors during the refit with carpet and freshly painted. The first area to be completed was Customer The criteria for carpet selections were based Service Administration. around sustainability criteria as follows: Since then, many other departments have been n Environmental credentials of the product, completed in the same way, with incredibly supplier and fitter. positive feedback from all employees. Emn Disposal of the old carpet in an environmentally ployees have fantastic new spaces in which to less damaging and legally compliant way work. The worn out carpet is gone, the walls n Adhesive with least environmentally damaging are repainted and the office layouts changed, aspects possible and least odour, as employees maximising light and space throughout. would be back working very quickly in the newly carpeted areas. nnn The first area to be completed was Customer Service The first tiles are down! Administration. And finally, the first department is up and running again… 41 OUR ECONOMICAL ACTIONS In the delivery of our Sustainable Development vision and policy, Lyreco aims at: n Support and increase economic growth in all our countries, in a sustainable fashion. n Promote innovation and adopt a pragmatic approach to sustainability, targeting efforts on priority issues which have meaningful benefits for the environment, community and economy. n Work ethically with our suppliers and partners, and encourage them to apply a Sustainable Development strategy. n Adopt a Sustainable Procurement & Product Approach. As examples, the following pages give you concrete Economic actions either achieved in 2010 or that are scheduled to be done in 2011. 42 OUR ECONOMICAL ACTIONS OUR ECONOMICAL APPROACH Initiatives span across our business. Our Customers Our Marketplace Our Profitability n Delivery Excellence n Supplier Relationship n Financial Integrity n Working Ethically n Sustainable n Common Platform Procurement n Electronic Trading n Providing Solutions Continual Assessment n Group Business Brochure (GBB) n Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) 43 OUR CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL ACCOR Carole Laville Purchasing Department France. S ustainable Procurement has been one of Accor first priorities regarding Sustainable Development. Accor Procurement Sustainable Development strategy is based on two types of actions: n Actions with suppliers by sharing with them our principles through Accor SD Charter and evaluating their SD performance. n Actions in Accor business operations. In 2011, a pilot has been implemented between Accor and Lyreco, in France, with the clear objective to reduce environmental impacts when office products are purchased. A “Green Catalogue” was implemented consisting in proposing product alternatives based on the environmental credentials of the products, and a “Minimum Order Value”, in order to gather small orders with the bigger ones, was decided. Considering employees’ awareness is a key driver, different and complementary actions have been done to support the launching and success of those programs e.g. statistic consumptions have been analysed in order to identify the hotels where a dedicated support may be needed; a dedicated information has been set up on the Lyreco OLO welcome page. Lyreco has also provided its “Logistics Calculator” tool to show the environmental benefits of gathering small orders. Should the pilot be conclusive, Accor intends to extend these programs in other countries starting 2012. nnn 44 OUR CUSTOMERS OUR ECONOMICAL ACTIONS CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE T hrough the neutral carbon project, Société Générale committed in 2007 to reduce its C02 emissions by 11% per person over the period 2008-2012 (with the same scope excluding Rosbank), and to offset them. 2 additional approaches have been implemented: n A dedicated Carbon Action Plan per business area, with long-term objectives relating to energy, buildings, business travels and paper. Those objectives depend on the business area to cost is covered by the business areas via an better take into account their specificities. internal invoicing system and direct purchasing n Cross Functional Projects aiming to answer of the certificates for the biggest entities. the shared expectations of the business areas. Sustainable Development actions with the A joint management is set up between the Office Supplies category: Group CSR department and experts of the Société Générale would like to integrate a area (e.g. Property Management for the energy Sustainable Development approach in the maand building aspects, Innovation Management nagement of the Office Supplies category. for the Green IT, etc). A number of initiatives have consequently In 2005, a dedicated reporting tool designed been achieved in collaboration with our service for Société Générale to assist with answering provider Lyreco. different legal requirements was rolled-out. n Setting up of a “Minimum Order Value”. In order to allow for effective management On a practical point of view, it is no longer and follow-up of our environmental policy, possible to place an order having an amount this tool has evolved through the adjustment below 50 €. Those small orders are grouped of the indicators since 2008. together with bigger ones to reach the requiUsing the “GHG Protocol” methodology, red minimum value. This action had a direct Société Générale has since added more than impact on the carbon footprint linked to the 100 indicators to assist with the assessment Lyreco deliveries. of the CO2 emissions. n Increase the number of “Green Products” in the mini-catalogue of Société Générale. Several As the CO2 emissions have been reduced sections of the mini-catalogue are now made by 14.2 %, these actions have contributed to up of a large part of green products. This is results that at the end of 2010 have exceeded especially the case in the section “Writing & objectives defined in 2007. Correction”. Also, the consumption of Green Products increased to 22% in 2010. Société Générale also committed to offset its n Setting up of an “Electronic Mini-Catalogue” whole C02 emissions by 2012. to replace the paper one that was previously This is done gradually: Headquarters in 2008 distributed to all the assistants. This action and France in 2009 before reaching in 2012 allowed for the cancelling the annual printing effective carbon neutral. of 4,500 paper catalogues and saved more The cost of the 1st year was taken in charge at than 500,000 pages representing 1,395 tonnes the Group level to show the Top Management of papers. commitment. Since 2009, in order to bring awareness the nnn 45 OUR CUSTOMERS INITIATIVE 2011 CUSTOMER ORIENTED TOOLS In 2011, Lyreco is going to provide Group tools that may help our customers to reduce their environmental impact when purchasing office supplies. ECO-TOOLS for Canvassing ECO-ORDER & Customer Awareness The ECOlogic On Line Ordering We expect to develop and provide 2 tools: one “Logistics Calculator” and The aim is to provide an environmental one “Paper Calculator” for customer guide & features in our On Line Orderawareness purposes. ing platform. The development phase will be achieved depending on the analysis that is going to be carried out. ECO-TOOLS for Customer Management Here, the objective is to provide 1 advanced “Logistics Calculator” for personalised calculations. It will be used face to face with the lead buyer of the customer. The goal is to build a common action plan taking into account Business and Environmental aspects. By the way, both environmental & business Key Performance Indicators will be the inputs / outputs of the calculator. 46 OUR CUSTOMERS OUR ECONOMICAL ACTIONS DEVELOPMENT OF VIRTUAL SERVICES E-DOCUMENTS TO REDUCE PAPER CONSUMPTION T he aim of Lyreco Documents-on-Demand service (DoD) is to provide customers with an easy access to electronic documents either online or by subscription for later email delivery. In 2010, Price Lists and Delivery Notes of the field were made available as pdf downloadable files. With a volume higher than 4,000 requested documents a month, the Delivery Notes extension exceeds by more than three times the initial expected volume, confirming cusadditional documents, of which, Signed Proof tomers' growing interest for dematerialized of Deliveries, Invoice duplicates and Open documents. items List. In 2011, the offer will be enriched with nnn INITIATIVE 2011 PREPARING THE FUTURE LYRECO e-BILLER E lectronic invoicing will drastically reduce the group’s ecological footprint by reducing consumption of paper, and thus of wood and water, and avoiding pollutant emissions caused by mail transport. The dematerialization of documents also allows: n Better flowing trade and thousands of trees saved; n Reduction of invoicing costs; n Reduction of sending and archiving exn 15,000,000 sheets of paper, resulting in penses; 1,850 trees; n Optimization of the controls within the n Enough fuel to run the average car for concerned services; 160,101 kilometers; n Innovation driven services for the custon 51 tons of CO2. mers. Based on 6,000,000 paper invoices created Calculation bases: 1 invoice + 1 double archiving +1 invoice copy + annually, Lyreco, with the help of customers, 1 stamped envelope = approximately 25g (either 5g by sheet) will save: nnn 47 OUR CUSTOMERS INITIATIVE 2011 RECYCLING SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS Lyreco would like to support its customers as part of their waste management process. As a leader in the office supplies industry, Lyreco already proposes recycling services for some items (Laser cartridges, Ink jet cartridges, Batteries) and in some countries. To strenghten and extend our services, a best practice will be issued in 2011 in order to: n provide guidelines so that the best approach is used in the countries, n possibly extend the scope of the items that can be recycled through Lyreco (e.g. light bulbs), n propose recycling services in more countries. On a practical point of view, and depending on the local legal constraints, the Lyreco offer consists in: Providing “waste containers” to collect the waste to recycle Picking-up “waste containers” when they are full Arranging the transport of the “waste containers” from the customer office to the dedicated recycling plant Ensuring the remanufacturing through a dedicated Recycling Partner with relevant certificate given on demand (see below) Supplying recycling certificates (if applicable) 48 OUR PROFITABILITY OUR ECONOMICAL ACTIONS FINANCIAL INTEGRITY Redistributing values to stakeholders in 2010 SALES € 2,032m: The chart below summarises the main financial flows between Lyreco and Stakeholders. EMPLOYEES BANKS SUPPLIERS STATE & LOCAL INVESTMENT COMMUNITIES e 394m e 5m e 1,531m e 56m e 15m (wages, social contributions (financial interests (goods purchases (corporate tax and (tangible assets and profit sharing) and borrowing and overheads) other taxes) acquisitions) 9,537 employees in Q1 2011 reimbursement) Financial Integrity The financial reliability is structured around As a private group, Lyreco takes pride in providing two controlling arms: the highest standard of financial transparency n Internal audit ensuring a strict application and reliability for its stakeholders. of our financial policies and procedures; Its financial transparency is ensured by a n A prime external audit firm certifying its worldwide accounting and reporting tool financial statements. Lyreco ensures the full allowing access to all accounting entries in independence of its auditor by excluding it the world from its head office. from any consulting function in the Group. Financial reporting is performed in conformity with IFRS standards. nnn SALES PER REGION SALES IN MILLION EURO 2 200 2 100 2 000 1900 1800 1700 1 600 1 500 1 400 59% Europe Euro Zone 34% Europe other countries 1 300 4% North America 1 200 3% Asia Pacific 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 49 OUR AWARDS FRANCE Lyreco in France has received two awards within a few days of one another for its Sustainable Development actions. The first award “Trophée Alliances” was received by our CEO October, 20th 2010. In addition, Lyreco obtained a special prize for the consistency of its overall actions in terms of Sustainable Development. The second award “Trophée Horizon” was presented to Christophe Chambre (Managing Director France) October, 28th 2010. The analysis of the files was done by an independent committee including the leading research centre in France on Corporate Social Responsibility (Novéthic) and the Sustainable Development Purchasing Department of Credit Agricole (Corporate Bank). Employees are incredibly proud of the awards as it is with their daily contribution to our sustainable development strategy that have helped to achieve these awards. 50 GERMANY Lyreco in Germany was awarded “Sustainable Retail Company 2010”, an important award supported by the Federal Environment Ministry and the Federal Environment Agency. The announcement of the organization ‘Die Verbaucher Initiative’ includes the statement that there is a lack of transparency regarding sustainability in the office products industry. GERMANY Lyreco won the Hannover Prize 2010 for large companies. This Award is granted every 2 years by the Hannover business community. This year’s theme was Sustainable and Value Oriented Management Lyreco was awarded for the value based company culture, its sustainable focus and the clear code of ethics. Lyreco received 1,500 € which were donated to Lyreco for Education”. GERMANY As in 2005, Lyreco Germany again in 2011 was awarded “Top Job” employer. St. Gallen University surveyed more than 150 mid-sized companies by analyzing the personnel instruments applied and having 80% of the employees answer a questionnaire. The seal of approval was presented by Germany’s former minister of economy and social affairs. 51 Rue du 19 mars 1962 59770 Marly France Tel: +33 (0) 3 27 23 64 00 Fax: +33 (0) 3 27 45 17 97 eco.lyreco.com Contact: sustainable.development@lyreco.com This document was printed in France on 100 % recycled FSC certified paper.
