Summary Group profile 04 Commitments 08 Product design division 17 Production 26 Human resources 31 Logistics 35 Sales campaigns 37 Corporate giving 39 Charters 44 2 A word from the President Philippe Joffard Lafuma China Joint-Venture Launching Ceremony Bejing, November 2010 The Group first chose to commit to sustainable development Our corporate responsibility is a long-term endeavor with in 1993, with an approach that focused on ecological issues. long-term relationships created with specific organizations As an outdoor specialist, this commitment has always seemed such as the WWF for the protection of nature and other natural to us and rooted in our identity. We started out with the associations such as “Sport dans la Ville” and “Réseau eco-friendly Greenbag, the first backpack in organic cotton Entreprendre” to encourage an entrepreneurial and and began offering support to different associations such as socially-viable economy. France Nature Environment. This report is published every year to take stock of our actions Lafuma works daily at honoring this commitment and our and best practices. We have often been a forerunner on these approach has angled out in four directions: issues and have succeeded in our goal to stay actively involved with a long-term perspective. On a product level, we are constantly researching recyclable and recycled materials and since 2001 have been gradually It is my hope that this report, will help you better understand including eco-design criteria in the development of collections and share the commitments that are dear to the Group, our to reduce our environmental impact. teams and our shareholders. To confront our corporate accountability in the field, at the start of 2000 we created a team in charge of auditing subcontractor factories, as well as our own factories, to control compliance with social, and more recently, environmental Philippe Joffard-Lafuma rules and regulations. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer On an environmental level, we are constantly improving the ecological footprint of our offices and industrial sites with regard to energy consumption and wastewater treatment. 3 Group profile 4 Market and structure The Lafuma Group is a major player on the outdoor market. It covers a wide range of segments with each brand corresponding to different activities and consumers. The brands are both distinct and complementary in terms of products, customers and expertise. The Great Outdoor pole also includes the Brand Ober and the Mountain pole (ski + alpinism) includes the Brand Killy. Our Sustainable Development approach encompasses all five Group brands. It is more than just a shared value; it is a way of working, and one that involves every stage of the product’s life cycle: design, manufacturing, transport, use, end of life... 5 Presentation of the Group activities 4% America and others Breakdown of activity in 2010 12% Asia over the world France 24% Europe (without France) 60% Europe France Asia (without France) America and others 9% COUNTRY Le Chameau 2009/2010 breakdown 34% GREAT OUTDOOR of turnover by sector Lafuma (in millions of €) 28% BOARDSPORTS Great Outdoor market €83.4m Oxbow Mountain market €71m Boardsports market €67.7m Country market €23.3m 29% MOUNTAIN Millet and Eider Group products are designed in our own R&D centers mainly All told, the Group employs 2,001 employees in different Group in France. companies. They are then manufactured in one of our industrial sites or sub-contracted: We are present in almost 60 countries, either directly (industrial sites or sales subsidiaries) or indirectly through import agents. “Made in France” (representing 12.5% of sales) Camping furniture and high-end rubber boots. Distribution is either: “Made in LAFUMA” (representing 23.5% of sales) direct 4 factories. Through the Group stores, the factory outlets or, internet sites. “Made for Lafuma” (representing 64% of sales) These products are entirely subcontracted to suppliers that indirect we regularly audit on labor and environmental standards. Through our customers (specialized distributors, multibrand stores, mail-order companies...). These products are then transported, mainly to logistics centers in St Rambert d’Albon (26) and Canéjan (33) before they are dispatched to customer-distributors. 6 Product lines Products fall into 4 main lines: clothing (all brands), camping furniture (Lafuma), footwear (Lafuma, Millet, Le Chameau and Oxbow) and equipment for mountaineering and hiking backpacks, tents, sleeping bags, ropes (Millet, Lafuma). In addition to these product lines, specific lines were created under Lafuma and Oxbow licenses. Footwear Equipments 11% 12% Turnover 245 million of euro 12% 65% Furniture Textile 7 Commitments 8 Introductory note As a leader on the outdoor market, the Lafuma Group was A technical solution via eco-design quick to understand that it had labor and environmental Eco-design starts at the drawing board by taking into account responsibilities. Indeed, although the company is not an NGO all of the environmental impacts a product will have in every (Non-Governmental Organization), all of its activities have an stage of its existence. As soon as the product idea is etched environmental impact and it is essential to minimize this out, we find ways to optimize its environmental performance impact. by limiting its future impact in the consumption of materials, transport, use and recycling. Lafuma started implementing sustainable development Eco-design involves cross-disciplinary collaboration on the practices in the 1990’s; this meant creating an internal part of every department in a company, and is also a factor organization and finding the best durable practices on all of innovation and differentiation. This global approach also levels: product design, production/sourcing, transport/ involves all of the products in the Group. logistics, human resources, sales and advertising. An economic commitment via a new approach to As new brands were added, the sustainable development analyzing value strategy was extended to the entire Lafuma Group, with a The Lafuma Group was convinced that ecology and solid common base and specific practices for each brand. economics go together, which is why the Group chose a new approach in analyzing value. Improving our productivity and The credo of the Lafuma Group is “Offer more with less”: more social development also means consuming less in the versatility, durability, safety, comfort, with fewer materials, way of materials, energy and producing less waste when less energy consumption and waste. manufacturing products that are safer, more comfortable, durable and versatile. The Group then based its approach on three key ideas: A philosophical commitment: “neither a militant, nor an opportunist” The Lafuma Group’s commitment to sustainable development is both historical and structured. The Group has gone far beyond the role of a simple observer by finding practical solutions to developing its business while respecting high ethical standards and the environment. Its eco-designed products offer truly alternative solutions to consumers. 9 A historical commitment 2004 INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS 2002 1st in-house sustainable development charter based on 10 social and STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS environmental commitments. 1992 LAFUMA supports the Alpine Ecosystems Research Center 1st program for waste reduction in France (Centre de Recherches (rubber scraps) in the LE CHAMEAU STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS sur les Ecosystèmes d'Altitude). factories. 1st partnership with France Nature Environnement. LAFUMA has equipped members GROUP SD ACTIONS of the association Dhaula Guéri 1st eco-designed hiking shoe for an expedition to the Himalayas developed in partnership with 1993 (clean-up operation of the Annapurna base camp). the French leather technology center CTC (Centre technique du cuir, ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS chaussure, maroquinerie) and Development of INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS with the support of ADEME the first backpack in 1st environmental audits of (The French Environment and Energy recycled cotton: the Greenbag. the production sites, financed by Management Agency). ADEME (The French Environment and Energy Management Agency). ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS 1998 1 clean river transport used st Birth of the in-house “Pure Leaf” label. for products shipped to LAFUMA STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS North America. Campaign 1 pack = 1 tree 1st partnership with WWF. in partnership with WWF. ORGANIZATION 1st partnership with the association 1st in-house Sustainable Expansion of the eco-designed “En passant par la Montagne”. Development organization collection to footwear. in LAFUMA set up in 5 task forces. 1st partnership with the association “Sport dans la Ville”. 1992 2000 ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS Launch of the 1st eco-designed backpack: Protect 25, co-branded with WWF. GROUP SD ACTIONS 2003 Campaign 1 pack = 1 tree after the storms of 1999, organized with ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS the French National Forests Office. 1st LAFUMA eco-designed textile products. 2001 ORGANIZATION 1st appointment of a sustainable INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS development manager at LAFUMA. Renovation of the paint shop at the Anneyron production site to improve the quality of products and environmental impact. 10 2010 AWARD 2008 Lifestyle Eco-trophy for the LAFUMA Transatube with recyclable canvas. AWARD 2006 LAFUMA was awarded a prize for its Rosario fleece jacket at ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS Lafuma is one of the first brands ORGANIZATION the “Polartec® Apex Awards”. to offer recycled Gore-Tex®. 1st shuttle for employees commuting from headquarters to the train station. ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS GROUP SD ACTIONS LAFUMA launched Eco-citizen day: clean-up operation INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS the Pure Leaf Grade for measuring of the Mer de Glace Installation of solar panels for the environmental impact (Chamonix, Mont Blanc). the company’s eco-restaurant. of its products. STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS Injection of material recycled from MILLET ropes The association “En passant for the manufacture of hangers in our par la montagne” is Lallemand factory. celebrating its 15th anniversary. GROUP SD ACTIONS LAFUMA is a partner of 1st eco-citizenship day: clean-up operation the 1st WWF Pandathlon, of an unofficial dump with WWF and FRAPNA. the first eco-responsible sports event. MILLET “Rope recycling” campaign. Clean Beaches campaign initiated by OXBOW and the Surfrider Foundation. The exhibition A Change of Era at the Cité des Sciences at La Villette in Paris featured three eco-designed products from the LAFUMA GROUP. ECO-DESIGNED PRODUCTS 1st line of eco-designed jeans by OBER. AWARD French design award (Lauréat de 2010 l’Observeur du Design) & distinction from ADEME for the ECO 40 LAFUMA pack. Nomination for the “Environnement & Entreprises” prize awarded by the French ministry of ecology and sustainable development for the LAFUMA ECO 40 pack. 2007 2005 INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS 1st waste sorting system set up at MILLET. INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS 1st environmental charter for Installation of 1,500m² of solar panels subcontractors & integration of at Group headquarters in Anneyron. audit procedures. Creation of the MILLET Environmental Contribution Energy audits at the Anneyron site label for mountain clean-up operations. and at the logistics center at St Rambert d'Albon. GROUP SD ACTIONS 2009 Participation in the Sustainable Development Training of the social auditor week (screening of film, discussions and GROUP SD ACTIONS to comply with Standard SA 8000. conferences with the WWF). OXBOW launched the Naturally Committed Grade ORGANIZATION MILLET “Rope recycling” campaign: for measuring the environmental impact 1st Sustainable Development 142 kilometers of rope collected. of its products. report. “Clean Beaches” operation by OXBOW clean-up INDUSTRIAL COMMITMENTS GROUP SD ACTIONS of beaches in the south-west region of France. Ten year anniversary Expansion of eco-designed of the WWF-LAFUMA partnership. collections to equipment 2 edition of the eco-citizen day: clean-up operation nd of the Miribel-Jonage park near Lyon (Rhône). Carbon footprint assessment. and camping furniture. 1st campaign “Fleece jackets recycle and save” ORGANIZATION MILLET “Rope recycling” with LAFUMA and Go Sport. Creation of the LAFUMA GROUP Foundation campaign: 55 km of used rope collected. supporting the following projects: WWF, LAFUMA and OBER participated in “A change Surfrider foundation, Mountain Riders, Sport of Era” exhibition at the Cité des Sciences. dans la ville, En passant par la Montagne. LAFUMA presented its eco-designed chair at the D-Day AWARD AWARD exhibition: design today “Entreprise et Environnement” prize MILLET won the “Outdoor Award” at the Georges Pompidou center in the eco-design category for LAFUMA for its Low Impact rope. (4 million visitors). and its RSX lounge chair. AWARD 2 prizes for the ECO 40 pack March 2005 Sustainable (awards by ISPO and Observeur du Design). Development Excellence award given by the ASMEP (French association of medium-sized owner-managed companies). 11 The Group’s commitment is based on several charters The Global Compact: The Group signed the UN Global Compact. Internal charter “Pure Leaf Project”, for all of our employees around the world (p 45). Environmental and social charters that commit our sub-contractors and our production sites since 1998 (p 46 & 47). HUMAN RIGHTS 1 / The support and respect of the protection of international human rights. 2 / The refusal to participate or condone human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS 3 / The support of freedom of association and the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 / The abolition of compulsory labor. 5 / The abolition of child labor. 6 / The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT 7 / The implementation of a precautionary and effective program to environmental issues. 8 / Initiatives that demonstrate environmental responsibility. 9 / The promotion of the diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 / The promotion and adoption of initiatives to counter all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. In 2010, the UN Global Compact celebrated it ten-year anniversary. This anniversary is a milestone and the beginning of a new decade in which each and every one of us is called upon to intensify our efforts in taking responsibility for the environment. Lafuma is a founding member of this organization in France and every year lends financial support to the Global Compact project. Every year Lafuma highlights one “best practice” that represents a daily commitment to sustainable development. 12 The Group commitment to environmental labeling and communication The Lafuma Group is a step ahead of future regulations for environmental labeling and has endeavored to be as transparent as possible in communicating with consumers when marketing its products. The regulatory context Our aim is two-fold: Following the Grenelle de l’Environnement conference, the encourage in-house teams to take sustainable development Grenelle II law provides for a period of experimentation with into consideration for products right from the drawing board environmental labeling for all consumer goods as of July and pursue these commitments in every phase (design, 2011 and for a period of one year. transport, communication, sales...). The labeling guidelines are currently being defined within the framework of a collaborative work platform headed by raise the awareness of distributors and consumers on AFNOR (French Standardization Agency) and ADEME (The sustainable development. This is the reasoning behind the French Environment and Energy Management Agency). Group effort to fine-tune environmental labeling of products, The Lafuma Group is participating in this work, particularly each brand in its own way but with key common denominators. for textiles, footwear and sports equipment. The work carried out can be consulted on the websites of the different brands; over the next few seasons more specific labels for eco-designed products will be available. The Lafuma Group’s early actions As a major actor on the outdoor sports market with a commitment to sustainable development going back many years, the Lafuma Group set up its own environmental labeling in 2008, progressively including the different group brands. Lafuma Pure Leaf Grade In October 2008, Lafuma launched a project to measure the Raw Materials ecological impact of its eco-designed Pure Leaf collection. Processing of raw materials, from cotton bolls to fabric rolls; The “Pure Leaf Grade” provides clear information on the environmental impact of products (textiles, equipment, Energy / Manufacturing footwear, garden furniture), from raw materials to end-of-life, Energy consumed during the manufacturing from manufacturing to transport. The product’s impact on process; the environment is symbolized by poplar leaves for Lafuma. The consumer can easily understand the product’s Transport environmental impact from the label. Tracking the movement of the product from the factory The Pure Leaf Grade was developed through the expertise to the Lafuma logistics center (Drôme, France); of Lafuma teams who have been working on sustainable development projects for 15 years. Sturdiness / Recycling Lafuma’s responsible approach is based on four strategic Information on product’s life-cycle and possible guidelines: a careful selection of raw materials, energyrecycling. efficient manufacturing processes, carefully planned transport strategy and understanding the global life of the This grading system will be improved as it gains more product right from the drawing board: widespread use and it will be adapted to future French and European regulations. 13 For information purposes, the percentages of sales achieved Pure Leaf product labeling begins in stores for Pure Leaf products in the Lafuma collection per season For the first time in 2010, products from the Lafuma Pure are as follows: Leaf collection were marketed with an additional label indicating their ecological grade calculated according to the > For the Winter 2010 / 2011 collection: method and criteria indicated above. Lafuma is committed to Textiles: 151 products including 38 Pure Leaf products doing its utmost to be transparent with consumers and representing 66% of sales. maintain it’s lead ahead of future regulations. This work will Backpacks: 52 products including 7 Pure Leaf products be extended to encompass all Lafuma product ranges for representing 10% of sales. coming seasons. > For the Summer 2011 collection: Textiles: 134 products including 29 Pure Leaf products representing 85% of sales. Backpacks: 38 products including 25 Pure Leaf products representing 87% of sales. We note the high percentage of sales generated by Pure Leaf products over a single season. These products now rank as essentials in our collections. The comparative results between Winter 2010-2011 and Summer 2011 are also promising, especially for backpacks where all of the collection best-sellers will be Pure Leaf products. Information on these projects is available at www.lafuma.com Naturally Committed : The Oxbow ecological label Naturally Committed products resulted from the Oxbow These four criteria are rated on a scale of one to three commitment to Sustainable Development. From the selection (average/good/excellent) to help consumers understand the of the raw materials, through the optimization of the energy impact of a product on the environment. In the same manner required to manufacture and transport the product, to the as Lafuma, specific labeling will exist on all of the Naturally recyclability of the finished product, Oxbow is working Committed products available in stores in coming seasons. alongside the Lafuma Group to identify solutions to considerably reduce the impact of its products on the environment. This is a daily concern for all of the design and production teams This commitment by the brand has taken form and is visible with the specific labeling Naturally Committed Grade, a measure with four tracking indicators: Raw materials Used in the manufacture of products. Machine time Needed to manufacture products. Information on this project is available at www.oxbow.fr Transport Level of recyclability Level of recyclability of the product. 14 Millet Mountain Environmental Contribution Millet is a committed player in the mountain world and created its own “Low Impact” label for all products manufactured from recycled natural fiber materials. This is an eco-responsible commitment to promote long-lasting, quality Products with this label contain at least 30 % recycled products, as well as a contribution to protect the environment materials. This is the first significant step in activating supplier and respect natural areas. recycling channels for materials. The rising amount of recycled materials will make the manufacture of our eco-design Upcoming collections will include different labels on products easier. tags for eco-designed products as detailed below: Many Millet products incorporate Cocona TM fiber from This label indicates that the Millet products are composed of coconut shells, first used for technical skin-layer wear and now up to 80 % recycled materials. Only certain secondary for shirts and shell jackets with a new and unique hydrophilic components are not from recycled materials due to quality microporous membrane. These natural technologies guarantee criteria. These products mark the highest level of commitment excellent moisture transferand are highly breathable. by Millet in reducing its environmental impact. Information on this project is available at www.millet.fr Eider “We work at warming up human beings, not the Bluesign®: green quality planet.” Certain Eider products are labeled with the Bluesign® standard. This means that they were designed with materials The Eider teams work daily at finding new solutions that are that are not dangerous for the environment, health or safety. better for man and for the environment. Controls are carried out on different aspects of the garment manufacture. Evaluations for raw materials, consumer safety, For Eider, it is essential to offer materials that correspond to greenhouse gas emissions, impacting water and employee the criteria of more respect for nature and less waste. Eider working conditions are taken into account for certification. was the first outdoor brand in the world to use fair-trade This label imposes strict criteria for production without any cotton labeled Max Havelaar in its collections in 2005. compromises on quality. Basically, it facilitates transparency and full control over the manufacturing process. Other sustainable commitments Le Chameau are regularly audited in keeping with environmental and Le Chameau has always designed its products for long life; social charters. its sustainable development approach is reflected in the long > The denim is skall-certified organic cotton. lifespan of its products, which is largely due to the very high > Ecological treatments developed with Ober partners are quality of its selected materials. designed to reduce water consumption and eliminate chemicals. Ober : Denim Jeans and eco-design > Chlorine-based fading techniques have been replaced by For maximum reduction of transport-related pollution, all a natural Laccase enzyme and the softening process is manufacturing phases for our Organic Denim Jeans are no longer chemical but mechanical. carried out in a small geographical area. To complete this approach, product packaging uses denim > The cotton comes from Morocco and the garments are scraps from the manufacturing process that are printed with made in Tunisia. certified Oeko-Tex® ink (guaranteeing no residual health > Manufacturing partners have water recycling units and risks). 15 Organization The Lafuma Group has created a dedicated internal structure in order to implement its sustainable development strategy in an effective and practical manner. In 2002, Lafuma set up its sustainable development steering committee. Its purpose to evaluate progress, coordinate actions and set new objectives. This committee is made up of one representative from each of the six task forces that include: product design, production/sourcing, logistics, human resources, sales and advertising. The Lafuma Group commitment can be summed up as “Offering more with Less”. A 3-POINT APPROACH Philosophical Technological (eco-design) Economic AN ORGANIZATION THAT INVOLVES A SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT CHARTER ALL OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE COMPANY THE 10 LAFUMA COMMITMENTS: STEERING COMMITTEE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 1 / Environmentaly friendly (every 2 months) and innovative products Task forces involving: 2 / Encouraging good ecological practices Eco-design 3 / Production and control Production and Sourcing 4 / Respect of human rights Human Resources 5 / Involvement of personnel Logistics 6 / Employment and skills 7 / Sustainable Development Sales 8 / Raising awareness and Advertising sharing responsibilities 9 / Dialogue and consultation 10 / Follow-up of strategy OBJECTIVES THAT ARE CLEAR AND CONCRETE: Design: Developing attractive, sustainable and unique products. Production and Sourcing: Reducing the environmental impact of our production sites and ensuring the respect of labor and environmental rights of our subcontractors. Human Resources: Devising policies for employees that correspond to our Sustainable Development commitments. Logistics: Reducing the environmental impact in transport and packaging. Sales: Ensuring the sales success of our eco-designed offering. Advertising: Support in advertising our Sustainable Development approach. 16 Product design division 17 Eco-design What is it? An eco-designed product is a product that was developed with the intention of limiting its impact on the environment throughout its lifecycle and according to a multi-criteria approach (taking into account the impact on the air, water, energy consumption, the use of non-renewable resources...). This type of design is based on a method of analysis of a product’s lifecycle that will identify different impacts at every stage: raw materials, manufacturing, transport, use, and end of life. It also enables us to track possible transfers of impact from one stage to another. A global approach in eco-design also favors innovation and internal mobilization. RAW MATERIALS Selection of natural, recycled, recyclable, END OF LIFE RECYCLING renewable-materials-based, Recyclable materials. and approved materials. Products which can be Reduction of materials used disassembled. (products and off-cuts). Recycling operations (ropes, fleeces, etc). PRODUCTION USE Responsible and well-managed Products which are durable, production. repairable and easy to maintain. Social and environmental auditing Functional, of all our suppliers. user friendly products. TRANSPORT Sea transport from factories outside Europe. Rail and river transport favored for distributing products. Our collections Lafuma Group products are designed in a spirit of They are clearly identifiable in our collections as they ecodesign; this global approach had been extended to sport their own labels: Pure Leaf by Lafuma, Naturally include the “3D rule”, meaning products that are Desirable, Committed by Oxbow, Organics Jean by Ober. Durable and Distinctive. In general, all of the Group products benefit from our A part of the collections are the direct result of a complete ecodesign approach. For all products our R&D centers analysis of product life cycles while also incorporating focus on: a careful selection of raw materials, manufacturing technology and style. For us, these products represent processes that limit energy consumption, a planned laboratories for research and development: whether it be strategy for transport and understanding global product for the Eco 40 backpack or the Kenema shoe at Lafuma lifecycles right from the drawing board. or organic cotton jeans at Ober. Boundaries between products labeled sustainable development and other products in our collections will The “lab” focus on these products enables us to improve become more and more nebulous over time as design our knowledge in eco-design and allows us to come up choices for ecofriendly products can be made more easily with products that are less “traditional”: these products especially with greater and improved offers in sustainable are both eco-friendly and offer a high level of technical development materials. performance in terms of versatility, comfort, durability and competitive pricing. They fulfill the first objective of the Group’s sustainable development approach: “Offering more with less”. More durability, functionality, safety, comfort..., with less in terms of materials, energy and transport. 18 Zoom materials The naturals... > Polartec® classic 200 recycled Organic cotton: Organic farming uses no pesticides, insecticides, chemical fertilizers, nor defoliants, which are very harmful to the health of farmers and to surrounding ecosystems. It restores fertility to soils, maintains ecosystems and helps protect our health as well as the planet. Max Havelaar organic cotton : The Max Havelaar label guarantees that cotton comes from fair trade in agreement with international standards controled by FLO-Cert. Hemp: Hemp is a natural fiber that has marked advantages over cotton. It does not leave the soil impoverished and needs very little irrigation. It requires neither pesticides nor chemical fertilizers. Hemp is also stronger than cotton, hence more durable. Organic Denim: Eco-processed, faded and softened organic cotton. Organic materials... CoconaTM : The use of activated carbon from recycled coconut shells ensures the excellent technical performance of CoconaTM fabrics. This fiber is produced using natural technologies and results in a 66% > Climactive® recycled decrease in manufacturing costs for electricity and drying compared to other textiles such as cotton. CoconaTM fabrics have excellent This is a classic Climactive® material with a 100 % polyester textile technical features in terms of: support and/or including organic cotton. The entire membrane is Cooling off through evaporation: CoconaTM products keep the skin made of recycled polyester. dry owing to the fabric’s quick-drying properties; moisture is drawn to the surface of the fabric to accelerate evaporation and drying. UV protection (anti UVA & anti UVB): the activated carbon is integrated into the yarn and fibers, and absorbs harmful rays, acting > Gore-Tex® recycled as a protective barrier against UV’s. Moreover, as this protection is not obtained through chemical treatments, there are no harmful This material is smooth and soft, and 100% of the polyester on the effects on the body. laminate's outer layer was obtained from recycled plastic bottles. By Protection against odors: the pores of the activated carbon attract incorporating recycled materials in its laminates, without compromising and neutralize odors coming from the environment and the wearer. durability, Gore reduces the use of non-renewable resources, CO2 emissions and waste. The overall ecological footprint of clothing is improved. Primaloft® Eco natural insulation: To increase its environmental commitment, Eider selected an ecological version of PrimaLoft® insulation: PrimaLoft® Eco. This light and thermal PrimaLoft® insulation Treated materials... includes 50% of recycled materials. This technology offers the best weight-to-breathability value. Polygiene: For more improved comfort and health, Eider chose to treat its gloves with Polygiene. This treatment prevents the proliferation of odor-causing microorganisms and does not irritate the skin. Polygiene Recycled materials... uses silver salt obtained from recycled silver. The treatment is applied to the fabric at the finishing stages. Recycled polyester: Recycled polyester is obtained through It is already used in the medical field and is perfectly compatible with recycling industrial waste & waste from consumer products (soda the skin; it also increases the life-span of your gloves. bottles...). A new life for this waste that was headed for the dump! Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 : All Eider products are labeled Oeko-Tex® What’s more, recycled polyester is recyclable! Standard 100, meaning that they are not harmful to man. Rigorous testing is carried out to make sure the fabric is free from any toxicological or dermatological risks due to prolonged contact with the skin. Lafuma camping furniture canvases are also labeled Oeko-Tex®. 19 Zoom products: Textile Ld X-Light Twin jacket Ld Eco Sunrise f-zip fleece Trekking jacket made of Recycled Gore-Tex®. Fleece conceived in Recycled Polartec® 200. Boardshort in recycled polyester Tee-shirt in organic cotton Technical and comfortable boardshort. Emblematic product of Oxbow collection. Mountain Tour jacket Guayakil polo Many Millet products use CoconaTM fiber Polo shirt made from Bamboo Cooldry Knit. such as this shell jacket that is both waterThis technical knit fabric was selected for its proof and breathable. quick moisture transfer features with a rate of absorption that is four times higher than that of cotton. 20 Zoom products: Textile Fleece in Polartec® Thermal Pro® 200 recycled Men and women jacket, 100% recycled. Fontenay vest Imperia fleece jacket This hunting vest is in Teflon® / Cordura® / Fleece jacket in Polartec® Thermal Pro® cotton and lined with recycled Polartec® 300 recycled 200. Johanna Organic jean Made in organic cotton. 21 Zoom products: Backpacks Xéon 30 backpack The majority of backpacks in the upcoming backpack collections will be in recycled polyester. This material is generally used in combination with nylon. This material can take on two different forms: PES 600 denier 100% recycled polyester. PES 450 denier 50% recycled polyester / 50% polyester. The Xéon backpack is a prime example of this line. Moreover, Lafuma has its attention focused on sustainable development optimization throughout all production phases: cuts are designed to minimize processes, assembly and quantities. Improvements in the management of materials and processes over the entire season result in savings of scale, using fewer means. Recycled polyamide backpack buckles: Partnership with Rhodia. In order to perpetuate this tradition and to find real uses for its “Recycle and Save” campaign, Millet entered into a partnership with Rhodia in April 2009. Together, their aim is to recycle the used climbing ropes collected by Millet over past years so as to make technical plastics for mountain sports gear. Through this project, Rhodia hopes to contribute to the creation of end-of-life polyamide recycling channels and accelerate the development of its 4earthTM recycled polyamide ranges. Millet’s goal is to secure and expand its eco-design approach. This association with Rhodia, a leader in polyamide, opens access to material expertise and a global industrial recycling network. In 2011, two backpacks out of three in the summer Millet collection were made from 30 % or more recycled materials. Moreover, most, if not all, of the backpack buckles for the next winter season will be in recycled materials from the recycle and save rope collect campaign. Beyond 25 backpack This technical mountaineering backpack is very unique. It is built from 80 % recycled materials demonstrating Millet's commitment to the management of its product lifecycles. Comfort-cut back, functional, sleek, sturdy and light. 22 Zoom products: Equipments To further extend their search for products with a low environmental impact, Oxbow has Boardbag developed a line of 100% recycled boardbags. These products, made from used kitesurfing and windsurfing sails collected in the Oxbow shop network, are produced locally to minimize transport costs. Zoom products: Footwear LD Sledge This boot was made for cold-weather walking or simply strolling around a ski resort. It is also environmentally friendly as the choice of materials fulfills Pure Leaf criteria with a recycled textile upper and a sole made of 30 % rubber. Le Chameau boots are made to last; they have a long service life as they are made from top quality raw materials and a carefully studied production process that is located in France for the top-of-the-line models presented below. Saint Hubert rubber boot Chasseur Héritage boot A true legend, the Saint Hubert is the must The Chasseur Héritage boot has the in sure value for footwear. This is a one-ofsame qualities that made this zip boot so a-kind rubber boot with a shapely fitted-leg successful with the addition of very high top in natural leather and a snug and quality finishings. comfortable foot fit. 23 Zoom products: Camping furniture Transatube Lafuma’s whole furniture range is produced in France in the spirit of eco-design (maximizing service life, local material sourcing, improving manufacturing processes, optimizing packaging...). In 2009, Lafuma performed a life cycle analysis on this product with EVEA (eco-design and LCA firm) and FERRARI (manufacturer of Batyline®). [2] This analysis showed that: The chair’s frame is the cause of most of the environmental impacts during the life of Lafuma’s chair. Texyloop® recycling of Batyline® fabric can reduce landfill waste, limit pollution and create raw materials. Increasing the service life of a product reduces its global impact on the environment. Service life can be increased by changing the worn fabric and keeping the Transatube frame rather than changing the whole product. The Lafuma factory turns out 700,000 camping furniture models per year, 90% of them are in steel tubing and 10% are in aluminum [1] tubing. The majority of the canvases for these products are in Batyline®. [3] 24 Transatube composition and manufacture [1] [2] [3] Plastic components Seat canvas in Batyline® Steel frames for chairs Manufacturing: Supplier: Ferrari (Tour du Pin, Isère department in France) Supplier: Lafuma Lallemand factory (Vieu d’Izenave, Ain department in France) Composition: 1/3 Polyester and 2/3 PVC Marcegaglia (Gazoldo, Italy) Advantages: Advantages: Advantages: 5 to 10 % recycled plastics Batyline® certified Oeke-Tex®: non-toxic for human health Steel tubes made from 10 % recycled steel 0 production waste (automatic grinding and reuse) Recyclable Batyline® canvases in Italy (in Ferrara) Tubes are processed at the with Texyloop® processing (operation details p 38). Lafuma Anneyron site in France Canvases are made in the Lafuma Tunisia factory and shipped to the Lafuma Anneyron factory in France. Production: Packaging: Finished products End of life: Waste paints powders are collected for recycling. Packaging at the Lafuma Anneyron factory in France. Stocked at the logistics base in SaintDisassembly of components that come Paints meet criteria set in the “REACH” standards (no lead Boxes are from recycling channels and Rambert d’Albon, close to the Anneyron apart easily for waste treatment. for example). are 100 % recyclable. factory. A water treatment system is integrated into the production Packaging: products are packed in twos Separation of different components. chain to treat paint wastewater. In ten years we reduced for less packaging waste. > Frame disassembled (nuts and screws). water consumption by 60%, gas by 27% and totally Boxes manufactured in the French Haute Loire > Canvas removable and recyclable eliminated the use of fuel. and Savoie departments, not far from the Anneyron (Texyloop® process). Factory equipped with photovoltaic solar panels (heating factory site. and air-conditioning consumption reduced by 50%). The Boxes have no printing on them, no ink is used. energy produced covers 75% of annual consumption of the camping furniture factory unit. 25 Production 26 Industry Objective Reduce the environmental impact of our production sites Carbon footprint In 2009, the Lafuma Group (Lafuma, Millet, Eider, Oxbow, This assessment confirms the predominance of the impact Ober, Le Chameau) decided to carry out a Bilan Carbone® of materials and products of the different brands on the (carbon footprint assessment) of all of its activities in the Group’s overall emissions, which had already been more 60 countries in which it is located in order to gain a global informally assessed internally. understanding of its environmental impact. It concerned the Group's commercial and industrial activities and encompassed the emissions from the Group’s own plants, its logistics sites 4 5 3 1 and the administration and management sites. 2 The aim of this first Bilan Carbone® was to establish a baseline for Lafuma Group’s global environmental impact at a given moment, to then be able to rank the activities according to their predominance, to finally focus efforts where the potential is highest to reduce emission levels. Results Lafuma Group’s total emissions as assessed in the Bilan Carbone® represent 210,000 teq CO2. This figure covers all of the emissions linked to the products and services that the Group requires, and is not limited to the emissions for which it is directly responsible. All direct and indirect impacts associated with the Lafuma Group’s activities were recorded. Paths to improvement The main high emission activities are: Following the conclusions of this Carbon assessment, the 1 raw materials and finished products purchasing Lafuma Group set objectives in areas where impact was (85 % of emissions); the highest: intensifying the use of eco-design for all products 2 freight (5.9 %); by selecting materials that are more environmentally3 business travel (2 %); friendly, carrying out value analyses to optimize material 4 on-site energy use (2.1 %); use (product & scraps) and selecting robust, high-performance 5 other (5 %). materials to ensure product durability. Solar panels In 2007, Lafuma Installed 1500 m2 of solar panels at its Basically, the investment made was beneficial all around, factory site in Anneyron: Energy-savings after three years not only for the environment. are as follows: -The photovoltaic power system produces 118,000 KWh annually, which is the annual equivalent electricity consumption of 40 households. It covers 75% of all lighting needs in the offices and the camping furniture factory unit in Anneyron. Installing the 1,500 m² of solar roofing was also an opportunity to better insulate the roofing for a further 50% reduction in heating and air-conditioning needs. The savings achieved were also financial as the electricity bill was reduced by 40%. 27 Sourcing Objective Ensure that social and environmental rules are followed at sub-contractor sites In order to ensure that its products are manufactured under satisfactory social and environmental conditions, the Lafuma Group developed a commitment, control and follow-up plan with its sub-contractors. Commitment ORANGE: 3 levels ORANGE 1 warning: To date, all our subcontractors have agreed to comply Supplier does not comply with our charters on minor points: with two professional ethics charters: a social charter and action plan drafted to bring supplier to a green level. an environmental charter. The first is essentially based on international texts such as the ILO (International Labor ORANGE 2 corrective actions urgently required: Organization). The second was introduced in January 2005 Supplier does not comply with our charters on important and calls for sub-contractors to limit environmental impact. points: action plan drafted to be implemented within 6 In particular, we insist on respect for employees and a months with a follow-up audit scheduled. concern for their comfort. These charters are included in the general purchasing terms ORANGE 3 immediate corrective action required with and conditions and are a prerequisite for business relations set dates: with Lafuma. Failure to comply with these commitments Supplier does not comply with our charters on major points: leads to the termination of business relations between the action plan drafted to be implemented within 3 months with defaulting sub-contractor and the Group. a follow-up audit scheduled. ROUGE: 1 level Auditing Termination of all business relations (as soon as possible) and possible further communication. Two independent internal auditors from the purchasing department, reporting directly to the general management, carry out audits to ensure that sub-contractors comply with Follow-up their social and environmental obligations. A report is drafted upon completion of each audit of the social and environmental Follow-up visits to check the implementation of corrective performance, and each sub-contractor is classed into one of actions are handled by all of the traveling employees of the three color categories; these categories have been revised Group who are in contact with the targeted sub-contractor and further expanded since January 2008: and who make factory visits (buyers, product managers, quality controllers...). > GREEN: 2 levels GREEN 1 excellent level: The general guideline of the Group is to ensure “Human Factories comply with Lafuma Group's charters and are Rights” verifications in each factory at least once every 3 years. also concerned with providing their employees with Any audited supplier with a grade that is not green must be comfortable working conditions (ergonomic workstations, re-audited within 6 months to ensure that the required etc.) educational information (nutrition, health, teaching, improvements have been made. etc.) and are environmentally focused (solar energy, waste sorting, recycling, etc.). GREEN 2 good level: Factories comply with the Lafuma Group charters. 28 Results 1. Evolution of the audits performed over 3 years 2. Evolution of results in 2010 (for factories already audited in 2009) Roughly forty audits were carried out (see map below). Results Results No. Evolution China 33 2009 2010 Factories Portugal 3 O2 G1 1  Tunisia 4 O3 G2 1  Morocco 4 O2 G2 2  O1 G2 4  Audits performed in 2008 G2 G2 1  O2 O1 3  O1 O1 2  G O1 1  G1 5 % O2 O2 6  G2 21 % O1 14 % O1 O2 1  O2 45 % O2 O3 2  O3 11 % R O3 1  R-4% Total 25  : 12 : 9 Audits performed in 2009 :4 3. 2010 results (for first-time factory audits) G1 15 % G2 34 % Results No. O1 24 % 2010 Factories O2 19 % O3 6 % G1 2 R-2% G2 5 O1 5 O2 6 O3 1 Audits performed in 2010 Total 19 G1 4 % G2 32 % O1 25 % O2 30 % O3 9 % R-0% If we compare results of audits over a 3 year period (between 2008 and 2010) there is a clear overall improvement in the factories. However, Lafuma controls have become stricter compared to the sustainable development report in 2010; this explains why the results were not as good for certain suppliers compared to audits carried out in the past. We noted an increase in the installation of solar panels and the use of low-voltage lighting; these initiatives are encouraged by Lafuma. 29 4. Breakdown of all of our suppliers according to Overall ranking of the Group’s suppliers social and environmental ranking in 2010 in 2009 For all suppliers: G1 11 % 0% of the factories were ranked red. These results indicate G2 40 % an improvement over 2009 where 1 % of factories were O1 17 % ranked red. O2 28 % O3 3 % 35% of the factories were ranked orange (compared to R-1% 48% in 2009: a clear improvement here also). > For a factory considered orange 1, there are only minor problems that can be dealt with during the audit (moving/ Overall ranking of the Group’s suppliers replacing fire extinguishers, clearly indicating their position, in 2010 adding material to the first-aid kit, etc.) > For a factory considered orange 2, the problems are more complex and require more time and means to G1 16 % be remedied (replacing broken windows, creating an G2 49 % emergency exit, reducing overtime hours, etc.) O1 21 % O2 10 % > A factory will be considered orange 3 in two cases: O3 4 % 1. Firstly, during the initial audit, if the factory is far from R-0% complying with the Lafuma Group's standards regarding fire safety, health standards, regular working hours, overtime, wages, etc. but its management shows a clear will to remedy the situation. Comparison 2010 2009 2. Secondly, if during the follow-up audit no (or too few) improvements were noted. 65% of the factories were ranked green (compared to 51% in 2009). These factories are then only audited every two years since they comply with the Lafuma Group's social and environmental charters. For factories with no audit results: visits have been scheduled and will take place between February and March 2011 in India, Bangladesh, China and Indonesia. 2009 2010 30 Human resources 31 Objectives Accompany the efforts to optimize the organizations of all Group entities. Create the right conditions to improve efficiency and expand the competencies of group employees. Keep the lines of labor relations with personnel representatives open (senior employment, psycho-social risks, the hardships of certain posts and the overall employment plan). Workforce On September 30th, 2010 the Group employed 2001 persons, half of whom are employed abroad. 7.7% Administrative staff & Management 154 employees 13.6% Logistics sales administration 272 employees 18.2% Sales 365 employees 1.4% Purchasing 27 employees 50.5% Production 1,011 employees 8.6% Product development and marketing 172 employees 32 Training Policies The course of 2010, the Group accompanied the different investments and harmonize best practices, the Group has Group structures by maintaining ongoing training efforts and forged partnerships with well-established training organizations investing the equivalent of 1.9% of total payroll (2.2% and 2.3% and with training organizations that enabled the Group to for Lafuma and Oxbow respectively) in a difficult economic achieve savings of scale. context. The training policy was set up to support the different The Group has pursued its language training program in view strategic decisions in terms of organization and recruitment of the very positive results obtained in 2008 and 2009, with the goal of giving preference to internal mobility (transwhich showed significant progress made by the employees forming sales administration to sales-oriented customer who benefited from these measures. The qualitative results services) and to consolidate our own competencies, especially in 2010 underscored the effectiveness of the methods used technical competencies. Practically 10,500 hours of training and was validated through TOEIC testing. Moreover, new and 850 training programs were followed by the Group indicators were added in 2010 to enable us to further improve teams in France. Our objective today is to extend these efforts the organization and content of training. These indicators are throughout the Group and to consolidate both qualitative as intended to evaluate the quality of training (the fit of content well as quantitative information from subsidiaries. Our choice with needs), control costs (the fit of quality with costs), set up to be proactive in informing and encouraging the use in national partnership agreements with service providers, France of the Individual Right to Training under French law initiate qualitative evaluation of training though questionnaires, is beginning to yield positive results. Eighty-seven training validate language training programs and increase professional requests were approved this year. In order to optimize training training periods. Changes in work, health and safety conditions The Group devised and set up a prevention plan over 2009Accidents have decreased by 10 %. 2010 for swine flu with a closer focus on the 50 employees The average lease payment of the fleet was reduced by who frequently travel abroad. Our teams also followed training 8% and the cost of tires by 25% for full-size vehicles. programs to update each company's risk evaluation document. Standardization of the fleet has brought significant reductions On an international level, the Group's factories, like those of in the annual French vehicle tax. our suppliers, are subject to regular social audits of working Within the same scope of consolidation, the fuel budget conditions, safety and compliance to prevailing regulations. was reduced by 15%. The corporate vehicle charter was, in general, regarded in a Rationalization of the vehicle fleet positive light as employees are more and more aware of the advantages of eco-driving and of using less tiring, polluting, This sustainable development report is an opportunity to and more convivial codes of transport, as demonstrated by provide initial results of changes effected in the management the success of the Lafuma shuttle used in combination with policy for our fleet of vehicles. Initial information has enabled the train. This has led us to add a third service schedule in us to note a positive change on different aspects: the morning and in the evening. An adapted organization of work time In 1984, Lafuma was innovative in reducing the average The progressive implementation of the Employment workweek to 35 hours over the year in order to better adapt and Expertise Plan to the seasonal nature of its activity. Even though an agreement for an Employment and Expertise These actions were progressively extended and adapted to Plan (GPEC plan gestion prévisionnelle des emplois et des all of the industrial subsidiaries in France and abroad, in compétences) is presently being negotiated, the Group has accordance with local laws. been working to extend its annual review policy to all employees, Since 2000, all employees benefit from the reduction of not only for management and office staff. Moreover, in fiscal the workweek to 35 hours in the framework of specific 2010, sixty-two employees were transferred to new positions agreements. within the group or had significant changes made to their duties so as to expand their responsibilities. In 2001, Lafuma set up an agreement for a 32 hour workweek for production personnel according to age and seniority The Group is endeavoring to create a pool of talents by criteria. These policies are still in effect and are evaluated encouraging the integration of young people in a work-study annually to determine their fit with our needs over time, program that has been expanded by almost 50% in two according to changes in economic and social conditions. years, and by creating partnerships through associations such as Sport dans la Ville with the integration of interns and 33 the organization of mock recruitment interviews. Changes in labor relations Labor relations were marked by some key events during the harmonize HR practices in the Group companies to realign fiscal year. competencies, Firstly, Lafuma now presides the collective bargaining agreeinvolve labor representatives in these challenges by setting ment for camping industries with the objective of maintaining up an employment and expertise (GPEC) unit in each this sector active. Efforts in this direction include signing company within the Group. agreements with the unions, as was done for rises in wages, as well as reviewing and negotiating certain aspects of the Moreover, after consulting the works committees, action collective agreement as demanded by all management plans were validated by local government offices for the organizations and trade unions. employment of seniors and implemented in the course of fiscal 2010. An initial review of these plans will be effected The Group desired to focus on certain economic and industrial by the Group in 2011. Sixty-one persons at Lafuma have realities first by creating a committee composed of Group already followed training on this subject and report back to personnel representatives specifically targeting the question an organization specialized on the subject. of changes in job fields and the competencies of employees, and also by organizing the visits of personnel representatives To improve the consistency and harmonization of practices, to different sites in France and abroad. the Group Human Resources Department continued to implement procedures common to all of the companies to Negotiations concerning an agreement for the Employment improve the management of personnel and to ensure the and Expertise Plan are still underway. The objective of the equality of treatment. draft agreement we presented is three-fold: anticipate changes in job sectors that exist within the Group, 34 Logistics 35 Objectives Reduce the environmental impact of transport and packaging. Increase the share of clean transport. Implement solutions to reduce/minimize packing. Clean transport In general, the Lafuma Group uses river, sea and piggyback For deliveries to the USA, the Group uses two different transport as much as possible for the transport and delivery itineraries: of its products. We have three logistics centers in France at Saint Rambert > piggyback transport from Lyon to Le Havre, then by d’Albon (26), Canejan (33) and Dun sur Auron (18) and we boat to Houston, then by train within the USA. work with a logistics platform in Hong Kong. > or river transport by the Rhone river between Lyon and Marseille, then by boat to Houston, and by train Upstream transport within the USA. From the production factory to one of our logistics centers: Improvements achieved in 2010: 90 % of our products coming from Asia and going to one > Reduction in deliveries per country from our logistics of our French centers are transported by boat. The remaining center in Saint Rambert d’Albon. Hence, daily deliveries 10 % represents samples on a very tight time schedule, will be replaced by: urgent deliveries and orders that have been delayed and • 2 deliveries per week for France unable to meet customer deadlines. We always try to • 1 delivery per week for European countries minimize late deliveries by implementing more efficient forward planning to anticipate order placements from our > Reorganization of the entire logistics center but suppliers. resulting in a considerable reduction in the number All products manufactured in Asia for Asian or American of trucks used and optimization in the freight markets are sent directly to the receiving country, by-passing transported. our French logistics centers. Products coming from North Africa (Tunisia, Morocco...) In line with this same objective of optimizing the number of are transported by boat across the Mediterranean. trucks on the roads and the freight carried, a new delivery Improvements planned for 2011: A new process will process has been set up with our distributor customer be set up pursuant to the audit carried out during the year. Castorama. Since mid-2009, the Lafuma Group has been All products arrive at the French port Fos sur Mer (from delivering to Castorama's four logistics platforms rather than Asia or North Africa) and follow a multimodal circuit: river delivering to each store individually. The new process has transport from Fos sur Mer to Lyon and then truck transport been fully up and running since September 2009 for deliveries from Lyon to Saint Rambert d’Albon. to Castorama. This new process cut our CO2 emissions by 34 tons per This year we will be working on developing this practice with year. other clients such as Leroy Merlin, Jardiland, etc. Downstream transport Zoom on freight From our logistics centers to platforms and customer outlets: The Lafuma Group will continue to work towards the development of local rail transport services, in particular for The Lafuma and Le Chameau brands use piggyback transport the industrial sector in Rhone Alpes, to further reduce the for all deliveries to the North of France (Go Sport, mailecological footprint of its logistics chain in the long term. order, Lafuma Outlet) and multimodal transport for deliveries to the UK. This represents about 10% of sales for these two brands. 36 Sales campaigns 37 Objectives Promote the success of our eco-designed offer and raise the awareness of distributors and consumers through SD campaigns. “Recycle your recliners” Millet campaign promotion by Lafuma “Recycle and Save” In 2010 Lafuma and the Botanic stores joined forces to In 2010, Millet extended its “Recycle and Save” operation reduce the environmental impact of transatubes (a flagship for the 6th consecutive year and continues to make it possible product in the Lafuma furniture collection presented p 24 for climbers to do a good deed for nature by recycling their and p 25) by 75% as the recycling and renewing of the canvas used ropes. increases the lifespan of the product by several years. The Botanic stores participated in this promotion by collecting In six years, over 780,000 meters of rope were collected the old Lafuma transatube canvases in their stores, which and recycled. To continue its efforts to protect the environment, were then recycled in Italy in the Texyloop® factory. Millet has simplified and extended the scope of this operation By just changing the used transatube canvases, customers by opening up new used rope collection counters in indoor had the opportunity to recreate a new chaise lounge in new climbing centers throughout Europe. trendy colors and designs. A simple gesture for the environment and a fun way of renovating at an attractive price. This successfull campaign in 2010 will also be implemented in 2011. Oxbow campaign “100 % recycled Boardbags” Since Summer 2009, Oxbow has been developing its line of 100 % recycled boardbags. These products, made from used kitesurfing and windsurfing sails collected in the Oxbow shop network, are produced locally to minimize transport costs. Customers receive a voucher for a 20 % discount in the shop for each sail returned. The canvases collected are recycled and go toward manufacturing new boardbags. Production is local to reduce environmental impact. This operation demonstrates Oxbow’s commitment to reducing the environmental impact of its products. 38 Corporate giving 39 The Lafuma Group Foundation In 2009, The Lafuma Group decided to extend its commitments species. The Lafuma Group Corporate Foundation chose in sustainable development by creating a corporate foundation. specifically-targeted participation in the Alpine Arc The missions of the Lafuma Group Corporate Foundation are Conservation program. This program resulted from an threefold: alpine convention between Slovenia, Austria, Switzerland, biodiversity, Liechtenstein, Italy, Germany, France and Monaco. It is eco-design, managed by four NGOs including WWF. sports, solidarity & health. The Foundation will identify and support large-scale projects The Alpine Arc Conservation Program comprises 6 missions: in line with these missions. Two key projects have been selected: Protection of biodiversity, The protection of the Alpine Arc, in the framework of the Maintaining and developing ecological corridors, WWF Conservation Program, and also through cooperative Protecting and reintegrating large carnivores (wolf, bear, actions with the Mountain Riders association. lynx, otter), Support for a program of research and innovation in ecoAdapting to the consequences of climate change design. (biodiversity and human lifestyles), Maintaining and restoring healthy ecological conditions for Alpine rivers, The Foundation’s missions Contributing to the development of sustainable tourism. Biodiversity The Lafuma Group has always considered it a priority to protect the natural playing fields of outdoor athletes. The Foundation therefore feels strongly about protecting biodiversity by supporting actions to raise awareness and protect the environment. Eco-Design http://www.wwf.fr/ For the last 15 years, the credo of the Lafuma Group has been to offer more with less, designing products that are > Mountain Riders always more respectful of the environment. To further develop Protecting & respecting mountains our knowledge of materials, recycling, etc. for Outdoor Never have the challenges facing our planet been so daunting: products, one of the missions of the Lafuma Group Corporate global warming, less biodiversity, energy crises, social crises. Foundation is to innovate via eco-design by supporting In this global context, the mountain environment is not spared specific research programs. and must adapt by focusing on sustainable development in tourism and leisure activities. Sports, Solidarity & Health Sports & Solidarity because... the values advocated by Mountain Riders’ aim is to accompany the different public outdoor sports (effort, sharing, authenticity, humility) can help and private mountain actors, as well as 11 million skiers per young people find themselves and offer an opportunity to year, to make positive changes by proposing to focus on certain find their way. Access to outdoor sports, particularly in the issues and tools for concrete action. The Foundation supports mountains, can also enable disabled people to fulfill themMountain Riders by providing the means to federate mountain selves by discovering places that are too often inaccessible actors around the question of sustainable development. to them. Finally, health... since Lafuma has always promoted sustainable, To raise the awareness of the different groups in contact high-level sports that allow people to find balance in their with the mountains, Mountain Riders organizes different chosen sports activity while preserving their health and types of events (cleaning ski resorts: the 2009 national fitness. waste collection program) or information campaigns (event stands and conferences with over 30,000 people reached per year, green guides for ski resorts and mountain gear). The supported projects Mountain Riders also works with mountain professionals: the Biodiversity association published a sustainable development charter for ski resorts and 52 have committed to date. It also gives A to > WWF Z management advice to events organizers to help them The Lafuma Group Corporate Foundation chose to support minimize the event’s environmental impact and certifies WWF, the World Wildlife Fund, the world’s main environmental some as “Eco-responsible events”. protection organization. This support is the logical continuation of the ten-year partnership between the WWF-France Foundation and Lafuma. WWF has very different fields of intervention throughout the world, from the fight against climate change, through the preservation of forests, to the protection of endangered http://www.mountain-riders.org/ 40 > Makay Expedition continuity with Oxbow’s commitment alongside the association On November 12, 2010 the expedition set off to the Makay for the past four years. massif in Madagascar; the goal is to carry out a vast study of the unique biodiversity of this particularly stunning and http://www.surfrider.eu abundantly rich region. Both the Lafuma Group Foundation and Lafuma chose to sponsor and participate in this project. Sports, solidarity & health The Makay Nature project: > Sport dans la Ville : sports & underprivileged youth a scientific expedition The Sport dans la Ville (sports in the city) association is dedicated to encouraging the social and professional to discover a unique biodiversity integration of young people by setting up sports centers in underprivileged neighborhoods. Each week, 1,800 young Located in the west-central region of the island of Madagascar, people, from 7 to 20, play football, basketball and rugby at the Makay massif is one of the most surprising wonders 16 different sites for free. In order to encourage the personal nature has to offer. It has a great number of remarkable and development of each child, Sport dans la Ville has set up deep canyons. This geological peculiarity over thousands vacation camps and an international exchange program (with of years developed unique fauna and flora endemic to this the United States, Brazil, India). treasured area that, for the most part, has remained almost To help young people find their way in the working world, totally undiscovered. The goal of this pioneering expedition Sport dans la Ville has also created the “Job dans la Ville” is to study this amazing biodiversity. program to foster job training and professional integration, Makay Nature is being led by Evrard Wendenbaum. For three and “Entrepreneurs dans la Ville”, designed to help young months he will be in the Makay massif accompanied by a people create new businesses, with 20 start-ups created host of scientists to try to discover the secrets of this magical over a two-year period. This year, in association with Job place. From November 12 to December 20, a film crew joined dans la Ville , two top executives from the Lafuma Group each them to produce a documentary that will air in 2011 on sponsored and accompanied one young person throughout Canal + and Planete French television channel. the school year to help them make their way into the working Learning more about the Makay massif will hopefully lead world. to its protection. This is the other ambitious part of the project The Lafuma Group Corporate Foundation has chosen to which aims to work toward the recognition of this singular support Sport dans la Ville to continue the partnership with the place at the Malgache national level as well as to have it Lafuma brand in place since the creation of the association listed as a UNESCO World Heritage site. ten years ago. Today, Sport dans la Ville has become the primary association in France fostering professional integration Lafuma was especially sensitive to the objectives of this through sports. expedition and decided to double its efforts in offering support. First, by donating equipment to outfit the team members of the expedition and via the Lafuma Group Foundation, by providing financial support for research into, and protection of, this biodiversity. The expedition was also fortunate to have within the team Christophe Dumarest, mountain guide and technical advisor for Lafuma since 5 years for Lafuma Patronage party, November 2010. > En Passant par la Montagne : Mountains for all The association En passant par la Montagne was created in 1995 and acts as an interface between the mountain and www.makaynature.org social work environments. In 2008, some thirty educational programs were organized in the mountains focusing on Oceans mountaineering values (rising to new challenges, selfconfidence and trust in others, following rules...) to provide > Surfriders Foundation : a stepping stone toward integration for people with difficulties. protecting & respecting beaches Discovering and taking into account the surrounding Surfrider Foundation Europe is dedicated to the protection environment are the central themes of these projects. For and enjoyment of the ocean, waves and beaches. two years now, the association has participated in the cleanIt organizes different actions to preserve the oceans and to up operation of the Mer de Glace organized by Lafuma and raise public awareness about water quality, legislation and its network of partners. This has always been a very enriching the real risks of pollution. experience for the participants and an opportunity to meet The Surfrider Foundation also tries to teach young people to different people involved in mountain-related jobs. respect the environment so that tomorrow’s decision-makers will understand, from today, just how vital it is to protect the oceans. Among the association’s key actions are their awareness-raising days where young people get involved in cleaning up the beaches. The Lafuma Group Corporate Foundation is actively associated with this project, in 41 Other 2010 news Balloon crossing over the North Pole A trip through the heart of sustainable growth by Jean-Louis Etienne Lafuma lends logistics assistance to two highly motivated Equipped from head to toe by Lafuma, Jean-Louis Etienne individuals: Clarisse Héaulme and Emeric Bayart have set out on April 5, 2010, from Spitsbergen in Norway for the gone to live in Central America for six months to meet with first solo crossing of the north pole in a balloon, landing in locals involved in sustainable development. All along their Siberia five days later, in a completely deserted area, with a route they found what they were looking for: sustainable flight time of approximately 121hrs 30min and covering a development projects. Many were very original such as a total of 3,130 km. Fifty years after accompanying Paul-Emile school in Guatemala built from plastic bottles and a Costa Victor to Greenland, Lafuma has again associated its name Rican airline company, Nature Air, that has achieved carbonwith a very prestigious polar expedition. neutral status by offsetting its emissions with higher ticket Baptized “Generali Arctic Observer”, the goal of this expedition prices to purchase carbon credits. was to attract worldwide attention to the effects of the melting of this immense ice field and the ramifications on the lives of native populations onarctic biodiversity and the climatic chaos that its disappearance would engender at world level. Jean-Louis Etienne performed three scientific measurements throughout the voyage: the CO2 present in an area free of emissions, the magnetic field and aerosol particles suspended in the atmosphere. Beyond the human adventure, this scientific approach is instrumental in quickening the understanding of certain warning signals for the future of our planet, which is why Lafuma decided to fully outfit Jean Louis Etienne and his ground crew. The Entreprendre network In June 2010, Lafuma was among the 10 companies selected by the Entreprendre Network to explain how sustainable development (SD) can be implemented in all activity sectors without sacrificing sales revenue. The Entreprendre Network made a film featuring entrepreneurs who made the choice to integrate SD criteria in their companies and throughout the production process. You can access all the latest Lafuma news at http://www.lafuma-news.com 42 Millet expeditions: Under the pole & Element 3 Element 3 This expedition was selected at the 2010 meeting and In the framework of the Millet Expedition Project, Millet and includes three young Swiss doctors whose project is to set its partners lent support to about ten expeditions that were off from Haute-Nendaz, in Switzerland to finish at the summit ranked in different categories: Performance, Solidarity, Passion, of the Aconcagua (Argentina), the highest summit in South Humanitarian projects and Environment. These projects America by never using any means of motorized location, combine ecological interests with sports. only walking, biking and sailing. The project was (practically) successful as they reached the Under the Pôle summit on December 31, 2010, but had to make up for lost The expedition set out in March 2010 for a crossing of the time over seas by taking a bus to reach Mendoza. North Pole in Canada (800 kms) and a sub-marine diving project to a maximum number of locations to observe the All of the expeditions selected are briefed before leaving as consequences of climate change on this fragile territory and to the ecological impact of their trip and their passage on its flora and fauna. through places visited. An “expedition charter” is given to Due to drifting and the state of the polar ice caps they were them at the same time as the commitment with their partners only able to cross a quarter of the planned distance. The is formalized. results are indisputable: according to them in a few years the ice caps will disappear over the spring months. This is yet another proof of Millet's commitment, both in products and in action, to preserve our planet. http://www.millet-expedition-project.com/mxp/ http://www.millet-expedition-project.com/mxp/ 43 Charters 44 Lafuma charter for sustainable development “Pure Leaf Project” A philosophy Offer more with less. More in versatility, durability, safety and comfort. Less in materials, energy consumption and waste. Savings in natural, human and economic resources necessary for Sustainable Development. 10 commitments 1. Innovative products that respect the environment: Develop eco-friendly products with minimum impact on the environment. 2. Encourage better ecological practices: Initiate new and exemplary actions in terms of environmental responsibility. 3. Control over production: Insure that our sites outperform minimum legal requirements and include the highest possible standards of safety, health and control over pollution. 4. Respect of Human Rights: Guarantee and promote labor policies at our sub-contractors that follow universally accepted ethics principles. 5. Involvement of employees: Integrate all our employees into our responsible set up, reinforcing our company culture. 6. Employment and skills: Develop the skills of our employees, encourage professional fulfilment. 7. Sustainable growth: Fit our strategy into the perspective of sustainable growth, hence profitable in the long-term. 8. Encourage awareness and responsibility: Inform consumer by communicating on the stakes involved for eco-friendly products and sustainable development. 9. Dialogue and concertation: Foster trust in relations with all parties concerned, based on total transparency. 10. Monitoring our strategy: Clearly evaluate and follow our economic, social and environmental performance. 45 Ethic and compliance charter Fair Labor Policies for Lafuma Group Suppliers As mentioned in our Ethics and Compliance Charter, factories must abide by the following 10 rules to work with the Lafuma Group: No Children Labor Child under 16, or under the minimum working age according to local laws, must not be employed. If a child has not completed his compulsory schooling, the factory must provide him with the necessary education, or enroll him in an appropriate school. No forced or compulsory labor All employment shall be voluntary. No work or services shall be carried out under the menace of any penalty. Safe and healthy work environment The company must meet basic health and safety standards for the working environment: it must provide safe and sanitary working conditions, and clean dormitories for employees. Freedom of speech and association Companies shall respect workers’ right to bargain collectively, form labor unions or engage in group negotiating. Non-Discrimination No discrimination shall be made based on race, national origin, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability, health problems, union membership, political affiliation. Distinctions may only be made according to the strict inherent requirements of the job, in particular concerning compensation, promotion and termination. Disciplinary practices Personnel shall not be subject to corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion or verbal abuse by employers. Working Hours Employees shall not be required to work in excess of 48 hours per week and 12 hours overtime, or the working hours and overtime limit permitted by local law. Employees have the right to at least one day off for every sevenday period. Compensation: fair wages and benefits Wages paid for a standard working week must meet at least minimum legal standards.They must be greater than the minimum vital wage, and provide sufficient income for the basic needs of the personnel. Management system The factory should have responsible personnel taking corrective actions when needed and encourage its own suppliers to follow these same principles. Audits The factory should accept the rigorous controls made by Lafuma or independent local auditors, consider their remarks and do its utmost to improve its environmental standards. 46 Environnemental charter Sustainable Development Commitment of Lafuma Group Suppliers Working with the Lafuma Group means showing social and environmental responsibility, in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. In addition to the fair labor policies set up in our Ethics and Compliance charter, the supplier hereby agrees to abide by the following environmental rules: Water consumption Water consumption must be recorded regularly in order to determine and implement all possible measures to reduce it. Energy consumption Energy consumption must be recorded regularly in order to determine and implement all possible measures to reduce it. Air, ground and water pollution Any source of air, ground and water pollution must be clearly identified and monitored in order to determine and implement all possible measures to reduce them. The pollution level must, at least, meet local legal standards. Waste production Waste production must be recorded regularly in order to determine and implement all possible measures to reduce it. Waste management must, at least, meet local legal standards and waste recycling must be implemented Photos : T. Vialletet B. Thouard Tim Mc Kenna J. Houyvet C. Trommsdorff J. Annequin Liz Guigere D. Daher E. haugen whenever possible. Transportation Transportation should be minimized; sustainable means of transportation must be used whenever it is possible. Factory environment The main environmental concerns around the factory must be identified, particularly those concerning the conservation of local culture, landscapes, and biodiversity. All possible measures must be taken in order to insure the successful integration of the factory in its environment. Non contractuals photos. March 2011. Management system The factory must make its personnel sensitive to these concerns and implement the latest available technologies to address these environmental issues; it shall also encourage all its suppliers to abide by these same environmental principles. Audits The factory should accept the rigorous controls made by Lafuma or independent local auditors, consider their remarks and do its utmost to improve its environmental standards. 47 LAFUMA GROUPE 6, rue Victor Lafuma 26140 ANNEYRON France Tél. +33 (0)4 75 31 31 31 Fax +33 (0)4 75 31 57 26 www.groupe-lafuma.com
