S u s t a i n a b i l i t y Re p o r t 2 0 1 0 Snam Rete Gas is an integrated company engaged in regulated natural gas transportation, distribution, regasification and storage in Italy. We have provided our customers with a safe and dependable service over time. We do this through our commitment to developing infrastructure and creating a flexible gas market while complying with principles of competition and providing our customers with equal access to infrastructures and equal treatment. Our aim is to create value that will fulfil our shareholders’ expectations. We are able to realise this commitment thanks to the superb professional skills of people who, on a daily basis, do their utmost to achieve sustainable growth that is environmentally friendly and accountable to local areas and their communities. It is our goal to be sustainable with conviction and passion. Sustainability Report 2010 Message from the CEO 4 Authority Ongoing dialogue 58 Methodology and scope of report 6 A stable and transparent regulatory framework 58 New European regulations 59 Snam Rete Gas: infrastructures and operating figures 8 Institutions A collaborative relationship 62 Emissions trading and EIA procedures 66 Corporate Governance Governance and Sustainability General principles 12 Community and Territory Board of directors 13 Accountability and listening 70 Committees 13 Local initiatives 70 Internal control system 14 Environment 75 Business ethics 14 Biodiversity 82 Sustainability strategy 16 Suppliers The new model 86 The culture of sustainability 87 Stakeholders People Media Participation and sharing 22 Communication 92 Change management 23 Website: a common language 93 Enhancement, wellbeing and equal opportunities 25 Safety 33 Industrial relations 39 Performance indicators 94 Customers Facilitating management 44 Index of GRI content 100 Quality in business processes 45 The development of remote meter reading 46 Global Compact reconciliation table 101 Investors Transparency and creation of value 50 Letter of Assurance 102 The financial markets 54 Stock performance 54 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Message from the CEO Message from the CEO Dear Stakeholders, As in the rest of Europe, the security of supply lines in financial efficiency, are all the more significant given that Italy is closely tied to the flexibility of infrastructures and they were achieved in an economic recovery blighted by the increase in interconnections. The development of an uncertainty and limited prospects for growth in consumpintegrated gas network is the first step in this direction. In tion. particular, this means joining markets with supply sourcIn this global environment, after the significant slowdown es which currently are not connected, and broadening the in 2009, demand for gas recovered in 2010 to set the stage network that interconnects the countries of the European for gradual growth in the coming years. In 2010, gas conUnion. The key condition for creating a European gas netsumption in Italy, in standard terms, was about 81 billion work is the coordinated development and management of cubic metres, up 4.8% on 2009. This increase concerned the upgrading of interconnected transportation systems all sectors: thermoelectric, industrial and residential. For along with the establishment of shared European rules. the 10-year period 2010-2020, we project average annual With their European market and infrastructure, member growth in demand of 1.8%. states can implement cost-reduction policies for consumDespite critical moments, our investment plan has never ers, limit emissions and guarantee supplies. Snam Rete stopped. We have continued to invest in building signifiGas is committed to playing a leading role in this new Eucant infrastructures for the development of the country, in ropean gas system. That is why our investment plan inspite of difficult market conditions. Investments in 2010 cludes work programmes and decisions that strengthen totalled €1,540 million, and were aimed at the developour transportation network. ment and maintenance of transportation (€902 million), In fact, our projects are aimed at creating conditions distribution (€386 million) and storage (€252 million) infor the development of a gas hub in southern Europe by frastructures. capitalising on the location of Italy, which is situated at For the four-year period 2011-2014, we have confirmed the crossroads of major gas arteries. This will allow us to this growth strategy with a €6.4 billion investment plan to play a key role in the transformation of Italy into a transit increase the security and flexibility of the system, divercountry, in addition to a consuming country, with several sify supply sources and satisfy requirements related to advantages for end consumers and the country-wide inthe development of gas demand over the medium and long dustry: guaranteed availability of gas, cost containment term. In this way, we will successfully create the condiand reduced emissions. tions for transporting gas from southern to central Europe. The prerequisites for growth and development plans in the In particular, the four-year plan provides for a 5% increase coming years are financial stability, operating efficiency in transportation capacity, an 8% increase in active disand the management of corporate activities in accordance tribution meters and a 35% increase in available storage with sustainability criteria. Snam Rete Gas ended 2010 on space. a particularly positive note with a 46.2% increase in EBIT Snam Rete Gas strives to achieve its strategic goals within and a 51.1% increase in net profit, year on year. These rea framework of sustainability that has been part of comsults, which are due to the excellent performance of all our pany processes for years. Our focus is on a culture based businesses and measures taken in terms of operating and on sustainable development, security and service qual4 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Message from the CEO Carlo Malacarne Chief Executive Officer ity. This commitment is also demonstrated by our active implementation capabilities would not be possible withsupport of the Global Compact and its principles, and was out respect for the communities and local areas where we corroborated again this year by confirmation of Snam Rete have worked for decades and our constant effort to comGas shares on the Dow Jones Sustainability World index bine sustainability and development, corporate objectives and, since 2002, on the FTSE4Good Index Series. and an ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. Over the years, Snam Rete Gas has built its success on In fact, stakeholders are a true reflection of our work: they several factors: company processes, the organisation of are the people with whom we deal constantly, and to whom labour and the essential skills of our people. It has conwe want to listen by developing methods of dialogue that tinued this path following the acquisition of Italgas and are increasingly dedicated to their needs. Stogit to build a new entity together with GNL Italia. SucInitiatives carried out in collaboration with our stakeholdcess in future years will also depend on the ability of the ers are a testament to the relationship of trust that we four companies to create constant synergies and develop have established with them. It is our desire to continue a competitive advantage through size. to strengthen and improve this relationship. Good susThe significant results achieved, as well as those we wish tainability practices and an effective governance model, to pursue, are based on a wealth of skills, implementation such as that of Snam Rete Gas, are instrumental in ensurcapabilities and human and financial resources, which for ing sustainable growth over the long term. These factors many years have allowed us to develop infrastructures for have been the essential foundation of our development for the market and the country as a whole. However, these many years. Chief Executive Officer 5 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Methodology and scope of report Methodology and scope of report The report was prepared in accordance with GRI G3 guidelines. Direct quotes from stakeholders give evidence to inclusivity of them and to collaborative relationship. The Sustainability Report is published annually in orpose a set of significant indicators for each sustainability der to report on the environmental, social and economic area allowing for a thorough consideration of the impact of performance of transportation business activity. (Snam Rete Gas S.p.A.), liquefied The report has a new look comnatural gas regasification (GNL pared with previous editions. Italia S.p.A.), storage (Stogit Snam Rete Gas adheres to the Global In particular, stakeholders are S.p.A.) and distribution (Italgas Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3). The GRI given a stronger voice with diS.p.A.) operations. The operasets out a body of rules to ensure that rect quotes from them and spetions of Italgas also include its sustainability reports are comparable cific examples of collaboration subsidiary Napoletanagas. at international level. In particular, the activities. This year’s report is This document will provide the GRI’s contents and indicators define devoted to them and is based reader with in-depth informahow the report should be structured in on a rigorous, targeted approach tion, news and comments dediorder to present the economic, environthat began with a project to map cated to stakeholders with a mental and social performance of an stakeholders after the acquisidialectical approach aimed at organisation, following the principles tions. providing more detailed informaof materiality and inclusivity of stakeThe topics and indicators includtion on operations and certain holders, completeness, comparability, ed in the report were selected on aspects of their sustainability. accuracy, timeliness, clarity and relithe basis of their relevance in Additional information is availability of the information included in terms of sustainability and their able in the sustainability section the report. ability to affect stakeholders’ asof the website www.snamretesessments and decisions. The gas.it. report is prepared by the SusThe report was prepared in actainability unit of Snam Rete Gas cordance with “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines”, verS.p.A. in collaboration with various company departments. sion 3.0, issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. These Results in the area of sustainable development are exguidelines provide a specific reporting system and proplained by formulating and calculating specific indicators 6 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Methodology and scope of report that are gathered in tables at the end of the document consolidated financial statements are for 2009 and 2010. (“performance indicators”). In particular, physical, enviThe economic and financial results for 2009 include the ronmental, social and monetary data were gathered that impact of consolidating Italgas and Stogit as of 30 June are characteristic of the company’s operations in order to 2009. Economic data are reported in accordance with IAS/ cover the entire range of significant social, environmenIFRS. Due to the structure of the Italian market, it is not tal and economic repercussions. The calculation methods possible to compare results presented in the Sustainabilused to determine the various figures are indicated in the ity Report with other similar entities. specific related sections. The report is published concurrently with the consolidated Information is reported for the year ending 31 December financial statements and was approved by the board of di2010 and has been extrapolated using internal managerectors on 2 March 2011. ment tools and public documents published by accredited The report was audited by an independent third party institutions. In addition, information is provided in the ap(Ernst & Young) based on the principles and guidelines propriate form on significant events occurring after the of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements end of the year. Data and information refer to Snam Rete (ISAE 3000) issued by the International Auditing and AsGas companies and all of 2010. surance Standards Board (IAASB). The results of the audits To ensure the comparability of the most significant indiperformed are included in the compliance certification atcators over time, and to allow the reader to compare pertached to this report. formance, results for previous years are provided (three Naturally, for the best report comprehension, Snam Rete years for transportation and regasification operations and Gas means the parent company together with its subtwo years for the recently acquired storage and distribusidiaries, while Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. means the parent tion operations). The economic indicators taken from the company only. Reporting period 2010 Coverage of the report annual Previous report 2009 Sustainability Report Contact person Domenico Negrini Snam Rete Gas Piazza Santa Barbara, 7 San Donato Milanese (MI) Accessibility www.snamretegas.it e-mail svilupposostenibile@snamretegas.it 7 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Snam Rete Gas: infrastructures and operating ﬁgures Snam Rete Gas: infrastructures and operating ﬁgures National transportation network Compression stations Import points Regasiﬁcation terminal Storage ﬁelds Municipal territories under concession 8 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Snam Rete Gas: infrastructures and operating ﬁgures Transportation Regasification Storage Distribution Distribution 2010 key operating figures Natural gas injected into the national transportation network (billions of cubic metres) 83.32 Transportation network (kilometres in use) 31,680 LNG regasification (billions of cubic metres) 1.98 Available storage capacity (billions of cubic metres) 9.2 Natural gas moved through the storage system (billions of cubic metres) 15.59 of which injected 8.00 of which withdrawn 7.59 Gas distribution (billions of cubic metres) 7.95 Distribution network (kilometres) 50,307 Active meters (millions) 5.848 Gas distribution concessions (number) 1,448 Employees (number) 6,104 9 Corporate Governance Governance and sustainability Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability Governance and sustainability Sustainability is an integral part of the business model of Snam Rete Gas and is a guiding element in making strategic and operational decisions for the company. Snam Rete Gas’ Board of Director. Standing, from left to right: Massimo Mantovani, Massimo Gatto, Elisabetta Oliveri, Alessandro Bernini, Davide Croff, Francesco Schiavone Panni, Mario Stella Richter, Renato Santini. Seated, from left to right: Roberto Mazzei, Carlo Malacarne, Salvatore Sardo, Roberto Lonzar General principles more generally, taking into account the best international The corporate governance system is developed as a way practices. In this regard, it should be noted that the corpoof creating value for shareholders and takes into account rate governance system is a specific evaluation criterion the social impact of the taken into consideration activities performed by in the Gas Distribution the company. SafeguardThe company bases the day-to-day conduct of its activities Utilities category by the ing the environment, the on the principles set out by international bodies and conDow Jones Sustainability health and safety of indiventions on the protection of human rights, employment Index. viduals, protecting workand trade union rights, health, safety and environmental In this context, sustainers and ensuring equal rights, and the right to reject forced labour, child labour and ability helps to manage opportunities, cooperaany form of discrimination, as well as on conformity with business risks, improve tion with local and navalues and principles concerning fairness, transparency performance and entional communities, and and sustainable development. In order to give greater vishance the company’s in general, protecting the ibility to this commitment, the company is a signatory to reputation and intangible interests of all stakeholdthe “Global Compact”. This international initiative upholds assets. To ensure that ers are essential values. 10 universal principles concerning human rights, employsustainability issues The company’s corporate ment, the environment and the fight against corruption, are overseen properly, governance is based on and brings together governments, businesses, United Nathe board of directors the principles contained tions agencies, labour organisations and civil associations, has taken a leading role in the Corporate Governwith the aim of contributing to the creation of a more incluin determining sustainance Code for Listed sive and sustainable global economy. ability policies and apCompanies proposed by proving the Sustainabilthe Committee for the ity Report. In addition, Corporate Governance as of 20 March 2009, the of Listed Companies with recommendations from the CEO has assigned specific functions to the management national financial regulator (Consob) on this topic, and committee, which, as a part of its duties, is responsible, 12 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability among other things, for overseeing corporate sustainabilii) reviewing and approving quarterly and half-yearly reity activities, assessing their consistency with business ports of the company and its subsidiaries as required strategies and ensuring a sustainable development model by current laws, and reviewing and approving the susis generated with a focus on the assessment and approval tainability report; and of indicators and the audit of the Sustainability Report. iii) establishing the company’s corporate governance All information related to the corporate governance syssystem and rules. tem is included in the Report on Corporate Governance and Ownership Structure, while other information, such as Snam Rete Gas has taken a number of safeguards to directors’ compensation, legal disputes, etc., is provided ensure proper corporate management in relation to the in the Annual Report. Both documents are available on the board of directors. Prominent among these are the presSnam Rete Gas website (www.snamretegas.it). ence of a greater number of independent directors than required by law and the particular emphasis placed on Board of directors its internal control system. This system combines all The board of directors is the main body in the corporate rules, procedures and organisational structures aimed governance system of Snam Rete Gas and is vested with at enabling, through an appropriate key-risk monitorbroad powers for the ordinary and extraordinary adminising, management and measurement process, a sound tration of the company. In particular, it may carry out all and sustainable administration of the company that is actions it deems appropriate to execute and achieve the consistent with pre-established goals. The board of dicorporate purpose, excluding solely those actions which rectors is composed by nine members: Salvatore Sardo the law or the bylaws dictate are to be performed by the (Chairman), Carlo Malacarne (CEO), Alessandro Bernini, shareholders’ meeting. Davide Croff, Roberto Lonzar, Massimo Mantovani, ElisIn this context, the board of directors has been given, abetta Oliveri, Renato Santini and Mario Stella Richter among other things, exclusive authority with respect to: (directors). Directors Salvatore Sardo, Carlo Malacarne, i) determining, with recommendations from the CEO, the Alessandro Bernini, Davide Croff, Massimo Mantovani company’s and the group’s strategy and objectives, and Renato Santini were elected on the basis of the list including sustainability policies, and approving, in acpresented by Eni S.p.A., while directors Roberto Lonzar, cordance with unbundling regulations, the company’s Elisabetta Oliveri and Mario Stella Richter were elected and the group’s strategic, business, financial and inbased on the list presented by several minority sharefrastructure development plans, as well as the comholders. pany’s strategic agreements; Members of the Company’s Board of Directors Snam Rete Gas Gas GNL Italia Stogit Italgas Members of the Board of Directors 9 5 5 5 Independent directors 5 (*) (*) (*) Non-executive directors 8 4 4 4 Directors appointed by minority shareholders 3 (**) (**) (**) No. of meetings in year to 31.12.2010 10 10 15 11 (*) Information on independence is not relevant since this is a company that is not listed in a regulated market. (**) Not relevant since this is a company with a single shareholder. Committees advises and assists the board of directors with regard to In order to perform its functions more effectively, the board the functions of overseeing the general performance of of directors of Snam Rete Gas has established three comthe company, while the Compensation Committee, which mittees: the Compensation Committee, the Internal Control is made up of three non-executive directors, of whom Committee and the Combined Independent Committee. two are independent, advises the board with regard to The Internal Control Committee, which is made up of criteria for the compensation of the company’s senior three non-executive independent directors, as defined management. by the Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies, At its meeting on 27 July 2010, the board of directors of 13 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability Snam Rete Gas also established the Combined Independcertain that the main corporate risks are identified and ent Committee as the collegial body in charge of the joint properly managed. The CEO is charged with implementing management of regulated activities in the areas of natuthe guidelines formulated by the board of directors by planral gas transportation, dispatch, distribution, storage ning, managing and monitoring the internal control system. and regasification. This body is made up of the following individuals: Business ethics CEO of Snam Rete Gas; Code of Ethics CEO of GNL Italia; In June 2008, Snam Rete Gas adopted the new Code of EthCEO of Italgas; ics (“Code”) which incorporates the latest guidelines on CEO of Stogit; business sustainability and ethics. The Snam Rete Gas Code General Manager of Operations of Snam Rete Gas is made up of the Eni Code of Ethics and a specific addendum indicating its characteristics as a company listed on The board of directors granted the Management Committhe stock exchange and regulated by the Electricity and Gas tee all powers for the performance of its duties. Authority. Thus, the addendum emphasises relationships The Combined Independent Committee has adopted its with Snam Rete Gas shareholders and the market, with the own operating regulations. Electricity and Gas Authority, and with customers, commuAt the same meeting, it was also stipulated that the CEO nities and the local area. of Snam Rete Gas is to chair the Combined Independent The Code specifies that all operations must be carried out Committee and represent the organisational unit, forming in accordance with the law in an environment of legal coma part of said Committee, that is in charge of expressing petition with honesty, integrity, fairness and good faith in a binding opinion to the board of directors in accordance keeping with the legitimate interests of customers, employwith, and for the purposes of, Article 11.5 c) of the Conees, shareholders, business and financial partners and the solidated Unbundling Act for all decisions made by this communities where the company has a business presence. body concerning management and organisational aspects The duties of Code Guarantor were assigned to the Watch of business activities, and for the approval of the developStructure (with an independent external chairman as of ment plan pursuant to Paragraph 11.1 b) i) of the unbun2010), to which the following may be submitted: dling regulations. requests for clarifications or interpretations on the Code’s The Combined Independent Committee has appointed the principles and content; Guarantor, in the person of the General Counsel Legal and suggestions concerning the Code’s application; Corporate Affairs of Snam Rete Gas, to properly manage reports of violations of the Code that have been detercommercially sensitive information handled as a part of mined directly or indirectly. natural gas transportation, dispatch, distribution, storage and regasification operations. Individuals at Snam Rete Gas must, without discrimination or exception, ensure that their actions and behaviour comInternal control system ply with the principles and content of the Code as a part of For several years, Snam Rete Gas has used an internal their duties and responsibilities, acknowledging that Code control system that complies with the guidelines of the compliance constitutes an essential element of the quality Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies and is of work and professional performance. consistent with benchmark best practices. The purpose of the control system is: Model 231 (i) to ensure the suitability of various company processes Legislative Decree no. 231 of 8 June 2001 introduced rules in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and affordability; for the administrative liability of companies on the basis of (ii) to ensure the reliability and accuracy of accounting enwhich the latter may be held liable, and thus penalised, for tries and the protection of the company’s assets; and certain offences committed or attempted in the interest of, (iii) to ensure that operating performance complies with inor for the benefit of, the company by persons vested with ternal and external regulations, directives and company duties of representation, administration or management of guidelines aimed at guaranteeing sound and proper the entity or of one of its organisational units with financial business management. and functional autonomy, by individuals who exercise, including on a de facto basis, the management and control Responsibility for the internal control system lies with the of the entity (individuals in top positions or “senior managboard of directors, which, with the assistance of the Interers”) and by individuals under the management or supervinal Control Committee, sets its guidelines and periodically sion of one of the aforementioned individuals (individuals audits its suitability and actual operation in order to make subject to the management of others). The company is not 14 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability liable if, before offences are committed, it has adopted and In this area, it has also changed its organisational structure effectively implemented organisational, management and with the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Legal Support control models capable of preventing such offences, and it Unit, whose goal is to change existing procedures where has set up a body in charge of overseeing the operation of, necessary, promote the adoption of new regulations by and compliance with, the models. subsidiaries and sensitise and train staff to be aware of and In this regard, Snam Rete Gas and its subsidiaries have comply with the anti-corruption regulations. implemented the provisions of this law by adopting an The purpose of the guidelines is to protect and promote organisational, management and control model of its own the company’s reputation by introducing a specific set of in keeping with its specific characteristics, with each aprules aimed at ensuring the compliance of Snam Rete Gas pointing a Watch Structures charged with monitoring the with the best international standards in the fight against implementation and actual application of the model. corruption. In 2010, a multi-functional team called “Team 231” was set up to identify and develop the procedures necessary Internal Audit to update the Model 231 of the company and its subsidiarInternal Audit is responsible for verifying the adequacy of ies by incorporating the new legal provisions introduced the internal control system and making sure that it provides in the area of crimes concerning counterfeit money, legal reasonable guarantees that the organisation will be able to tender and revenue stamps, falsification of distinctive achieve its goals in a cost-effective and efficient manner. signs or instruments, IT-related crimes and illegal data To be specific, the Internal Audit department has the followhandling, organised crimes, industrial and trade-related ing duties: crimes, copyright infringement and the obstruction of to provide operational, compliance, financial, IT and fraud justice. Team 231 is supported by PricewaterhouseCoopaudit services to Snam Rete Gas and its subsidiaries, as ers as an expert consultant in the area of administrative well as the activities dictated by the model required under liability/compliance. Legislative Decree 231/2001 and independent monitoring of the control system for corporate reporting; Anti-corruption guidelines for the activities under its responsibility, to maintain A key factor in the commitment of Snam Rete Gas to susrelationships with the Audit Committee, the Supervitainability is its ability to do its business with loyalty, fairsory Body established pursuant to Legislative Decree ness, transparency, honesty and integrity, and in accord231/2001, the board of statutory auditors and the indeance with the national and international laws, regulations, pendent auditor; standards and guidelines that apply to its business. to manage notifications from known and unknown sourcIn this context, Snam Rete Gas has, for some time, emes received for any purpose by Snam Rete Gas and its phasised the issue of the fight against corruption, and the subsidiaries. board of directors has adopted “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” (incorporating the same policy introduced by the ultimate The activities performed by Internal Audit in 2010 are sumparent, Eni). marised in the table below: Internal audit activities Total number of audits carried out 51 Number of operating audits scheduled 11 Number of independent monitoring audits (SOA 262) 40 Reports received 26 of which concerning the internal control system 10 of which concerning accounting, auditing, fraud, etc. 0 of which concerning administrative liability pursuant to Legislative Decree no. 231/2001 0 of which concerning other matters (code of ethics, mobbing, theft, security, etc.) 16 Reports archived due to absence of elements or untruth (no.) 16 Reports resulting in corporate interventions (disciplinary) (no.) 1 Reports resulting in corporate interventions (managerial) (no.) 3 Reports referred to the legal authorities (no.) 0 Reports currently under investigation (no.) 6 15 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability Sustainability strategy agement, while the sustainability department monitors Sustainability is an integral part of the business model of the achievement of goals and progress made on projects. Snam Rete Gas and is a guiding element in making straThe company’s approach to sustainability is first aimed tegic and operational decisions for the company, and at at identifying all players with whom it interacts and who the same time it is instrumental in ensuring responsible can impact, or be affected by, the organisation’s activigrowth over the medium and long term. ties, and second at understanding the interests and relThe sustainability model prepared by the company is evant issues for each of these with the aim of getting developed through a strategic process aimed at making them involved. constant improvements, and it In this context, Snam Rete Gas consists of specific action plans. promotes transparency and disIn July 2010, with the issuance The approach to sustainability of Snam cussion to foster the building of of the new “Sustainability ActivRete Gas takes its cue from now wellconsensus and trust, improve ity” Procedure, the model was established concepts first formulated decision-making processes and also extended to the newly acby Edward Freeman in 1984 and subsehelp to reduce conflicts between quired companies (Stogit and quently developed with other contributhe various stakeholders. Italgas). tions, including the Green Book published The engagement system at In September, as a part of the by the European Commission in 2001, in Snam Rete Gas is present at all annual planning process, arwhich corporate social responsibility is company levels. The company eas for improving sustainability defined as a concept whereby “compamaintains ongoing collaborative were developed for the period nies integrate social and environmental relationships with investors, 2011-2014 as an operational tool concerns in their business operations government agencies, instituin preparation for identifying and in their interaction with stakeholdtions and companies with the sustainability-related initiatives ers on a voluntary basis” and thus places aim of offering a service that and projects to be included in stakeholders at its core. is consistent with local and nathe business plan, confirming tional needs and growth plans. It the company’s willingness to also makes its expertise availapresent its financial data in conble to foster the development of junction with non-financial data. The company’s manageactivities aimed at continually improving plant reliability ment approved the areas of improvement. and the quality of services offered, giving priority to safety Subsequent improvement plans, which consist of shortand the health of its employees and outside contractors. and medium-term projects and initiatives, are prepared However, this system is not feasible without clearly identiby various company departments and approved by manfying the parties that have a mutually influential relationApproach to sustainability Approach to Tactical Strategic sustainability Conﬁnes of the corporate Business Business Business strategy All stakeholders All stakeholders Plans, activities, objectives Plans, activities, objectives Plans, activities, objectives Traditional approach Transition New approach • Corporate strategy focused • Corporate strategy focused • Sustainability becomes on purely business dimensions on purely business dimensions the basis for formulating • Sustainability managed in parallel • The sustainability strategy is strategy with consideration with tactical approach defined in parallel by seeking given to all stakeholders interrelation 16 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability ship with the company. For this reason, at the end of 2010, vance. On the basis of these results, analyses and studies the “stakeholder mapping” project was launched with the will be developed to initiate more specific ways of getting goal of organically identifying the categories of parties stakeholders involved which are consistent with corporate whose opinions, decisions, attitudes or actions may actuobjectives. ally help or hinder the achievement of a specific goal of the The structure of this report is aimed at enhancing this apcompany based on their level of interest or influence. This proach. Chapters are broken down into sections dedicated survey was all the more necessary based on the expanded to stakeholders in order to shed light on the dialectic apcorporate scope after the acquisition of Italgas and Stogit. proach and initiatives and results achieved to promote reThe purpose of this activity was to identify all stakeholdlationships and get stakeholders involved. ers and break them down into various categories by releSnam Rete Gas’ Stakeholders Engagement model Snam Rete Gas’ Stakeholders 1. Identiﬁcation and mapping of People stakeholders Media Customers 2. 5. Analysis Consolidation of stakeholders’ of stakeholders’ feedback Stakeholder requests Suppliers Investors engagement 4. 3. Community Authorities Gathering of Stakeholders’ and Territory Institutions feedback consultation 17 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability Prof. Mario Molteni ALTIS Director Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Milan Sustainability and the success of a company When interviewed in 2010, 93% of CEOs of large European companies stated that sustainability was important for the future success of business. The same research showed that over just three years, from 2007 to 2010, the percentage of company leaders who felt that sustainability policies had been integrated in their companies’ strategy rose from 50% to 81%. The main reasons cited for this integration are the desire to strengthen brand, stakeholder trust and the company’s reputation. This is a very reassuring situation, and perhaps too much so. In fact, the businesses reviewed constitute a set of “responsible leaders” since they voluntarily joined the Global Compact, the initiative launched in 2000 by the United Nations to promote 10 universal principles related to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption (Snam Rete Gas joined in 2009) among the world’s major companies. Although this is not a representative sample of the business world, what emerged is still highly significant: the focus on sustainability is increasingly perceived as a competitive advantage. This is the result of a number of structural changes taking place worldwide: new expectations of workers (health and safety, but also achieving a work/life balance, equal opportunities, welfare services, etc.), more critical consumers, the phenomenon of responsible procurement in government and private enterprise, the growing importance financial markets place on social and environmental issues (investment criteria adopted by major international players, development of ethical and green funds, etc.), the relevance given to international stock indices that assess the social responsibility of businesses (such as the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index), and expectations of future regulations on social, and especially environmental, issues. 18 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Governance and sustainability However, many companies address this challenge in a purely reactive manner by complying (and often, only formally) with the general trend, without truly reforming the concept of their role in society and their behaviour, Thus, I would like to indicate three tests of a true sustainability orientation, on the basis of which I would also ask you to assess the quality of the strategy implemented by Snam Rete Gas companies as indicated in this report. First test: do sustainability policies involve all activities in the company’s value chain without exception, starting with the most critical activity based on the specific nature of the business? Second test: is the focus on sustainability seen only in defensive terms in the sense of “protecting value” and limiting operational and reputation risks or has it become a source of “creating value” since it is the fundamental driver of innovation? In this regard, there is increasing talk about shared value creation, which is the creation of value for the benefit of both the company and society. This is achieved through: the upgrading of company processes in an environmental context while also boosting productivity; the development of products and services with a high social and environmental content which together can achieve full commercial success; the commitment to develop the local community, and in particular the business sector, with positive repercussions for the company’s competitive position. Third test (which is particularly relevant for a company operating in the same kind of sector as Snam Rete Gas): does the company contribute, by self-regulating and participating in the establishment of rules by legislators and government authorities, to designing an industry governance system capable of ensuring fairness and efficiency overall? Those companies which aspire to achieve true sustainable growth should be able to answer affirmatively to these three questions. 19 Stakeholders People Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People People The desire to do good, the quality of service, environmental protection and workplace safety are the common features underlying a collective culture. Participation and sharing the positive and complementary aspects of each company so that these factors become grounds for union and “People are indispensable and fundamental to the very sharing. existence of the company, and our goals can be achieved Bringing together four different companies into a single only through their dedication and professionalism”. efficient system means making big changes to the organisation and the role of each person. A new group is The board of directors of Snam Rete Gas approved its taking shape; one that is first and foremost a society of policy on “Our People”, which governs the full spectrum people who work together, spur each other on and make of human resources management, on the basis of this the company grow: expertise, passion and skill are straprinciple. Diversity, maximising people’s potential, traintegic and fundamental factors in defining corporate obing, communication and organisational wellbeing are key jectives and actually achieving them. values, particularly during a period of transition. The desire to do good, quality of service, environmenIt has been a historic couple of years for Snam Rete Gas, tal protection and workplace safety are the common revolving mainly around the consolidation and integrafeatures underlying a collective culture that everyone tion of different companies. Although they all grew up appreciates. Snam Rete Gas is unique in its focus on rewithin the eni group, the four companies that constitute sults, involvement of people and quality of internal relatoday’s Snam Rete Gas operate in different sectors, have tions. grown at different speeds and are located in different We are taking steps to ensure that our people are familiar parts of Italy. with and feel part of the new grouping, and that they are We made an important decision to consciously exploit able to combine their own prospects and aspirations with 22 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People the growth of the business. professional development, encourage participation and That is why we are stepping up our efforts to expand listening, ensure clear and transparent information, and and enhance the skills of our people, ensure individual create a positive work environment. Personnel by company 2008 2009 2010 Snam Rete Gas S.p.A 2,252 2,254 2,636 GNL Italia 93 87 70 Italgas 3,545 3,119 Stogit 301 279 2,345 6,187 6,104 Personnel subdivided by status 2008 2009 2010 Executives 65 121 116 Managers 265 493 508 Office workers 1,241 3,320 3,243 Manual workers 774 2,253 2,237 2,345 6,187 6,104 Change management We took great care to ensure smooth transition, and in record The influence and competitive strength of Snam Rete Gas time the operation brought about more streamlined organirests firmly on its ability to cover the full breadth of regusational structures which are better able to respond to the lated gas activities. needs of different sectors. During the first few months of The integration creates value through developing infrathe year, more than 400 employees switched department structure, skill sharing, improving efficiency and achieving and 70% of executives changed their role in order to rework industrial synergies. This principle is founded on the belief how their duties fit into the new corporate structure. that the four businesses will create more value when inteIn order to make the new model work, we needed to create a grated than the sum of the values they would have created business management system that involves all the compaindividually. nies and includes the internal regulatory and organisational We spent the first part of 2010 designing and implementing systems, defined on the basis of several key principles the organisational structure to ensure that the new busiaimed at ensuring that the common corporate objectives ness entity runs efficiently. This project has been operaare reached in the correct fashion. tional since April, with a parent company (Snam Rete Gas A unique and dynamic system, a procedural approach and S.p.A.) which houses the transportation business and the a vision consistent with quality criteria are the key features staff and services areas, and three subsidiaries which are that ensure continual improvement in procedural efficienresponsible for the following specific businesses: distribucy and the suitability of the entire system. Standardising tion, storage and regasification. shared processes and preparing integrated information We decided to retain a corporate structure whereby each insystems has allowed us to tailor rules and methods to endividual business is responsible for meeting its own targets. sure a thorough and efficient service. This allows us to get the most out of our specific expertise The new corporate structure obliges everybody to work in a and increases our ability to change working processes by new way: no longer as individual units or departments, but promoting synergies and integrating best practice. as connected parts of an organic and integrated system. The organisational structure involves an integrated service model centralised in the parent company, with the businesses served by the highest levels of expertise. 23 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Davide Corazza Head of plant operations Polo Minerbio Sabbioncello Stogit Sharing the maintenance process As part of the integration schedule, we developed the “SAP Storage and maintenance internalisation” project. This will generate significant cost savings for the company and improve the quality of the service we offer. The project involves recentralising all maintenance activities within Stogit and sharing information systems with Snam Rete Gas. This requires significant investment, particularly in people and their training and requalification. It is an example of efficiency which arises from developing and sharing skills within Snam Rete Gas companies. How has the maintenance project changed the way you work? It is only since December 2010 that the staff of the contract company which was responsible for Stogit’s maintenance activities (SES) have been absorbed into Stogit and that we have begun again to directly manage the contractors. However, I think that, as far as I can tell at this stage, my workload will eventually increase; as well as the work I was doing before, I will also have to perform other tasks related to the direct management of maintenance, although having direct control over these aspects will have a significant benefit. Has the company supported this change? Absolutely. The company has carried out a thorough information programme, starting in June with a meeting with management and a visit to a Snam Rete Gas station, and continuing in the form of regular meetings. This really helped people to understand the project as a whole and the objectives the company has set itself. In some cases, I think certain information could have been more specific, but I was told that these points were still being defined. In terms of training, I took information systems courses which were useful for understanding the system, but which must be accompanied by practical usage to enable understanding of the capabilities and uses of an information system. What difficulties did you encounter? Information on the details of certain working processes, and in particular I mean the new flow of company activation and defining competencies between stations and headquarters, was not received early enough to enable me to have a full and clear picture from the beginning. And how were these problems resolved? Working closely with colleagues from other stations, and sharing information and solutions with them and with the central technical unit, allowed us to overcome these little imperfections or gaps which can always surface when a new system is launched. Do you think this change provides an opportunity for professional development? I really think it does. The main possibility that I see is directly managing personnel of outside companies working on our plants, as well as, eventually, the station’s own staff directly carrying out maintenance activities. This will improve plant and operations management. People who work in the plant every day inevitably pay more attention to its management and operation. 24 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Enhancement, wellbeing and equal opportunities we also used other means of communication, such as Involvement and communication newsletters and posters, to involve people in ongoing Encouraging participation, which includes listening to initiatives. people’s needs and their requests for improvement, fosThe listening tools outlined for managing and developters a positive internal climate and increases their level ing people were implemented in the form of motivational of satisfaction in the performance of their activities. meetings with new graduates and manager feedback We are finding more opportunities and ways of dissemisessions carried out as part of appraisals. nating to all levels a knowledge of corporate objectives, During 2011, three years after the last survey and a year an understanding and sharing of strategies, participaon from the implementation of the new organisational tion in ongoing improvement processes and the request model, we will carry out an analysis of the internal workfor a contribution from everybody. ing environment. This is crucial for understanding how In 2010, we trialled a series of meetings to share corporate satisfied people really are and subsequently implementobjectives and reinforce the message to staff that each pering the appropriate improvement initiatives. son’s work is crucial if we are to achieve these objectives. As well as creating the new intranet for all companies, 25 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People “energie” online: the new intranet With the integration of Snam Rete Gas, GNL Italia, Stogit and Italgas, it is essential for everyone to have access to a common working tool. A single environment where they can find the information necessary to carry out their daily activities which can be a useful way of conveying information, without losing the specific characteristics of each company, and, at the same time, an effective medium for developing knowledge and sharing experiences. The “energie” intranet site is a collaboration platform where people experience the organisation through communication channels within and between the companies, creating a horizontal circulation of information and areas for the sharing and development of knowledge. Knowledge management is an important objective, particularly from the point of view of integration: the idea of the new intranet site is to pool the distinctive technical knowhow of each company, each department and each regional site. In particular, this aim is pursued through the sections devoted to the different organisational areas and regional sites, and through the project areas designed as a collaborative and interactive “container” devoted to individual projects, for the publication and sharing of content, with a dedicated thematic forum. In 2011, the development of the intranet will concern the overhaul of the document area to create a single container where it will be easier to share the knowledge of all the companies and to search by subject. Maria Ranaldi Central district Italgas Intranet: a shared process Over the last few months, we have tested the “energie” site as a powerful information sharing tool, particularly after the integration between Snam Rete Gas, Italgas, Stogit and GNL Italia. I was chosen by my manager as the representative for Italgas’s central district. The network of representatives, which comprises around 80 people from all Snam Rete Gas companies, has had and will continue to have the task of managing content supply for the specific sections of interest. We have often been asked to contribute to the creation of a practical and complete environment. I think our involvement and active participation were the main features of the creation of the intranet. It was really interesting taking part in the project, expressing the requirements of my district in order to make the intranet more efficient for everybody. During the training course, I learned how to structure a journalistic article and how to independently enter information, details and photos of the central district, all operating stations and specialist units. In my role as a representative, I promoted the intranet within my district. I am convinced that “energie” is an excellent place to find the information needed to carry out day-to-day activities and an indispensable tool for developing knowledge and sharing experiences. It was really pleasing when, during a meeting, I reported to the head of the district and the heads of the operating stations and the units about the potential and use of the “energie” site. It was a long-term decision to make people involved in creating the intranet, and it is undoubtedly a big advantage that simplifies and encourages content management. It will, however, be essential to keep the network of representatives involved on a regular basis to make everybody more aware of how important it is to constantly update “energie” so that people see it as a dynamic tool where they can find valid and useful information. 26 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Training date knowledge of the workers’ health and safety manTraining and consolidating the professional skill set, in agement system. keeping with changes to the environment in which the In terms of the environment, the introduction of the company operates, are an integral part of maximising new waste traceability system (SISTRI), which requires people’s potential. a widespread training initiative throughout the country, As well as enhancing people’s job opportunities, trainhas been particularly important. ing serves as a support to organisational integration and In relation to the guidelines of the organisational, manchange management. agement and control model pursuant to Legislative These activities are based on an ongoing partnership Decree no. 231/2001, all executives and unit heads with the various units in order to encourage the design (around 200 people in total) took part in an important and continual improvement of training courses, making training course aimed at disseminating the company’s them more efficient and consistent with the requireguidelines on anti-corruption. ments of people, professional families and corporate There was also a training exercise for all the relevant peoobjectives. ple (around 200) to illustrate the procedure approved by In 2010, we delivered a total of around 148,820 hours of the Snam Rete Gas board of directors and enacted by the training (more than 24 hours per employee) to 13,750 subsidiaries on related-party transactions, as governed participants. by a Consob Regulation. Eighty-four per cent of people in the company were inAs part of a broader eni e-learning initiative, Snam Rete volved in training initiatives, a significant improvement Gas used its years of experience to create educational on the 76% in the previous year. This is testament to an materials for the gas module of the course, which is takongoing and widespread commitment to updating and en by new recruits across the eni group. enhancing the skill set of all our people. We continued our commitment to developing managerial Among the initiatives undertaken in 2010 to support skills by involving executives and managers in specific the ongoing integration process, the “Economic and training initiatives. operational logics of regulated markets” course, which For the executives, there were sessions to learn, review was designed and implemented in partnership with the and discuss corporate strategies. In particular, a workPolytechnic University of Milan, was particularly signifishop was organised to ensure awareness of business cant. In 2010, the course was attended by all recently context and illustrate the core points of the strategic appointed graduates and executives; all managers will plan. attend the course in 2011. By making it easier to transfer specialist knowledge between the same departments of the different companies, we undertook a series of initiatives to support the organisational actions established by the “energie” programme. These include Stogit’s project to internalise maintenance and the implementation of a training course for Snam Rete Gas’s investment teams. During the year, we developed and delivered training to support the introduction of the Work Force Management project, involving many of the technical staff in using new IT equipment and performing technical activities. Following on from previous years, we continued our commitment to professional technical training, linked to the development and consolidation of specialist technical knowledge. The 62,160 hours of training dedicated to health, safety and the environment shows a particularly strong commitment in this area. The internally designed and implemented courses included: “Working on electrical equipment”, “Drive safe”, “Specific business risks” and “The role of the safety officer” (Legislative Decree no. 81/08). With a view to obtaining OHSAS certification for the parent company, widespread training involved everybody at the company in order to consoli27 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People WFM: when work changes, communication and training facilitate the change Work Force Management (WFM) changed the way that more than 2,000 people, between manual workers and technicians, at Italgas work thanks to specially developed IT systems and innovative palmtop devices. The scheduling, allocation, project management and final balancing of work on the network and the meters are now done differently using new tools. A change on this scale needs to be managed and facilitated: we used communication and training to accompany the introduction of the new working methods and their underlying logics. Communication was based around two threads of content: one transmitted messages on the change brought about by WFM (new ways of working, effects on time management, operational benefits etc.), while the other provided information on the status of the project (the activities and roles affected, the launch plan, post-launch support, training and the key areas to monitor during and after the launch). Cartoon Dedicated meetings Information to region Series Communication of posters about the change Communication about the project and its commencement Articles on websites and in company magazines Logos Newsletters Incentive and remuneration systems tocracy and internal fairness. It is particularly aimed at enAssessing and developing potential are crucial to getting suring recognition of the results achieved by an employee, the most out of our people and ensuring their professional the quality of professional support they provide and their development in line with individual motivations and comdevelopment potential. pany requirements. Along with the policy of meritocracy, related to roles and As well as helping people to define and fine-tune their proresponsibilities, a variable incentive system for managers fessional programmes, these systems help the company to and executives has been built up over the last few years, formulate training, management and development plants connected with performance appraisal through the allocathat are consistent with the characteristics, abilities, motition of specific individual charts derived from the corporate vations and availability of staff. ones. Performance appraisals assess the contribution made and In 2010, this appraisal involved all executives and their results achieved by an individual member of staff over the commitment to developing business activities, with parcourse of the year. They are a way of communicating and ticular focus on sustainability. This is demonstrated by the involving the person in meeting targets. allocation of nearly 100% of individual sustainability targets. A management review is drawn up each year in order to A reduction was noted in the number of managers who were obtain a complete picture of the development profile of all given an individual target, owing to the corporate restrucmanagers. This enables timely monitoring of managers’ perturing in 2010 and the subsequent realignment of processformance by using consolidated and common criteria. es and formats related to the flow of allocating targets. The The remuneration system is an important way of involving system will continue in 2011 and will involve more people. people and is updated regularly with criteria based on meriIn 2010, we started initiatives aimed at improving and in28 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Over time, we identified multiple communication tools for different targets (people in the company who are not directly affected, regional heads, technicians and manual workers etc.) in order to effectively reach people affected by the change in different ways. Some of these tools were dedicated to the change, others to project status and others were mixed, as shown by the diagram below. The top-down training was predominantly carried out in a capillary fashion across the country. Project experts trained a team of district and associate trainers, who in turn trained numerous unit trainers. These unit trainers brought the message to all technicians and manual workers across the country. The new system learning programmes involved initial training and then refresher sessions where necessary. The trainers played an important role in the launch phase by becoming tutors for their respective units, performing not only teaching duties but also troubleshooting and problem-solving activities and providing post-launch support to users. Project experts “District/Associate” trainers Unit trainers Managers Schedulers Technicians Manual workers tegrating bonus policies and adhering to market standards. ity, responsibility, experience and autonomy (CREA), as Consolidating the Hay method of job evaluation allowed us specified by the national collective labour agreement for to implement compensation, development and mobility polthe energy and petroleum industry. The evaluation of each icies for managers and professionals, testing and optimisposition is carried out at least once every two years: 1,029 ing our competitive position and the fairness of payment evaluations were carried out in 2010. All evaluation procpractices. esses are formalised and involve feedback sessions that For young graduates, we began studies aimed at defining are an important opportunity for discussion and communicompensation policies on the basis of performance and cation between manager and employee with a view to gathprofessional and managerial ability in order to support the ering information that can be used to draw up new actions motivation and retention of our most talented youngsters. for developing and maximising the potential of our people. We also continued our commitment to improve the system A collective incentive programme is used for all compaof benefits. nies: the “Profit-sharing scheme” pursuant to the respecIn addition, we updated our fleet of company cars for mantive national collective labour agreements. This scheme is agers to include dual-fuel petrol/methane and hybrid tracbased on company profitability (return on average capital tion models for better environmental protection. employed, ROACE) and productivity measured in relation Lastly, as part of our communication initiatives, we extendto annual targets agreed between the company and union ed our total reward statement (an itemised breakdown of representatives. an individual’s overall pay packet) to all managers. The profit-sharing agreement with the unions was signed in All jobs at Snam Rete Gas S.p.A., GNL Italia and Stogit are December. subject to analytical and overall evaluation of complex29 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Inside integration In September, 70 young graduates from the four companies took part in the “Inside integration” initiative, the aim of which was to try out an integration method in a short space of time and in a small group, recreating the dynamics that 6,000 people have experienced and continue to experience on a day-to-day basis. Rationalising a process which is normally implemented over longer periods, but using similar procedures, enabled the participants to grasp the process and interpret its distinctive aspects. This was also an opportunity to reﬂect on possible areas for improvement of the process, since any discussion of the practical aspects of integration involves thinking about common culture, values, behaviours and skills. The teaching method adopted involved the construction of plastic models (a residential quarter or a high-class villa) by various working groups, whose composition was changed along the way, obliging the participants to recreate a space in an unknown project and sparking discussion within the group of the decisions taken previously. This was a very positive experience for the young people involved, because they gained an understanding of the dynamics of operational integration. “Integration demands effort and work, but it is an investment that enriches us both personally and professionally”. This was one of the observations made by the group of young graduates. At the end of the course, the young graduates met senior management – a moment which was used to present the main results achieved by the group’s work and to learn from the CEO the challenges and objectives which the group will have to tackle in the coming years. Giampaolo Annoni Head of Sicily district Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. Internal professional development as seen by a protagonist I have been district head for about a year. I joined Snam Rete Gas 11 years ago, in the central unit operational programming office. Since then, I have had the opportunity to work in different parts of Italy, from San Donato Milanese to Terranuova Bracciolini and then Milan to Catania, where I am now, performing various managerial roles in different areas: budget and control, compression station, works office, district technical activities and finally district head. Looking back at my career path, I can definitely say I learned a lot directly in the field, continually putting myself forward to undertake new activities and take on new challenges. This also enabled me to meet new people in different operational units and regions. It’s been a unique and intense experience that has allowed me to enrich my professional skills and grow as a person. These continual changes were also accompanied by what I consider to be excellent education: hundreds of hours of training, initially technical to help me with the first jobs I was given and then more managerial as I took on roles with greater responsibility which were increasingly operational in nature. I have recently taken part in a course on regulated markets, providing further proof of how the training at Snam Rete Gas is considered essential for enhancing employees’ specific skills in line with the development of the business. This course improved my knowledge of the operational logics of the market in which Snam Rete Gas operates through opinions provided by qualified internal and external trainers. 30 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Diversity and equal opportunities al transition with a view to supporting the technological In line with the code of ethics and the “our people” policy, changes that we will have to make to deal with the introSnam Rete Gas respects each person and offers equal duction and development of new information systems. opportunities in all aspects of employment, including The company employs 397 disabled people, whose derecruitment, training, pay, promotion, transfers and tervelopment programmes focus on integrating into the mination, avoiding any form of discrimination which may company and into corporate processes. The number of arise from differences in gender, age, health, nationality disabled people rose by 22.2% compared with 2009. and political or religious beliefs. There is not a significant presence of ethnic and linguisIn 2010, 9.6% of all employees were women, while the tic minorities in our workforce, partly due to the fact that percentage of female managers rose to 10.3%, an inSnam Rete Gas operates only in Italy. crease over 2009. The percentage of new recruits that were women was 12% in 2010. These figures reflect the characteristics of our business, which demands particular availability for shift work and continual travel and is therefore not suitable for some candidates. Distribution of employees by geographic area In 2010, there were 99 part-time workers (of whom 94 were on the payroll). We offer more favourable maternity provisions than 1,550 those required by law, retaining the company benefits provided for all staff. Maternity pay during the mandatory leave period is 100% of the salary for the month prior to commencement of leave (compared with 80% required by law). A guide has been published on the intranet for biological 3,153 and adoptive parents with a view to raising awareness about their rights and highlighting the company’s dedication to parents. 1,401 Seven workers (male and female) availed themselves of parental leave in 2010. In terms of statistical diversity, 55 of the 137 people recruited by Snam Rete Gas in 2010 came from an external North Central South/Sicily market. Of these recruits, 28.5% are university graduates and 44.5% have diplomas. This ensures a fair generationPersonnel in service Personnel in service at 31.12.2010 (no.) 6,104 Men 5,521 Women 583 Graduates 592 Diploma holders 3,080 Disabled people 397 Workers covered by national collective labour agreements 6,104 Permanent employees (excluding part-time) 5,844 Employees on apprenticeship or starter contracts 158 Part-time employees 99 Temporary employees 3 Average age (years) 48 Seniority (years) 23 31 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Wellbeing among personnel gramme”, which offers the opportunity to engage in physical Snam Rete Gas offers its employees and their families soactivities at selected and approved sports centres in the vicial initiatives for a better work/life balance and to improve cinity of company offices, at preferential membership rates. the quality of the working environment, thus promoting With regard to the “time and money saving” strand, other wellbeing among personnel. agreements have also been reached which offer preferenOver the years, a detailed system of opportunities has been tial terms for obtaining personal loans and credit cards, developed that includes supplementary healthcare benefits buying used cars, hiring cars, comparing product brands or and insurance cover for working and non-working accibooking a holiday. dents, additional to the statutory benefits or those provided In September 2010, the eni nursery school opened with a by other public bodies. Employees also have access to supcapacity of around 140 children up to the age of 6 years. plementary pension funds and preventive health measures The nursery school is a centre of excellence in terms of both (flu vaccination and cancer screening programmes, inits teaching and its architecture, with a building rated in enpatient and outpatient treatment agreements, information ergy efficiency class A, which offers important support to campaigns on healthier lifestyles). the families of San Donato Milanese employees. Snam Rete Gas participates in the eni Welfare project, a The main initiatives are concentrated at the San Donato Milalong-term plan which involves the provision of strands of nese site; for 2011, a study will be carried out with a view to services in the areas of “family”, “wellbeing” and “time and extending the services to other locations (Turin and Naples). money saving”. Another feature of 2010 was the “Snow Trophy”, the winter The family-related services concern themed residential sports event which involves eni employees and their famicourses for adolescents, based around sports, English-lanlies in a week-long programme of skiing competitions. There guage studies and summer schools to provide families with are also weekday initiatives which develop the integration support during the school holidays. between colleagues from different working environments One of the most prominent initiatives is the “Wellbeing Proand foster team spirit. 247 Snam Rete Gas employees took Chiara Chiodaroli Head of contracts and operational analysis Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. Work/life balance: an achievable goal You can achieve a work/life balance, especially if you work for a company which, recognising the important social role of the family, chooses to support employees who aspire to achieve their full potential, both personally and professionally. Deciding to whom we should entrust our son during working hours was certainly a tricky choice for my husband and I, so we were very happy to be able to take part in the eni Reggio Children project, not just for the logistical advantage offered by the proximity between the new structure and the office, or for the financial benefit compared with other private options, but above all because the educational programme offered is absolutely at the cutting edge in Italy and worldwide. The experience of these first few months has certainly been positive: our son is growing by exploring the environment around him, under the attentive guidance of professionals who, with full respect for his individuality and in a fun way, offer him educational paths aimed at a complete development of his cognitive and motor skills, not only through experiments relating to movement, theatricality and awareness of his own body, but also through the discovery of pictorial, manual and graphical language. My husband and I are enthusiastic about the choice we made, partly because, in the knowledge that our son is spending the day in a safe and stimulating environment, we are able to live our professional lives to the full. My development within Snam Rete Gas is proceeding according to the path which was profiled to me before I became a mother, and to my great pleasure, a few months ago, after working as the head of a unit, I was given the status of manager. So I think that the private and professional spheres are complementary rather than mutually exclusive, provided they are managed with good will and organisation. 32 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People part in the 2010 event, held in Moena (TR). the introduction of a few special differences with respect to In 2010, for the first time, the employees of GNL Italia organthe model applied in other segments. The solution adopted ised a Christmas party with their children at Cà Bertocchi, provides for a distinction between the duties of general the new building restructured and made available for the management, which are centralised within Snam Rete Gas occasion by the company. S.p.A., and the duties of special management, coordination In accordance with tradition, employees who have been and support for operating units, which are assigned to the with the company for 25 years are given an award, which individual companies. is presented together with a gold medal, for their personal In particular, the organisational structures centralised contribution to the company’s growth. In 2010, 392 of within Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. ensure the management of these were awarded. know-how, assist the business units in identifying the most efficient technical and organisational solutions, and define, Safety for all companies, the guidelines, methodologies, standards Preventing accidents and working in a safe environment are and operating procedures to be applied. They also take care primary objectives for Snam Rete Gas. Proof of this can be of the definition, implementation and maintenance of manseen in the setting up, within the companies, of appropriate agement systems, including by means of technical audits. organisational structures responsible for defining, schedThe operating companies maintain an internal organisationuling and controlling plans for improving workplace health al structure which allows them to operate with an adequate and safety. level of decision-making autonomy. The centralisation of staff functions within Snam Rete Gas In 2010, Snam Rete Gas implemented actions aimed at S.p.A., implemented in 2010 in order to pool skills and make eliminating or reducing occupational risk factors, including them available to all the businesses of the group, has also the “Objective Safety” project, the “Communicating Safety” served as the model of inspiration for corporate organisaawareness-raising campaign and the measures taken to tion with regard to matters of health and safety, but with prevent and reduce road accidents. “Objective Safety” project The project, launched in November 2010, is an important three-year company initiative which aims to act on the culture of the workforce to improve attitudes, behaviour and personal responsibility with regard to health and safety at work. The initiative consists of specific activities that are progressively extended to all Snam Rete Gas companies and encourage everyone to take part; the programme also aims to raise employees’ awareness of “safety management” as a primary element of corporate culture. Objective Safety hopes to achieve a further reduction in the number of workplace incidents and accidents, including by combining and learning from the positive experiences already acquired by the individual companies. The initiatives, aimed at consolidating best practices, are implemented through targeted technical, organisational and procedural actions which involve employees, suppliers and interested third parties. The project as a whole is organised around various interventions representing the different corporate activities such as communication, training and organisation. The following actions will be undertaken over the course of the project: analysis of accident trends across all companies; periodic meetings of regional health and safety teams; detailed reporting for each site; strengthening of communication mechanisms; and involvement of institutions in the improvement process. The project also includes the initiatives “Safety Trophy” and “Zero Accidents Prize”, which are aimed at encouraging all employees to behave safely and responsibly through a points-based competition with nonmonetary prizes. The first of these initiatives mainly involves the personnel of outlying operating sites, while the second is aimed at all personnel. 33 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People The actions taken over the last few years have yielded posiIn 2010 there were a total of 65 accidents, of which 28 were tive results both for the group and for the individual comcommuting accidents (accidents suffered by employees panies, as demonstrated by the trends in accident indices. while travelling from home to their place of work or vice verThe accident frequency index for Snam Rete Gas employees sa). Of the 37 accidents occurring while at work, nine were was 3.55 in 2010 (-22% compared with 2009), while the road accidents (24%), 11 were caused by occupational risks severity index was 0.1 (-44% compared with 2009). Once (30%) and 17 by generic risks (46%). again, there were no fatal accidents during the year. Employees Workplace accidents Frequency Index* Severity Index** 5 0.2 4 0.15 3 0.1 2 0.05 1 2009 2010 2009 2010 * number of non-commuting accidents, with incapacity **number of working days lost in relation to non-commuting accidents, of at least one day, per million hours worked. with incapacity of at least one day, per thousand hours worked. Objective KPI set in 2008 2010 To reduce accident indices. To reduce the 2008 value of the accident frequency Value obtained was 5.24, which exceeds the set index (9.0) of Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. and GNL Italia performance target (-42% compared with the 2008 by 30% by 2012. value). In 2010, corporate activities were continued to ensure corthe indices compared with 2009. In particular, the accident rect management of the health and safety of contractors, frequency index for contractors of Snam Rete Gas was 8.87 who represent an extremely important workforce for the (-30% compared with 2009), while the severity index was activities of Snam Rete Gas. 0.30 (-28% compared with 2009), and there were no fatal Statistical accident analysis shows a clear improvement in accidents. Contractors Workplace accidents Frequency Index* Severity Index** 15 0.5 0.4 10 0.3 0.2 5 0.1 2009 2010 2009 2010 * number of non-commuting accidents, with incapacity ** number of working days lost in relation to non-commuting accidents, of at least one day, per million hours worked. with incapacity of at least one day, per thousand hours worked. 34 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People OHSAS 18001 management system tributed to the achievement of this goal. This new certification In December 2010, Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. obtained OHSAS is added to that already obtained by Italgas. 18001:2007 certification for its occupational health and safeFor the other two companies of Snam Rete Gas (GNL Italia and ty management system (SGSSL). The procedures involved in Stogit), the relevant management systems are being impleobtaining the certification made it possible to bring documenmented with the aim of obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification tation, processes and the operations of all employees into line by 2012. with the reference international standard. All employees conObjective KPI set in 2008 2010 To increase corporate certifications. To obtain OHSAS 18001 certification Target achieved. (health and safety of Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. employees) by 2010. OHSAS 18001 identification and evaluation of the risks and hazards The OHSAS 18001 standard, published by the British associated with activities carried out by third parties. Standards Institution (most recent version 1 July 2007), is an international standard which allows companies to control risks relating to the health and safety of employSnam Rete Gas and the Global Compact Italian Network: ees and to consequently improve performance. Health and safety in the workplace A management system certified under this standard The Global Compact requires signatory businesses therefore becomes an organisational tool that makes and organisations to share, support and apply these it possible to manage employee safety organically and principles in their sphere of influence, and to particisystematically, and also ensures that safety legislation pate actively in the initiatives promoted by local netis complied with and properly applied. works. Against this background, we began a useful partnerThe requirements of the standard are as follows: ship with the Global Compact Italian network, which in adoption of a safety management policy; September 2010 led to the organisation of an awareidentification of dangers, evaluation of risks and idenness-raising seminar and workshops on the theme of tification of control procedures, in close connection workplace health and safety a central commitment with legislative or other adopted provisions; for many companies, including, of course, Snam Rete definition of specific programmes and objectives by Gas. applying the ‘Plan, Do, Check, Act’ approach; The “Health and safety in the workplace” seminar, which definition of duties and responsibilities; was attended by representatives from the various Italeducation, training and involvement of personnel; ian companies subscribing to the Global Compact, was procedures for communication, involvement and conopened by a report from Prof. Francesco Bacchini of Bisultation with employees and interested parties, with cocca University, Milan, on the topic “Safety and organiregard to matters of workplace health and safety; sation”. The report showed, including from the point of controlled management of documentation; view of complying with the applicable legislative requireimplementation of operational control procedures for ments, how an organisational structure that integrates activities associated with identified significant risks, health and safety into all of its activities is more efficient in relation to all company processes; and effective than one where safety is referred to a parpreparation of measures aimed at identifying, preventallel structure. ing and controlling possible accidental events (actual The link between safety and competitiveness was the accidents and near-miss incidents) and emergencies; topic examined by Marco Frey, chairman of the Global monitoring and measurement of the performance of Compact Italian network and professor at the Sant’Anna the health and safety system, including to ensure conSchool of Advanced Studies and the universities of Boctinued compliance with legislation; coni and Tor Vergata, who used case studies to highlight definition and implementation of systematic and pehow safety in the workplace should be regarded not as riodic controls (accidents, incidents, non-compliance, a cost for the business, but a benefit, including in ecocorrective and preventive actions) on the adequacy of nomic terms. the management system; 35 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Marco Frey Professor at the Sant’Anna School of Advanced Studies and chairman of the Global Compact Italian network Integrating HSE into the business The issues of health, safety and the environment (HSE) at work are highly topical for many reasons. Firstly, because of the attention paid to institutions (European and Italian) that have recently updated the legislative framework (to cite only the main measures: the new directive on waste and SISTRI in Italy, the Consolidated Safety Act and amendments thereto, including the integrations with Legislative Decree no. 231, and the measures on work-related stress). INAIL itself recently demonstrated its attention to businesses’ commitment to preventing accidents in the workplace by offering an initial range of incentives, which on the now-famous “click day” were snapped up in just a few minutes. A further €800 million in incentives is planned over the next few years, as well as a substantial increase (up to 30%) in the insurance premium discount for maintaining low accident rates. A second reason concerns the growing awareness on the part of companies with regard to the importance of correct management of health and environmental issues in order to improve their competitive performance. There is plenty of evidence of this. Within the context of the SIS initiative sponsored by Confindustria and INAIL, which to date has involved more than 2,000 companies, many positive experiences have emerged in which the structuring of management systems integrated into HSE activities and organisation of the business has made it possible to achieve extremely interesting results. In particular, with regard to accident reduction, it has been very striking that a number of companies have reported no accidents at all. Others have shown an increase in productivity that is partly attributable to activities arising from the implementation of the safety programme. Others still have shown benefits such as an improvement in relations with public institutions, the ability to use available resources more efficiently, an improvement in the climate within the business, growth on the part of all personnel, united in the cause of common objectives, etc. A third reason concerns the synergies and innovations which can be introduced in the field of health and safety. The green economy is a hot topic nowadays, and the ability to find innovative solutions in this sphere can be an opportunity to enhance not only a company’s reputation, but also its cost structure and more generally its capacity for developing competitive products and services. There are many potential areas for action in this regard, particularly those concerning the optimisation of resources. All exhaustible resources (energy, raw materials etc.) are becoming ever more critical, and the ability to make savings and close cycles is essential to the responsible and efficient management of a company’s activities. Energy, waste and water management are increasingly important components of integrated management systems. But the innovations in the field of safety are also particularly significant, above all for the purposes of developing an accident prevention culture within the organisation. Against this kind of background, the commitment of Snam Rete Gas to HSE management, and particularly to safety management, is fully justified. The safety project, which we recently discussed at a seminar of the Global Compact Italian network, acts on some of the key levers for the achievement of significant results in this field: culture, competence and conduct. These are three of the ten issues which characterise an integrated HSE approach. 36 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Control Culture The fact is that developing a safety culture means Awareness Conviction penetrating the entire organisation through a strong commitment by senior management and through adequate communication, as well as a conviction that accident prevention benefits Competence COMMITMENT Communication everyone, employees and company alike. This demands not only specialist skills, which legislators have sought to organise around prevenInvolvement Convenience tion and protection, but also a strong involvement of employees and managers, so that awareness Collaboration about effective and efficient management is integrated into the day-to-day conduct of activities. It is increasingly necessary for this attention not to be confined to the business, but to be extended to all affected suppliers, third parties and contractors so that control of the results extends along the entire chain of activities. The ten actions which have been implemented in this regard are consistent with this requirement: these range from the commitment of senior management to the scheduling of meetings aimed at raising the awareness of all employees on “safety days”. Between the former and the latter there is a series of actions which are extremely useful for ensuring that safety penetrates the organisation: from the strengthening of accident analysis to the introduction of prizes for improvements in safety performance, the setting up of teams devoted to safety improvement, the development of training and awareness-raising initiatives, and the implementation of controls and audits. If managed well, this overall challenge will contribute to the achievement of the aims that the project has set for itself: to contribute to reducing the number of accidents, of which there are too many, including with reference to the company’s own benchmarks; to make safety management a primary element in the corporate culture through effective integration into the day-to-day business; to involve and raise the awareness of employees in the implementation of HSE projects, since these are managed on a top-down basis but their benefits in terms of results are reaped only from a bottom-up perspective; finally, to encourage the adoption of safe behaviour, since the behavioural dimension is absolutely crucial in any thorough accident prevention action. We are convinced that the three-year process which Snam Rete Gas has decided to undertake has been designed in such a manner as to enable us to improve projected performance, entirely in line with the Company’s commitment to corporate social responsibility. 37 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Health Health of workers Snam Rete Gas safeguards workers’ health through continual monitoring of the risks identified in the performance of work activities. 5,000 For workers exposed to special risks, appropriate prevention and protection measures are adopted with the perform4,000 ance of adequate regular health checks carried out by the competent doctor based on special health protocols defined 3,000 according to the type of risk. In 2010, there were 3,180 medical visits, of which 3,097 were 2,000 regular check-ups and 3,934 were diagnostic procedures. 1,000 Promoting health within the company also involves the development of specific initiatives, such as the cancer prevention and flu vaccine campaign, the prohibition of smoking at 2009 2010 work and the prohibition of supplying alcoholic beverages in Medical examinations Diagnostic tests the canteens. New organisational and management model for health surveillance activities As a result of the integration, the process of organising and managing personnel health surveillance activities also required the development of a uniform reference model that meets the individual needs of each company. The model developed takes account of the organisation and distribution of the personnel subject to health surveillance, currently consisting of approximately 5,000 workers stationed at around 200 work sites in Italy. Ten regional areas have been defined for the identification of occupational physicians, one of whom has duties of coordination, and for the organisational structures involved to operate in a uniform manner throughout the region. At the same time, a special software application is under development which, in 2011, will offer more efficient support for the management of occupational health and safety activities. 38 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Industrial relations implementation of the Italgas Work Force Management Snam Rete Gas guarantees all workers the right to freely exproject, aimed at improving operating efficiency (June); press their thoughts, join associations and engage in union reorganisation of the Stogit plant maintenance activities activities. (May) and consequent acquisition of the SES (Saipem EnIn 2010, 53% of employees were members of a trade union. ergy Services) business unit (November); reorganisation of management activities of the Snam During 2010, relations with union organisations were Rete Gas network, with the introduction of “partenza da marked by discussions on reflections prompted by the casa” [leaving home] as the operating procedure for line process of integration of the Snam Rete Gas companies. control activities (December); To this end, constructive discussions were held and agreethe unification of profit-sharing schemes, defining a sinments were reached at both local and national level in relagle new framework valid for all the companies (Decemtion to the nature of the topics considered, as shown below: ber). the start of the integration strategy, the subject of a general memorandum of understanding (February), the articles From the standpoint of workplace safety, the “Objective of which also incorporate the agreements already signed Safety” project launched by Snam Rete Gas was submitted at Italgas and Napoletanagas, on the employment aspect to the Health, Safety and Environment Committee of the Naand the resulting management of mobility procedures; tional Observatory on Energy and Petroleum, from which it the completion of the business unit sale/acquisition proreceived a positive evaluation for its areas of innovation. cedures decided upon in order to implement the organisational design in staff activities (March); Maurizio Zangrandi Member of executives union RSA Dirigenti Snam Rete Gas RSA Dirigenti: ongoing dialogue with the company Snam Rete Gas executives have their own union representation (RSA Dirigenti), the objective of which is to hold talks with the company on all subjects related to the company’s general progress, professional development and the changing role of executives. I have been a member of RSA Dirigenti for almost six years in the role of coordinator. My experience is that the relationship with the company has always been based on a transparent and fair approach with shared goals. For several years now, as proof of the mutual desire to maintain an ongoing dialogue, regular meetings are organised with the CEO coinciding with key dates in the company’s life; this custom goes way back before the new contract for executives, signed by Federmanager and Confindustria in November 2009, made it compulsory. Various topics are dealt with during these meetings: the strategic outlook for our business, outcomes from the organisational and employment point of view, professional development plans and bonus systems pegged to the achievement of company goals. The discussions begun in the last year on the organisational impacts of the “energie” project have been particularly important. In the first few months of the year, 70% of executives changed their role, expressing their professionalism differently within the new corporate system. RSA Dirigenti has always made itself available with its proactive contribution for participating in the current change. In terms of our activities, I would also like to recall the significant results achieved through amendments of rules and/or bylaws, in safeguarding the specific needs of our company in terms of pension funds and supplementary health benefits. With the entry of other companies into Snam Rete Gas, the RSA has been enriched with the experience and effective contribution of the Italgas RSA represented by Giuseppe Beltramo and Diego Stuppi. The other members of our RSA are Nicola Battilana, Marco Cabri, Massimiliano Erario and Dario Manigrasso. 39 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People Gabriele Valeri, Antonello Assogna e Massimo Chiacchiararelli Secretaries of the FILCTEM/CGIL, FEMCA/CISL and UILCEM/UIL national trade union organisations The following is a summary of the interview with the secretaries of the national trade union organisations on the elements that characterise the industrial relations system at Snam Rete Gas. In particular, they describe how the relationship between the unions and the company has supported the complex path towards corporate integration and the topics that must be dealt with in the near future. What is your sense of the quality of the relationship with Snam Rete Gas? With the birth of the Snam Rete Gas group, as mentioned by the UILCEM secretary, “the system of industrial relations takes on primary importance, since these must necessarily be conducted through further development of the relationship between the parties, to be built around involvement, shared goals and transparency”. From the words of the FEMCA secretary, it is evident how the positive perception of the relationship between Snam Rete Gas and trade union organisations is “supported by the union agreements reached, their quality and the complexity of the issues dealt with”. The FILCTEM secretary nevertheless hopes for “industrial relations that are open, informal, respectful of roles, but cooperative. In fact, in the districts, the relationship model suffers, on the one hand, from the scant powers delegated by Snam Rete Gas to its local representatives and, on the other hand, from issues with the role of some managers, who have not yet understood that the fundamental way to detect the quality of relationships is on the ground, and is not indifferent to the mass of problems sent to higher discussion levels”. What was the union’s role in the integration process? The FILCTEM secretary believes “that many important aspects of the integration process are yet to be completed, but some essential issues were dealt with. The union’s role was one of verification and comparison of corporate plans, but also involved making proposals”. This assessment was echoed by the FEMCA secretary, who maintains that “in a system of stable and participatory relations, the union organisations are indispensable to ensuring worker involvement and consent, identifying them as essential to the corporate view”. The UILCEM secretary is convinced that “the union’s role was two-fold: on the one hand maximising professional potential through the crucial aspect of training, and on the other making the most of the professional mix by taking care not to create a generational gap, in the knowledge that expertise acquired by workers is the real added value. 40 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / People What key topics will discussions focus on in 2011? The FEMCA and UILCEM secretaries are in agreement in maintaining that “the agreements signed will have to be tested thoroughly, especially with reference to the complexities introduced, in terms of organisational, operational and professional aspects, with partenza da casa [leaving home] and the Work Force Management project”. In particular, Italgas will need to “intensify the discussion on how the company is preparing for the long and important period of tenders”. In addition, as noted by the FILCTEM secretary, “the expiry of profit-sharing at the end of 2011 will allow for developing a level of contracts in keeping with the new business entity: the new profitability and productivity parameters associated with the contribution of work in the process must allow for implementing bonuses commensurate with the new Snam entity and eventually achieving goals – and related amounts – commensurate with the growth of economic indicators”. The FEMCA secretary also emphasises the strategic role of second-tier contracts both from the economic standpoint (performance-related pay) and the regulatory standpoint to consolidate the new model of contractual structures. How do you evaluate the approach of Snam Rete Gas on the subject of safety, especially the “Objective Safety” project? Without a doubt it is very positive. The FEMCA secretary mentions how “making the culture of workplace safety grow is one of the fundamental objectives in negotiation proceedings, as well as in the country in general”. For the UILCEM secretary, “attention to safety issues based on prevention and involvement of all interested parties should represent an objective for everyone”. The FILCTEM secretary is less sure: “we think that preventive action should be based on operating methods and on continuous worker training, always on a par with the processes, and that is why we remain sceptical about certain incentives from the economic standpoint, but soon we will see the results and judge things accordingly. On the other hand, I think that speaking about accidents correctly should include an examination of what happens at contractor companies, which often undertake the operational work in more high-risk parts of the cycle; I think that there is also a lot of work to do in this direction”. 41 Stakeholders Customers Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Customers Customers Snam Rete Gas adopts a policy of transparency, impartiality, correctness and free competition, with the goal of increasing the efﬁciency of services. Facilitating management Activities continued for the implementation of websites for Snam Rete Gas has created a single unit for all custommanaging customer relations. The transportation capacers for the purpose of facilitating the management of ity website created to manage all capacity allocation and commercial transactions such as entering into service transaction procedures between the company and cusagreements, their management and lastly billing. The tomers by exchanging communications with full legal and availability of a single point of contact for sales has made contractual validity was developed further, and a study procedure verification a multidisciplinary possibility. was begun to create a storage capacity website. This latter In 2010, changes were issued to procedures for sales of project will allow customers to participate in weekly auctransportation, storage, distribution and transmission tions for the allocation of storage capacity. For carrying capacity, adopting a policy of transparency, impartiality, out this project, Snam Rete Gas has adopted an approach correctness and free competition, with the goal of increassimilar to the one already used to create the transportaing the efficiency of services by simplifying customer action capacity website, i.e. involving customers, listening to tivities. their needs and analysing requests. As far as the storage business is concerned, customer Snam Rete Gas also guaranteed the assignment of transprocedures and forms were redefined to make procedures portation capacity to all candidate customers this year more solid for assumption and activation of strategic storand continued to work to maximise that offering at entry age services. points by increasing it from 365 million cubic metres/day Relative to the distribution business, in 2010, Snam Rete at the start of the 2009/2010 thermal year to 368 million Gas, as operator for information relevant for the “Bonus cubic metres/day at the start of the 2010/2011 thermal Gas” process, evaluated over 250,000 requests sent to year. the Associazione Nazionale Comuni Italiani (ANCI – NaDue to new expansion works, the storage system also has tional Association of Italian Municipalities) by low-income been able to increase its capacity offering from 8.9 billion families who requested the reduction of the cost of gas cubic metres at the start of the 2009/2010 thermal year tanks, as provided for by the social initiative promoted by to 9.2 billion cubic metres at the start of the 2010/2011 the Ministry of Economic Development. thermal year. 44 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Customers Snam Rete Gas’ customers number Transportation 82 Regasification 6 Storage 60 Distribution 169 Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction Results A customer satisfaction survey allows us to understand which elements of the service offered affect customer satisfaction or dissatisfaction. In this regard, Snam Rete 10 Gas is implementing a customer satisfaction system, also in light of the company’s new scope, geared towards 8 gathering and analysing information on the services of6 fered so programmes aimed at continual improvement can be prepared. 4 For the 2009-2010 thermal year, customer satisfaction 2 activity mainly focused on the storage business by preparing and sending a questionnaire to all customers in 2008-2009 2009-2010 June. In particular, we wanted to measure the sales quality provided broken down into four macro business segStorage Code Commercial Management ments: IT Services Stogit and the customer storage code: updating the code, how easy it is to understand and the role of the consulting committee; sales management: skill areas, service access, contract management, response time, completeness and clarity of information received and cooperation; Quality in business processes information technology services: Stogit website, alActivities are under way in the sales area for ISO 9001 certilocation and measurement system for injection and fication of the procedure for determining the transportation withdrawal (Sistema di Allocazione e Misura per capacity of the Snam Rete Gas network. l’Iniezione e l’Erogazione SAMPEI) and storage tradThe units assigned to that procedure, using special IT sysing system (STS); tems, their own know-how and based on the codified proceStogit and the customer: overall evaluation of sales dures, determine the transportation capacity for all points quality. within the national and regional network for subsequent allocation by the Snam Rete Gas sales units to network users, The questionnaire also asked customers in the differaccording to the methods provided for by the network code ent sectors to add any suggestions for improving the approved by the Electricity and Gas Authority. service offered. This project, which was launched in the second half of 2010, The answers received were analysed and compared calls for obtaining quality certification from an official acwith the results obtained in the previous year. credited body by June 2011, in keeping with the capacity The questionnaire was submitted to 59 customers definition that Snam Rete Gas will publish for thermal years (46 in 2009), and 23 responses were received (24 in starting in 2011-2012 and beyond. All procedures related to 2009). the processes involved in 2010 have already been issued in The assessments (ranging from 0 to 10), broken down accordance with standards dictated by the regulations. by the respective macro areas in question, showed a The goal of certification of the transportation capacity degeneral improvement in the perception of the service termination procedure is a first step towards a broader prooffered, as shown in the graph. gramme of certification of the activities and procedures of 45 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Customers the sales development department, which is expected to be tion for Gas in a working group, created by the AEEG, for the implemented during the 2011-2014 period, with a view to everpreparation of proposals on the functional requirements of increasing attention to the quality, transparency and traceabilgas meters primed for remote reading. ity of its procedures and to continual improvement of interacAs a result of the Resolution, in 2009 a pilot remote meter tions with its stakeholders. reading project was launched for household meters in the city of Asti to test several transmission technologies on apThe development of remote meter reading proximately 3,300 meters. Resolution ARG/gas 155/08 of 22 October 2008 by the ElecThe pilot project was extended with approximately 1,200 tricity and Gas Authority (AEEG), “Directives for the comunits installed in the municipalities of Albano, Cerro Maggiore, missioning of gas metering units, characterised by minimal Enna, Monopoli and Teor, plus approximately 500 units infunctional requirements and with remote meter reading and stalled in Rome. In total, 5,000 meters were installed which remote management functions for redelivery points within are currently read remotely. the natural gas distribution networks”, approves innovative The remote meter reading data gathered, after checking a and important elements in gas metering. In particular, it resample for proper data transmission, are used for purposes quires the installation of devices, or the use of meters, capable of billing and gas allocation. of being remotely read and managed, defining a sub-bracket By the end of 2012, Italgas will use remote meter reading to of meters for which further minimal requirements are needed manage approximately 100,000 high-consumption meters and defining the compulsory minimum requirements, the ad(central heating, commercial, artisanal and industrial users). ditional requirements and the optional requirements. As far as household meters are concerned (use for cooking, It also indicates the obligations and the implementation phashot water and heating a single-family dwelling), Italgas bees that all distributors must observe with dates of completion lieves that it will be able to start remote reading and remote going up to 2016. management of 5% of the installations using metering units In the same Resolution, the AEEG ordered the Italian Gas Committee which use mobile phone networks for data transmission (C.I.G.) to prepare the benchmark technical standards for metering (transmission in GPRS mode similar to what occurs with units. The purpose of the standards is to standardise communicahigher-class metering units). tion between metering units and remote management centres, as well as to determine their technical and functional characteristics. This solution offers the possibility of: Although the Italian regulatory framework is not completely deusing a known method of communication; lineated, Italgas, which intends to comply with the obligations using data transportation networks which are already operaof commissioning remote meter reading and remote managetional and approved; ment within the deadlines provided for by the Resolution, has maintaining long-standing practices in the management of begun to bring redelivery points into compliance. metering units (from merchandise arrival at the warehouse In September 2007, Italgas created the “remote gas meuntil installation and commissioning of new metering units). ter reading project group” to identify the most appropriate technical solutions for remote meter reading in the differIt is estimated that in 2012 the overall number of redelivent market segments and to test the respective prototypes, ery points affected by the Resolution will be approximately and it participated through the National Industrial Associa300,000. 46 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Customers Giuseppe Bonazzi Vice President, association of measuring instrument manufacturers (a.c.i.s.m) Gas metering between tradition and innovation “Gas metering has not seen a process of regulatory change like the one we are witnessing today for more than a century. The significant attention that all the parties involved are paying to this important sector is therefore understandable. Together with gas metering regulations, rational energy use regulations have been approved which have a decisive impact on the technology used by gas metering instruments. These require that results be achieved within ambitious timeframes. However, the challenge began and continues with an indispensable dialogue with the regulatory authorities, built around several relevant sectors. The need to have technical, economic and financial capabilities to support the overhaul involving the gas industry is determining a selection in this important market of the parties involved, distinguishing between those capable of grasping change to achieve the ambitious objectives identified and those remaining on the sidelines. In this turbulent context of regulatory change on the one hand and technological innovation on the other, together with companies’ vital need for affirmation and growth on the market, actions and discussions between the different stakeholders often do not follow the same pattern. The innovative scope of the regulations approved will affect almost all metering equipment currently installed. From a strictly functional point of view, the availability of a channel of communication on new meters will make continuous monitoring possible, useful for managing and diagnosing the metering equipment installed almost in real time, and rationalising management activities to benefit the system’s economy. The new functionalities introduced by microchip technology (e.g. rate-setting, recording of consumption profiles) will enable new services to be offered and existing services to be better adapted to customers’ needs. The adoption of new electronic and IT technologies has enabled the introduction of metering systems capable of communicating with each other and transferring a considerable amount of information: the mechanical part of the instruments remains important, but it is complemented considerably by the new technologies. In this scenario, the gas metering chain is no longer configured as a series of devices, but rather as an integrated system for the management of metering data. Management of an advanced metering system involves increasing cooperation between gas network operators and metering system suppliers, who now more than ever need to understand their mutual needs and cooperate to achieve shared goals. The benefits obtained will mean savings for end users arising from consumption awareness, improved business relations and optimisation of industrial processes through rational use of energy resources and consequent attention to and improvement of the environment, an aspect that cannot be overlooked”. 47 Stakeholders Investors Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors Investors The Company is included in the most important ethical indices and standards conﬁrming its commitment to achieve a sustainable growth. Transparency and creation of value When the company’s results are published (preliminary anSince listing on the stock market in December 2001, Snam nual results, half-year results and quarterly results), it orRete Gas has taken steps to create its corporate identity in ganises conference calls which, on average, involve 50 peoan effort to express the objectives and mood of the compaple, including the 27 analysts who publish their research ny’s management, including by way of financial reporting. into the stock. Straight after approval by the corporate bodThe company is known for the transparency of its relations ies, the company makes the financial statements and quarwith investors and the financial community, and provides terly/half-year reports available in both Italian and English. detailed reports on its objectives and results to enable During the year, management has taken part in round-table shareholders and the financial market to assess all the meetings, seminars and conventions on subjects relating to ways in which the company creates value. Snam Rete Gas the utilities industry, stock markets and corporate governhas thus always made a conscious choice to be transparance. Special presentations are prepared for every event, ent, impartial and correct. and they are subsequently published on a dedicated secBased on assessments expressed by the financial commution of the website. nity, Snam Rete Gas is a company with a limited industrial The Outdoor Investor Days event was held from 12–13 Octoand financial risk profile which, by operating in a stable and ber 2010, during which Snam Rete Gas senior management transparent regulated environment, ensures that results met with institutional investors and, for the first time, repand future cash flows will be properly disclosed. resentatives of individual investors. Over the course of the year, the company has been involved On October 12, the Snam Rete Gas CEO met with a group of in around 30 road shows, for the purpose of meeting shareItalian and international institutional investors at the Palholders and institutional investors, in the major European, azzo dei Giureconsulti. He updated them on the company’s North American and Japanese marketplaces. In total, mandevelopment programmes and investment plan. This meetagement has met approximately 160 investors in one-toing was followed the day after by a visit to the Sergnano one meetings; around 15 of these were held at the San storage facility and the Sergnano-Cremona pipeline extenDonato Milanese premises, with around another 20 group sion works. meetings held with several investors. The utilities conferOn October 13, at the San Donato Milanese premises, the ences were another opportunity to meet investors. CEO and Managing Director met with representatives of 50 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors small shareholders, followed by a visit to the dispatch cenSpecial attention has been paid to the subject of sustaintre. This new initiative highlighted the benefit of more reguability, with particular reference to the area of socially lar contact with this important group of shareholders. responsible investors, which covers the performances of This event is consistent with the strategy of placing greater the international stock indices and of the main indices to emphasis on small shareholders so that they are more inwhich the company belongs: the Dow Jones Sustainability volved, including through the use of new reporting tools. World Index, the FTSE4Good Europe Index and the FTSEWith this in mind, in addition to the new features introduced 4Good Global Index. in 2009 online publication of the “Financial Markets ReSnam Rete Gas’s commitment is further demonstrated view” (a monthly analysis of the financial markets and the by its presence in the most important ethical indices and performance of the utilities industry on the stock exchange, standards. All of this confirms Snam Rete Gas’s committogether with the companies that constitute it) and “News ment to achieving a sustainable growth that protects its & Facts” (a quarterly publication aimed at individual invesworking environment and fosters clear dialogue with all tors) 2010 saw the publication of the “Shareholder Guide”. stakeholders. This is a twice-yearly publication, also aimed chiefly at indiIn September 2010, Snam Rete Gas was confirmed on the vidual investors, created to give an active sense of involveDJSI World (Dow Jones Sustainability World Index), the ment in Snam Rete Gas. world’s leading and most prestigious stock exchange index 2011 will see the creation of an online statistics summary, for evaluating the social responsibility of businesses. Only designed to make information available on the gas industry companies that have achieved excellence in managing their in Italy more user-friendly. business in line with sustainability criteria are admitted to On the subject of governance, in line with the recent Eurothe index, which Snam Rete Gas joined for the first time in pean directive on shareholders’ rights, there are plans to 2009. The Dow Jones Sustainability Index, established in implement and adopt various tools for increasing share1999 with the intention of tracking the financial performholders’ participation in the annual general meeting, ance of shares with excellent results in terms of their ecothrough more extensive methods of intervention and votnomic, social and environmental profile, selects just over ing by proxy. 300 companies from a total of 2,500 candidates. Objective KPI set in 2008 2010 To create value for shareholders To meet investors representing 40% of the floating Value obtained was 45%, exceeding the set and communities. capital during the year by 2012. performance target. To meet, each year during the period 2009-2012, Value obtained was 50%, exceeding the set at least one third of the socially responsible investors performance target. identified among the shareholders. 51 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors SAM (Sustainability Asset Management) “Snam Rete Gas has positioned itself as a sustainability leader amongst the top 16% companies in the gas sector, showing good performance, especially in the economic dimension” (SAM Benchmarking Report, December 2010). SAM is a Swiss company specialised in “sustainable” investments, which assesses companies from around the world which are, in terms of market capitalisation, candidates for admission to the Dow Jones Sustainability indices. The selection criteria adopted by SAM are based on a longterm approach, which includes elements of an economEconomic Dimension ic, environmental and social nature. SAM’s goal is to identify those companies that display excellence in managing themes related to SAM sustainability, incorporate sustainability into their Environmental Social Dimension Dimension strategic vision and represent a significant investment opportunity. In the September 2010 half-year review, Snam Rete Gas’s company was selected in 2008 and 2009. The ECPI Ethistock was confirmed in the FTSE4Good Index Series (in cal Index Global is made up of 300 international largewhich it has been present since 2002), which unites cap companies selected on the basis of ECPI methods, the best companies worldwide that have distinguished while the other two indices comprise 150 companies themselves in terms of sustainable economic developbelonging to the European market (ECPI Ethical Index ment. The index represents an important point of referEuro) and the Eurozone (ECPI Ethical Index EMU). The ence for the creation of ethical portfolios and benchnew certification has been conferred by ECPI, now part marks and for socially responsible investors. of Mittel S.p.A., listed on the Milan stock exchange, which The presence of Snam Rete Gas has been reconfirmed in has been a leader in sustainability research, ratings and the “ECPI Ethical Index Global”, “ECPI Ethical Index Euro” indices since 1997. and “ECPI Ethical Index EMU” group of indices, where the At the end of 2010, the company took part in the annual Massimo Cavalli Institutional investor Allianz Global Investors “Snam Rete Gas stands out, not only for its good long-term financial results, but for its transparent relationship with investors and for the concern it shows for all stakeholders, adopting a management model that is consistent with its investment plans and sustainable development model.” 52 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors assessment required by VIGEO, one of the most impormitted to monitoring the position of major international tant European environmental and social ratings agencompanies in terms of climate change and greenhouse cies, in order to confirm the inclusion of Snam Rete Gas gas emissions. As well as this, in 2010 it took part for the in the Ethibel Investment Register and Sustainability Infirst time in the assessment for CDP Water Disclosure, a dices (in which it has been included since 2005). Ethibel new initiative aimed at monitoring the sustainable use of is a leading European research organisation in the field water resources. of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainable In 2010, the company also participated in several other development. assessments requested by investment banks, financial Since 2007, Snam Rete Gas has taken part in the assessintermediaries and international rating agencies to moniment carried out by the Carbon Disclosure Project, one tor the commitment of Snam Rete Gas to social and enviof the most important independent organisations comronmental responsibility. Giuseppe Sala Retail investor “I had the pleasure of taking part in the Investor Day for private investors. I must say that the event was well organised and it had the distinction of providing more information to people who, like myself, had already decided to invest in Snam Rete Gas stock, but did not have intimate knowledge of such a large organisation. I believe that getting to know the investment plans, future programmes, the independence from certain market variables, the dividend policy and other features is especially important for small investors. All of this convinced me to increase my level of involvement in the company, talk about this experience to other people and try and persuade them to also invest in the stock”. 53 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors The financial markets changed from the end of the previous year. In 2010, contrasting performance and increased volatilThe Italian market also felt the effects of the uncertain ity were recorded on various European stock markets. climate on international financial markets. The financial Although certain countries showed signs of growth and a community’s perception of growing country risk for Italy positive outlook, in others, in particular Greece, Ireland, prevented domestic indices from entering positive terriPortugal and Spain, uncertainties over the sustainability tory. The FTSE MIB index, which includes Italy’s 40 largof government debt weighed heavily. This had inevitable est listed companies by market capitalisation, dropped repercussions on stock index movements. by 13.2%, while the FTSE Italia All-Share index, which inIn particular, fears over the sovereign debt situation surcludes all listed companies, was down 11.5%. It should faced primarily at the beginning of the year, while in the be noted that the performance of domestic indices was second half of 2010, several prices moved upwards leadalso affected by their sector composition, characterised ing to the following annual performance on major Euroby a preponderance of companies in the banking, insurpean stock exchanges: FTSE 100 of London +9%, DAX of ance and utilities sectors, which were on a downward Frankfurt +16.1%, CAC 40 of Paris -3.3%, IBEX of Madrid trend for the year. -17.4%. The Eurostoxx 50 European index remained unMonica Girardi Barclays Capital analyst “In recent years, the markets have been subject to wide-ranging movements and shares have been exposed to a high degree of volatility. In a context like this, there are two fundamental rules for maintaining performance despite the macroeconomic background, namely: 1) sharing corporate goals with a wide range of stakeholders, and 2) maintaining stable returns for shareholders, without reducing growth expectations. As an equity analyst, I value not only the predictability of cash flows, which are often directly connected with the stability of the regulatory framework, but also the capacity of the business to adapt its future strategies to changing conditions, involving all stakeholders in the change. This can be achieved only through the ability to communicate in a clear, transparent and timely fashion. Snam Rete Gas has always been able, over the last two years, to guarantee high returns for investors, not only thanks to their successful strategy, but also through a ‘best-in-class’ policy relating to the market which includes frequent meetings with analysts, clear press releases, comprehensive financial reports and quarterly road shows to help meet different investors”. Stock performance the overall European utilities sector, which underperSnam Rete Gas stock, which is listed on Italy’s FTSE MIB formed the market (Stoxx Europe 600 Utilities: -8.8%) index and also on leading international indices (Stoxx Eudue mainly to the so-called overcapacity phenomenon rope, S&P Europe and MSCI Europe), ended 2010 at an which, together with weak demand for energy, had a negofficial price of €3.73, up 7.8% over the same figure for the ative impact on companies with the greatest exposure to previous year. This performance was achieved in an enenergy prices. vironment of overall growth for stocks of regulated utiliIn 2010, approximately 2.9 billion shares of Snam Rete ties companies and, more specifically, for those compaGas were traded on the electronic stock market of Borsa nies which, due to a stable and transparent regulatory Italiana, with daily trades averaging about 11.5 million environment, provide long-term visibility of their results shares (compared with 10.1 million in 2009). and cash flows. These stocks set themselves apart from 54 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Investors Snam Rete Gas stock performance and main ethical indices 120 100 80 01/01/2010 01/02/2010 01/03/2010 01/04/2010 01/05/2010 01/06/2010 01/07/2010 01/08/2010 01/09/2010 01/10/2010 01/11/2010 01/12/2010 ECPI Euro ECPI EMU FTSE Global FTSE EU DJ World ECPI Global SRG IM Equity Shareholders value of €1. These shares were subscribed by executives At 31 December 2010, the fully subscribed and paidentitled to participate in the 2003 stock option plans. up share capital of Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. totalled At year end, based on entries in the shareholders’ register €3,570,832,994.00 and consisted of 3,570,832,994 orand other information gathered, eni S.p.A. held 52.54% of dinary shares with a nominal value of €1 (3,570,768,494 share capital, Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. held 5.44% in the form shares with the same nominal value at 31 December of treasury shares, and the remaining 42.02% was in the 2009). The increase of €64,500 over 31 December 2009 hands of other shareholders. was due to the issue of 64,500 shares with a nominal Shareholder structure of Snam Rete Gas by type of investor and geographic area 1,60% 2,29% 4,14% eni 7,36% 52,54% Retail investors 5,54% treasury shares Istitutional Italy 4,56% Istitutional rest of the world Istitutional continental Europe 9,79% Istitutional UK and Ireland Istitutional USA and Canada 12,28% Banca d’Italia 55 Stakeholders Authority Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Authority Authority Snam Rete Gas has established successful communications and a constructive relationship with the Authority proving itself of giving full, efﬁcient and coherent answers. Ongoing dialogue nesses is to establish special provisions – known as “ResoThe relationship with the Electricity and Gas Authority plays a key lutions” – to define the criteria through which to determine role for those operating in the energy business. Over the years, prices, access rules and quality standards. Snam Rete Gas has established successful communications and In the context in which Snam Rete Gas operates, the proca constructive relationship with the Authority by continually mainess of defining the criteria for the tariffs, which takes place taining an advisory role and providing substantial information to every four years for each regulated activity, is particularly support changes in the regulatory environment in the natural gas important. The clarity, stability and transparency of the sector. In this context, the acquisition of Italgas and Stogit has made regulatory framework for the methods for determining revthis relationship even more constructive. Nowadays, the regulator enues and tariffs are a vital aspect of allowing the company can deal with an operator which, by virtue of its size and wealth of to achieve sustainable growth over time. These features are knowledge of the different sectors, is capable of giving full, efficient appreciated both by network users, in relation to determinand coherent answers in response to the questions that the inteing the costs associated with the use of infrastructures, and gration of the energy markets will pose in the coming years. also by investors, in relation to the possibility of predicting the returns associated with their investment. Specifically, A stable and transparent regulatory framework the tariff criteria for storage activities to be applied in the The main role of the Authority towards the regulated busi2011-2014 period were redefined in 2010. Regulatory periods in force January 2010 December 2013 October 2008 September 2012 January 2009 December 2012 January 2011 December 2014 The new storage regulatory framework has been defined in tivities are determined so as to ensure coverage of operating continuity with the arrangements for the previous period and costs, depreciation and amortisation, and a fair return on net in accordance with the forecasts for transportation, distribuinvested capital. There is also provision for specific rewards, tion and regasification activities. The revenues from all acdifferentiated according to type, for investments made dur58 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Authority ing the course of each regulatory period. Every year, based on ENTSOG will develop by establishing European codes that revenues, each Snam Rete Gas company formulates a tariff will regulate access to and use of cross-border infrastrucproposal which is presented to the Authority for approval. tures. The process of defining the codes will broadly involve all interested parties that can highlight their requirements New European regulations and put forward their own proposals both under the scope In July 2009, the European Parliament and Council adopted of public consultations and during special, dedicated meetthe so-called Third Energy Package, a collection of provisions ings (stakeholder joint working sessions). aimed at completing the creation of a European natural gas The introduction of shared, harmonised rules through Euromarket. Specifically, the third package, which will become pean codes will simplify access to infrastructures and allow fully operational in 2011, includes a series of measures increasingly integrated management of transportation sysaimed at promoting the integration of individual domestic tems, which will benefit both commercial operators and end markets through greater cooperation at Community level. users. Close cooperation with other infrastructure operators An Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) will afford consumers a reliable and efficient service and enand a European Network of Transmission System Operators sure the sustainable development of infrastructures, in line for Gas (ENTSOG) will be set up for this purpose. with the development of the gas market. In the coming years, these bodies should work to harmoSnam Rete Gas is one of the founding members of ENTSOG nise national regulations in order to promote the exchange and intends to promote the harmonisation of rules and inof natural gas between EU member states, as well as to fostegration of the market. For this purpose, Snam Rete Gas is ter the coordinated development of networks by drawing up already taking an active role in the organisation’s activities, a non-binding 10-year investment plan. The ACER will have sharing its experience and the know-how of its personnel in the task of producing the framework guidelines that the order to identify the best possible solutions to implement. Vittorio Musazzi General Manager ENTSOG ENTSOG – European Network of Transmission System Operators for Gas – was established on 1 December 2009 by 31 natural gas transportation system operators working in 22 EU countries, ahead of the Third Energy Package deadlines. This will allow the timely and consistent launch of the new Community provisions which come into force on 3 March 2011. ENTSOG, whose headquarters are in Brussels, currently has 33 members and expects the remaining European transportation businesses to join the association during 2011. The association is governed by bylaws and general procedures which regulate its operation. Its structure includes the sole decision-making body, a general assembly to which all members are entitled to belong and a management board made up of 12 members who provide guidance and are executive representatives of the transportation businesses elected directly by the shareholders. The work of the association is performed by a dedicated team of experts, coordinated by a General Manager, who work actively and in close cooperation with the representatives of the transportation businesses under the auspices of special working groups. The main tasks of the association were established in EC Regulation 715/2009, and they include drawing up network codes, preparing a 10-year plan for the development of the network at Community level (TYNDP) and defining shared tools for coordinating network activities. In 2010, ENTSOG worked with the European Commission, regulators and the majority of stakeholder associations, contributing to the preparation of guidelines for drafting the first European network code, relating to the allocation of capacities at the connection points, which should be developed in 2011. Also during its first year, ENTSOG published its first TYNDP (2010-2019), as well as the Summer Outlook and Winter Outlook, in June 2010 and November 2010 respectively. In February 2011, it also published the second TYNDP (2011-2020), which involved widespread stakeholder participation and included the comments and suggestions received following the first edition. For more information about the association’s activities and 2011 work plan, as well as details of the documents mentioned above, please go to the website: www.entsog.eu 59 Stakeholders Institutions Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions Institutions In order to illustrate the Company’s activities Snam Rete Gas encourages regular meetings with institutional stakeholders using a transparent, loyal and collaborative approach. A collaborative relationship activities “on the field”, their actual impact on the area Snam Rete Gas is present throughout almost all of Italy and the environmental and safety standards adopted to with its infrastructures. This geographic distribution of ensure correct operation. our activities means that we have ongoing relationships These are some examples: with local communities and institutions. participation in the Minerbio “Open Municipal Council” Snam Rete Gas has a rigorous, transparent, loyal and colin order to present the Stogit geophysical prospecting laborative approach aimed at promoting the acceptance campaign and answer questions from local residents of the presence of its facilities in local areas. With this in (5 July 2010); mind it encourages regular meetings with institutional organisation of a public meeting in Bordolano to illusstakeholders in order to illustrate the company’s activitrate the Bordolano project for increasing storage caties and programmes. pacity to local residents and answer any questions on When it receives requests from regions, provinces the subject in full detail (4 October 2010); and local authorities, Snam Rete Gas also provides inadvance meetings with the mayors, 68 in 2010, of muformation about its activities, whilst maintaining the nicipalities affected by the creation of gas pipelines to confidentiality of commercially sensitive information, preview the main features of the works, the authorised for the purposes of developing regional, provincial and route, the working stages and the restoration that will municipal energy plans or environmental and economic take place. research. The relations that Snam Rete Gas has established with Two important agreements were also formalised during the state, regional and local administrations are mainly the year: one with the Ministry for the Environment, Land related to the submission of authorisation requests for and Sea and one with the Emilia-Romagna Regional Aunew infrastructures. thority. In this context, in 2010 the Company took part in pubIn the first agreement, Snam Rete Gas commits to uslic meetings and organised educational and informative ing guided tours to familiarise ministry officials with the visits for public-sector members and officials to their inenvironmental restoration techniques used in producing stallations with the aim of demonstrating the Company’s the pipelines, which make it possible to avoid or mini62 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions mise interference with habitats and ecosystems with a gional Authority, was set up to facilitate compliance with high biodiversity content. administrative and authorisation regulations related to The second agreement, with the Emilia-Romagna Republic waterway concessions. Agreement with the Ministry for the Environment, Land and Sea On October 7, Snam Rete Gas and the Ministry for the Environment signed an agreement sanctioning a cooperation agreement as a fundamental tool for facilitating the protection and improvement of the environment, thereby contributing to safeguarding the natural landscape and protecting the socioeconomic development of the area while maintaining the ecological and environmental balance. Through this agreement, Snam Rete Gas is available to representatives and officials of the ministry and related committees, to show them, through guided tours ‘in the field’, the environmental restoration techniques used to minimise the temporary environmental effects from the completion of its works in order to allow the original ecosystems and the fauna to re-establish themselves. Following the signing of the agreement, a visit was organised in mid October for several members of the Ministry for the Environment’s EIA-SEA technical committee along the Malborghetto-Bordano pipeline stretch in Friuli Venezia Giulia, with the aim of observing the results and the condition of the environmental restoration seven years after the structure was built. The 1,200 mm (48”) diameter, 75 bar pressure and approximately 44.6 km long pipeline was constructed between 2002 and 2003 and runs along mainly the same route as another import pipeline built in 1988. The restoration of the vegetation began between March and October 2003 and was completed in November 2004. The growing programmes lasted five years, from 2005 to 2010, and ended with the removal of the fences erected to protect the individual plants and groups of plants. The programme of the visit included several observation stages, each representing a particular environmental theme and the construction/restoration techniques employed to minimise and cancel out over time the temporary impact of the works. The subjects dealt with included water, soil and subsoil, vegetation and fauna, the landscape and crossing protected areas (the Val Alba regional nature reserve and the Zuc dal Bor heritage site). The day presented an opportunity for a practical comparison of the environmental restoration methods used and confirmed the excellent achievements of Snam Rete Gas in this area. 63 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions Giuseppe Bortone – Emilia-Romagna Regional General Manager for the Environment, Land and Sea How did the idea of a general agreement with Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. about public water supply regulations come about? Since 2001, the regional authorities have acquired the responsibility for managing public water and since then, with countless difficulties in processing government orders, enormous reorganisation works have been taking place together with the provincial services in the area, surrounding the methods for issuing new authorisations. In 2007, regional law 4 paved the way for the possibility for owners of multiple public water concessions to pay to combine them into a single solution. Following this, it also became possible to pay several years’ fees in advance. How did you interact with Snam Rete Gas S.p.A.? Excellent relations, including between the respective technical offices, improved the acquisition of all the information needed to draft the agreement. Just think, Snam’s pipelines pass through more than a thousand waterways in the region. What are the strengths of the agreement? First of all, for both signatories of the agreement, the administrative simplification of the obligations; then, but not in any way secondary, the improvement in response times for new authorisation, the regulation of the entire process which, I repeat, had “lost its way” between the government and the region. Last but not least, the establishment and definition of the fees due in relation to future management has been very important for the region and, I believe, for Snam as well. How are so many pipelines integrated into the area and the environment? We are one of the main natural gas regions, with the first pipelines laid after the First World War; industrial development in our region has been accompanied by the growth of the gas network. In recent years, in agreement with Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. and in concert with regional offices, we have tried to streamline the crossing of waterways by favouring trenchless technology. More than 100 waterway crossings, involving new pipelines and the modernisation of old pipelines, have been completed in recent years using these new techniques, and they also make the area look better. The main collaborations that took place in 2010 with comtional experts. After having completed the first five-year petent bodies involving environmental restoration activities monitoring period, the sixth year of monitoring took place are described below. in 2010, the first of a second five-year monitoring period which will end in 2013. Friuli-Venezia Giulia Following the construction of the Flaibano-Gonars pipeFollowing the construction of the Malborghetto-Bordano line, which passed through the Paludi di Gonàrs heritage pipeline, collaboration with the Friuli Venezia Giulia Parks site, environmental restoration works continued in some Office continued in relation to monitoring the restoration of the publicly owned areas in conjunction with the local of vegetation along the route of the pipeline. In particuauthorities. A project for monitoring the spontaneous relar, in one section of the pipeline in the Val Alba regional naturalisation of these areas was also launched with phynature reserve, the research and monitoring activities for tosociological studies. The second annual monitoring after the fauna continued for 10 years with the help of internathe construction work took place in 2010. 64 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions Sicilia state forests agency of approximately 19,000 forest plants. Collaboration with the Sicily state forests agency has continued, with the growing of native forest plants designed As far as the Panigaglia natural gas regasification plant is for reforestation projects along the pipelines laid in the concerned, relations with the public entities involved have Nebrodi regional park. Work on restoring the vegetation for been maintained. During the year, following a request by the Bronte-Montalbano pipeline inside the park began in the La Spezia Prefecture, a general drill for the External late autumn 2010. 2011 should see the completion of the Emergency Plan involving all the local bodies was successreforestation projects along the pipeline, with the planting fully carried out. Safety drill on the implementation of the External Emergency Plan At the request of the La Spezia Prefecture, GNL Italia successfully carried out a general drill, together with all the local entities, on the correct management of the External Emergency Plan (EEP) for the Panigaglia LNG Site 2008 edition, as amended, provided for by Legislative Decree no. 334/99, amended and supplemented by Legislative Decree no. 238/2005 and drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the General Guidelines prepared by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers – Department of Civil Protection – and cited in the DPCM [Decree of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers] of 25.2.2005. The purpose of the EEP is to ensure the management of emergencies outside the plant; as well as being a statutory obligation, it is also a civil opportunity to ensure the safety of the population and the environment in general. This plan provides that, following the occurrence within the LNG plant of an incident with external impacts, all actions will be taken to minimise its consequences for the population and the environment. In particular, the scenario hypothesised relates to the major incident “rupture of LNG tank roof due to overfilling”, which has the largest impact area envisaged by the EEP. The drill carried out on 27.05.2010 tested, in particular, the viability of the Strada Provinciale [provincial road] to Portovenere, and led to the decision by the Prefecture to enhance the traffic lights and horizontal signposting system of that road. At the end of the drill, the Prefect of La Spezia, during a press conference held jointly with the CEO and the representatives of all the entities involved, expressed his satisfaction with the conduct and results of the drill. This meeting was also covered in the national newspapers and a number of videos published online. 65 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions Emissions trading and EIA procedures Fiume Treste, Minerbio, Ripalta, Sabbioncello, Sergnano and Emissions trading is an administrative tool used for controlSettala), the Mazara del Vallo entry point terminal and the ling the emission of greenhouse gases and pollutants on Panigaglia liquefied natural gas regasification plant. an international scale through the monetary pricing of the The Ministry for Environment, Land and Sea allocated actual emissions and the trading of the emission permits 1,001,577 annual permits to the Snam Rete Gas plants between different countries (Directive 2003/87/EC). The (these permits do not include those which could be issued Directive provides that no plant under its scope of applicato “new entrants”). In 2010, Snam Rete Gas plants emitted tion can produce greenhouse gases, in other words contin969,706 tonnes of CO2, with a positive balance for the year ue to operate, without special authorisation. The competent of 31,871 permits. national authority issues authorisations and assigns CO2 Before the emissions trading regulations on climate change emission permits to the managers of the plants regulated came into force, Snam Rete Gas had already undertaken iniby the directive by means of an allocation plan. tiatives to contain emissions using high-yield technologies Every year plant managers return to the competent nationand natural gas as the main fossil fuel in its plants. Natual authority the number of CO2 emission permits equal to ral gas is the fuel used almost exclusively in the emissions the emissions actually released into the atmosphere. Any trading plants. surplus (between the permits assigned and the emissions Snam Rete Gas’s carbon dioxide emissions are not constant released) can be traded and/or accumulated, and any defiover a period of time, but vary from year to year and depend cit should be covered by the purchase of emission permits greatly on the schedules of customers to whom the transfrom the market. portation, storage, distribution and regasification services The CO2 emissions actually released into the atmosphere are provided. should be monitored in accordance with the provisions issued by the competent national authority, which will have The Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is an adminbeen notified of these figures accompanied by certification istrative procedure designed to assess the consequences from an accredited verifier. and effects that given works can have on the surrounding The Snam Rete Gas plants that come within the scope of environment. The regulations governing its application also the emissions trading directive are the 11 gas compression include the collection of observations from the entire comstations for transportation activities (Enna, Gallese, Istrana, munity involved and therefore the involvement of ‘ordinary Malborghetto, Masera, Melizzano, Messina, Montesano, Pogcitizens’ in the final decisions. The EIA decrees obtained by gio Renatico, Tarsia and Terranuova Bracciolini), the seven Snam Rete Gas and presented during the course of the year compression stations for storage activities (Cortemaggiore, are listed below. 66 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Institutions Environmental impact assessment decrees obtained during the year Name Regions affected Responsibility Date of Decree Bordano-Flaibano pipeline (32 km) Friuli Venezia Giulia Regional 04.08.10 Sapri branch pipeline (26 km) Campania Basilicata Regional 31.08.10* Enlargement of Settala storage capacity Lombardy State 27.01.10 pressure increase to 1.07 Modernisation and adaptation of regasification plant Liguria State 09.09.2010 for a capacity of 8 billion SCM/year * Decree for the stretch in the Campania region Environmental impact assessment requests submitted during the year to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Cultural Assets and Activities Name Length Regions affected Date of submission Messina-Palmi sealine 28 Sicily Calabria 28.04.10 Recanati-Foligno pipeline 78 Marche Umbria 29.09.10 Agrigento-Piazza Armerina pipeline 75 Sicily 16.12.10 Environmental impact assessment requests submitted during the year to the regions or provinces Name Length Regions/Provinces affected Date of submission Gavi-Pietralavezzara pipeline 26 Piedmont Liguria 30.11.10 Adaptation of Puglia and Basilicata Regional Transportation Network 72 Puglia Basilicata 17.12.10 67 Stakeholders Community and Territory Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Community and Territory Company’s activities are able to provide the country with a source of energy, natural gas, which has a low environmental impact and satisﬁes growing energy needs. Accountability and listening with Legambiente within the context of the “Clean Up The The local areas in which Snam Rete Gas operates represent World” campaign, which Snam Rete Gas has supported a universe of values towards which it wishes to address for some years, a programme of interventions has been actions to revitalise dialogue and proximity to its commudeveloped primarily for schools and students the future nities and institutions, increase visibility and strengthen generation that is more involved in the concept of sustainthe reputation and consensus of the business. ability. In accordance with the company’s sustainable developThe learning journey began with an initiative called “All ment policy, a series of initiatives were launched in 2010 down underground”, the aim of which was to inform about that involved and generated interaction with a number of the activities and commitment to sustainability of the counterparties to whom Snam Rete Gas attributes an imgroup companies, and particularly the good practices of portant role, such as local institutions, associations and environmental restoration to which Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. schools. devotes special care and attention. This initiative was aimed at the students of first, middle and upper schools Local initiatives in areas where plants are installed, and was carried out By building on the collaboration with a number of institutogether with a local Legambiente representative, who in tions in the local areas where the company operates, and turn explained the aims of the association’s activities and 70 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory its various initiatives on environmental issues. able by the local municipality, Snam Rete Gas gave the traTo encourage the involvement and participation of the studitional cleaning kit put together for “Clean Up The World”, dents, appropriate communication tools were produced: consisting of a hat, gloves and a sack for collecting litter. leaflets written in accessible language; an animated video In some cases, collateral activities were organised: at Pogon gas exploration and the commitment to the environgio Renatico, a project was prepared for middle school ment, using real images and specially created illustrastudents to interview local residents about environmental tions; an educational video game that makes it possible issues. to play at “building gas pipelines” in harmony with nature; The educational course concluded with a final initiative and gadgets consistent with the initiative, such as tins called “A Plant Tour”. To encourage transparency and diacontaining plant seeds for the students to nurture and logue with the community, a number of company plants grow in the garden or on a balcony at home. were opened for guided tours to school students and local The mouthpiece of “All down undergound” was a friendly residents, who were able to take a close look at an importree named Tino (from riprisTino [Italian for “restoration” tant industrial entity in their local area. or “renewal”]), who accompanied the children on their The programme was carried out at the Messina and Poggio learning journey. Renatico (FE) compression stations and the BordolanoThe programme was then continued in a context of enviSergnano (CR), Minerbio (BO) and Sabbioncello (FE) storronmental education, with support from Snam Rete Gas to age sites. Around 320 students were involved at the five the schools that had signed up to the “Clean Up The World” sites, while some 110 local residents visited the plants at campaign. To the children who made an active commitPoggio Renatico, Sergnano (on the outskirts of Bordolano) ment to clean up a nearby site, identified and made availand Sabbioncello. Elvira Amata Environmental assessor for the municipality of Messina How did the collaboration with Snam Rete Gas on the schools educational project “All down underground” come about? Snam Rete Gas has operated in our local area for a number of years, paying particular attention to defending the area and therefore to protecting the environment, so it was very easy, in fact I would say natural, to sign up to the “All down underground” project. How do you judge the results of this collaboration? The results have been positive and satisfactory, and the students have shown interest and curiosity. I think that today it is extremely important for questions of environmental protection to be tackled in schools, and for these issues to be discussed with a company that, alongside its objectives of economic growth, also aims to protect the environment, helping to understand what concrete steps can be taken in this direction. The Faro Superiore school and the Archimede high school have shown great interest. How can the school/business relationship be developed? I think it would be interesting to create a collaboration with regular meetings where a communication between school and business can be established, to provide laboratories, for example, where students could do projects and work on materials made available to them. This would also be a way of introducing students to the world of work. 71 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Rita Pareschi Environmental assessor for the municipality of Poggio Renatico (FE) The Poggio Renatico municipal assessor who took part with Snam Rete Gas in the “All down underground” and “Clean Up The World” initiatives gives her view on the partnership between the company and the local area. “The municipality of Poggio Renatico has subscribed to the “Clean Up The World” initiative, involving the first year students of the secondary school, for a number of years because we know that a new attitude towards the environment starts with and spreads from young people. The 2010 event drew fresh impulse from two factors: the partnership with Snam Rete Gas, with whom we simultaneously launched the “All down underground” initiative, and the new formula, which integrated the traditional clean-up activity with an enjoyable animation and a kind of competition that resulted in the prize being awarded jointly to the two classes involved, for the great commitment put in by them both. The interviews with passers-by on the meaning of the initiative and on the system of waste separation applied in the Poggio area, and the subsequent group discussions of the gathered data, certainly raised the awareness of children and adults alike by prompting a moment of reflection and promoting the adoption of a more sustainable lifestyle. Without taking anything away from the success of the initiative, for a more productive synergy between the local area and the company, it would be essential to have a vigorous commitment from everyone involved to ensure that the interventions and activities are less sporadic and more structured. In light of this, the municipal administration of Poggio Renatico hopes that the cooperation with Snam Rete Gas will continue in the form of a well-planned programme which goes beyond occasional one-off events and finds concrete expression in a project that is culturally beneficial and helps to protect the environment”. 72 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Diego Bottini Mayor of Bordolano (CR) The Mayor gives his assessment of the initiative that involved the municipality’s schools: in particular, he says that children’s understanding of the industrial entities in the local area is an important educational message for their development, and that the school plays a significant role in the dialogue between businesses and communities. “I think the initiative offered to the primary schools of Bordolano is a positive thing. I had the opportunity to attend part of it in person and came away with a few opinions from the children and teachers. It struck me as an initiative that stimulated the children’s curiosity and demonstrated the good attitude of the spokespersons from Legambiente and from Snam Rete Gas in dealing at a very young age with issues that can be complicated even for adults. Another important aspect is bringing young people close to the industrial companies of the local area, showing with the greatest possible objectivity their activities, their production and how they dispose of waste in a manner that respects the environment and complies with legislation. The information given to the children is also quickly conveyed to the parents and grandparents; it is a system for the immediate and widespread distribution of information. Companies should invest in projects aimed at schools, in order to provide another resource for the Italian education system, which for some years has found itself facing economic conditions unfavourable to projects which go beyond the basic curriculum. Personally, I remember with pleasure the visits I made to a number of plants in the area when I was at primary school. If those visits had not happened, I would have carried on seeing the walls, the silos and the buildings of those plants as alien structures; after the visit, I started to think about those production activities, imagining what the people and machines I had seen on the other side of the wall were doing. As a municipality, we are always open to further collaboration proposals. I think that the partnership between Snam Rete Gas and Legambiente is a good match, because the former has substantial resources and a desire to communicate, while the latter has undisputed credibility among the public with regard to the disinterested protection of the local area. I think that in our particular situation, it would be a really good idea to involve the Parco Oglio Nord [Oglio Nord Park]”. 73 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Gabriella Fusi, Nadia Toscani, Daniela Preti, Mara Ferrami, Santina Andrini Teachers at Bordolano Primary School (CR) The teachers give their views on the appeal and the opportunity for children to take part in initiatives such as those proposed by Snam Rete Gas, a business deeply rooted in their area which is convinced that schools are a fundamental part of dialogue within the community. “The companies which operate in the local area and want to make themselves known to the children are companies that are looking to the future and want to grow. At the start of the academic year we accepted the play-based and teaching proposals of Snam Rete Gas as an opportunity offered to the school, the children and, through them, their families. The objectives defined for the activities are: to use game-based activities to educate children and young people to see the environment from the point of view of respect and sustainability; to educate about energy saving, or rather responsible energy use; to foster a sense of belonging to their local area through an understanding of the natural and social environment; and to give children and young people the ability to adopt appropriate and locally meaningful behaviour in tackling environmental and social problems. A few days after the first introductory meeting held in class, on 24 September the pupils went out onto the country roads, armed with gloves and sacks, to “Clean Up The World”. This outing was a fun event both for the children and for the adults who had the pleasure of observing their behaviour: we even saw the children stooping on the pavement to pick up toothpicks and cigarette ends. (Oh to have such flexible backs and sharp vision!). The work was carried out meticulously in a happy atmosphere conducted around “Tino”, the mascot tree. On 8 October, we were in Sergnano to visit the Stogit plant, another memorable day for our students: travelling by coach; visiting the plant and riding the miniature train with our yellow helmets while a guide explained the function of the various departments, most of which looked like science-fiction sets; and the fantastic lunch to round off the morning. During the return journey to the school, the children chatted away, happy to have received a bag containing a tee-shirt, a hat and other trinkets featuring “Gio”, the mascot of the storage site. Now even the children, who do not read newspapers, know that a plant similar to the one at Sergnano will soon appear in Bordolano. Meanwhile, in the surrounding area they are able to recognise and understand that those big tubes that the workers are fitting beneath the ground will form the pipeline that they talked about in class with the experts from Snam. In addition, every student is growing a few seeds in jars for new plants to be introduced into the environment. (The spruces have already sprouted, but the elms are not yet showing any signs of life). With their teachers, they will have further opportunities to investigate topics relating to traditional energy sources, renewable energy sources and responsible consumption”. 74 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Giulia Olivieri e Alfredo Sambinello Legambiente representatives, Medicina (BO) branch The Legambiente representatives who, together with Snam Rete Gas, were at the Minerbio secondary school and accompanied the same students on the visit to the storage site, discuss their experience. In particular, they talk about the effectiveness of the partnership between the association and the company in developing educational initiatives aimed at young people. “The experience we had was certainly positive and in line with what we want to achieve by working with schools and environmental education in general. We want to provide students with the elements necessary to translate into practice what they have studied in theory at their school desks and learned from our explanations in class: in this regard, it strikes us that the association/company partnership is the ideal way of achieving our goals. Teachers have always appreciated the interaction between the activities we offer and the school curriculums. In particular, the collaboration with Snam Rete Gas has allowed us to raise Legambiente’s profile, involve new schools and widen the scope of the issues tackled by adding gas, which we will also be able to offer to other schools outside Minerbio, offering them the opportunity to visit the plant. The plant visit seemed to us to be very well organised in terms of its content, opening with a presentation of both Legambiente and Snam Rete Gas, then a period of theory that was nevertheless made enjoyable by the use of slides, and ending with the practical portion conducted directly on the site, where the issues illustrated earlier were effectively revisited. We hope this collaboration can continue into the future, enriching the content of the environmental education services offered both by Legambiente and by Snam Rete Gas.” Environment needs of households, industries and electricity generaAttention to the environment accompanies every phase tion. Thanks to its ability to be transported with full reof the business of Snam Rete Gas. The criteria and prospect for the environment, as well as its chemical and cedures adopted for the location, design, construction, physical characteristics, gas is used in technologies with operation and disposal of plants and other assets satisfy an ever-increasing degree of energy efficiency and lower the highest environmental protection requirements. emissions of pollutants. Our activities have enabled us to provide the country In 2010, Snam Rete Gas did not receive any fine or penwith a source of energy, natural gas, which has a low alty for breaches of environmental legislation. environmental impact and satisfies the growing energy Environmental certifications obtained for the various management systems Company Activity Type Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. Compression stations ISO 14001 Gas pipeline network Stogit S.pA. Company ISO 14001 GNL Itala S.p.A. Regasification plant ISO 14001 Italgas S.p.A Company ISO 14001 Napoletanagas S.p.A. (integrated with -ISO 9001 -OHSAS 18001) 75 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Climate change and energy efﬁciency Overall, GHG emissions increased from around 2.4 milThe greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted into the atmosphere lion tonnes in 2009 to 2.6 million in 2010, a rise of by the activities of Snam Rete Gas are carbon dioxide (CO2) 9.8%. The increase in emissions is attributable mainly and methane (CH4), the main component of natural gas. to the higher energy consumption incurred by Snam CO2 is produced in combustion processes and is directly Rete Gas in order to satisfy the rising demands of its correlated with the consumption of fuels, while emissions customers, which have increased the quantities of gas of natural gas derive partly from the normal operation of needing to be: injected into the transportation network the plants and partly from discharges into the atmosphere (+ 8.3%); regasified (+50%); injected into storage facilicaused by new pipeline connection works or maintenance ties (+2.4%); and carried over the distribution networks works, or by accidents on the transportation and distribu(+5.5%). tion networks. In addition to the increased activity, the rise in energy Snam Rete Gas, in addition to using natural gas as the main consumption is also attributable to the different gas fuel, seeks to minimise GHG emissions in its operating actransportation conditions on the network (+16% for tivities by implementing specific containment programmes the quantity of gas injected from North Africa and -35% such as: for the quantity of gas injected from northern Europe), reduction of natural gas emissions (through in-line gas which required greater use of the gas compression starecompression, replacement of pneumatic equipment, tions. replacement of cast-iron piping on the distribution networks) Direct emissions of CO2 were around 1.06 million reduction of energy consumption (through specific entonnes (+32% compared with 2009), while emissions ergy management activities) of natural gas were around 101 million cubic metres use of electrical energy derived from renewable sources (equivalent to around 63,130 tonnes of methane), in (through specific procurement contracts and the installaline with the previous year. tion of photovoltaic panels when constructing buildings). Natural gas emissions broken down by activity (%) CO2eq emissions (103 t) 45% 3,000 2,000 41% 1,000 2% 2008 2009 2010 12% Transportation Storage Transportation Storage Regasiﬁcation Distribution Regasiﬁcation Distribution 76 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Transportation Natural gas emissions/gas injected Distribution Natural gas emissions/gas into the network (%) distributed (%) 0.06 0.8 0.6 0.04 0.4 0.02 0.2 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Objective KPI set in 2008 2010 To continue programmes To reduce the 2008 value of the index Value achieved was 0.049 (-8%), for the restriction of natural gas for transportation natural gas emissions/gas in line with established schedule. emissions (Snam Rete Gas S.p.A.). injected into the network (0.053) by 10% by 2012. In 2010, the indicators of natural gas emissions in relabeen calculated with a global warming potential (GWP) tion to transportation and distribution activities (which of 25, as indicated in the scientific study of the Intergovaccounted for 86% of total emissions) fell by 8% and 6% ernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), “IPCC Fourth respectively compared with 2009. Assessment Report of 2007”. In 2010, total indirect CO2 emissions, deriving from the Indirect CO2 emissions have been calculated with a procurement of electricity, were around 54,900 tonnes national average factor of 0.483 kgCO2/KWh. This fac(+8.6% compared with 2009). To reduce these emistor has been revised with respect to the previous year sions, Snam Rete Gas has made provision, from 2011 (0.47 kgCO2/KWh) in order to take account of the latest onwards, to purchase only electricity produced from renational data on CO2 emissions for electricity generation. newable sources for the Panigaglia regasification plant For the purposes of comparison with previous years, the and the Brugherio storage site (in 2010, these plants acindirect emissions for 2008 and 2009 have been recalcounted for 30% of total indirect emissions). At the same culated with the new factor. time, the company is increasing the installation of phoThe bulk of the energy consumption associated with the tovoltaic panels in its own buildings. activities of Snam Rete Gas is attributable to the gas turNatural-gas emissions have been estimated using the bines used in the compression stations, which provide methodology developed by the Gas Research Institute the gas with the necessary pressure for transportation (GRI) in collaboration with the US Environmental Protec(compression consumption) or storage (storage contion Agency, applied to the existing plants of Snam Rete sumption), and to the vaporisers used in the Panigaglia Gas, with an appropriate research project and field measplant for LNG regasification. urement campaigns. In 2010, total energy consumption was around 19,400 CO2 equivalent emissions deriving from methane have TJ. The energy source1 most used was natural gas, which (1) If account were taken of the conversion coefficient used to convert energy values into tonnes of oil equivalent (TOE), which also includes the output of Italy’s thermoelectric plants for electricity production, the breakdown of consumption would be as follows: 93% natural gas, 6% electricity and 1% other sources. 77 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory covered around 97% of the total energy needs. The other Energy consumption broken down by activity (%) sources used were electricity (2%) and other fossil fuels (diesel oil, petrol, LPG) and heat (1%). 3% To limit energy consumption, the best available technologies are used and high-performance turbines have 23% been installed. In particular, the fuel consumption of the compression stations is controlled by the dispatching department through the use of optimisation software systems which allow the most efficient possible management, in a manner compatible with transportation and storage needs, of the optimal configuration of the 5% 69% individual plants and the transportation network. Within the context of energy management, activities have continued with a view to identifying possible energy rationalisation and reduction measures in the company’s buildings. Transportation Storage Regasiﬁcation Distribution Energy efficiency in buildings Within the context of the energy management policies introduced in previous years and in progress for the coming years, aimed at pursuing actions to rationalise, contain and optimise energy consumption, Snam Rete Gas has further strengthened activities aimed at energy savings and the use of renewable energies. In evidence of this commitment, in 2010 two new maintenance centres were set up (Avezzano and Noverate) in energy efficiency class A office buildings, where thermal and photovoltaic panels will be put into operation in the first few months of 2011. Design work has also begun on five new centres (Carmagnola, Verbania, Santhià, Gorgonzola and Fidenza), also to be created in class A buildings, with solar thermal facilities and prefittings for the subsequent installation of photovoltaic panels. Photovoltaic facilities with a power output of 20kW have been put into operation in the buildings of a number of existing centres (Scandicci and Guidonia), and design work has begun on photovoltaic facilities for the centres of Avezzano, Padula and Distretto Nord. There are plans to install 35 photovoltaic facilities in Snam buildings over the next four years. 78 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Atmospheric emissions 1,680 tonnes. To reduce these emissions, which are the Atmospheric emissions of pollutants derive mainly from only significant polluting emissions produced by our combustion processes. The use of natural gas as the activities, modifications have been made in the last few principal energy source in all company activities makes years to a number of gas compression station turbines, it possible to minimise emissions of sulphur oxides and and new units with low-emission combustion systems particulate matter. (DLE) have been installed. In particular, 2010 saw the In 2010, total emissions of nitrogen oxides were around conversion of the turbine (TC2) at the gas compression station in Melizzano (BN) and the turbines (TC2), (TC4) and (TC6) respectively at the storage sites in Settala (MI), Fiume Treste (CH) and Sergnano (CR). NOx emissions broken down by activity (%) 2% DLE turbine hours of operation/total turbine hours 31% of operation (%) 100 80 64% 60 3% 40 20 Transportation Storage 2008 2009 2010 Regasiﬁcation Distribution Transportation Storage Objective KPI set in 2008 2010 To apply low-emission combustion DLE turbine hours of operation/total hours Value achieved was 78.6%, in line with established technologies in order to reduce of operation: to achieve 80% by 2011. schedule. the nitrous oxide emissions of Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. plants Average turbine NOx emissions/turbine total Value achieved was 7.19, in line with established installed power: to achieve 7 mg/(Nm3*MW) by 2011. schedule. In order to pursue the objective of reducing emissions low emissions gas turbines. These programmes will be apof nitric oxides, Snam Rete Gas has drawn up new proplied mainly to the storage activities, which currently have grammes to install, in the gas compression plants, new less advanced machinery with respect to the transportaDLE turbines or to modernise the existing turbines with tion activities. 79 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Waste management ity of it consists of ferrous materials which are recovered in full. The waste produced by Snam Rete Gas is attributable mainly Waste from site restoration activities derives both from environto three macro-activities: production, site restoration and wellmental requalification activities in certain areas owned by the drilling. company and contaminated by earlier industrial activities, and Waste from production activities has always been a relatively from pipeline laying activities on contaminated sites, not owned insignificant environmental factor in terms of both the quantity by the company, in which Snam Rete Gas is obliged to operate. and the type of waste. The waste generated derives mainly from Waste deriving from well-drilling consists mainly of slurries the maintenance and management of the plants, and the majortypically produced by this activity. Waste production 13% (t) 31% 150,000 120,000 90,000 60,000 30,000 41% 11% 2008 2009 2010 Production activities Restoration of sites for laying activities Transportation Storage Restoration of own sites Well drilling Regasiﬁcation Distribution Ecologically The company has always firmly believed that sustainability is an integral part of its corporate culture and can be the engine for a process of continuous and transverse improvement, with respect for the environment and responsibility towards the local area and its communities; this is the spirit that inspires the “Ecologically” project, begun in 2010, which provides for initiatives to be implemented on a continuous basis aiming to promote good and eco-sustainable behaviour, with the awareness that small everyday gestures can make a contribution to improving the quality of the surrounding environment. The first initiative, “A few habits make a big difference”, launched in February 2010 and concerned waste separation in canteens at San Donato Milanese. The idea, which met with great success, will be applied to the other companies and to a number of outlying sites during the course of 2011. The aim of the second initiative, “Everything on recycled paper”, was to raise awareness among all employees of the benefits of using recycled paper and, at the same time, to educate on environmental issues. The use of recycled paper was promoted at all company sites by communicating and explaining its importance for the environment and by tackling the prejudices associated with the use of recycled paper in offices: “it clogs photocopiers, has a yellowish tint, is not suitable for printing etc.”. Recycled paper, despite having been made available only in June 2010, has seen good use (approx. 38%), allowing savings of natural resources and a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions. Trees (no.) Water (litres) Electrical energy (kWh) CO2 eq. (t) 934 27,293,500 305,190 150 80 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Total waste production in 2010 was around 120,520 tonnes, In 2010, approximately 4 million cubic metres of sea waof which 103,185 tonnes fell into the category of non-hazter (same quantity as in 2009) and 0.69 million cubic ardous waste (86% of the total). Fifty-nine per cent of the metres of fresh water (-12% compared with 2009) were waste generated by production activities was sent for reconsumed. covery. Sea water is used for cooling auxiliary equipment in the Waste production increased by 24% compared with 2009 LNG regasification plant, and fresh water is taken from because, during the course of 2010, Snam Rete Gas made a wells and the mains to be used primarily for office acconnection to a third-party plant in a national polluted site tivities, firefighting apparatus and the irrigation of green (SIN). The restoration involved the production and disposal spaces. of 53,970 tonnes of waste, representing 45% of the total With regard to water discharges, the sea water consumed waste produced by Snam Rete Gas. for cooling is released into the sea without any treatment, During the course of the year, activities were also continwhile the waste water is channelled into the sewerage netued for the recovery and environmental requalification of works (96% of the total) or discharged, after treatment, 24 areas owned by the company, with a total buildable area into the soil and into surface water bodies (4% of the total). of around 132 hectares, contaminated as a result of earlier To control the discharge of domestic waste water, activities industrial activities, mainly due to the production of manucontinued for the construction of closed-cycle phytopurifactured gas. The areas include sites for which contaminafication plants that make it possible to eliminate this type tion complaints have been submitted to the authorities in of discharge: the waste water is treated and completely accordance with current legislation and sites where only absorbed by the planted vegetation, after separation of the decommissioned plant structures are present. sedimentable solid material. During the course of 2010, With these activities, Snam Rete Gas confirms its commitphytopurification systems were installed in the compresment to the sustainable recovery of abandoned industrial sion stations at Tarsia, Malborghetto and Gallese, and in the sites, with the objective of returning substantial areas to Sala Consilina maintenance site. the local community for new development initiatives, while simultaneously aiming to make the best possible use of Management of substances harmful to the ozone layer them. The initiatives in progress concern the monitoring and control of all conditioning plants containing substances Water harmful to the ozone layer in order to check for any leaks Water procurement and discharge in the activities of Snam of gas into the atmosphere. These substances can be Rete Gas represents a relatively insignificant environmental found, in modest quantities, in a limited number of plants, factor, in terms of both the quantities used and the type of and a programme is under way to replace them with ecodischarges. logical fluids. Fresh water procurement broken down by activity (103m3) 32% 800 600 400 200 4% 1% 63% 2008 2009 2010 Transportation Regasiﬁcation Distribution Storage 81 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory Restricting noise emissions ins, in accordance with the four-year plan that provides for For the restriction of noise emissions, Snam Rete Gas iminterventions on a total of 120 plants by 2013. These activiplements a prevention policy which consists of the correct ties concerned the replacement of the current valves with dimensioning of plants in the design phase, accompanied low-noise versions, the installation of noise-reducing hoods by the conduct of a noise impact forecast. and soundproofed cabinets, and the soundproofing of inThe main sources of noise are the gas compression stations direct heaters. Other noise-reduction interventions were (transportation and storage), generally located in rural armade at the plants in Cortemaggiore (installation of soundeas, the pressure reduction and regulation plants that link absorbing panels) and Ripalta (new silenced valves). pipelines with different operating pressures, and the LNG In order to verify the level of noise emissions, special measregasification plant. urement programmes were conducted at the plants, carried The principal control measures adopted include the instalout both by specialist internal personnel and by external lation of soundproofed cabins, noise-reducing hoods, lowcompanies qualified to provide this service. noise valves and silencers on operating vents, and the burial of pipes. Biodiversity In 2010, in order to mitigate plant noise emissions by means With its infrastructures, Snam Rete Gas has a presence of technological adaptations, actions were continued to imin virtually the whole of Italy. During the course of its acprove soundproofing in nine reduction and regulation cabtivities, it is confronted by areas with different terrains, for Protection and sustainable use of biodiversity During the course of 2010, animal habitat monitoring activities were continued on the “Upgrade of Branch for Abbadia Lariana” gas pipeline. The pipeline was constructed in 2009 and completed with morphological and replanting works in the first few months of 2010. The faunal monitoring began in 2008 with the “ante operam” characterisation phase. The pipeline passes through the province of Lecco in the area between the municipality of Ballabio, in Valsassina, and Abbadia Lariana, along the eastern shore of Lake Lecco. On a short stretch of the route, situated adjacent to the Special Protection Zone designated as “IT 2030601 Grigne” (an area of European Community interest for its birdlife, and protected by the 79/409/EEC “Birds” Directive), the “ante operam” characterisation phase carried out in summer 2008 identified a number of potential nesting sites of a single bird species of European Community interest within a 200-metre buffer area from the axis of the pipeline. The bird is a migratory species, Caprimulgus europaeus (locally called “goatsucker” and probably more familiar to English speakers as a species of nightjar), which lives in North Africa and migrates in summer to Europe, right up to the pre-Alpine areas of northern Italy, to reproduce and then migrate back to Africa in late summer. To prevent any interference, direct or indirect (noise), with the nightjar’s reproductive phase, Snam Rete Gas began construction work on the pipeline after summer 2008, and completed the work in the areas of faunal interest in spring 2009. In order to mitigate possible interference with the wooded habitats crossed and to maintain their faunal value, during the pipe-laying phase a number of beech trees located within the works area were protected, further reducing the temporary faunal disturbance and temporary reduction of habitat. Faunal monitoring activities were carried out in 2009, during the pipeline construction phase, and in 2010, after completion of the replanting work. The “post operam” monitoring, begun in 2010, will last a total of three years and will thus be continued through 2011 and into 2012. The faunal monitoring involves special ornithological census techniques along transepts orthogonal to the section of pipeline, including direct visual observations of birds or organic traces, and also indirect observations by listening for spontaneous birdsong, or birdsong in response to reproduced birdcalls. The observations were conducted both during the daytime and at night, to record all species that could potentially be present on the site and indicators of biodiversity. The results of the “ante operam” characterisation phase (as illustrated in the 2008 Sustainability Report) had already ruled out any direct or indirect interference with almost all of the European Community interest species potentially present, highlighting only the potential presence of some nightjar nesting sites. The results of the monitoring during the construction phase (2009) and the first year of “post operam” monitoring (2010) showed that the bird population has responded positively to the construction of the pipeline. In particular: during the first three years of monitoring (2008-2010), the data collected from 212 bird census points showed no substantial differences between the bird populations surveyed along the entire length of the “Upgrade of Branch for Abbadia Lariana” pipeline; 82 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Community and Territory which appropriate environmental protection and restoration years. These activities are normally carried out for at least measures are designed and implemented in order to re-esfive years after the plantings. tablish their natural value. Environmental monitoring projects were continued along During the year, following the laying of new pipelines, envithe paths of a number of pipelines that affect, albeit only ronmental restoration mainly involved regions in the north marginally, natural areas of high value in terms of wildlife (Friuli Venezia Giulia, Veneto, Piedmont and Lombardy) and and ecology. These monitoring projects are intended to verthe south (Sicily). Restoration works were carried out, along ify the renaturalisation process of the area affected by our the paths of the pipelines, over a total distance of approxiwork, based on a comparison of the environmental condimately 173 km, and new trees were planted along 25 km. The tions after the restoration (“post operam”) and the original goal of replanting and reforestation is not just to restore the environmental conditions (“ante operam”). Monitoring is forested areas affected by pipeline construction work, but carried out on the most important habitats identified during generally to rebuild the landscape and recover the biological the design phase through special surveys aimed at observfunction of planted areas affected by the work, especially in ing and correlating the main environmental parameters, their role as animal habitats with specific biodiversity. highlighting their effective degree of biodiversity. The ac“Cultivation treatments” (agronomic activities for the treattivities continue while the works are being carried out and ment and maintenance of planted seedlings) were carried in the period after the completion of the project. In 2010, out on around 151 km of tree plantings made in previous monitoring was carried out on around 883 km of pipeline. no substantial change was observed in the distribution and number of breeding sites for species of Community interest after completion of the pipeline construction works; during the course of 2009 and 2010, the nightjar the only species of Community interest nesting within 200 metres of the pipeline colonised the same areas recorded in 2008, while the distribution of other species remained essentially unchanged apart from a temporary fall during the construction phase, with a more marked effect in adjacent areas outside the working zone; the presence, in both 2009 and 2010, of four pairs of black kites (Milvus migrans) nesting in areas within 1,000 metres of the pipeline route, with one pair situated approximately 300 metres away, suggests that this species of Community interest has not shown any “negative” reaction; many observations of wild animals along the route of the pipeline, even in wooded areas subjected to deforestation, have revealed behaviour different to the temporary exodus previously anticipated; in fact, the last two years of censuses have shown a systematic use of the working areas for feeding purposes, for foraging by herbivorous species, and for predation on small animals (e.g. blackbirds and lizards) by predatory species. After the first three years of monitoring, it is already possible to identify a number of strategic factors that have ensured the protection of biodiversity along the course of the pipeline, in particular: the execution of works, including deforestation, during the late summer and autumn so as to rule out any interference including indirect interference, noise emissions and temporary removal of habitat with the summer breeding phase of the bird population; the use, in wooded areas, of narrow passageways; the protection, along the stretch passing through areas of high forest, of a number of adult examples of tree species; the immediate restoration, on completion of the project, of the grass, shrub and tree growth of the working areas, by returfing and replanting. In autumn 2010, a number of restored woodland areas were used by Legambiente as locations for films and videos showing the quality of the work carried out during the construction of a gas pipeline, and as a concrete example of the commitment made by Snam Rete Gas to the protection of the environment and biodiversity. 83 Stakeholders Suppliers Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Suppliers Suppliers Transparency, impartiality and sustainability protection lay the foundations of company’s procurement activities relating to goods, works and services. The new model In order to optimise the management of goods, works and servProcurement activities relating to goods, works and services for ices, a project was launched to review the merchandise categoSnam Rete Gas companies are carried out by the supply chain ries with the aim of identifying a shared classification system, department of Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. through a centralised modor a “common language”, for all Snam Rete Gas companies. el for the delivery of services to the operating companies. Within the framework of the eni group, Snam Rete Gas is activeSnam Rete Gas follows a procurement approach based on ly involved in the project for shared classification of suppliers, transparency, impartiality and responsibility, complying with which will make it possible to develop synergies between the the principle of free competition and pursuing the achieveparticipating companies and a wider knowledge of the market. ment of economic and performance objectives, including The need to satisfy the disparate requirements of Snam Rete Gas over the long term. has led to a reinforcement of market intelligence activities; in During the course of this year, the new strategic planning particular, scouting is carried out to search for new suppliers and and control department was created and put into operation enlarge the existing supplier base. The utmost attention is paid to to formulate and implement the multi-year procurement plan. local needs, as befits a company which is spread throughout the This plan makes it possible to achieve pre-established objeccountry and has strong ties with local communities. tives, maximise operating efficiency and ensure a high level With regard to material logistics, the process of rationalising of service, while constantly adhering to the sustainability company warehouses is being completed. Essentially, this proprinciples to which Snam Rete Gas subscribes. vides for the use of a single site equipped with an overhauled The overhaul of the procurement system was completed, system for the movement of goods. A study is under way with with the aim of ensuring an objective selection of suppliers, a view to extending the online catalogues of materials that during both the qualification phase and the contract-awardcan be used directly by the companies, thanks to framework ing phase, giving them equal opportunities once the required agreements reached with goods suppliers which will result in quality standards are satisfied. simplified management and environmental benefits from the According to the business model and the importance of a parreduction in movements to and from the central warehouse. ticular activity, the inclusion of a new company in the list of The high level of transparency, traceability and confidentiality suppliers is conditional on the passing of several evaluation of dealings with suppliers, which is essential to maintaining phases: preliminary, documentary and technical. a constructive and responsible relationship over time, is en86 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Suppliers sured by the use of advanced IT tools for the management of The culture of sustainability electronic trading. Our activities have always been marked by a respect for In 2010, Snam Rete Gas signed 2,050 contracts with more human rights and employment rights, protection of the enthan 1,430 suppliers for a total order value of around €1,470 vironment and the search for a sustainable development million. 98.8% of these orders were placed in Italy, with the model. These principles are extended to everyone with remainder divided between other European countries (0.8%) whom we do business. and the rest of the world (0.4%). Against this background, suppliers are required to subscribe to Model 231 and the principles of the Snam Rete Gas Orders broken down by company (%) (1.470 millions euros) Code of Ethics, to comply with legislation on safety in the workplace, protecting health and safeguarding the environment, and to abide by international standards on employ24% ment rights. We have begun to collect and analyse in detail evaluations of the quality of services, aspects relating to health, safety, environment and quality, and the behaviour of our suppliers. We are currently completing a set of vendor rating criteria in order to increase the percentage of suppliers evaluated. In the event of any negative performance by a supplier, or of any episodes of negligence, actions are taken against that supplier, ranging from a warning to 20% removal from the classification. In 2010, 130 audits were carried out on suppliers, contracts and worksites in rela55% tion to the health and safety of workers and to environ1% mental protection. At the end of 2010, a communication initiative was also SRG Stogit launched to disseminate the 10 principles of the Global Gnl Italia Italgas Compact. Snam Rete Gas has redesigned all contracts issued from 2011 onwards, aimed at ensuring that these principles are increasingly shared by our suppliers. 87 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Suppliers Tarcisio Persegona Chairman of Tre Colli S.p.A. The company has been active in the construction and maintenance of Snam pipelines since 1973, when maintenance and rapid-response activities were begun on Snam’s oil pipelines in north-west Italy. The operating capacity of Tre Colli in the gas and oil pipeline construction sector comprises a workforce of more than 400 and a collection of resources, equipment and vehicles for the complete creation of high-pressure pipelines of any diameter. What do you think of the supplier qualification system used by Snam Rete Gas? I think it is sufficiently complete in terms of the information required to select a good supplier. However, my long experience of almost half a century suggests to me that the information requested from suppliers, including by means of the technical inspection provided for by the qualification process, must subsequently be verified and confirmed by examining the supplier’s actual behaviour on site. In short, I would say, including on the basis of our experience in the selection and qualification of our subcontractors, that the selection proper should be carried out above all on the basis of the actual behaviour and performance that the supervisors and project managers of Snam Rete Gas encounter “in the field” from day to day. The idea is to create a kind of “dynamic” qualification status that evolves and changes over time according to the verification results received from the sites. It would also be desirable for the supplier evaluation that emerges from this qualification process to serve as a kind of starting point to be taken into consideration when evaluating bids submitted by companies in the tender processes, and therefore when awarding the contracts. The big companies are turning to suppliers with certified HSEQ management systems. How have you been equipping yourselves? Our company’s quality management system has been UNI EN ISO 9001:2008 certified since 2002. Working constantly on oil pipelines and associated operational plants, and therefore in the presence of petroleum prod88 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Suppliers ucts, with the potential risk of spillages of hazardous fluids and consequent serious pollution damage to the surrounding environment, since 1973 we have had to adopt special working procedures and systems to avoid these potential risks, and in 2009 we obtained UNI EN ISO 14001:2004 certification for our environmental management system. With regard to workplace health and safety, we have begun drawing up special procedures, to be integrated with those already in existence and applied within the company and in workplaces, with a view to obtaining independent OHSAS 18001:2007 certification of the workplace health and safety management system by the end of 2011. Have the requirements imposed by Snam Rete Gas in the phases of qualification and execution of works, with regard to human rights, workers’ health and safety and environmental protection, had positive repercussions for your company as well? Undoubtedly. In so many years of working relationships with energy companies, our business has constantly had to adapt, including in order to satisfy these specific requirements of Snam Rete Gas, with consequent improvements to our safety, quality and environment management systems, in a continuous process of growth that has allowed us to achieve our current state of development. I would say that the positive repercussions on the health and environmental aspects of our business have been produced mainly by the observations made by Snam Rete Gas during the work execution phase, “in the field” and on site; in this way, we have made improvements that have allowed us to grow in terms of sustainability, strengthening the standards declared in the qualification phase. To what extent does working with Snam Rete Gas enable you to develop your own business? I think to a very large extent. In the early ’70s we had an artisanal business, and the operational strength and degree of reliability that we have achieved, basically the expansion that we have had between then and now, I think is partly due to the constant stimulus and the organisational and working methods imposed by the virtually continuous working relationship with Snam Rete Gas. 89 Stakeholders Media Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Media Media Snam Rete Gas maintains a continuous dialogue to ensure the knowledge and understanding of the company’s activities, its history, its business context, its strategy and its results. Communication Information is provided in a continuous, complete, prompt Communication with the media is regarded as a fundaand timely manner, including in response to requests remental function within the framework of relations with the ceived from news media. regions and with stakeholders in general. Proper relations On the basis of these principles, as well as information with the media make an active contribution to dialogue about the economic and financial performance of Snam and interaction with our partners (institutions, communiRete Gas companies and about business development ties, opinion leaders, financial market, etc.) and to the difplans, information activities were undertaken in 2010 in fusion of more information and greater public awareness the communities of the regions concerned by the current about the company’s goals and activities. or future presence of corporate infrastructures. These included: information on the construction of the Adriatic For these reasons, Snam Rete Gas regards dialogue with Network pipeline which, as planned, will link Massafra to the media not only as valuable, but as an indispensaMinerbio, improving the overall coverage of the national ble way of operating coherently, transparently and cortransportation network; information on the initiatives imrectly. plemented in connection with the support offered to the It is against this background that Snam Rete Gas aims to “Clean Up The World” event sponsored by Legambiente, provide efficiently the information necessary to ensure which saw the involvement of students from primary the best possible knowledge and understanding of the schools and media from various Italian cities on sustaincompany’s activities, its history, its business context, its ability issues; information on the Stogit project concerndistinctive strategic characteristics, its programmes and ing the use of the depleted Bordolano field to store natural the results achieved. The result is a communication stratgas; and last but not least, information on the launch of egy which, by highlighting the company’s commitment to the “Objective Safety” initiative for all employees which, sustainability, the industrial aspects of the business and through the introduction of new technologies, is intended the initiatives through which it contributes to the cultural to ensure a continuous improvement in employee safety and civil development of communities and regions, effecand to further reduce the risk factors associated with tively expresses the company’s values. working activities. 92 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Media The website: a common language Rete Gas website, which moved up four positions from The entry of Stogit and Italgas into the consolidation scope 18th to 14th. of Snam Rete Gas brought about the need to represent the The objectives for 2011 are to affirm a new corporate idennew organisation online, continuing to have a clear, direct tity on the web, improve the accessibility of content where and transparent dialogue while showing the extent of the necessary, offer new services and identify a single techchange. nological platform. With this in mind, in 2010 the websites of all Snam Rete To this end, after an initial phase devoted to benchmarkGas companies underwent an initial update, with the full ing competitors/peers and cross-sector good practices, overhaul scheduled for completion in 2011. a model has been identified that properly reflects the orThe first innovations were introduced between April and ganisation chosen by Snam Rete Gas: business activities July 2010, with the insertion of a number of communion the one hand, and staff activities on the other, in accation elements and a revision of content. We went from cordance with a typical corporate scheme. four websites using different technologies, content and In this model, the “corporate” site will present institutional graphics to four websites united by a number of common information and address itself to shareholders, analysts, elements: a landing page, a header representing the Snam media and authorities, while the operating sites will have Rete Gas group and an interactive box. business content organised according to the needs of cliIn the 9th edition of “Webranking 2010 Italy Top100” a ents/users and will be characterised by common graphics. listing drawn up in November by the company HallvarsThe standardisation of the graphical style will ensure a son & Halvarsson, which identifies (by market capitalisa“family feeling” for all company sites, and a “viewfinder”, tion) the companies that have distinguished themselves displaying “the Snam Rete Gas group”, will simplify naviin online financial communication the Snam Rete Gas gation from one site to another. website ranked in seventh place for the third year running, The redesign of the sites provides for the adoption of a increasing its score of 71.5 in 2009 to 76.75 in 2010. common content management system (CMS) technologiAt the same time, the results of the 14th edition of “Wecal solution capable of further improving content managebranking 2010 Europe 500” the most comprehensive ment procedures by reducing publication times. survey of online institutional and financial communicaThe modular and consistent layout, together with the bention, which examines Europe’s 500 largest companies efits of the CMS technology, will make it possible to proby market capitalisation (included in the FT Europe 500 vide external browsers and internal authors with easier, ranking) confirmed the good performance of the Snam effective interaction. 93 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators Performance indicators Snam Rete Gas Key operating figures 2008 2009 2010 Natural gas transportation Gas injected into the network (109 m3) 85.64 76.9 83.32 Pipeline network (km) 31,474 31,531 31,680 Average journey of gas over the transportation network in Italy (km) 608 639 634 Transported gas compression stations (no.) 11 11 11 Installed power in the gas compression stations (MW) 830 857 861 LNG regasiﬁcation LNG injected into the network (109 m3) 1.52 1.32 1.98 Number of methane tanker loads 42 38 54 Natural gas storage Gas injected into storage (109 m3) 7.81 8.00 Gas withdrawn from storage (109 m3) 8.71 7.59 Operating concessions (no.) 8 8 Natural gas distribution Pipeline network (km) 49,973 50,307 Gas carried over the distribution network (109 m3) 7.54 7.95 Concessions (no.) 1,441 1,448 Active meters (no.) 5,770,672 5,848,000 Snam Rete Gas Key economic figures* 2009 2010 Core business revenue (mil. euros) 2,438 3,475 Operating costs (mil. euros) 581 968 EBIT (mil. euros) 1,274 1,862 Net profit (mil. euros) 732 1,106 Investments (mil. euros) 1,254 1,540 Net invested capital at 31 December (mil. euros) 15,652 16,257 Shareholders' equity including minority interests (mil. euros) 5,703 5,916 Shareholders' equity attributable to the group at 31 December (mil. euros) 5,702 5,915 Net financial debt at 31 December (mil. euros) 9,949 10,341 Free cash flow (mil. euros) -4,489 382 Number of shares of the share capital (million) 3,570.80 3,570.80 Number of shares outstanding at 31 December (million) 3,375.90 3,376.60 Average number of shares outstanding during the year (million) 2,579.30 3,376.20 Official share price at year end (mil. euros) 3.46 3.73 Average official share price during the year (mil. euros) 3.22 3.59 Stock market capitalisation (mil. euros) 11,681 12,595 Dividends for the year (mil. euros) 675 777 Dividends paid during the year (mil. euros) 450 776 Environmental expenses (mil. euros) 93.6 94.5 Health and safety expenses (mil. euros) 31.3 29.7 * for comments to economic figures see Annual Report 2010 available on website www.snamretegas.it 94 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators Snam Rete Gas Key social indicators 2009 2010 Employees (no.) 6,187 6,104 Executives (no.) 121 116 Managers (no.) 493 508 Office workers (no.) 3,320 3,243 Manual workers (no.) 2,253 2,237 Men (no.) 5,589 5,521 Women (no.) 598 583 Female/male salary ratio (executives) 1.03 Female/male salary ratio (managers) 0.97 Female/male salary ratio (office workers) 0.94 Average age (years) 47 48 Seniority (years) 22 23 Hirings during the year (no.) 168 137 Hirings by companies of the SRG group and eni (no.) 121 82 Percentage of graduates hired (%) 18 28.5 Frequency index for employee accidents 4.54 3.55 Severity index for employee accidents 0.18 0.1 Frequency index for contractor accidents 12.74 8.87 Severity index for contractor accidents 0.43 0.30 Hours of training/employee 25 24 Total HSEQ audits conducted (no.) 239 347 Environmental audits (no.) 771 357 Medical examinations (no.) 2,634 3,180 Diagnostic tests (no.) 4,288 3,934 Snam Rete Gas Environmental indicators 2009 2010 Energy consumption (TJ) 15,330 19,396 Natural gas emissions (106 m3) 99.9 100.8 CO2 emissions (103 t) 799.4 1,057.5 CO2eq emissions (103 t) 2,400 2,636 Indirect CO2 emissions (103 t) 50.5 54.9 NOx emissions (t) 1,353 1,683 CO emissions (t) 926 618 Total waste production (t) 96,618 120,519 Non-hazardous waste production (t) 68,886 103,185 Hazardous waste production (t) 27,732 17,334 Waste recovered from production activities (%) 59.2 Water procurement (103 m3) 4,787 4,687 Water discharge (103 m3) 4,479 4,449 95 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators Snam Rete Gas S.p.A Social indicators 2008 2009 2010 Employees (no.) 2,252 2,254 2,636 Executives (no.) 62 66 87 Managers (no.) 256 263 345 Office workers (no.) 1,207 1,215 1,497 Manual workers (no.) 727 710 707 Men (no.) 2,045 2,044 2,295 Women (no.) 207 210 341 Average age (years) 45 45 47 Seniority (years) 21 20 22 Hirings during the year (no.) 85 73 52 Hirings by companies of the SRG group and eni (no.) 14 47 23 Percentage of graduates hired (%) 39 22 52 Frequency index employee accidents 8.8 8.9 4.90 Severity index employee accidents 0.33 0.21 0.13 Frequency index contractor accidents 21.5 11.21 8.81 Severity index contractor accidents 0.54 0.45 0.30 Hours of training/employee 31 37 30 Total HSEQ audits conducted (no.) 89 108 142 Environmental audits (no.) 26 33 142 Medical examinations (no.) 487 419 984 Diagnostic tests (no.) 564 380 865 Snam Rete Gas S.p.A Environmental indicators 2008 2009 2010 Energy consumption (TJ) 12,531 9,929 13,339 Natural gas emissions (106 m3) 45.2 41.1 41.1 CO2 emissions (103 t) 678 531.6 732.3 CO2eq emissions (103 t) 1,386 1,176 1,376.1 Indirect CO2 emissions (103 t) 18.2 18.4 23.3 NOx emissions (t) 1,110 785 1,074 CO emissions (t) 404 301 421 Total waste production (t) 6,482 5,996 59,941 Non-hazardous waste production (t) 5,677 5,699 56,141 Hazardous waste production (t) 805 297 3,800 Waste recovered from production activities (%) 90 91 82 Water procurement (103 m3) 335 450 431 Water discharge (103 m3) 182 252 287 Transportation energy consumption/energy injected into the network * average journey (%/103km) 0.67 0.56 0.74 Transportation CO2 emissions/gas injected into the network * average journey (kg/[106 m3*km]) 12.9 10.64 13.71 Transportation CO2eq emissions/gas injected into the network (kg/106 m3) 16,114 15,176 16,420 Transportation NOx emissions/gas injected into the network * average journey (kg/[106 m3*km]) 0.021 0.016 0.02 Transportation natural gas emissions/gas injected into the network (%) 0.053 0.053 0.049 DLE turbine hours of operation/total turbine hours of operation (%) 65.3 74.4 78.6 Average turbine NOx emissions/turbine total installed power ([mg/Nm3]/MW) 8.2 7.64 7.19 96 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators GNL Italia Social indicators 2008 2009 2010 Employees (no.) 93 87 70 Executives (no.) 3 3 2 Managers (no.) 9 9 6 Office workers (no.) 34 31 27 Manual workers (no.) 47 44 35 Men (no.) 88 82 66 Women (no.) 5 5 4 Average age (years) 40 40 41 Seniority (years) 13 13 14 Hirings during the year (no.) 9 1 1.0 Hirings by companies of the SRG group and eni (no.) 0 1 0 Percentage of graduates hired (%) 33 100 0 Frequency index employee accidents 13.7 6.92 16.92 Severity index employee accidents 0.32 0.3 0.69 Frequency index contractor accidents 0 0 0 Severity index contractor accidents 0 0 0 Hours of training/employee 39 40 13 Total HSEQ audits conducted (no.) 3 4 2 Environmental audits (no.) 4 5 6 Medical examinations (no.) 62 49 63 Diagnostic tests (no.) 83 78 84 GNL Italia Environmental indicators 2008 2009 2010 Energy consumption (TJ) 829 804 958 Natural gas emissions (106 m3) 1.7 1.2 2.0 CO2 emissions (103 t) 34 32.7 48.3 CO2eq emissions (103 t) 60 51 79 Indirect CO2 emissions (103 t) 10.9 10.8 12.1 NOx emissions (t) 18 37.32 48.2 CO emissions (t) 3 70 6 Total waste production (t) 19 81 22 Non-hazardous waste production (t) 12 78 11 Hazardous waste production (t) 7 3 11 Waste recovered (%) 33 74.7 32.5 Water procurement (103 m3) 4,009 4,008 4,007 Water discharge (103 m3) 4,003 4,005 4,004 Regasification energy consumption/LNG injected into the network (%) 1.54 1.74 1.38 Regasification CO2eq emissions/LNG injected into the network (kg/106 m3) 22,338 24,737 39,844 97 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators Stogit Social indicators 2009 2010 Employees (no.) 301 279 Executives (no.) 7 4 Managers (no.) 50 33 Office workers (no.) 201 169 Manual workers (no.) 43 73 Men (no.) 270 269 Women (no.) 31 10 Average age (years) 46 46 Seniority (years) 22 23 Hirings during the year (no.) 9 49 Hirings by companies of the SRG group and eni (no.) 3 33 Percentage of graduates hired (%) 44.4 4 Frequency index employee accidents 6.3 2.5 Severity index employee accidents 0.41 0.1 Frequency index contractor accidents 16.04 4.3 Severity index contractor accidents 0.84 0.34 Hours of training/employee 25.3 35 Total HSEQ audits conducted (no.) 12 28 Environmental audits (no.) 15 30 Medical examinations (no.) 140 226 Diagnostic tests (no.) 206 226 Stogit Environmental indicators 2009 2010 Energy consumption (TJ) 3,944 4,578 Natural gas emissions (106 m3) 12 12.3 CO2 emissions (103 t) 203.8 248.6 CO2eq emissions (103 t) 392 442 Indirect CO2 emissions (103 t) 14.6 14.7 NOx emissions (t) 399.4 527.5 CO emissions (t) 55 154.7 Total waste production (t) 77,663 37,865 Non-hazardous waste production (t) 54,427 30,762 Hazardous waste production (t) 23,236 7,103 Waste recovered from production activities (%) 52.8 Water procurement (103 m3) 68.51 29.98 Water discharge (103 m3) 4.72 10.73 Storage natural gas emissions/gas stored (%) 0.076 0.073 NOx emissions/gas stored (kg/106 m3) 51.1 68.80 Average turbine NOx emissions/turbine total installed power ([mg/Nm3]/MW) 18.30 16.43 98 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Performance indicators Italgas Social indicators 2009 2010 Employees (no.) 3,545 3,119 Executives (no.) 45 23 Managers (no.) 171 124 Office workers (no.) 1,873 1,550 Manual workers (no.) 1,456 1,422 Men (no.) 3,193 2,891 Women (no.) 352 228 Average age (years) 49 50 Seniority (years) 23 24 Hirings during the year (no.) 85 35 Hirings by companies of the SRG group and eni (no.) 70 26 Percentage of graduates hired (%) 10.6 29 Frequency index employee accidents 1.69 2.4 Severity index employee accidents 0.13 0.1 Frequency index contractor accidents 14.86 11.15 Severity index contractor accidents 0.91 0.28 Hours of training/employee 17 19 Total HSEQ audits conducted (no.) 115 175 Environmental audits (no.) 718 179 Medical examinations (no.) 2,026 1,907 Diagnostic tests (no.) 3,624 2,759 Italgas Environmental indicators 2009 2010 Energy consumption (TJ) 653 521 Natural gas emissions (106 m3) 45.6 45.4 CO2 emissions (103 t) 31.3 28.3 CO2eq emissions (103 t) 781 738.5 Indirect CO2 emissions (103 t) 6.7 4.8 NOx emissions (t) 131.32 33.1 CO emissions (t) 500 36.2 Total waste production (t) 12,878 22,691 Non-hazardous waste production (t) 8,682 16,271 Hazardous waste production (t) 4,196 6,420 Waste recovered from production activities (%) 60 Water procurement (103 m3) 260.3 218.5 Water discharg (103 m3) 217.6 146.5 Natural gas emissions/gas distributed (%) 0.61 0.57 Distribution CO2eq emissions/gas distributed (kg/106 m3) 99,405 91,682 99 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / GRI table of contents GRI table of contents 1. Strategy and analysis 3.3 Pages 6, 7 4.2 Pages 12-19 1.1 Pages 4, 5 3.4 Pages 6, 7 4.3 Pages 12-19 1.2 Pages 4, 5, 16-19 Purpose and scope of the report 4.4 Pages 12-19, 50-55 2. Proﬁle of the organisation 3.5 Pages 6, 7 4.5 Pages 12-19 2.1 Pages 8, 9, 94 3.6 Pages 6, 7 4.6 Pages 12-19 2.2 Pages 8, 9, 94 3.7 Pages 6, 7 4.7 Pages 12-19 2.3 Pages 8, 9, 94 3.8 Pages 6, 7 4.8 Pages 12-19 2.4 Pages 7-9 3.9 Pages 6, 7 4.9 Pages 12-19 2.5 Pages 8, 9 3.10 Pages 6, 7 4.10 Pages 12-19 2.6 Pages 8, 9 3.11 Pages 6, 7 Commitment to external initiatives 2.7 Pages 8, 9, 54, 55 GRI content index 4.11 Pages 12-19 2.8 Pages 8, 9 3.12 Page 100 4.12 Pages 12-19 2.9 Pages 6, 7, 94 Assurance 4.13 Pages 70-74, website 2.10 Pages 4, 5, 12-19 3.13 Pages 102, 103 Involvement of stakeholders 3. Parameters of the report 4. Governance, commitments, 4.14 Pages 16-19, 22-93 Profile of the report involvement of Stakeholders 4.15 Pages 16-19 3.1 Pages 6, 7 Governance 4.16 Pages 22-93 3.2 Pages 6, 7 4.1 Pages 12-19 4.17 Pages 22-93 Indicators of economic performance Emissions, discharges, waste LA 6 Pages 33-41 EC 1 Page 94, website EN 16 Pages 76, 77, 95-99 LA 7 Pages 33-35, 95-99 EC 2 Page 66 EN 18 Pages 76, 77, 95-99 LA 8 Pages 33-41 EC 3 Pages 32, 33 EN 19 Page 81 LA9 Pages 40,41 Indicators of environmental performance EN 20 Pages 79, 95-99 LA 10 Page 27 Raw materials EN 21 Pages 81, 95-99 LA 11 Pages 27, 95-99 EN 1 Pages 9,94 EN 22 Pages 80, 81, 95-99 LA 12 Pages 27-29 Energy EN 24 Pages 80, 81, 95-99 LA 13 Page 33 EN 3 Pages 77, 78, 95-99 Products and services LA 14 Page 95 EN 4 Pages 77, 78, 95-99 EN 26 Pages 75-83 Human rights EN 5 Pages 77, 78 Compliance HR 1 Pages 12-14 EN 6 Pages 77, 78 EN 28 Page 75 HR 2 Pages 7, 8 EN 7 Pages 77, 78 General HR 4 Pages 14, 15 Water EN 30 Page 94 Companies EN 8 Pages 81, 95-99 Indicators of social performance SO 1 Pages 82, 83 EN 9 Pages 81, 95-99 Employment practices SO 2 Page 15 Biodiversity LA 1 Pages 23, 95-99 SO 3 Page 27 EN 12 Pages 63-65, 82, 83 LA 2 Page 31 SO 4 Page 15 EN 13 Pages 63-65, 82, 83 LA 3 Pages 31, 95-99 SO 7 Pages 13, 15 EN 14 Pages 63-65, 82, 83 LA 4 Page 31 SO 8 Pages 13, 75 Information on management procedures DMA EC Pages 4,5 DMA EN Page 75 DMA LA Pages 12, 22 DMA HR Pages 12, 22 DMA SO Pages 16, 17, 22-93 Snam Rete Gas carried out a self-assessment on the level of application of the GRI guidelines (G3) (“GRI Application Level”) and found that it has achieved a level of B+ 100 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Global Compact reconciliation table Global Compact reconciliation table Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. has subscribed to the Global Compact, nication On Progress), the table below gives a brief descripa voluntary initiative promoted by the United Nations, sintion of the activities carried out in 2010 and considered in ce 2009. In compliance with the formal requirements for greater detail in the various sections of this report. reporting on progress made on the 10 principles (CommuGlobal Compact The 10 principles SRG 2010 Sustainability Report GRI Indicator Human Rights Principles 1, 2 Businesses should • In the codes of ethics of Snam Rete Gas companies, in the sustainable development policy and in HR1, HR2, HR3, support and respect the protection contractual relations with suppliers, respect for human rights is explicitly declared, pages 12, 14, 87 HR4, HR8, LA4, of internationally proclaimed • Snam Rete Gas undertakes, as also set out in the code of ethics, to combat any form of LA7, LA8, LA13 human rights within their discrimination and to respect any type of difference, pages 14, 31 respective spheres of influence and • Snam Rete Gas operates in full compliance with Italian legislation by setting the age of make sure they are not complicit, majority as an indispensable prerequisite, pages 12, 14 even indirectly, in human rights • All suppliers are required to adhere to the code of ethics and to declare that they will abuses. not use personnel below the minimum age prescribed by law, pages 12, 14, 87 • The initiative to spread the principles of the Global Compact among the company’s suppliers has been implemented, with the adoption of explanatory covers on contracts, page 87 • Inspection audits are carried out at suppliers’ premises, page 87 Labour Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 Businesses • The national collective labour agreements for the energy & petroleum and gas/water HR1, HR2, LA2, should uphold: the freedom of industries are applied. All workers are guaranteed the right to express their thoughts, LA3, LA4, LA7, LA8, association and the effective belong to associations and carry out trade union activities. Agreements have been LA12, LA13 recognition of the right to collective reached with the unions for collective closures, territorial reorganisation and increased bargaining; the elimination of all working flexibility, pages 39-41 forms of forced and compulsory • Snam Rete Gas S.p.A. has obtained certification of the workers’ health and safety management labour; the effective abolition of system in accordance with standard OHSAS 18001. Work is also in progress to obtain child labour; and the elimination certification for the management systems of GNL Italia and Stogit by 2012, pages 33-37 of discrimination in respect of • Snam Rete Gas, in collaboration with Global Compact Network Italia, has conducted a employment and occupation seminar on health and safety in the workplace 35-37 • The Objective Safety project, which involves all Snam Rete Gas companies, has been started. The project also includes the “Safety Trophy” and “Zero Accidents Prize” initiatives, page 33 • More than 62,000 hours of training have been delivered on matters relating to health, safety and the environment, page 27 • A collective incentivisation programme is adopted, and we use tools to evaluate the performance of all employees, pages 28, 29 • Initiatives are promoted in favour of employees and their families and for work/life balance, page 32 • The corporate intranet has been overhauled to promote integration between the different companies, page 26 • IT tools have been incorporated to promote contact and collaboration between coworkers, pages 25, 26 Environment Principles 7, 8, 9 Businesses • The companies are certified according to standard ISO 14001, and adopt a EN3, EN4, EN6, should: support a precautionary precautionary environmental approach aimed at continuous improvement, page 75 EN7, EN8, EN9, approach to environmental • Various initiatives have been taken to prevent atmospheric pollution and climate EN12, EN13, EN14, challenges; undertake initiatives change, such as: installation of low-emission turbines, gas recovery activities, adoption EN16, EN18, EN20, to promote greater environmental of photovoltaic panels in own buildings, purchase of electrical energy produced from EN21, EN22; EN24, responsibility; and encourage renewable sources, etc., pages 76-78 EN26, EN30 the development and diffusion • The best available technologies are used to minimise environmental impacts, of environmentally friendly pages 62, 79 technologies. • Eco-responsible behaviour is promoted in offices, such as sorted waste collection at catering points, use of recycled paper, etc., page 80 • Snam Rete Gas has signed up to the international initiative “Clean Up the World” promoted by Legambiente, with active participation by employees and students from a number of schools, pages 70-75 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work • The Anti-Corruption Guidelines have been adopted and the organisational structure has SO2, SO3, SO4 against corruption in all its forms, been modified, with the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Legal Support unit, page 15 including extortion and bribery. • Training activities concerning Model 231 and anti-corruption have been delivered, page 27 101 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Letter of Assurance Letter of Assurance 102 Snam Rete Gas Sustainability Report 2010 / Letter of Assurance 103 Piazza Santa Barbara, 7 20097 San Donato Milanese Milan Tel +39.025201 Full paid-up capital 3,570,978,994.00 Tax code and Milan Company Register No 13271390158 R.E.A. (Economic-Admin. Roll) No 1633443 VAT No 13271390158 Company controlled and coordinated by Eni S.p.A. Format control Snam Rete Gas – Sustainability Graphics Inarea e Opera Pre-printing Opera Printing AG Media s.r.l. Printed on ecological paper: Fedrigoni Symbol Tatami White (cover) Fedrigoni Symbol Freelife Satin (inside) April 2011 For informations: Snam Rete Gas S.p.A Sustainability Piazza Santa Barbara, 7 20097 San Donato Milanese (MI) Italy Tel. 025201Fax 0252069227 E-mail: svilupposostenibile@snamretegas.it Website: www.snamretegas.it
