United Nations Global Compact “Communication in Progress” (COP) Report on Ghana Manganese Company Limited Part II G.M.C. March 22, 2011 1 Nsuta Infrastructure During the year under review, several infrastructural projects were undertaken including refurbishment/construction of staff housing units. A total of 4 junior staff housing units were completed in 2010. The following housing units were upgraded: • Two bedroom ms, • One open courtyard, urtyard, • One enclosed porch, • A toilet, • A bathroom equipped with a shower, • Kitchen. The housing units are equipped with electricity as well as being connected to a Biofil environmentally friendly toilet system. Construction work started on eight (8) additional units, which are expected to be completed early early in 2011. Plate 48 and 49 shows Junior Staff houses under constructionand completed Junior Staff housing units. 2 Visiting Groups The Minister of Mines, Lands and Forestry Ahaji Collins Dauda, visited the mine as part of his familiarization tour to get acquainted with the operations of the Mining Industry. Plate 68 and 69shows the Minister and his entourage taking a photograph with GMC Management. Plate 68: shows Minister and his entourage Plate 69: shows Minister taking photograph with GMC Mgt As part of the diaspora promotion of Ghana’s Natural Resources, a team of Chinese investors visited GMC to find out the feasibility and operations of the mine to get first hand information about the environment for future investment. As part of the program of the Department of Environment and Development Studies of the Central University, students from the university visited the mine to learn, at first hand the impacts of various developmental projects and activities on the biophysical and the social environment. Plate 70 and 71 shows students at the Hill B and the re-afforested area. 3 Plate 70: shows students at the Hill B Plate 71: shows students around the re-afforested area Parliamentary Select Committee on Minerals visited the mine to familiarize themselves with the operations of the mine. Plate 72 and 73 shows Parliamentary Select Committee during induction and interaction at the mine face. Plate 72: Parliamentary Select Committee Plate 73: Parliamentary Committee at the mine face • A team of three (3) inspectors from the Minerals Commission Inspectorate Division (Regional) visited the mine for their usual inspection. • Personnel of the Environmental Protection Agency from Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality visited the mine to inspect the road diversion near Pit C Central West. • Personnel of EPA from Tarkwa Nsuaem Municipality visited the mine on their regular inspection. • Personnel from the Regional office of the Minerals Commission (Inspectorate Division) visited the mine as part of their quarterly inspection of the operations of the mine. The national Chief Immam Sheike Usman Nuhu Shaributu who was on a national assignment in the Tarkwa/Nsuaem Municipality visited GMC management as part of his familiarization tour to get acquainted with the operations of the Mining Industry. Plate 74 and 75 shows Chief Imam shaking hands with GMC Managing DirectorMr. Jurgen Eijgendaal. 4 Plate74: shows Chief Imam shaking hands with MD Plate75: shows Chief Imam in picture with MD COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM As part of the vision of the community assistance program enshrined in the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the company, GMC pursues a vigorous policy of providing infrastructure based projects like school buildings, aqua-privy toilet facilities, water closet toilet facilities, provision of low tension poles to support governments rural electrification project, community centers, market places and many more. In 2010, a review of the company’s community assistance programs and activities in all the seventeen (17) communities within GMC operational enclave was undertaken. The review was aimed at assessing the functionality of the existing strategies and interventions and also to harness agenda-setting inputs from the communities in revising and sustainably address the community development challenges of the alternative livelihood programs. Community infrastructural projects Activities in respect of construction of community infrastructural projects in the seven (7) communities progressed considerably. As indicated earlier, all the seven (7) community infrastructural projects have been completed and successfully commissioned and handed over to the various communities for use and maintenance. Plate 93: Shows the TNMA Chief Executive addressing the community during the commissioning. 5 Plate 93: Shows the TNMA Chief Executive addressing the community during the commissioning The seven (7) communities (Enyinase, Tamso, Jerusalem, Akyem, Tarkwa Banso, Nsuta and Zongo) projects have been completed, commissioned and handed over to the various communities. The Awudua and Bankyim projects are also completed and awaiting commissioning. 6 Tamso A 10seater WC Lavatory was constructed to provide proper and modern place of convenience for the community. Expenses incurred on this project were US$ 7,184.77. See plate 90 below. Plate 94: shows Tamso 10-Seater WC Toilet Facility 7 Jerusalem Community Centre Project is completed and the cost of this project was US$ 7,953.30. It is a community centre which is to serve as a convenient place for social gathering and other activities for the community. See plate 95 below Plate 95: shows Jerusalem Community Centre 8 Akyem A 4-unit teacher’s quarters has been constructed at a cost of US$ 5,306.07 to provide a decent accommodation for teachers and also to create conducive environment for teaching and learning. See plate 96 below. Plate 96: shows Akyem4-Unit Teachers’ Quarters 9 Enyinase A 3-unit classroom block, office and store were constructed in two phases at the cost of US$ 11,106.36. The first phase was the construction of a 2-unit block in 2008 while the second phase consists of a 1-unit classroom block, office and store in 2010.The objective is to support the role of the state to increase access to quality education. See plate 97 below. Plate 97: shows Enyinasie 3-Unit Classroom Block, Office & Store 10 Tarkwa Banso Community/ Social Centre This project cost US$ 18,233.93.. It comprises a community/social centre and office block with washroom and lavatory. The objective is to provide a convenient place for social gathering and other activities at Tarkwa Banso. Defective boreholes in the communities (Akyem, Tarkwa Banso and Nsuta zongo) were all repaired by GMC. The commercial manager of GMC also presented (ten) 10 dustbins on behalf of GMC to improve effective sanitation in the Tarkwa Banso community village. See plate 97 below. Plate 98: shows Tarkwa Banso Community Centre Project P 11 Nsuta Zongo The construction of a mechanized bore hole at the Nsuta Zongo was speedily undertaken when GMC realized that the Community had no portable source of drinking water. The cost of the project is US$ 5,800.00.See See plate 99 below. Plate 99: shows Nsuta-Zongo Zongo Borehole Project 12 Summary of Community Bursary for Year 2010 Students: NO. COMMUNITY NO. OF TOTAL BENEFICIARIES AMOUNT (GH¢) 1 Agona Wassa 29 1,510.00 2 Ahwetieso 16 940.00 3 Akyem Wassa 19 1,080.00 4 Anyinase 24 1,340.00 5 Bankyim 27 1,430.00 6 Bonsa No. 2 15 920.00 7 Chalekrom 40 2,310.00 8 Essikuma/Bonsawire 38 2,340.00 9 Esuaso 113 21,150.00 10 Jerusalem 16 1,100.00 11 Kwaminakrom 13 710.00 12 Nsuta-Wassa 43 2,440.00 13 Senyakrom 54 2,970.00 14 Tamso 61 3,540.00 15 Tarkwa Banso 58 3,550.00 16 Akyempim 21 1,760.00 17 Anomakokrom 41 2,700.00 18 Grand Total 587 51,790.00 Cost of Mail, Fuel and Transportation 4,000.00 OVERALL TOTAL 155,790.00 Table 18: Summary of community bursary for year 2010 Donations Ghana Manganese Company Limited donated a US$ 200,000.00 cheque to the University of Mines and Technology towards the construction of a students’ hostel. In his remarks at the presentation ceremony held at the Vice-Chancellor’s Office, the Managing Director of GMC, Mr. Jurgen Eijgendaal who is also the immediate past president of the Ghana Chamber of Mines, made it known that it’s been a dream come true for the company and its Board of Directors to raise such funds to support the construction of this all important project. He expressed the hope that the completion of the project would enable the University house more students on campus to facilitate teaching and learning. He intimated that the gesture formed part of the company’s corporate social 13 responsibility program which has an ultimate goal; community development through capacity building. On his part the Vice-Chancellor Professor Mireku Gyimah expressed his deepest appreciation for the donation while promising that every pesewa of this donation shall go into the construction of the project. He added that it’s been a great challenge for the University authority to raise funding for all the developmental projects the University and wished for other corporate institutions to emulate this example. He expressed the hope that GMC would continue to support the University in all its developmental efforts. Plate 96 and 97 show GMCMD, Mr. Jurgen Eijgendaal presenting check of US$ 200,000 to the Vice Chancellor of UMaT and Mr. Wisdom Ajdei Mensah donating Computers to Millennium Development Project. Plate 100: show GMCMD, Mr. Jurgen Eijgendaal presenting US$ 200,000 check to the VC of UMaT. 14 Plate 101: shows Mr. Wisdom Ajdei Mensah donating to Millennium Development Project • GMC made a donation of 10 computers and two printers to Millennium Development Project, an NGO in Sekondi-Takoradi. • GMC made a donation to the Municipal Agriculture Development Unit, Tarkwa Nsuaem towards the farmers’ day celebration. Items donated included twenty (20) wellington boots, ten (10) watering cans, thirty (30) PVC groves and sixty (60) cutlasses • At a short solemn ceremony held at the office of the Public Relations Office at GMC, a cash donation was made to Mr. Matthew Kwaku Yortchere, a resident of Anomakokrom to enable him undergo a pelvic surgery. The presentation was done by Mr. Wisdom Adjei Mensah, Human Resource/Administrative Manager. 15 Community Leadership Training Programme Ghana Manganese Company held a 3-Day leadership training programme for the Chiefs and Queens of the seventeen (17) communities in its catchment area. The programme was aimed among others, to inculcate in participants’, basic leadership and community development skills. Topics treated at this all important workshop by Mr. Benjamin Asare Ankrah a community development practitioner from Abenje’s Business Services(Consulting Firm based in Accra) included; community mobilization skills, community development principles, facilitation skills, communication skills (questioning and listening), conflict prevention and management, just to mention a few. The training programme, which took place between the 30th of November and 2nd of December at the Senior Staff Club House, attended a total number of fifty eight (58) delegates. Participants at the end of the 3-day workshop expressed their heartfelt gratitude to GMC for organizing such an educative workshop since it helped enrich their knowledge about community leadership. Community Consultative Meetings During the period, community relations meetings were held in furtherance of good relations and resolution of community issues/ complaints. Plate 102 shows GMC /Community interactions Plate 103: shows meetings with Tarkwa Banso 16 Manganese Football Club As a way of balancing the work-life of our valued employees, GMC sponsors and supports its Nsuta football club, which provides a source of bonding entertainment to the workforce. Professional players from all the ten (10) regions of the country are drawn to form the team members of the club. Youth training has been initiated to train and groom future players. Currently, the club has twenty-five (25) registered players who are vigorously undergoing training in preparation of the 2011 national FA club of which the club is a participant. During the period under review, GMC supported the club with a total of GH¢52,920.00 constituting monthly subvention and a donation of a number of sports equipment to the club which included the following: • Twenty Six (26) pairs of football boots • Ten (10)Soccer balls • Two (2) goal keepers gloves Conclusion GMC’s strong commitment towards sustainable development has been clearly demonstrated in our performance during the period under review. We shall, as a matter of necessity, endeavour to further build upon the wonderful results achieved over the ensuing period. Our strategy shall incorporate an even more environmentally friendly approach towards mining, while employing socially responsible methodologies and programs in our day to day engagements in order to continue fostering good community/ stakeholder relations and maintain a mutually beneficial co-existence. As far as practicable, we shall continually endeavour to meet the needs of present generation by building towards a safe, healthy and prosperous working climate and by reducing poverty in the communities surrounding the mine, without compromising the ability of the future generations to also meet their own sustainable and economic needs. Our continuous support towards community development is a firm commitment and conviction, whereby GMC is proud of all the successes chalked so far. 17
