The importance of SL for the Stockholm region 2010 SL in brief † PAGE 2 Annual Report Sustainable development † PAGE 33 Annual Report † PAGE 49 SL’s vision Through public transport, SL contributes towards making Stockholm Europe’s most attractive metropolitan region. 5 43 29 SL has subscribed to the UN’s initiative for responsible­ business practices, the Global Compact. This means that SL shall strive to work in accordance with the initiative’s ten principles on human rights, employment law, the environment and anti-corruption measures. Once a year, SL shall also report on its goals, results and experiences from this work in writing, in the form of a Communication on Progress (COP). This Annual Report includes SL’s first COP. Find out more Sustainable development, page 33 Contents 14 20 2 3 About AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik Conditions are changing and so must SL 4 An expansive region that needs investments in public transport 5 The importance of SL for the Stockholm region 9 Key developments – SL on the map 10 A selection of events in 2010 14 SL’s cooperation contributes towards social development 21 17 Attentive dialogue – a way of developing operations 18 What did SL learn from the snow chaos? 20 A focus on accessibility 22 A new, sharper SL 25 Coordination and information initiatives 10 26 Passengers feel safer 28 New tracks to Hagsätra 30 Our commitment to change 32 New underground bus depots 33 Sustainable development (COP), contents † 49 Annual Report, contents † 84 Board and auditors 86 SL’s Executive Management Team 87 Ownership and management 88 Property portfolio 30 89 93 Operating figures Definitions SL in brief About AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik in brief New business concept from 2011 owns extensive assets in the form of New strategy and organisation Based on its owners’ requirements and track vehicles, track installations and Since March 2010, SL has been carrying its stakeholders’ expectations, SL shall properties­with a replacement value of out extensive changes with the aim of propose and implement regional public approximately SEK 100 billion. “developing SL to become a clearer and transport solutions that make commutmore effective purchaser and strategist”. ing easier and simplify everyday life for In order to be able to provide the best everyone in the Stockholm region. possible service it is extremely important Within the framework of this goal, SL’s for SL to enter into businesslike, trusting­ business concept and vision have been Vision cooperation with the operators with reformulated. SL’s overall objectives Through public transport, SL contributes which SL signs agreements. SL must be were established in spring 2011. towards making Stockholm Europe’s an expert in the overall planning, ordermost attractive metropolitan region. ing and monitoring of transport services The new approach marks a shift in as well as renewal and maintenance, emphasis, whereby SL is focusing on Overall objectives while transport and maintenance comdeveloping public transport solutions that •• More customers and more satisfied panies are responsible for detailed planare sustainable in the long term as a cencustomers ning, delivery and customer contact. tral resource for the development of the •• Businesslike procurement and Stockholm region and the municipalities. agreement monitoring SL is owned by Stockholm County The private transport operators engaged •• Motivated, skilled staff Council by SL will have greater responsibility for •• Sustainable development of the region AB SL is owned by Stockholm County the local development of the customer •• Balanced finances Council and the SL Board is appointed offerings and customer contact. •• Internal efficiency and constant by the County Council Assembly. SL improvements receives half of its finance from taxation, As a result of these changes, SL will with the remainder consisting mainly of have a new organisation with effect from The brand’s core values fare revenues. 1 May 2011. (Find out more on page 22). Simplicity, Reliability, Comprehensive Approach Shared values Cooperation, Responsibility, Confidence, The company’s business activities and finances 2010 2009 Commitment Number of passengers per day in winter using general public transport 722 000 705 000 Satisfied customers using general public transport, % 74 76 SL’s operations Number of special transport service journeys and patient transport 10 200 11 756 SL has overall responsibility for ensuring­ journeys per day that everyone who lives in or visits Profit/loss, SEK millions –420 414 Stockholm County has extensive, easily Income for the year, SEK millions 14 124 13 848 accessible, reliable public transport. Fare revenues, SEK millions 5 370 5 217 All transport services are provided by Total assets, SEK millions 35 782 32 769 private transport operators and proTax distribution level, % 51.2 48.6 cured by SL through competition. SL Investments, SEK millions 4 662 3 862 2 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 A word from the MD Conditions are changing and so must SL The Stockholm region is Sweden’s largest growth region, with an annual population increase of around 30,000 people. In order for all these people to be able to work, travel and live in the county we need an effective and extensive public transport network that is well-equipped to meet the demands of both today and tomorrow. It is with this in mind that much of SL’s internal work during 2010 has been focused on creating a new, more efficient organisation that is better equipped to face the future. Over the course of the last two decades,­ rail network to come to a standstill at the SL is a major purchaser of services, conSL has evolved from being a transend of February 2010. During February­ tracts and goods, an action which brings port operator with an almost complete 2011, bus services also experienced with it a great deal of social responsibility. monopoly within Stockholm County, to major disruptions. The forces of nature SL has subsequently subscribed to the becoming a purchasing organisation showed us just how important SL’s transUN’s initiative for responsible business that procures transport and other serport services are in terms of the smoothpractices – the Global Compact – since vices through open competition. Reviews running of Stockholmers’ everyday lives 2009. This means that we now work carried out by SL have been aimed at and we have therefore implemented a with targets relating to the environment, making the organisation an even more number of measures to improve our human rights, labour law and anti-corefficient and more effective purchaser ­preparedness for future winters. ruption measures. Our work in relation to as well as a competent strategist to deal the Global Compact will continue to be with the continually expanding demand The importance of public transport for an important part of our efforts to help for public transport services. the well-being of the Stockholm region to achieve a society that is more sustaingoes beyond our ability to offer punctual, able in the long term. It has been challenging carrying out reliable and safe transport services. SL’s extensive changes without disrupting our operations are also essential in order to I would like to take this opportunity to highly effective operations; however, we reach the environmental targets that the thank all our employees, contractors and are now starting to reach our goals. After region has set. The more people who municipalities for their work during the more than a year of preparations, the choose public transport over driving, the past year. It is with their expertise and new organisation will be in fully in place less the overall environmental impact will their professionalism – on which you place by May 2011. be. Today, SL’s transport services account daily demands – that I am convinced for around 25 per cent of passenger that SL will achieve its vision of contribut2010 and 2011 gave us unusually harsh transport within the county, but only 6 ing towards making Stockholm Europe’s winters, which certainly put SL’s transport services to the test. The snow and per cent of carbon dioxide emissions. most attractive metropolitan region. • cold weather caused large parts of the Göran Gunnarsson, MD SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 3 A word from the Chairman An expansive region that needs investments in public transport Effective public transport is essential to the Spårväg City line are clear indications by public transport instead of by car a growing metropolitan region such as of our ambition to expand the public we can also reduce the effects on our Stockholm. Public transport is the pulse transport network. As Stockholm grows, environment. Increasing travel by public of the entire region. Without it, everyday SL must also be allowed to grow. transport is probably the single most life would simply not work for all those important environmental investment that people who hurry to their jobs, schools, Stockholm County’s growth during the Stockholm County Council can make. preschools or leisure activities each and last four years is equivalent to the entire every day. Stockholm’s public transport population of Norrköping (130 000). In Every day, more than 700 000 passenis also the lifeblood of the entire country ten years our growth will be equivalent gers choose to make 2.5 million journeys – as Stockholm advances, so too does to the population of Malmö (300 000), using SL. At peak periods, four fifths of Sweden. and in twenty years to the population of all journeys to the centre of Stockholm Gothenburg (500 000). The rapid expanare made by commuter rail, bus, Metro During our previous mandate period, sion of our region requires significant or tram. It is not hard to see that public SL succeeded in significantly improving investments in public transport. I intend transport is all about ensuring that many the service reliability of both the Metro to continue working to improve public people’s daily lives run smoothly. By conand commuter rail services. Our transtransport and formulate new ideas for tinuing to maintain and expand public port and security hosts at stations and future development of both rail transport, transport throughout the Stockholm on platforms have made life easier for bus and boat transport. region, I hope to make life easier for passengers and helped make our public people as we work together to create a transport safer. Through SL Access, our SL’s most important task is to achieve better living environment. I hope that you ticket range has been developed and passenger access to these new services even greater number of passengers and more satisfied passengers. Our goal is will join me on this essential journey. • has been improved. The double track that the proportion of total travel carried Christer G Wennerholm extension to Nynäshamn, on the Roslagsout by public transport should increase. Chairman banan light railway and the opening of If more Stockholmers choose to travel 4 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 The importance of SL for the Stockholm region SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 5 Stockholm County currently has more than two million inhabitants. In ten years, its growth will be equivalent to the population of Malmö, and in twenty years to the population of Gothenburg. SL is working hard together with other players to achieve the region’s vision that Stockholm shall be Europe’s most attractive metropolitan region. This vision brings with it significant demands. 98 % “In order for the region to continue to grow and develop, we need high quality public transport that will be successively expanded,” says Göran Gunnarsaccordance with the Government’s infrastructure plans and one in which expansion is carried out in accordance with the entire Stockholm Agreement. The new rail ­vehicles purchased son, MD of SL. “Those who move here expect – and The costs for the investments included in the Govby SL are at least quite rightly so – to find effective public transport ernment’s infrastructure plans total approximately 98 % recyclable. from day one. SL therefore has an important role to SEK 65 billion, while the costs in accordance with play in achieving our shared vision.” the Stockholm Agreement are around SEK 86 billion. “We are facing high levels of growth in the Stock“Those who move here expect holm region,” continues Gunnarsson. “At the same – and quite rightly so – to find time, we are also facing many challenges, not least in terms of financing the significant need for new infraeffective public transport from structure and new public transport. This requires day one.” joint responsibility from the county’s municipalities, Göran Gunnarsson, MD the county council and the state. We also need to be open to alternative financing solutions in which the business community can be involved.” One of SL’s most important tasks, alongside its responsibility for day-to-day transport services, is In order to meet the challenges of the future, SL has planning for future requirements. Many projects carried out a comprehensive review of its organisatake several years from the planning stage through tion. Roles such as purchaser, strategist, qualified to completion. The largest project currently underadviser and planner have been strengthened. Coopway in the Stockholm region, the Citybanan line, has eration with regional players has been given even been under discussion since the early 1990s. A final greater emphasis. agreement was reached on financing in 2006 and the project is expected to be completed in 2017. Cooperation for better solutions It is natural – and absolutely essential – for SL to Even though not all projects take decades to implecooperate with various players in order to provide ment, they must be planned in plenty of time, parthe region with public transport. The municipalities ticularly in a growing region. The strategy document, have a key role to play since they are responsible for Public Transport Plan 2020, includes analyses for the physical planning. SL therefore holds continutwo alternative levels of expansion up until 2020: ous dialogue with the municipalities in order to find one scenario in which measures are carried out in solutions that benefit all parties. 6 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL is also involved in drawing up an action plan for efficient transport services. The aim of this plan is to specify actions to make the transport system more effective, including the need to change from travelling by car to using public transport. In the work relating to the action plan. To achieve this, SL collaborates with the Swedish Transport Administration, the County Administrative Board, the City of Stockholm and the Office of Regional Planning. The importance of SL for the environment Stockholmers are unique in terms of the extent to which they use public transport. During the morning rush hour as many as eight out of ten travel by public transport into the centre of Stockholm. This proportion is considerably higher than for most of the other capital cities in the world. SL’s contribution towards improving the environment in the region and reducing overall climatic impact is therefore important. At the same time, SL’s transport services also have a considerable environmental impact, driving SL to increase the pace of development towards more sustainable public transport. “We must keep placing stricter demands on our suppliers, thereby driving development forwards,” adds Gunnarsson. “Our task in relation to the cliThe Citybanan line is a new six kilometre long double mate is therefore two-fold: expanding public transtrack tunnel between Tomteboda and Södra Station. port so that people can travel in an environmentally It will significantly increase the capacity for commuter rail services in particular and will make the transport friendly manner, and constantly demanding cleaner system through central Stockholm less sensitive to and more efficient means of transport. disruption. “Our vision is that the Stockholm region shall be State infrastructure plans Europe’s most attractive metropolitan region. StockIn spring 2010, the county plan for regional transport infrastructure in Stockholm County for 2010 – 2021 holm already has a number of advantages, being and the national transport plan for the same period a beautiful city with lots of water and green areas. were established. In Stockholm County, a number of There are many world-leading companies here, the measures in the Stockholm Agreement are being financed through funding from the county plan and the and the high level of migration to the region shows national plan. State co-funding of SL’s projects covers that lots of people want to live here. But that’s not around half of the investment cost. enough. Our vision doesn’t just say that Stockholm shall be good, it says that Stockholm shall be the The Stockholm Agreement best. By continuing to develop public transport, we In November 2006, the Government decided to appoint a specific negotiator for Stockholm’s infrastructure. can contribute towards making this a reality.” • The subsequent discussions resulted in an agreement on prioritisations and proposals for financing measures for roads, railways and public transport in Stockholm County. The agreement was unveiled in December 2007. Find out more about SL’s sustainable development work on page 38 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 7 Uppsala* Not in Stockholm County Norrtälje 4 Arlanda Kårsta Märsta Bålsta* Upplands Väsby Ormsta Häggvik 9 Arninge Åkersberga Österskär Sollentuna Täby C Kallhäll 15 Roslags Näsby Jakobsberg Akalla Näsbypark Barkarby Djursholms Ösby Helenelund Mörby C Hjulsta Danderyds Sjh Kista Mörby Lunda Tensta Spånga Rissne 10 Solna station Vällingby Vaxholm Hässelby Strand Solna C Sundbyberg Karolinska Sjh Universitetet Norrtull Ropsten 5 Tekniska Lidingö Tomteboda högskolan 11 14 Frihamnen Alvik Stadshagen Odenplan Östermalmstorg Värmdö Brommaplan Radiohuset Orminge 17 Fridhemsplan T-Centralen Nockeby Djurgården 13 St Essingen Hornstull Slussen Charlottendal Liljeholmen Henriksdal Enlunda/Färingsö Stockholm Sofia Södra Fredriksdal Sickla Udde 16 Gullmarsplan Årstaberg 3 Älvsjö 18 Saltsjöbaden Skärholmen Gubbängen Ekerö Fruängen Bandhagen 19 Skarpnäck Tyresö 1 N Sköndal 2 Högdalen Hökarängen 12 Hagsätra Norsborg Flemingsberg Farsta Strand Hallstavik 7 6 Vega Södertälje C Stockholm County Södertälje hamn Handen Norrtälje Gnesta* 8 Västerhaninge Åkersberga Märsta Tungelsta Stockholm Stavsnäs Södertälje Västerhaninge Nynäs Gård 8 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Nynäshamn Nynäshamn Mörby Lunda Tensta Spånga Solna Rissne llingby Key developments SL on the map Solna C Sundbyberg The Stockholm region features strong growth and development. SL’s task is Tomteboda 5 Ropsten to keep abreast of developments and 11 predict the needs for future years. Frihamnen SL’s head office Here are some of the recent and Odenplan Östermalmstorg Alvik Stadshagen Radiohuset planned developments, Brommaplan about which Sergels Torg you can read more in the Public Fridhemsplan 17 T-Centralen Transport Plan 2020, which is Djurgården available at sl.se. Nockeby 13 St Stockholm Södra 18 The Stockholm Transport Museum Fredriksdal Metro Commuter rail ÄlvsjöTram Bus Skärholmen Gubbängen Ekerö The 1 Hagsätra Extended 4 Fruängen 9 The Bandhagen Roslagsbanan 13 Bus Rapid Transit branch line commuter rail line light railway Skarpnäck Preliminary study into a high The line is being modernised, An extension of the commuter Double tracking, noise-reduction capacity bus line. See page 32 during which time replacement rail service from Upplands measures and making platforms N Sköndal services will be provided from Väsby to Uppsala via Arlanda and existing carriages more 14 New Närtrafik line March to September 2011. is planned for December 2012. Högdalen accessible on the Roslagsbanan Hökarängen The latest addition to the Once the Hagsätra branch line See page 13 light railway. See page 41 Närtrafik service is in Bromma. has been upgraded in 2011, Hagsätra See page 20 the entire Metro system will be 5 The 10 Tvärbanan The Citybanan line orbital line Norsborg equipped with lifts, improving Flemingsberg The Citybanan line will provide Farsta Strand 15 Bus terminal accessibility for travellers. The Solna branch line is under commuter rail with its own SL is building its second See page 28 construction. A study is being track through central Stockdocking terminal in Jakobsberg. carried out to decide whether holm, making additional comThe first was in Liljeholmen. 2 New signalling system the Kista branch line should muter rail services possible. See page 16 run to Helenelund, Sollentuna A new signalling system is See page 7 Vega or Häggvik. See page 28 planned for increased traffic 16 17 18 19 on the Ropsten-Norsborg and 6 New double track and New bus depots 11 Spårväg City n Mörby-Fruängen lines. This in refurbished station A depot for 140 biogas buses turn will result in a need for a Södertälje Hamn will be a Spårväg City is being extended is being built in Charlottendal new Metro depot in Norsborg, connection point with a new to Ropsten and will be linked Handen (16), due to be completed in which is currently being ticket hall and underpass. with the redeveloped 2015. In Hornsberg (17), SL is planned. Lidingöbanan line. A further building a new underground 7 New commuter rail extension to Kungsholmen is depot for 125 ethanol buses. 3 New rail depot station under consideration. A new depot for 120 biogas To make space for a new arena, A new commuter rail station in See page 10 buses in Fredriksdal (18) is due SL is moving track maintenance Vega is planned to open in 2014. to be completed in 2014. A operations from the Slakthus 12 Spårväg Syd new depot in Gubbängen (19) area to the Hammarby depot, 8 The Nynäsbanan line The work to draw up a will be commissioned in August which is being rebuilt for this Double track andVästerhaninge a new passing preliminary study is continuing. 2011. See page 32 new purpose. point are being built at Nynäs See page 28 Gård during 2010–2012. Project at planning stage, not decided Tungelsta Existing service SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 9 A selection of events from 2010 Trams return to the city 23 August 2010 was something The construction of Spårväg City used of a historic day for Stockholm. modern, time-saving technology. For For the first time in 43 years, the new section between Nybroplan and Sergels Torg, prefabricated concrete a regular tram service began blocks were used which were sunk into operating once again in the the road and the rails were then city centre. set into these. As a result, the construction time was relatively When Sweden switched over to driving­ short and traffic disruption on on the right-hand side in 1967, the last Stockholm’s busy Hamngatan trams were taken out of service and was kept to a minimum. replaced with buses. 43 years later, Spårväg City between Sergels Torg and During 2011, SL continued to Waldemarsudde was launched amid plan for the further extension great fanfare. of Spårväg City to Ropsten and a future link with the Lidingö­ Spårväg City is an extension and modbanan line. The tramway is being ernisation of the former Djurgård line laid along a stretch past Värtan where which has operated museum traffic the City of Stockholm will be building using old trams since the 1990s. New the new district of Norra Djurgårdsstaden. tracks have been laid along Hamngatan The area, which will have a clear environ­ from Nybroplan to Sergels Torg, the old mental profile, is expected to include tracks have been repaired and a number around­10 000 new homes and 20 000 of new stops have been added. Alkärrs­ new workplaces. At the same time, a strahallen, the depot at Liljevalch Art Gallery, tegic study is also being carried out for has been modernised and extended to future tramway expansion throughout the house the new fleets of trams. entire county, in both the city centre and the outlying areas. Six trams were borrowed from Frankfurt and Norrköping ready for the launch of The design of the new trams was decided the service, but SL will soon take delivery through a competition in which the peoof newly built trams. ple of Stockholm were invited to vote for one of three alternatives. • January Launch of free March SL begins a SL travel for all blood do­comprehensive review of nors in Stockholm County. its internal organisation. February Severe snow storms May Minister for the Environacross Stockholm cause major ment Andreas Carlgren visits disruption to SL’s transport SL and learns about its enviservices. ronmental work. 10 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Stockholm – a city for love In connection with the Crown Princess’s wedding, SL took part in the Love 2010 event. A temporary pavilion was erected in Kungsträdgården which housed SL together with other organisations such as the City of Stockholm, with SL using the slogan “Stockholm – a city for love”. During the period 6 – 19 June, public talks were held on themes such as accessibility, safety and security, the environment and long-term transport planning to name just a few. SL arranged a popular event in Kungsträdgården on 12 June with artists including Petter, Svante Thuresson and country trio Cookies ’n’ Beans performing on stage. Young people took part in a street dance competition and younger children had the opportunity to try the popular minibuses. The aim of the SL day and SL’s involvement in Love 2010 was to show that SL is an intrinsic part of Stockholm and inform the public more about the many different aspects of our operations. • Journey planner to suit travellers’ needs Every day, sl.se’s journey planner receives around 130 000 visits relating to 250 000 individual journeys. The journey planner is extremely popular and SL is constantly working to make it even better and more accessible. In addition to information about travel times, the journey planner also provides information about the reduction in carbon dioxide emissions compared with making a similar journey by car, how much the journey costs, updates on delays and an improved map. At “My SL”, you can save favourite trips and searches so that you can access these more easily. • May Minister for Justice June Special tours for the Beatrice Ask visits SL to find partially sighted of the out about its occupational ­artworks at Kungs­trädgården safety work. Metro station. June An exhibition on accesJune In connection with the sibility, “Everyone travels in a Stockholm Marathon, SL provides different way”, opens at the comprehensive information about Stockholm Transport Museum. changes to transport services. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 11 Flexible tickets with a loss guarantee Almost the entire ticket range is now available via SL Access. A number of tickets are now more flexible, since the traveller can choose when the validity period starts. Artist Lotta Külhorn, Zinkensdamm. The validity period for the new short-term tickets – 24 hours and 72 hours – begins when they are used for the first time. Annual tickets are now also considerably more flexible, since they no longer have a fixed start date – instead, they are valid from the date chosen by the traveller. Student tickets, which were previously only available as term The Metro – an art exhibition every day tickets, now have validity periods of 30 and 90 days, both with a start date of the ticket The Stockholm Metro is more than just a means of transport. Thanks to SL’s long holder’s choosing. One new feature for 2010 history of working with art, Stockholmers have the opportunity to see works of art was the option of registering SL Access on a daily basis by well-known artists such as Siri Derkert, Carl Fredrik Reuterswärd cards to guarantee them against loss at and Ulrik Samuelson as well as temporary art exhibitions by contemporary – and sl.se. Anyone who loses their card can then often younger – artists. The first artwork was installed in the Metro back in 1957 receive a new card, preloaded with the same when T-Centralen was opened. Since then, more than 90 of the Metro’s 100 staticket as the lost card. The loss guarantee tions have been adorned with art. SL arranges regular guided tours of the Metro all has existed for some time, but previously year round. These tours – or “art rides” – are free of charge. All you need in order only applied to tickets purchased at sl.se. to join the tour is a valid ticket. Certain tours include sign-language interpreting The new guarantee applies to all tickets whilst others are specially adapted for the partially sighted. • regardless of where they were purchased. • New connections with young Stockholmers For the fifth year running, SL took part in the Ung08 festival, which is organised by the City of Stockholm. The festival is aimed at young people aged 13 to 19 and is held each year in Kungsträdgården during the last week of the summer holidays. The aim of SL’s involvement is to meet senior level and upper secondary school pupils on their own turf. Key issues discussed at the festival include the environment, the future and security. SL’s marquee attracted around 2 500 visitors each day. Throughout the day, long queues of young people waited to get the popular SL logo tattoo (non-permanent). This year’s colour was pink. (Find out more on page 43.) • August The Käppala wasteSeptember An in-depth study water treatment plant starts of rail transport noise pollution deliveries of biogas to SL’s from SL services is completed. buses on Lidingö. August Increased service October SL’s Söderhallen frequency on the Roslagsbabiogas depot is named a “Good nan light railway, resulting in example” by the Swedish Envimore passengers. ronmental Protection Agency. 12 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL continues to support Pride New technology SL is an open company that welcomes everyone. It is therefore only natural that solves old mysteries SL should be a proud partner of Stockholm Pride. In 2010, the festival was held during the last week of July outside the Maritime Museum in Gärdet. SL arranged In June, the Stockholm Transport Museum additional bus services to and from the festival area and took part in a seminar on began a project to display its collections safety and security on public transport with representatives from SL and LGBT online. This included uploading a large (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) associations. • number of images to Flickr, the photo sharing community. After the first six months, these images had already been viewed more than a quarter of a million times. The SL serves the waterways museum was also able to benefit from the of Stockholm knowledge of its visitors: “We published lots of images that we didn’t SL does not only operate on land. We also want to know much about,” says museum director make it possible to travel by water. After all, the Christoffer Sandahl. “Our visitors were able Stockholm region consists largely of waterways, to help us to identify the location and date and many people live on islands for all or much of of many of these. Not only has this interacthe year. SL has therefore launched a pilot project tion increased the museum’s contact nettogether with the ferry M/S Ballerina to explore work, it has also provided valuable informathe options for simplifying travel in future for tion about our collections.” commuters who can then cross the water conveniently by boat. Apart from the Djurgård In addition to its social media presence, Ferry it has not previously been possible to travel the museum has had a full programme of by boat using an SL card, but SL tried out ways of activities, including a number of exhibitions making this possible during 2010 with the help of on current SL projects. The museum has the M/S Ballerina. • also hosted many school visits. As a result of these initiatives and a great deal of interest in the history of Stockholm’s public transport, the museum attracted a record Stockholm grows with new commuter rail line number of visitors in 2010. • to Arlanda and Uppsala In December 2012, travellers in the Mälardalen region will gain a brand new commuter rail line between Älvsjö and Uppsala. The project is a collaboration between SL and Upplands Lokaltrafik (UL) and means that commuter rail traffic will stop at Arlanda and in Knivsta. At peak periods, the new commuter rail line will be an extension of services on the Märsta line which will then continue to Uppsala. The extension will also mean an increase in service frequency between Älvsjö and Upplands Väsby during off-peak periods. The new commuter rail line will improve connections between northern Greater Stockholm, Arlanda and Uppsala and will provide travellers in Solna and Sollentuna with a direct link to Arlanda and Uppsala. • October New bus depot in October The Stockholm Vallentuna is ready for use. Transport Museum organises courses on art in the Metro. October The Metro celebrates December SL’s employees its 60th anniversary, which undergo accessibility training. is marked with an event at Slussen. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 13 SL’s cooperation contributes towards social development “SL is an important player within society, and our Without cooperation, Stockholm infrastructure development operations are based on would grind to a halt – quite literally. cooperation between us and the municipalities in the county,” explains Gunilla Glantz, Head of Planning at The development of infrastructure in SL. She describes the process as a mutual dependthe region is a continuous process ency between the municipalities and SL, since all parties are equally reliant on each other. However, that places tough demands on even though all those involved have the best interests ­cooperation between many different of citizens at heart, this collaboration is not entirely straightforward. It takes a long time to reach a deciparties. sion that everyone is happy with for some issues. “Of course, those involved don’t always have the same priorities,” she continues, “but in the vast majority of cases we work very well together. This cooperation is based on continuous dialogue and 14 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Development and is involved in discussions including those relating to the extension of the Tvärbanan orbital line. He emphasises the importance of effec25 % Today, SL active cooperation and good long-term planning: counts for around “We may have different views on certain issues, but 25 % of passenger our close cooperation involves open, result-oriented transport within the county, but discussions. Effective infrastructure is important in only just under 6 % terms of both individuals’ everyday lives and social of carbon dioxide emissions. development, and I believe that all those involved 26 can see that, at the end of the day, we want to offer people the best possible solutions.” As part of its new organisation, SL is focusing on Stockholm County has 26 municipaliimproving this important dialogue with the municities. palities. Currently, a municipality will often have many different contacts within SL depending on the issue being dealt with. In order to improve efficiency, SL is taking a more strategic approach with the new organisation, whereby every municipality has one key contact who then guides them to the relevant contact within SL. “We believe that this will make the process of working with the county’s municipalities smoother and easier,” adds Gunilla. Long-term projects Infrastructure projects are about more than just offering opportunities to travel. Projects are carried out in relation to where people live and where more G  unilla Glantz, Head of people could live. This introduces a major socioPlanning at SL. economic aspect to planning work. We build for the future and for both people and businesses alike. During 2010, SL has initiated a large number of projects. One of the most notable projects was Spårväg it’s only natural that this dialogue is maintained since City. The tramway was opened to traffic in the sumalmost all investments are extremely long-term and mer after a relatively short and intensive period of involve significant demands in terms of planning.” work. The planning work took longer, but the actual construction was incredibly fast. The tramway curDialogue: a cornerstone of social cooperation rently runs between Djurgården and Sergels Torg, In major infrastructure projects, such as the extenhowever a strategy has been drawn up for gradually­ sion of the Tvärbanan orbital line or the extension extending it in both directions. It will continue of the Citybanan line, large-scale reorganisations of on­wards to Värtan and Ropsten, and will then join up transport services are required. Many different parwith the Lidingöbanan line. ties are involved in both the planning process and “The extension is a major project that will place sigthe implementation. SL plays a key role in the disnificant demands in terms of cooperation between SL, cussions that drive these projects forward. the City of Lidingö and the City of Stockholm, not least because it affects many of our travellers,” says Gunilla.­ Lars-Herman Larsson represents the City of Sund“By providing good information, we hope that our byberg in his role as Director of Business and travellers will understand the need for the changes.” SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 15 SL works continually with communication and SL focuses on security Biogas attaches a great deal of importance to providing information about current and forthcoming projects Travelling with SL should be seen as takes around two weeks to produce, and how these will affect travel. Information managesafe and secure, both for passengers whereas natural ment also requires long-term planning so that and for staff. gas and oil take millions of years. travellers can make the necessary adjustments and feel at ease. There are currently around 110 trained public order officers working The importance of information on weekdays and around 150 public However, municipalities are not the only key partners order officers working at weekends. in the process. The Swedish Transport Administration, They work on behalf of SL, helping to the police and other parties also have important roles improve safety and assisting both pasto play. Many projects are carried out in close proximsengers and staff. SL’s security initiaity to travellers. One example is the blasting carried tives are carried out in close cooperaout for the extension of the Citybanan line. In order to tion with operators, municipalities and minimise traffic disruption and inconvenience to travthe police. ellers, SL and the Swedish Transport Administration agreed that blasting should only be carried out during SL has around 19 000 cameras in off-peak periods and at set times when they would vehicles and at stations. Cameras are a cause the least disruption. This solution has worked great help in getting a snapshot of varextremely well. ious situations and quickly being able to direct staff where action is required. SL places a great deal of importance on a safe environ­ The cameras also make it easier for ment for travellers. This involves extensive contact with the police to investigate crimes comthe various district councils, the police and local crime prevention boards. Cooperation is essential and to­gether mitted in SL’s various environments. • with other players, SL always strives to achieve solutions Find out more on page 52 that are in the best interests of travellers. • Accessible bus terminals at Jakobsberg and Danderyd In 2011, 12 000 bus passengers at Danderyd additional stops, providing space for more Hospital and 7 000 passengers in Jakobdepartures at peak times for the 31 bus sberg will enjoy new, safe and accessible terlines. minals. The Jakobsberg Station is one of the Both of the terminals, which date from the biggest in Sweden, where 14 bus lines con1970s, will be made completely accessible, verge. Construction began in spring 2010. with stops and buses at the same level and • The new bus terminal will have eleven gates, tactile routes marked on the ground. enabling travellers to transfer between trains and buses without going outdoors. This will be both safer and more secure and travellers will avoid having to wait outside. The termiInvestment in Jakobsberg: SEK 196 million nal will also include a café and a kiosk. Work started: spring 2010 Completion: summer 2011 Construction at Danderyd Hospital began Investment in Danderyd: SEK 26.3 million in autumn 2010. Instead of having gates, Work started: autumn 2010 the bus terminal is being extended with two Completion: summer 2011 16 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Attentive dialogue – a way of developing operations How can we start a discussion­ between SL and all the Stockholm region’s travellers? The answer turned out to be through a campaign that encourages dialogue. Instead of “just” communicating what SL does, SL invited individual travellers to have their say and engage in the discussion. “We felt straight away that we don’t just want to talk about what we have done,” says Carina Holm, who works with communication issues. “That doesn’t feel open. We want everyone to be able to use SL and so we wanted to create a The dialogue campaign was platform for dialogue rather than onepublicised on large advertising way communication.” panels in the Metro. August saw the launch of a dialogue campaign linked to sl.se. The content focused on security and service reliability ately, what could be added to long-term Examples of suggestions and was a tool that enabled SL to complans and what had already been done from the dialogue campaign municate what had been done within but might need to be communicated these areas. It also gave SL the opportumore clearly. • Put up digital screens at T-Centralen on the travelator to the Blue nity to listen to passengers’ views and to line. hear what changes they thought should Dialogue continues in 2011 • Show Metro departure times be made. This form of dialogue will continue to be at terminus stations. “We were able to implement some of used. • Mark the recommended queue direction at commuter rail barriers the suggestions we received relatively “This is an excellent way of communiin the walkway between Stockholm quickly and easily,” adds Carina. cating, because it involves our pasCentral Station and T-Centralen, to sengers in the process of explaining avoid causing blockages. • Release an API to allow web Comments via Facebook how things work in practice here at developers and software developThe aim of the campaign was to create SL,” explains Head of Communications ers to build their own programmes a dialogue between SL and passengers Johan ­Nordgren. “We obtain important using information from the journey planner. based on attentiveness and openness. information that can help us to improve, • Make it possible to receive travel The campaign website was therefore and we can also spread this information information via Google maps. linked to Facebook and Twitter, making it to more people.” possible to reach many more people. This dialogue means a change in the The campaign ran for two weeks, but the way SL works with operational improvecampaign website was up and running ments. all autumn. All the suggestions received “We need to be more open when comwere forwarded to the relevant departmunicating with our passengers and ment at SL. The department managers perhaps more of us need to engage in then worked with their teams to prioricontact with our customers,” concludes tise what could be carried out immediJohan. • SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 17 What did SL learn from the recent cold winters and snow chaos? The recent winters, with their severe snowfall and prolonged cold weather, put intense pressure on SL’s transport services. Snow chaos struck in February 2010 and rail transport came to a standstill. One year later, bus services ground to a halt for an entire day. SL has learnt a great deal from these situations and has made a number of improvements. There was insufficient capacity to deal realised that the situation required a Bus stoppages with this winter’s prolonged cold weather range of measures and the work was February 2011 brought another extenand repeated heavy snowfall. Having started immediately. During 2010, SL sive snowfall, which this time had serimanaged to cope with four severe snow ordered new snow clearing vehicles that ous consequences for bus services. For a storms at the beginning of 2010, the fifth will deal with everything from clearing whole day, there were virtually no buses proved to be too much. This time, the ice snow from tracks to removing ice from in Stockholm. The unthinkable had haphad frozen solid in layers on vehicles that points. pened again. Following this, SL has started had been pushed to the limit out on snow“We have reviewed many routines, working with the City of Stockholm and covered tracks. There were simply not changed our organisation and introduced the Swedish Transport Administration to enough resources to clear all the tracks a duty officer,” continues Johan. “There improve its readiness for large quantities of snow. should always be someone in charge of snow. “We didn’t expect so much snow to fall in prepared to take the decisions necessary. February,” explains Johan von Schantz, The idea is to stay one step ahead.” Communication is key Technical Director at SL. “The snow and Questions come thick and fast when transthe cold weather meant that the snow In order to be even better prepared, SL port services come to a standstill. Travelgot into the vehicles and froze as ice has held emergency drills that involved lers do understand that such things can crystals.” putting the duty officer to the test and happen, the criticism levelled against SL going through all the procedures. tends to relate more to inadequate comStaying one step ahead munication, good communication can lead Commuter rail services and the Metro Just as the winter took us by surprise to more understanding from passengers. came to a standstill and were replaced at the beginning of the year, snow also “For passengers, the most important thing with buses for three days. The Roslagsarrived without warning at the end of is to know when and how they will reach banan light railway took longer to get 2010. Despite the plentiful snowfall at their destination,” says Ingela Norelid, Trafback to normal service. All available the end of November, rail services did fic CIO at SL. “When something happens resources were put into clearing snow not experience any long stoppages duron a journey passengers want to receive from tracks and points. The vehicles had ing winter 2010/2011. SL’s readiness for up-to-date and accurate information to thaw and many of them were damsnow and the reviews carried out have quickly so that they can make a new deciaged and had to be repaired. SL quickly left SL better prepared. sion about their journey.” 18 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL has worked extensively with information flows during the past year. A number an RSS subscription to receive service disruption updates in a browser or by 1 000 000 of meetings with transport operators has e-mail. It’s useful for passengers to get visitors: sl.se’s daily capacity. resulted in better cooperation in terms of information before they leave the house.” traffic information. SL’s website has been upgraded so that it can cope with up to Learning lessons for coming winters a million visits per day. The site normally SL has learnt a lot from these winters receives around 130 000 visits per day. and has taken action. In 2010, a source of delay was eliminated by giving transport 1 500 The journey planner now also shows operators the authority to decide when to new digital traffic information any service disruption for the journey clear tracks and this will be done before screens will be installed at bus stops in Stockholm in 2011. searched for. The three major radio larger quantities of snow fall. SL also has broadcasters – SBS, MTG and Radio back-up solutions for heating garages so Stockholm – now have better access to that rail vehicles have the chance to thaw service disruption information, enabling out if cold weather proves to be long lastthem to reach hundreds of thousands ing. However, the question asked by many of travellers. A great deal of work has Stockholmers is still this: Is it possible to been done to improve information about safeguard against snow storms, or will we replacement services. All operators have experience fresh snow chaos? also been trained to use the new service “We have gained new experience, and disruption information system, enabling I am convinced that we are better prethem to provide better information at pared to cope with extreme weather sl.se and on display screens. conditions now,” says Johan. “But at the “SL’s social media initiatives currently same time, the forces of nature have including trialling a subscription service made us more humble. What we can for real-time SL information on Facepromise is that we will do all we can to book and Twitter,” continues Ingela. “At ensure that transport services suffer as the beginning of 2011 we also launched little disruption as possible.” • SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 19 A focus on accessibility Different journeys for different needs For those with reduced ing and alighting. These buses are not looks into launching Närtrafik services in ­mobility and those who have subject to time pressure and the drivers areas with at least 2 500 pensioners. difficulty seeing or hearing, it will gladly help passengers with wheeled “Pensioners are a friendly customer walking frames and their shopping bags. group and the drivers often get to know can be hard to keep up with them so well that they know the names of today’s busy pace of traffic. The Närtrafik service often goes past all their grandchildren,” continues Hans. shops, sheltered housing and healthcare centres. Every day, around 2 500 people Flexible journeys by wheelchair taxi Although SL’s aim is that public transport use Närtrafik bus lines. Every week around 20 000 journeys are should be accessible so that older travel“The Närtrafik service is available to anymade by wheelchair taxi – purpose-built lers and those with disabilities can travel one with an SL ticket, whatever their age,” cars with space for a wheelchair and too, there are always some travellers who, explains Hans Adeby, Head of Developordinary seats. For the passenger, this in certain situations, are unable to use ment for Närtrafik. “However, it is mostly means a greater degree of choice as he regular public transport. In these cases, used by pensioners because it only runs or she can choose which company to there are alternatives that are adapted to during the daytime at off-peak times.” travel with. It also means that journeys meet more specific travel needs. can be booked spontaneously without There are 37 Närtrafik lines in the county having to plan in advance, just like bookThe Närtrafik service consists of smaller and plans for more lines are being drawn ing an ordinary taxi. buses with low floors, for easy boardup together with the municipalities. SL It has been possible to travel with a wheelchair since 2008, and this service was expanded in 2010. SL now works with six taxi companies which offer this service. • About special transport services Special transport services are a form of public transport for people with permanent disabilities. Entitlement to special transport services is governed by the Swedish Special Transport Services Act. In Stockholm County, around 71 000 people are entitled to use special transport services. Every day, around 8 000 special transport service journeys and 1 500 journeys are made by specialised vehicle and wheelchair taxi (a vehicle fitted with a wheelchair lift or ramp). In July 2009, all special transport service operations (except for services provided by public authorities) were transferred to SL. A special transport service journey can be made by taxi, specialised vehicle or wheelchair taxi, depending on the traveller’s disability. Special transport service users are also entitled to travel on SL’s transport services free of charge. The Närtrafik service can be used both by special transport service travellers and by travellers with SL tickets. • 20 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL gets help from young travellers with disabilities Making Around 1 800 children and young people in the county are entitled to use spefare-dodging cial transport services. Many of them travel using SL’s transport services. In order to deal with their wishes and needs there is a Children and Young Peomore difficult ple’s Committee. This consists of special transport service travellers, aged 10 to 20, with varying disabilities. The Children and Young People’s Committee meets twice a year and discusses possible improvements to public transport based on their needs. These discussions can relate to good or bad journeys by public transport, how accessible transport services are, what makes users feel safe and secure and how users are treated by staff. The aim of the committee is to deal with the views and suggestions for improvements that are received, so that public transport can be made even better – on children and young people’s terms. “The children and young people on the committee are experts,” says AnnCathrine Medwik, who is responsible for the Children and Young People’s Committee. “They know better than we do what works and what doesn’t work for them in practice. This is why we have the committee, so that we can learn from their experiences and thereby improve transport services.” • Blog as a channel for accessibility In the late 1990s, the Swedish Parliament decided that society should be accessible to all by 2010. SL works in various ways to make transport serThe vast majority of travellers pay for vices accessible, including the removal of differences in levels between cartheir SL journeys. For others, fare-dodgriages and platforms, by introducing tactile floor markings at stations and ing became more difficult in 2010. With by using buses with low floors. In connection with Access 2010, a blog was new ticket inspection contractors the started to encourage passenger involvement, to find out about their views number of ticket checks rose by 25 % regarding the accessibility of transport services and to talk about the work and the number of penalty charges for being carried out, which might not always be visible. fare-dodging rose by a similar amount. The reactions to this blog were extremely positive and SL received solid views More effective ticket checks at Metro and suggestions from around 7 000 unique visitors over the course of a month. and commuter rail barriers, more exit The proposals received related to everything from the possibility of securing checks, high glass barriers and the new wheelchairs onboard buses through to adding an acoustic sound to the stop SL Access cards, which are hard to signs on buses for the benefit of travellers with impaired hearing. SL is now forge, are some of the factors that have reviewing which of these suggestions can be implemented. At the same time, made fare-dodging more difficult. active dialogue with travellers is continuing. • Despite this, fare-dodging on SL’s transport services cost around SEK 350 milFind out more about accessibility and travel lion, or around SEK 960 000 per day to suit different needs on page 44 in 2010. This money could have been used for additional public transport or to reduce ticket prices for all travellers. • SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 21 SL’s internal review gives a new, sharper SL How should SL prepare to meet the major challenges of the future in a region that is growing by around 30 000 people each year? This was the main question as SL reviewed its operations over the past year. Over the last twenty years, SL has that SL assumed overall responsibility The aim of the review is to develop SL undergone a gradual transformation for Stockholm County Council’s transinto “a clearer and more effective purfrom being a transport operator with port planning for the county in 2009 has chaser and strategist with a high degree an almost complete monopoly on pubalso placed new demands on SL’s future of expertise”. In order to succeed in this lic transport in Stockholm County to organisation. role, six basic requirements have been become a purchasing organisation that set for the new organisation: procures transport services in a free and During 2010 and early 2011, SL carried competitive market. out a comprehensive review in order •• Stronger strategic planning to create a modern and more efficient •• Integrated operational and financial organisation that has been adapted in control “One important role line with the current situation. •• A better project culture •• A combined focus on business deals for SL is to be SL’s task for 2011 onwards is expressed and agreements within the various a competent strategist in its new business concept: “Based on modes of transport and a sounding board.” its owners’ requirements and its stake•• A clear distribution of roles and holders’ expectations, SL shall propose responsibilities Göran Gunnarsson, MD and implement regional public transport •• Advanced leadership solutions that make commuting easier and simplify everyday life for everyone in SL’s organisational chart has been radiThis change, which began in the early the Stockholm region.” cally altered following this review. Opera1990s, brings significant advantages “One important role for SL is to be a tions are organised primarily on the and operating costs have fallen dracompetent strategist and a sounding basis of three new departments: The matically. Over the course of the last board,” says Göran Gunnarsson, MD of Traffic Department is responsible for two decades, the number of people SL. “We must be able to make sound the day-to-day operation of transport, employed by SL has dropped from proposals for how SL and the public while development work is carried out by 14 000 to around 700. transport of the future can help to benthe Strategic Department. The Corpoefit our customers and society. Then it’s rate Governance Department is tasked However, new legislation and new marup to our commissioners to decide what with guiding and monitoring operations ket conditions have meant that SL has needs to be carried out.” throughout SL. had to further sharpen its role as a pur“We bring together long-term stratechaser of transport services. The fact gic planning and short-term transport 22 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 2010 organisation Development Traffic Service Technology Marketing Control and monitoring Management New organisation from 1 May 2011 Niklas Personne, CFO Responsible for economic and financial issues, including operational control, business control and administrative IT Strategic Traffic Department and for SL’s project office. Department Corporate Governance Department Development Control and monitoring Management THE FUTURE THE PRESENT A new organisational logic SL’s previous organisation was based on a structure divided up by function and centred around the Traffic Service, Marketing and Technology units. Development, control and agreement management were spread throughout the organisation, resulting in a lack of coordination and overall insight. Instead, the new organisation has a process-oriented structure – from the future to the present – which gives each department a clear focus and responsibility. Ragna Forslund, Traffic Director Responsible for SL’s traffic support process, which involves managing existing business and maintaining the infrastrucplanning,” says Jens Plambeck, Direcwho contribute towards transport supture for SL’s transport services. tor of Strategic Development. “Bringport in various ways. The aim of becoming all strategy work together in a single department makes for better coordination between all those involved. This ena“We bring together longbles us to be a clearer and more professional purchaser.” term strategic planning and short-term Closer and clearer cooperation between transport planning.” municipalities is a clear ambition behind SL’s new organisation and responsibility Jens Plambeck, Director of for these contacts lies with the Strategic Strategic Development Department. SL currently holds transport service agreements worth SEK 9 Jens Plambeck, billion annually. In the new organisation, ing a “clearer purchaser” includes creatDirector of Strategic Development responsibility for agreement adminising greater scope for suppliers to act. Responsible for SL’s strategic work, and tration comes under the Traffic Depart“Our business will be increasingly based ensures that this is carried out in a coordinated manner and that SL’s business ment, which is thereby responsible for all on private transport operators having is carried out in accordance with SL’s business and contacts with both private greater responsibility and more incentive vision, business concept and goals. transport operators and other suppliers to create new customer offerings, and SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 23 to strive for increased travel by public signify an end to the change process. stage. But, I’m convinced that in the long transport,” says Traffic Director Ragna “Such far-reaching changes take time to run, the organisational review will result Forslund. implement,” says MD Göran Gunnarsson. in more efficient public transport that is “Passengers and our operators won’t better suited to meet the demands of In addition to this, there is an investment volume of approximately SEK 4.5 bilnotice any dramatic changes in the initial both the present and the future.” • lion (2010), which will continue to grow in coming years. With such large sums of money, it is obvious that even slight improvements or efficiency measures Board will lead to large savings or significant sums being released for other purposes. In order to achieve better control of all Vice MD MD Executive Office projects, one new feature of the new organisation is a specific project office, which will ensure that projects run to schedule and stick within budgetary and Communication quality constraints. “It’s all about ensuring a better link between operations and the budget,” Legal and HR Internal Audit says CFO Niklas Personne. “The new project office means that we can get an overall grasp and work smarter. The Administrative new organisation as a whole allows for a Services higher degree of professionalism and for SL to become a clearer client.” Corporate Strategic Traffic The new organisation comes into force Governance Department Department Department on 1 May 2011. However, this will not Major service procurements in 2010 E19 E20 Other procurements during 2010 Traffic procurement E19 includes the bus Traffic procurement E20 includes the Tvär•• New signalling system for the Red line service areas Nacka/Värmdö and Huddinge, banan, Saltsjöbanan and Roslagsbanan light •• Production for stock (Manpower Business Botkyrka and Söderort. The contract was rail services and the bus areas Solna/SundSolutions) awarded to the operator Keolis i Sverige AB, byberg, Bromma, Sollentuna and Norrort •• Customer services and SL Center and relates to around 470 buses. Services (Täby, Vaxholm and Åkersberga), and relates (GoExcellent) will begin in August 2011. to both buses and rail services, with around •• A35 tram carriages in preparation for 170 rail vehicles and 500 buses. Tenders will increased services on the Tvärbanan E19B be submitted in spring 2011 and the contract orbital line to Sundbyberg/Solna (CAF) Traffic procurement E19B includes bus seraward decision is due in autumn 2011. Ser•• X60 commuter rail trains for UL/SL vices in Norrtälje and the Stockholm – Norvices are due to begin in August 2012 and services, 12 carriages (Alstom) rtälje route. The contract was awarded to the January 2013, depending on the area. •• Refurbishing carriages on the Roslags­ operator Nobina Sverige AB, and relates to banan light railway (Euromaint Rail AB) around 100 buses, of which 20 are double•• Maintenance of rectifier sub-stations decker buses. Services will begin in June 2011. (Vattenfall) •• Maintenance of transport system IT/telecommunications/radio equipment (Eltel) 24 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Coordination and information initiatives so that passengers can plan their everyday lives “Well-informed travellers are rarely irritated,” says Per Hallberg, project manager at SL’s Communication Department. SL invests significant resources in keeping passengers up to date with changes that occur. This ensures that we provide the best possible service. Coordination between various players Many infrastructure projects, such as the construction of the Citybanan line, affect passengers’ everyday lives. A number of projects also affect other projects, placing strict demands in terms of coordination between those involved. “We want passengers to be able to plan their travel as normal, in spite of the fact that work is being carried out,” says everyone is never easy. That’s why it’s What happens in connection Per Hallberg. “This means that on-site so important to communicate informawith major closures announcements are not enough – we tion and plans, so that those who are Advertising in newspapers need to provide information in advance affected can keep themselves informed, Information at stations through various channels, so that we can both in advance and then on an ongoing Operators have additional staff who communicate what will be happening basis.” provide information and the possible impact.” Mailings to residents and those who Unexpected events work in affected areas Influence through consultation Procedures have been put in place as Information tailored to suit target groups, such as in different lanSL is obliged to carry out consultation, part of planning for long-term change guages whereby the public and other stakeholdprocesses. When the unexpected Targeted initiatives are carried out, ers are given the opportunity to share happens, SL’s procedures are put to the such as for travellers with disabilities, their views and thereby have their say test. SL therefore works intensively with in advance of major construction proits own website and works closely with jects. One example is the construction the media to provide passengers with of Spårväg Syd, for which SL held six information about service disruption. well-attended consultation meetings durAnother example is the telephone ing October and November. The public’s service that has been set up for the views are extremely important: extension of the Tvärbanan orbital line. When users subscribe to this service, SL “As part of the process, we – in assowill phone 30 minutes before blasting so ciation with the municipalities involved that people are not unduly concerned or – invited residents, landowners and the surprised. Modern times require relevant professional associations to communication via new channels. meetings so that we could provide information and discuss issues with as many “Effective communication is essential in people as possible,” explains strategic order for everyone to have an underplanner Monica Casemyr. “Hearing the standing of the many parallel projects public’s views is always a good thing. and also so that everyone’s everyday Of course, finding a solution that suits lives are affected as little as possible.” • SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 25 Anna-Märta Gustavsson, 85 Passengers feel even safer As a pensioner, Anna-Märta tends not to use public transport after around 10 or 11 o’clock at night. Despite this, she is never afraid when travelling with SL. “I feel safe when there are no troublemakers nearby, and things are usually very peaceful.” Every year SL carries out in-depth passenger ­surveys. In 2010, more than 46 000 customers took part. One clear result for 2010 was that passenger safety is continuing to rise. In three years, the feeling of safety has increased by 10 percentage points. Lars Andersson, 59 Lars travels with SL to and from work every day. He thinks that the most important thing of all is arriving on time. “Occasional delays are OK, as long as I get clear information about what’s Passenger surveys give travellers the Of the various modes of transport happening and when the next Metro or bus will arrive. Unfortunately, the opportunity to say how satisfied they (Metro, bus, commuter rail, tram and loudspeakers don’t always work.” are with aspects such as punctuality, the light rail), light rail has the highest profrequency of services and information portion of satisfied passengers: 82 %. regarding service disruption. Although However, 82 % satisfaction does not safety has improved in recent years, necessarily mean that the remainder other factors are even more important are dissatisfied. Many travellers gave a to travellers. neutral response to the various survey “We are continuing to prioritise punctuquestions. ality,” says Lena Lovén, Market Analyst at SL. “If satisfaction with punctuality One of the clearest increases in the increases, so too does overall customer 2010 surveys has been among women satisfaction and vice versa.” in terms of perceived safety. Since spring 2007, the proportion of women who Anja Klöfving, 21 SL has noted a positive trend over the feel safe when travelling alone durAnja uses the journey planner regularly past decade, with total customer satising evenings or at night has risen by 13 when travelling with SL. This shows her faction increasing by around 15 percentpercentage points on the Metro and clearly if there are any delays and when she can expect to arrive. Travelling with age points. During 2010, public transport 14 percentage points on commuter rail SL is usually a calm and safe experiwas affected by the winter snow chaos services. ence. and this affected punctuality, as can be “We take a long-term approach to cus“If the drivers can see whether someseen in the survey results. tomer satisfaction work in all areas, and one is being rowdy in a carriage, they “After last winter’s snow storms and we are continuing to work to improve get a better overview of the situation and can contact security guards before the ensuing service disruption, SL has customers’ experiences,” concludes they arrive at the next station.” focused on increasing the reliability and safety of its services,” continues Lena. Lena. • 26 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Alexander Rothman, old enough As a pensioner, Alexander only wishes that the pensioner discount was higher, making travelling by public transport cheaper. But he feels safe when travelling with SL. “I have no reason not to feel safe.” Proportion of satisfied passengers all modes of transport* 2007 68 % 2008 72 % 2009 76 % 2010 74 % Shaheer Jamal, 35 Shaheer regularly travels long distances with SL, so he buys a 30-day travelcard every month and thinks that this is fairly expensive. Proportion of satisfied customers Most satisfied passengers “Even more people would use public – punctuality as a percentage as a percentage transport if it was cheaper, and that would be a good thing.” Höst 2007 58 Nockebybanan line 94 Höst 2008 63 Tvärbanan orbital line Höst 2009 67 89 Spårväg City Höst 2010 64 89 0 20 40 60 80 100 Roslagsbanan light railway 81 Proportion of satisfied customers Norrtälje buses – safety as a percentage 81 Handen buses Höst 2007 61 79 Höst 2008 64 City centre buses 79 Höst 2009 66 Metro Blue line Höst 2010 69 79 Emilia Modigh, 16 Tyresö buses 0 20 40 60 80 100 Mikaela Linnerstam, 17 78 Ekerö buses Emilia and Mikaela see a connection Proportion of satisfied customers 77 between clean and tidy environments – treatment as a percentage Metro Red line and safety. 76 “When a station gives a good impresHöst 2007 61 Metro Green line sion, you feel safe.” Höst 2008 63 75 When taking the Metro to school, it is Höst 2009 66 0 20 40 60 80 100 important to know if they will be late Höst 2010 67 for a lesson. They sometimes miss information because they are listening 0 20 40 60 80 100 to music. “If you could get information * All information in the diagrams relates to the full year. by text message, that would be ideal.” SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 27 Investigating a solution for the east of the county Tvärbana East is a project that SL is planning together with the City of Stockholm and Nacka Municipality. In brief, this involves connecting the Tvärbanan orbital line with the Saltsjöbanan line, thereby linking Hammarby Sjöstad with Slussen. Following a board decision in 2010, the main alternative to be investigated involves extending the Saltsjöbanan line to Slussen using an existing tunnel through Stadsgårdsberget and extending the Tvärbanan orbital line to Saltsjö-Järla. The possibility of a street tramway from New tracks to Hagsätra the London Viaduct via Folkungagatan to Slussen will also be investigated. 7.7 kilometres of track, 22 bridges and nine stations will be renovated on the The Tvärbana East study will take the Green line from Globen towards Hagsätra. The work is due to be completed in Tramway and Infrastructure Network September 2011. 2010 was a busy year, with preparations being made ahead Strategy study into account and has of the closure in March 2011. The renovations then began at record speed, to been expanded to include a study of give 34,000 daily passengers a refurbished, fully accessible Metro service that alternative concepts for the future pubis less susceptible to disruption. lic transport service in the east of the county. SL’s study, which is expected to The oldest parts of the Hagsätra branch line came into use in 1951. The entire be complete in September 2011, will section runs above ground and 60 years of use have resulted in heavy wear therefore be able to present both shortand tear on the track and bridges. The important coating that protects the term and long-term plans for the Saltsjösupporting parts of the bridges is approaching the end of its useful life. As well banan line and the Tvärbanan orbital line as renovating the track and bridges, SL will also replace five sets of points and in combination with a possible future install ten new sets of points to make services less susceptible to disruption. Platforms and ticket halls will be refurbished and made fully accessible. All Metro service. • lifts, most escalators and a number of shops will also be renovated. Once the renovation work is complete, no major service closures will be needed on this Popular line is extended stretch of track for at least 15 years. • Summer 2010 saw work commence on About the Hagsätra branch line: 7.7 kilometres of track, 9 stations, 22 bridges,­ the extension of the Tvärbanan orbital 34 000 daily passengers, SEK 1.1 billion in investment costs, line from Alvik to Solna. The extension­ 27 weeks of closure and replacement services. will be 6.7 km long with eight new stops. Three of the eight stops will be major interchanges: Sundbyberg, Solna Centrum­and Solna Station. Here, pasTramway for better accessibility in the south of the county sengers will be able to change for Metro, commuter rail and bus services. SL has launched a preliminary study to investigate the requirements for building Spårväg Syd. The study is expected to be completed during 2011, after which The extension of the Tvärbanan orbital line a decision will be made. The tramway is intended to link together the southern will reduce journey times for passengers parts of the county between Älvsjö – Fruängen – Kungens Kurva – Skärholtravelling across the city and will therefore men – Flemingsberg. also bring environmental benefits. The extension between Alvik and Solna will be The project represents the first plan for a tramway in the south of the county, complete in 2013, by which time the total and SL is keen to be involved in the work to improve accessibility between stretch of track is expected to account for new residential and industrial areas in the region. • around 116 000 daily journeys. • 28 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 29 In complete agreement: Our commitment to change SL is a large and diverse workplace that requires many different types of skills. Three people with different jobs share their ­experiences of working for SL. Carina, Maria and Thomas work within An operational overview different units and have different areas “Working for SL is both interesting and of responsibility. However, they share the important,” says project manager and same view of the company: requirements analyst Carina Trofast. “SL really has an impact on people’s eve“Public transport affects Stockholmers ryday lives,” says controller Maria Folke. on a daily basis and SL’s operations are “The reason why I started working for SL important if everyday life is to keep on was that I feel this is an area where I can running. Working with something where make a difference.” you can see immediate results is a plus side. Maria joined SL in 2007 and has had the “I used to work as a consultant previopportunity to work in a various roles. ously and I would often handover work She has worked as both a controller and without getting to see the results. Here a project manager. Thomas Fylkehed, I’m very much part of the business and I who works as a traffic planner, agrees get to do something visible.” that this is a major advantage of working at SL. Staff often work with projects. This means that the work they do is extremely “I started working as a traffic planner for flexible and stimulating, with a great deal bus services,” he explains. “Now I also of personal responsibility. Maria believes get the chance to help plan rail transthat the fact that those who work for SL port. There’s a real drive at SL to make have the same view of the business is improvements, rather than just managessential in order for their work to run ing situations.” smoothly: 30 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 “We believe in SL – both now and in the is also the option of working as a trainee. Name: Thomas Fylkehed future. We see public transport as someCarina believes that the innovation that Age: 29 thing that is incredibly important, both young people bring to the business is Time at SL: Since 2008 Position: Traffic planner, Traffic Service Unit for the city and for its inhabitants. Workvital. Education: Town planning at ing in a business like this is exciting.” “There is a wide distribution in terms of Stockholm University areas of expertise and experience and in Name: Maria Folke Innovation attracts young people terms of age structure and background Age: 43 They agree that SL is an excellent within SL, which is extremely instructive Time at SL: Since 2007 Position: Controller, Finance Unit employer for young people. There are so and interesting,” says Thomas. Education: Economics at many different work tasks and it is posStockholm University sible to learn a great deal while having Working at SL creates understanding Name: Carina Trofast the opportunity to develop within the Their own views of public transport have Age: 40 company. changed since they started working at Time at SL: Since 2009 Position: Project manager and “There are so many experts who are SL. They now have a better understandrequirements analyst at IT, Technology Unit willing to share their knowledge,” adds ing of the fact that there can sometimes Education: Systems science at Carina. “This in itself is unusual – it’s not be service disruptions. Their work means the University of Karlskrona/Ronneby always the case in other workplaces.” that they can see all the various aspects and how everything can be affected if In order to attract young graduates, SL one little thing goes wrong. goes to educational institutions to talk “I travel with SL on a daily basis,” says about its operations. Thomas believes Maria. “Working at SL has given me a that most people in Sweden are aware better understanding of the complexity of SL and that it is a well-known brand. of transport services and I’m impressed Find out more about SL as Many students get in touch and want to at how well it all works despite everyan employer on page 45 be involved in various projects and there thing.” • SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31 New underground bus depots Bus Rapid Transit – the bus service of the future SL will be building a number of new bus depots in the centre of Stockholm durComfortable buses with frequent deparing the next few years. A new agreement with the City of Stockholm gives both tures and their own bus lanes, stops and SL and the city authorities access to land in attractive locations. SL will get land signal priorities (whereby traffic lights are for three new bus depots in Hornsberg, Fredriksdal and Värtahamnen, with the set to give buses priority) can represent first two being built partly underground. a new alternative to the car for travellers. High-capacity buses can also offer Hornsberg an alternative to rail services or be used On western Kungsholmen, in one of the city’s fastest growing areas, SL will be as a preliminary stage in anticipation moving its current depot further under the Essingeleden motorway. A new storof track extension projects in growing age depot will be built beneath Kristineberg sports ground, which will continue areas. SL thinks in terms of track, but to be used as a sports ground. Construction of the new depot can begin in operates buses. autumn 2012, subject to approval of the development plan. The new depot, with In 2010, SL carried out a pilot study room for 120 buses, could then be complete in 2016. Land is also being freed using a new type of high-speed bus line up in connection with the entry and exit slip roads to the Essingeleden motorthat connects the county’s eastern and way being rebuilt to make them narrower, taking up less space. 800 homes are northern areas with the centre of Stockplanned in the area, together with offices as noise barriers. holm and Solna. The relevant municipalities, the Swedish Transport AdministraFredriksdal tion and the bus industry all took part in In December 2010, the SL Board decided that the City of Stockholm can take the trial. A version of the pilot study with over the land at the current bus depot in Danvikstull. SL will then receive land recommendations will be complete in for a brand new depot in western Hammarby Sjöstad. The depot will be located in a multifunctional property with an underground storage depot and workspring 2011. • shops and administrative areas in the floors above. The upper floors will include around 25 000 square metres of office space. 380 apartments will also be built in the same neighbourhood, Fredriksdal. At approximately 48 000 square Alcohol ignition interlocks metres, the depot will have room for 120 buses that will continue to receive in all buses by 2012 deliveries of biogas from the Henriksdal plant. The depot is expected to be comPassenger safety is always our top priorplete around 2015 – 2016. • ity. SL has therefore decided that alcohol ignition interlocks should be a requireFind out more about SL’s properties ment in all new procurements. The first on pages 87– 88 three procurements with this new functionality were carried out in 2010. In autumn 2011, around 500 buses in Huddinge/Botkyrka, Nacka/Värmdö, Söderort and Norrtälje will subsequently be fitted with alcohol ignition interlocks. This requirement is, of course, also included in ongoing procurements in Solna/Sundbyberg, Sollentuna, Norrort and Bromma. Alongside these procurements, SL is also negotiating on supplementary agreements for alcohol ignition interlocks with previously procured operators. “The aim is that all buses should be fitted with alcohol ignition interlocks during 2012,” explains Erik Stenbäck at SL’s Safety Unit. “Buses in Kallhäll were fitted Parts of the Hornsberg with alcohol ignition interlocks two years depot will be beneath ago. These have also been installed in Kristineberg sports new taxis for special transport services ground. procured by SL since 2008 and are mandatory for all specialised vehicles.” • 32 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL aims to be a pioneer in the transport sector Sustainable development Contents This is AB Storstockholm Lokaltrafik’s first “Communication on Progress” (COP), 34 SL’s greatest impact an account of how SL is addressing the 35 How SL works with sustainability ten principles of the UN Global Compact 37 General policy documents initiative. Read about these principles on † page 37. Below is a description of how SL 38 SL’s environmental takes environmental, social and economic responsibility responsibility – and contributes to sustain43 SL’s social responsibility able development throughout the Stock– Products holm region. – Staff – Society The information covers areas of major significance to – Human rights SL from a sustainability perspective. It is derived from ten 47 SL’s economic responsibility interviews with key individuals in the company and also on internal policy documents. 48 Cooperation, involvement and dialogue Any questions about this report should be sent to miljo@sl.se. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 33 SL’s greatest impact A positive gain for society when more people use public transport on various fronts to try to reduce noise. Energy-demanding SL’s operations consume large amounts of energy – about as much as a medium sized Swedish town. Most of this energy is used for powering transport, that is to say fuels for buses and electricity for rail services. Lighting and heating for all SL’s properties also require energy. As a result, SL is involved in the consumption of both renewable and finite natural resources. In addition, energy use causes emissions, particularly to the SL’s operations contribute to sustainable development in many air. As a high consumer of energy SL ways. However, there are also problem areas, particularly regardmakes determined efforts to increase ing the impact of operations in the form of noise and CO2 emisthe proportion of renewable energy and to improve the efficiency of its use. sions. The areas in which SL’s impact is of key significance are listed here in order of priority: Travel for everyone Everyone should be able to travel with Efficient travel exhaust fumes also contain particulates, SL, regardless of age, mobility impairThe single greatest contribution to susnitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons. The ment, ethnicity or gender. SL’s accessitainable development is the SL translatter substances can have both a local bility work therefore has a highly positive port network itself. The more people and a regional environmental impact social impact on the region. One goal is who decide to leave their car behind and when harmful ground-level ozone is for SL transport services to be so weltravel on public transport, the less the formed. Emissions can also cause health coming and accessible that people do impact on the environment. SL’s network problems for those who are sensitive not begin to use the special transport is extensive and accounts for half of all to emissions. SL is working towards services until a later age. This results in public transport in Sweden. A Stockholm con­verting all its bus services to renewgreater flexibility for the individual pasregion without well developed public able low-emission fuels such as biogas. senger and also saves tax revenue. transport would mean significantly more noise, congestion, mobility problems and Noise disturbance A demanding specifier far worse air quality. SL therefore makes Rail and bus services make noise which SL is a significant purchaser of goods, constant efforts to develop and expand causes disturbance in the surrounding services and contracts. Due to this, SL is public transport to make it even more area. Track maintenance, extension work in a position to have a positive impact on attractive for people to use. and depot operations can also create the way many companies act by setting noise. As the population of the Stockprocurement requirements and standards. Substantial air emissions holm region grows and building density For example this may result in requireDespite the progress SL has made with increases, the distance between homes ments to take account of human rights, renewable fuels in recent decades, most and traffic shrinks in many cases. At the the working environment and environbuses are still powered by diesel of fossil same time, passengers want more deparmental effects in production, training the origin. The combustion of fossil fuels tures and faster journeys. All together, contractors’ staff on accessibility issues results in net emissions of carbon dioxide, these factors mean an increased risk of and eco-driving or developing more contributing to climate change. Vehicle noise disturbance. SL is therefore acting ­environmentally sound technology. • 34 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How SL works with sustainability New organisation raises issues strategically Extensive work on sustainability throughout SL will be given a major boost in the spring of 2011. That is when the overall work will start to be directed by the new Strategic Department. The environment has long been a factor •• Broadened the Environment DepartThe Head of the Sustainable DevelopSL has worked on environmental issues ment and renamed it Sustainable ment Department is responsible for for many years. Social issues have also Development coordination, strategies and expert supbeen on the agenda for a long time. This port. This department deals with overall applies particularly to gender equality, the The present-day organisation environmental and accessibility issues working environment, accessibility and The MD is ultimately responsible for SL’s and also ensures that the organisation the child’s perspective. SL started looksustainability work. The SL Board takes as a whole is moving in the right direcing at renewable fuels back in the 1980s, decisions on policies and issues of partion in these areas. The Legal Departwhen it also held its first consultation ticular significance. Under the Board’s ment helps to ensure that sustainability meetings with organisations for the disadirection, SL’s management then decides requirements are imposed when carrying bled. There has been an increased focus on the detailed focus of sustainable out procurements. on how children view SL services since development work. the mid-2000s. These are areas in which today’s SL is highly advanced on an international level. Global Compact in its infancy On 13 May 2009, SL signed the UN Global Compact initiative. This means that SL has to work on the initiative’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption and report its progress annually to the UN. SL had already been working on most of these principles whilst others had been lacking and are now being developed. As a direct result of signing up to the Global Compact SL has: •• Conducted an initial analysis of sustainability risks linked to purchased goods and services •• Adjusted its procurement and purchasing procedures and reviewed the wording of contracts •• Arranged several seminars on Global Compact for suppliers and staff •• Attended reference group meetings with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Global Responsibility project SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 35 How SL works with sustainability Environmental sustainability contracts which are written and followed up by the Traffic Department. The Corporate Governance Department deals with internal control. Sustainable development The present-day management system The various sub-areas of the environEconomic Social ment, staff issues, accessibility and chilsustainability sustainability dren’s issues are each dealt with separately, through policies or guidelines and through managers responsible for development, monitoring and reporting. With regard to environmental issues there is a certified ISO 14001 environmental management system and in relation to staff SL follows Swedish Work Environment Authority’s instructions on “SL’s sustainability efforts should be in proportion systematic working environment activities. All staff are trained on the environto the remit we have been given by our owner. ment, accessibility and the UN ConvenWe can aim to take responsibility that goes furtion on the Rights of the Child. ther than is required by legislation, in areas that As SL principally operates through proare naturally linked to us and what we procure.” curement, much of its sustainability work Helene Molander, company lawyer at SL, who was involved in the company’s involves influencing, training, cooperatGlobal Compact work from an early stage. ing and setting requirements for suppliers. SL currently conducts its own environmental audits to make sure that requirements are met. A sustainability steering group, with repexternal communication on sustainability How SL is moving forward resentatives from SL’s major units, acts efforts. The Financial Unit monitors the Work to introduce the Global Compact as a reference group for sustainability financial aspects of sustainable developis a continuous process, which has to be issues that are common to the whole SL ment. effective and systematic and lead to conGroup. stant improvements in sustainability. In In the new SL organisation the strategic future, SL will focus on the following: The HR Department has overall responsustainability work will be coordinated by •• Integrating sustainability issues into sibility for staff issues, such as gender Sustainable Development, a unit within existing stakeholder dialogues equality and the working environment. the Strategic Department. Operational •• Following up the sustainability efforts The Communications Department deals work on sustainability is mainly perof suppliers with children’s issues and internal and formed by contractors and regulated by •• Developing sustainable strategies 36 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 General policy documents On the right track with the Global Compact The most important documents governing SL’s ­sustainability work at a general level are detailed below. •• SL’s vision and business concept, www.sl.se •• SLL’s Environment Stage 5, Environmental policy programme for Stockholm County Council 2007–2011, www.sll.se •• UITP Charter on Sustainable Development, www.uitp.org •• UN Global Compact, www.unglobalcompact.org Work is in progress on all ten principles of the Global Compact. The principles have been thoroughly established at SL’s head office. Checks on compliance by suppliers have recently begun and have not yet been fully implemented in all areas. A system of checks on goods and services has yet to be organised. • The 10 principles of the Global Compact Human rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the sphere the company can influence. Page 47 2. Make sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. Page 47 Labour 3. Uphold the freedom of association and recognise the right to collective bargaining. Page 45 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Page 47 5. Abolish child labour. Page 47 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Page 45 Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Pages 38–42 8.  Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Pages 38–42 9. Encourage the development of environmentally friendly technologies. Pages 38–42 Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 46 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 37 SL’s environmental responsibility By 2025 all fuels will be renewable SL’s ambitious plan to make all its services fossil-free stands ••At least 85 % of the heating for SL firm. Biogas, ethanol and rape methyl ester are steadily replacing premises by the end of 2011 is to diesel as fuel for buses and cars. Rail services have already been come from renewable energy sources.  Interim result in 2010: Increase from 82 % converted. in 2009 to 84 %. Principally due to changeover from oil to district heating at the Märsta Policy documents  Interim result in 2010: 69 %. The proporand Kallhäll bus depots. ••Environmental policy tion of ethanol, biogas and hybrid vehicles ••Energy strategy has increased sharply since 2009. The ••Energy use for rail services and increase is partly due to the bonus system ••Policy regarding airborne noise from premises is to have decreased by 5 % that rewards transport by clean vehicles at rail transport a rate of SEK 4.50 per 10 km. The fleet of by the end of 2011, based on volume ••Strategy for conversion to renewable special vehicles and Närtrafiken vehicles still of transport in 2006. fuels for buses 2007–2011 consist solely of diesel vehicles. Interim result in 2010: Decrease of 5.4 %. Degree-day corrected energy use is at Targets and results ••Fossil CO2 emissions from SL bus largely the same level as in 2006. Corrected Market share of SL services energy use for premises has increased, services are to be no more than 55 ••SL’s target for passenger numbers while corrected energy use for rail services grams per passenger kilometre at the has decreased. Transport volumes have for 2010 is 722 000 passengers per end of 2011. increased, so the key indicator has fallen. weekday and for passenger numbers Interim result in 2010: 72.48 grams per to increase by 1.5 % per year over the passenger kilometre. Fossil CO2 emissions Use of chemicals period 2011–2014, with no loss of from buses have increased somewhat, but ••Relevant substances on the county market share. the number of passenger kilometres has increased more, so that the key indicator council’s list are to have been phased Result: 722 000 passengers per weekday, has fallen since 2009. If the target of 50 % out of SL’s activities by the end of compared with 705 000 in 2009. In terms of renewable bus services is met, this target 2011. the number of journeys, the increase is 2.3 % in comparison with 2009. should also be met. Interim result in 2010: The last substance on the list, a lubricant for vehicles containing ••Emissions of nitrogen oxides and parlead naphthenate, has been replaced. Air emissions from SL services ••At least 50 % of SL’s bus services are ticulates from SL bus services at the end of 2011 are to be 15 % and 25 % Process to be powered by renewable fuels by lower than in 2006, in relation to SL has an ISO 14001 certified envithe end of 2011, rising to 100 % at volume­of transport (passenger kiloronmental management system that the end of 2025. metres). ensures preventive and systematic Interim result in 2010: 36.3 %. The number  Interim result in 2010: In relation to the numefforts. SL actively shares its experience, of clean buses has increased by 28 biogas ber of passenger kilometres, nitrogen oxides particularly that of renewable fuels and buses and 127 ethanol buses. The preliminary lists of vehicles for the new transport and particulates have decreased by 38 % and cooperates with others to develop more contracts starting in 2011 together with 53 % since 2006. This is due to older buses environmentally sound technology in this other activities in the action plan will mean having been phased out and the share of area. The environment is also an absoan estimated proportion of renewable bus buses using renewable fuel has increased. lute requirement or an evaluation criteservices of more than 50 % by the end of rion in procurements, making it possible 2011. Energy use to reward tenders with higher environ••The proportion of renewable energy mental ambition. Advertising campaigns ••At least 50 % of taxis used for special for all SL activities is to be at least encourage people in Stockholm to be transport services are to be clean 74 % by the end of 2011. more environmentally aware and travel vehicles in 2011 (according to govInterim result in 2010: 66 %. The proportion­ on public transport. ernment definition). of renewable energy increased for all activities except for rail services, where it is already 100 %. 38 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL’s environmental responsibility Activities Investigation of energy sible to see the level of CO2 emissions Renewable fuel use increases management systems generated by an SL journey, compared The commitment to renewable fuels SL wishes to gain better control of its with an equivalent car journey. has continued. The best possible, comtotal energy use and is therefore invesmercially available technology is always tigating the options for introducing an Free parking with SL Access adopted. The primary choice is biogas, energy management system. The investiTo improve mobility and air quality in cenwith its extremely high environmental gation includes an energy survey, in which tral Stockholm – and also to encourage performance. Bioethanol is another enviSL’s total energy volume and energy people to take public transport and to ronmentally sound alternative that has costs have been calculated. In addition, make it easier for them to do so, SL and been used extensively and SL’s fleet of an analysis has been carried out to idenStockholm Parkering are conducting a 545 ethanol buses is the world’s largest. tify and rectify the gaps in the existing trial. At seven car parks on entry roads on The ethanol that SL uses is a blend of environmental management system so the outskirts of the municipality there are fermented by-products from the Swedthat it can also meet the requirements for 777 parking places where customers with ish pulp industry and Brazilian sugaran energy management system. a season ticket valid for 30 days or more cane. The third renewable fuel compocan park free of charge. As well as these, nent at SL is RME (rape methyl ester), as World’s first ethanol hybrid buses SL and the municipalities provides nearly a five per cent blend in diesel. All buses SL tested six ethanol hybrid buses 11 000 free parking places at around a in central Stockholm run on renewable fuels and all rail services are powered by between June 2009 and June 2010 together with the bus manufacturer Scahundred entry points to the county. • renewable electricity, most with the Good nia and the transport contractor Nobina. Environmental Choice ecolabel. Find out Renewable ethanol was combined with more about biogas on the next page. a partly electrified powertrain. These Good Environmental Choice buses have good potential for reducing All SL rail services today run on renewable Environmental project management fuel use, but more work is needed before electricity from wind and hydro power. During 2010 SL produced an environthey will be ready for scheduled services. The electricity for the Metro and light mental manual for the environmental In particular, the powertrain components rail services also meets the criteria of the Swedish Society for Nature management of construction projects, need to be made more robust. Conservation for Good which regulates work before, during and Environmental Choice. after a project. The manual is intended Journey planner now includes Good Environmental Choice guarantees that electricity to make environmental work more effiemissions data is produced with consideracient, while keeping all projects on an Since 2010, anyone visiting sl.se to use tion for the environment and nature conservation. even level and integrating them into SL’s the journey planner has also been able SL’s’ ecolabelled electricity environmental management system. to obtain environmental data. It is posis supplied by E.ON. Carbon dioxide emissions in a journey by SL or car, kg Journey by car 3,3 Journey b Viksjö centrum – Nacka Strand Journey by SL Nynäshamn station 0,85 – Slussen Journey b Journey by car 3,3 Journey by car Journey by car 6,5 2,9 Journey b Journey by SL 0,85 Journey by SL Journey by SL 0,12 0,0 Journey b Journey by car 3,3 Journey by car 2,9 Journey by car 6,5 0,0 Journey 1,6 by3,2car 4,8 6,4 2,38,0 Journey by SL 0,85 Journey Tyresö Cby– SL 0,0 Sjukhuset Karolinska Upplands Väsby – Stockholm central Journey by SL 0,12 Journey by SL 1,3 Journey by car Journey 6,5 by car Journey by car3,3 2,3 Journey by car 2,9 0,0 1,6 3,2 4,8 6,4 8,0 0,0 1,6 3,2 4,8 6,4 Journey by SL 0,12 Journey by SL 0,85 by SL Journey 1,3 Journey by SL 0,0 0,0 1,6 3,2 4,8 Journey 6,4 by8,0car 0,0 1,6 6,53,2 4,8 Journey 6,4 by car 2,3 Journey by SL 0,12 Journey by SL 1,3 0,0 1,6 3,2 4,8 6,4 8,0 0,0 SL 1,6 ANNUAL 3,2 REPORT 4,8 2010 6,4 39 SL’s environmental responsibility Biogas use increases The renewable fuel biogas is Twelve organisations and transport making increasing inroads and companies from eight countries in the SL is a pioneer in this area. Baltic Sea region are taking part in the project, which runs from 2009 to 2012. At the end of 2010, as many The dissemination of knowledge, sharing as 131 biogas buses were experiences and concrete measures are running in central Stockholm. key elements of the project, for which SL has overall responsibility. The cost for the project is around SEK 40 million. Lennart Hallgren, Global Senior Adviser “Biogas today is the best fuel of all from an environmental point of view,” says Biogas for 500 buses ­Lennart Hallgren, project manager for Altogether, SL has secured the supply “Today, SL is a world biogas at SL. of biogas for around 500 buses, out of leader in using biogas a total of just over 2 000 buses in SL as a fuel in public Biogas has the advantage of being comservices. This has taken place through pletely renewable, while helping to join long-term contracts with suppliers in the transport.” up the natural ecocycle. The locally proregion. Today, SL has contracts for supduced gas is created in just two weeks plies of biogas with Stockholm Vatten when bacteria in biogas facilities break and the Käppala Association up to 2023. down waste from households, wastewaStockholm Gas AB is also due to start ter treatment and agriculture. Replacdelivering biogas in autumn 2011. ing fossil diesel with biogas in SL buses reduces CO2 emissions by around 10 kg Initially it has been difficult to obtain a per 10 km travelled. sufficient number of biogas buses in time to use the biogas available. DurPopular subject of study ing this time SL has sold the unused SL started testing biogas together with gas onwards, partly for use by municipal Stockholm Vatten in 2003 and this has developed into a major environmenrefuse collection vehicles in Stockholm. • tal investment in the city. Today SL is a world leader in the use of biogas in public transport and many foreign delegations come on study visits to observe and Work in progress on the project: learn. A particularly large number of visi••Developing regional strategies for tors came in 2010 due to the celebration introduction or increased use of the year as European Green Capital, of biogas with SL being a natural and important ••Developing production, distribution component. and consumption ••Activities that promote the technical Running a large EU project development of biogas To stimulate the market, technological ••Examination of the potential of biogas development and demand for biogas as a fuel in buses, SL has taken the initiative for a three-year international cooperaRead more tion project, “Baltic Biogas Bus”, which www.balticbiogasbus.eu is funded by the EU’s Baltic Sea Region Programme. 40 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL’s environmental responsibility Rail traffic noise analysed An extensive analysis of the noise along SL tracks has been completed. Action will now be taken where it is most needed. Increased demands from residents and others mean that SL has prioritised the issue of noise in recent years. However it is certainly not a new issue. SL drew up its first noise policy back in the early 1990s. Systematic work The analysis was completed in the autumn of 2010. It covers rail services on all Metro lines, the Tvärbanan, Roslagsbanan, Saltsjöbanan, Nockebybanan and Lidingöbanan lines as well as along the former Djurgården line. Noise reduction when upgrading SL is working on noise analysis throughSeveral of the areas exposed out Greater Stockholm. The sound level 0 to noise 165 330 660 65 dB(A) in 990 is shown from green to 90 1 320 Meter Together with SL’s policy for airborne will be dealt with during planned major dB(A) in dark purple. noise from rail services, the analysis upgrades: the Roslagsbanan, Lidingöbawill form the basis for an action plan to nan and Saltsjöbanan lines. reduce noise in the surrounding area. “Here we plan to switch to quieter vehi“We intend to work systematically and cles, so that the need for noise barriers deal with the homes exposed to the is reduced. Action taken at the source is highest levels of noise first,” says Maria best from the point of view of noise, and Röjvall, Environmental Coordinator at SL. people do not like long noise barriers in their local environment,” says Röjvall. Noise policy Everyone living along the route of tracks Following the upgrades, the noise level where the noise level is more than 80 will meet the lower national guide values dB(A) at the front of the building and for new construction of a maximum of outdoors or more than 55 dB(A) in bed70 dB(A) outdoors and 45 dB(A) indoors Maria Röjvall, Environmental Coordinator rooms will receive help in reducing the at night. The guide value for new connoise nuisance. struction is followed when SL builds new track facilities. According to a Swedish “New vehicles are The most common solutions to reducing noise are barriers and fencing along the Parliament decision these guide values will also apply to existing track facilities generally very quiet, tracks. Barriers around patio areas and in the longer term. • and action taken at work on windows can also be effective. the actual source Screening with grass-covered embankments is another option. A combination is always best in of several solutions may be nessecary at terms of noise.” very high noise levels. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 41 SL’s environmental responsibility The development of SL’s key environmental issues 2010 2009 2008 Proportion of clean cars in special Emissions from SL services transport services, per cent Fossil carbon dioxide (CO2), buses, tonnes 127 343 127 040 121 390 2009 46 Fossil carbon dioxide (CO2), rail services, tonnes 10 11 11 Fossil carbon dioxide (CO2), mobility services, 2010 69 tonnes 9 447 10 364 – 0 20 40 60 80 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), mobility services, tonnes 16.2 17 – Nitrogen oxides (NOx), buses, tonnes 997 1 381 1 491 Bus fuel consumption, per cent Particulates, mobility services, tonnes 1.4 3.7 – Particulates, buses, tonnes 11 17.5 18 Biogas Biogas 6,4 6,4 Passenger kilometres, buses 1 757 million 1 713 million 1 673 million Ethanol 26,6 Fossil carbon dioxide per passenger kilometre, Ethanol 26,6 RME-blend 3,4 buses, grams 72.5 74.2 72.6 RME-blend 3,4 Diesel Diesel 63,7 63,7 Clean vehicles in SL services Electricity consumption in Biogas buses 131 103 64 premises, MWh Ethanol buses 545 418 424 Effect of RME-blend diesel buses 69 75 72 2008 123 100 Total number of buses 2 050 2 016 1 929 2009 128 500 Proportion of clean buses, % 36.3 29.6 29 Proportion of rail vehicles using Good 2010 133 300 Environmental Choice electricity, % 100 100 100 0 45000 90000 135000 180000 Proportion of renewable fuel in special transport services, % 22.8 – – Proportion of clean vehicles * Trial using 100 per cent RME in special transport services, % 69 46 – In spring 2011 a trial was conducted using 100 per cent rape methyl ester Energy consumption (RME) as a fuel for diesel buses. Transport In future transport contracts it is • Fossil fuel, special transport services, litres 3 669 391 4 112 263 – planned that some buses will be • Renewable fuel, special transport services, litres 1 084 116 1 004 244 – powered by RME. It is estimated that • Electricity (Good Environmental Choice), a total of 220 buses will run on RME Metro and light rail, MWh 443 485 428 809 419 445 by the end of 2011. • Electricity (hydro power), commuter trains, MWh 157 451 159 681 147 861 • Ethanol, buses, millions of litres 24.32 21.68 19.92 • Biogas, buses, normal cubic metres 3 955 228 2 691 577 1 828 235 • RME, buses, millions of litres 2.49 2.47 2.19 • Diesel, buses, excl. RME blend, millions of litres 47.36 46.98 45.40 • Natural gas, buses, normal cubic metres 146 852 80 865 56 543 Total consumption of electricity for premises, MWh 133 300 128 500 123 100 Proportion of renewable electricity for premises, % 100 100 100 Total quantity of district heating for premises, MWh 121 600 117 200 117 100 Proportion of renewable district heating for premises, % 84 82 89 Total consumption of cooling for premises, MWh 2 038 1 472 1 143 Proportion of renewable cooling for premises, % 100 100 85 Proportion of renewable energy (transport and premises), % 66 64 66 Consumption of diesel, works vehicles, litres 130 929 128 534 116 660 * According to government definition. 42 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL’s social responsibility – Products The growing importance of how the public view transport newspapers, on buses and online, in the “Everyone travels differently” blog and also at trade fairs. SL’s advertising agencies, transport contractors and communication staff have also been invited to attend seminars to learn how communication can be made more accessible. Read more about the accessibility work on the next page. School information hosts SL trains school information hosts together with the transport contractors. Around 40 of these met approximately Every year, around 20 000 schoolchildren in the county are 20 000 children at the county’s primary visited by bus drivers or ticket barrier staff from local SL services. and lower secondary schools in 2010 In the long term this helps to contribute to safer journeys for to talk about SL, how to travel safely, younger passengers. SL also meets groups of people with imvandalism and why it is important to pay paired mobility and also elderly people. for journeys. In return SL listens to the schoolchildren’s point of view. In many Policy documents ments have been made at 80 out of 100 classes discussions are also held on envi•• Action programme for increased stations to provide low-floor entry. An escort ronmental issues and issues relating to ­accessibility for those with ­impaired service is now available at 118 interchanges the future. mobility 2006 – 2010 on the SL transport network. Improved safety •• Long-term accessibility plan Process Safety issues linked, among other things, 2011 – 2021 SL’s social responsibility work for customto extreme weather were given greater •• RiTill – Guidelines for accessibility ers in relation to its products – journeys priority in 2010. This is done partly to for the elderly and passengers with – focuses on accessibility and the increase customer security and partly to ­impaired mobility. ­perspective of children in transport.­The be prepared in case something happens. •• RiBarn – Guidelines for SL’s work work on accessibility is reminiscent of The Head of Safety is included in the according to the UN Convention on environmental work in terms of organisaExecutive Office in the new organisation. the Rights of the Child tion. Work on the perspective of children •• Guidelines for handling personal data Protecting privacy is based on the idea that all decisions in SL All card transactions are stored in SL’s that affect children should also be based on what is best for them. This is achieved electronic payment system, SL Access. Targets and results through discussions with children, surveys If customers chooses to register their •• Everyone who, by themselves, or with among children and staff training. Work cards – that is to say link their cards with the aid of an escort can get to a staon children’s issues is reported directly to their name details – SL is allowed to save tion or a stop should be able to travel the SL Board once a year. this information for a maximum of 60 with SL in 2010. days, after which it must be anonymised.  esults: The proportion of low-floor buses R Activities The cameras on board carriages and at increased from 77 % to 83 % in 2010. Most Campaigns for accessibility station premises are there principally for bus terminals have been made accessible, To get more people to understand what the safety of passengers. But in several and all buses now have external announcegreat opportunities more accessible SL cases they have also helped the police to ments. In the Metro, 83 out of 100 platforms have tactile and visual warning markings. services bring, SL worked intensively solve crimes. The use of image material is Audio On Demand (spoken information) has to communicate its work in 2010. This has taken the form of advertisements in strictly regulated. • been installed at all stations. Track adjustSL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 43 SL’s social responsibility – Products Accessible for all The whole of Sweden should SL has enjoyed valuable cooperation be accessible for everyone by with the county’s organisations for the the end of 2010. SL is now disabled for many years. Since 2009 SL has also been responsible for speworking to make transport cial transport services and pensioners’ safer, simpler and more comorganisations in the county are now fortable for all passengers – involved in a similar way. It is thereregardless of their needs. fore becoming increasingly important to show that ordinary SL services are Ylva Preutz Papantoni, To SL, accessibility means more than accessible to them too. “Now that we Accessibility Coordinator just physical measures such as low deal with special transport services, we floors, wheelchair ramps, automatic have to deliver ‘from door to door’, not “In ten years our doors, tactile markings and loudspeaker ‘from station to station’ as in the past,” announcements. It also means treating continues Papantoni. public transport should passangers with understanding. All SL be the first choice staff and transport staff at SL contracIn terms of practical measure, SL has tors are subsequently trained in accesdeveloped and converted many vehifor people with sibility issues. They have to find out for cles, stops and stations over the years to mobility impairments.” themselves what it is like to be visually make them more accessible. Newer parts impaired or wheelchair-bound. of SL now feature excellent accessibil“It’s not just a matter of being able to ity, although this is not always the case in travel but of wanting to travel too,” says older parts. Work is therefore continuing. Ylva Preutz Papantoni, Accessibility Coordinator at SL. Sweden and SL at the forefront In 2000 the Swedish Parliament adopted The natural choice a new diability policy action plan with a Public transport shall be the natural clear target to make the whole of society mode of transport for the county’s accessible to everyone by 2010. SL actu250 000 residents with various mobility ally embarked on making transport more impairments. open to everyone back in the 1980s. “Both Sweden and SL are at the forefront in accessibility in international terms. We think about the bigger picture Digital screens Electronic and the fact that there are many groups with loudspeakers information with different needs. The national tarfor spoken screens information gets for disability policy set by ParliaLoudspeaker Escalator/ announcements ment have brought the issue into focus travelator and created even better understanding Screens showing Lift next blue among the public and here at SL,” says trunk bus Low-floor Papantoni. boarding Ramp Tactile markings Tactile markings, SL’s long-term target is for general at the platform patterns that edge can be felt public transport to be seen as the most on the ground attractive form of travel for people with Automatic information systems with Button for information impaired mobility by 2021. • speech on stops Read more Low-floor entry sl.se/tillganglighet 44 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL’s social responsibility – Staff Survey is at the centre of improvements SL aims to be an attractive tion. SL offers a safe and secure working Employee Motivation Index, % employer. The views of staff on environment through systematic health Clear and challenging goals in work operations are therefore taken and safety. Every year, staff are asked for 2008 68 2009 67 their views on the work environment, SL very seriously. Recognition for performance as an employer and important aspects 2008 64 relating to SL. The results for each unit 2009 63 Policy documents form the basis for an action plan that is Good atmosphere 2008 75 •• SL’s values (Collaboration, Responsifollowed up. 2009 77 bility, Trust, Commitment) Clear way of running the company •• Etnical diversity policy Activities 2008 54 2009 52 •• Gender equality plan for SL Major reorganisation Developing continuous working practices •• Diversity plan 2009 – 2010 An extensive review of the whole of 2008 66 •• Guidelines for pay setting within SL aimed at creating a more efficient, 2009 67 the SL Group strategic and collaborative organisation Sensing clear development 2008 68 •• Staff survey guidelines began in March 2010. The new organi2009 70 sation applies from 1 May 2011. The Providing opportunities for career development Process workforce has been reduced and every2008 54 2009 52 SL’s work relating to recruitment and one has had an opportunity to express Good manager working conditions for its own staff is their interest in new posts. The review 2008 68 2009 70 practically oriented and follows a perhas led to some anxiety among staff. The Influencing decisions formance management model in which new organisation is focused on skills and 2008 64 action plans for diversity and equality are leadership, and SL offers extra support 2009 68 of key significance. All staff are treated in the development of new managers. Independently planning • 2008 81 equally, regardless of union participaFind out more on page 22. 2009 81 Interesting and motivating tasks 2008 78 2009 80 Staff statistics 2010 2009 2008 Being allowed to take greater responsibility 2008 73 Average number of employees 697 866 765 2009 74 – women 300 339 282 – white-collar staff, % 100 100 100 0The MPI20(Employee 60 Index) 40 Motivation 80 100 is used to measure the staff perspecAverage age 47 45 45 tive in SL’s performance management Staff turnover, % 5.4 15.8 * 7.8 model. This is a mean value based on Industrial injuries, % 0.8 0.8 0.5 twelve questions in the staff survey Sick leave, % 3.8 4.9 5.4 that are judged to be important to personal motivation. As a result of Gender equality in management 2010 2009 2008 the reorganisation, no staff survey was conducted in 2010. The mean Number on Board + deputy members 13 + 13 13 + 13 15 + 15 value for 2009 is 68, the same as – women 5+6 5+6 5+7 the previous year. Number in management team 13 10 11 (IC Quality AB, 2009) – women 6 4 5 Number of managers 77 87 79 – women 37 42 39 * In 2009 the Special Transport Services Administration and parts of the Regional Planning Office were organised under AB SL. Excluding these exceptional staff transfers, staff turnover in 2009 was 6.5 %. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 45 SL’s social responsibility – Society SL aims to be a good player within society At the Stockholm Transport Museum children and young people took part in a drawing competition on the theme of the public transport of the future. Many activities are carried out to strengthen SL’s position indicate a very low impact on health for as a good player within society. Clear guidelines and trainparticulates in the Metro environment. ing courses on bribery and corruption help to ensure that Free travel for blood donors everything is done correctly in procurements. All 44 000 blood donors in Stockholm County have been given free travel to Policy documents procurements shadow costings are and from donor sessions by SL since the •• Guidelines to prevent bribery and made to discover undeclared labour. start of 2010. SL wishes to encourage other forms of corruption those who already give blood, as well as Activities persuauding more people to do so. The Process Measuring particulates at Mariatorget motivation for this is that there is often a SL’s work relating to its impact on the In 2010, for the very first time, SL conshortage of blood in the region, resulting sustainable development of society is ducted a survey of particulate levels in in a risk of operations being cancelled. under constant review but needs to the surroundings of the Metro at street become more comprehensive. To date, level – and not as usually done along the Environmental education for it has been mostly concerned with an platform. The reason being that local schoolchildren ethical approach to business. All staff residents around Mariatorget were conAn environmental exhibition, “Society’s and suppliers must study SL’s guidelines cerned about their health as air from Journey” opened at the Stockholm Transon bribery and other forms of corrupthe Metro pressure equalisation shaft port Museum in May 2010. Whilst on a tion. Both procurement staff and other was discharged into their courtyard. SL paper trail, school classes and other interSL staff gain greater knowledge of bribtherefore organised the testing of the ested parties can learn about social factors ery and corruption via sources such as dispersal of particulate emissions from and try out activities relating to SL’s enviinternal training courses. In addition, the shaft. It was found that the emissions ronmental efforts. For example, it is postraining on public access to documents meet the environmental quality standard. sible to find out how much CO2 emissions and confidentiality is arranged. In some Other studies conducted by universities weigh and what biogas is made from. • 46 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL’s social responsibility – Human rights Risks in the supply chain under scrutiny Policy documents proportionality. No follow-up has been ucts in association with students from •• Procurement policy for SL carried out as to how the requirements the Stockholm School of Economics. This are met to any great extent, but this will analysis started in 2009 and is continuing Process be done in future. In order to raise the through 2011. The students have carried SL’s work to safeguard human rights level of knowledge among all staff, they out a desk audit of the largest suppliers principally relates to procurement and are trained on accessibility for people based on volumes and have identified how passengers are treated. SL sets with impaired mobility and on the UN several risks. The study also shows that requirements in procurements and conConvention on the Rights of the Child. supplier risks is an area that needs further tracts for the principles of the Global Compact to be followed, both for goods Activities study. • manufactured for SL and when services Supplier risks analysed are supplied to SL. These requirements SL has analysed the risks linked to human must be compatible with the principle of rights in the supply chain for certain prodSL’s economic responsibility Laying the foundation for a resource-efficient region Policy documents accessibility. To take an example, special elsewhere in society. SL is now trying to •• Transport plan 2020 transport services cost more than orditake strategic decisions at an early stage nary public transport. The more people ahead of procurement to make it easier Process who can travel on SL’s ordinary serto balance requirements. SL’s costs can SL has created socio-economic benefit through its extensive public transport vices the more tax revenue can be spent also be reduced as a result. • in the county for a long time. However, the question of how SL contributes in “SL contributes to an open, accessible and resourcepractice to sustainability from a broader economic perspective is new. This way of efficient region, where emissions of CO2 and other thinking is being integrated into ordinary pollutants are decreasing. Calculations show that operational management. It is imporcongestion in Greater Stockholm costs seven billion tant to look up, think outside the box and make long-term investments adaptable kronor a year. SL services therefore have a key role to both people and the environment. The in realising the vision of a long-term sustainable economic cost to society would probably have been greater if changes had Mälardalen region.” not been made to the environment and Niklas Personne, CFO SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 47 Cooperation, involvement and dialogue Examples of SL’s important stakeholder dialogues Staff Customers Personal development interviews. Staff meetings Youth Council and Pensioners Council (for young people and pensioners with the MD. Internal training courses. Intranet. with special transport services). ­Accessibility blog. Dialogue blog. Customer Company magazine “Hela Resan”. Event on Baltic surveys. sl.se. SL’s customer service. Security phone line with 020 number. Biogas Bus. Mediation talks with young people who commit crimes against SL. Advertising companies, including radio ads on biogas buses and newspaper ads on the possibility of travelling by SL to Arlanda Airport. Trade fairs, for example SL-dagen, in connection with Love 2010 and the senior citizens’ show Seniormässan. Passenger forum. Owner (SLL) Annual General Meeting. Regular status­reviews. Networks on noise. Transport Committee. Organisations Collaborative council with organisations for the disabled. Reference meetings with the Discrimination Ombudsman. Cooperation with Lugna Gatan and Pride. Suppliers CSR day for suppliers. Seminar on accessible communication for advertising agencies and transport contractors. Cooperation with Scania and Nobina on ethanol hybrid bus technology. Certification companies The business community ISO 14001 reviews. Dialogues with affected companies on community planning. Seminars on biogas. Visit from Brazil on ethanol. Visit from Schools and universities Poland on biogas. Projects with Stockholm School of Economics. Lecturing on CSR at universities and colleges. Taking part in research ­projects on traffic noise. School information hosts meet schoolchildren. Politicians and authorities Around ten visits by foreign delegations (often on biogas), for example from the Russian Duma, the Canadian Embassy, the Norwegian Parliament and the Norwegian Public Roads Mass media Administration. Cooperation on advertising with Swedavia and Interviews and news items in press and broadcast public transport companies for increased use of public transmedia, as well as SL’s own advertising channels. port to and from Arlanda. Visit by Minister for the EnvironForeign media, including from China and Latvia, ment Andreas Carlgren and Minister for Justice Beatrice Ask. have highlighted SL’s environmental work, for example the commitment to biogas. Partnerships and networks Municipalities Project leader for the EU project Baltic Biogas Bus. Member of the SwedDiscussions and cooperation on community ish Association of Environmental Managers, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ ­planning, noise, biogas depot construction etc. Global Responsibility, the Swedish Public Transport Association, Trafik i Taking part in the municipalities’ various youth Mälardalen and the Advertising Ombudsman. Building products assessparliaments and in the Ung08 festival. Roundment. Travel card cooperation. Chamber of Commerce. Lobbying in the EU table discussions with Stockholm deputy mayors through EMTA (the European Metropolitan Transport Authority) and UITP on biogas. (the International Association of Public Transport). 48 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Annual Report Contents 50 Administration report 59 Income statement † 60 Balance sheet 62 Cash flow statements 63 Additional information 78 Auditor’s report 79 Review report 80 Special transport service activities SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 49 Administration report AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik, organisation registration number 556013-0683 The Board and the Managing Director of AB Storstockholms Changes in the group Lokaltrafik hereby present the annual report of the company In 2010, the group’s operations according to plan continued to and the SL Group for the financial year 01/01/2010 – be refined and developed. Activities that were carried out by the 31/12/2010. group itself have been fully outsourced or procured within the framework of the transport services agreements. The changes 1. Ownership Structure are a step in the process of further developing SL as a purchasThe parent company of the SL Group, AB Storstockholms Lokal­ ing organisation. trafik (SL), is wholly owned by Stockholm County Council (SLL). At year-end 2010, the Group consisted of the Parent Company, Busslink four operating subsidiaries, three dormant subsidiaries and one The shareholding in Busslink i Sverige AB has been wound up. related company. Sale and purchasing options were previously established between SL and Keolis Nordic AB to acquire SL’s remaining holding of 30 per cent of the shares in Busslink i Sverige AB. The sale option AB Storstockholms was requested in 2009 and the shares were sold in 2010. Lokaltrafik SL HR-Service AB SL Infrateknik AB SL HR-Service AB Activities at SL HR-Service AB have been outsourced and are dormant carried on externally from 1 January 2010. 100 % 100 % SL Kundtjänst AB AB SL Finans SL Lidingö Trafik AB dormant Ticket checking activities have been outsourced during the year 100 % and are carried on externally from 1 January 2010. The planned 96.7 % transfer to external contractors of the administration of travel Fastighets AB guarantees, viewpoint management and the operation of all SL Tågia AB Viggstaberg, dormant 100 % centres was carried out in May 2010. 100 % Certain limited activities relating to traffic information continue SL Kundtjänst AB AB Transitio to be carried on within the framework of the company’s activities. 100 % 43.5 % SL’s warehousing activities On 1 May 2010, the SL Board made a decision to procure wareSL determines the scope, quality and development of public transhousing activities from external contractors. The transfer took port services within the framework of the directives and condiplace at the start of 2011. tions defined by SLL. SL procures and outsources transport services to a range of contractors as well as having responsibility for 2. Activities maintenance and investments in the transport infrastructure. AB SL’s business concept is to provide the residents of the county of SL Finans is responsible for financing of public transport vehicles. Stockholm with extensive, attractive and easily accessible public transport services. SL satisfies the full range of customer require­ At SL Infrateknik AB, there are vehicles owned by SL or which ments for simple, reliable and affordable travel. All journeys are intended to be financed externally. must be safe and secure. Through its transport operations, SL contributes to long-term sustainability in the region. SL Kundtjänst AB provides certain information to the general public on its range of services. SL is responsible for operation and maintenance, investments and the development and marketing of public transport services Tågia AB’s activities consist of training aimed at care and mainby road and rail and special public transport services involving tenance of rail vehicles. special transport service journeys and patient transport journeys. The group includes the dormant companies Fastighets AB Decisions on the scope, quality and development of transport ­Viggestaberg, SL Lidingö Trafik AB and SL HR-Service AB. services are made by the SL Board within the financial framework defined by SLL. SL is also a co-owner of the associated company AB Transitio (43.5 per cent) whose operations include the acquisition and Special public transport services is a profit centre within Stockfinancing of vehicles on behalf of the co-owners. holm County Council and is not included in the SL Group’s ­financial reports. In addition, the parent company is a part owner of Samtrafiken i Sverige AB (2.12 per cent), whose operations consist of collaboOperational planning and performance management rative efforts to improve conditions for public transport users SL’s operational planning is based on the SL vision and business throughout Sweden as well as the promotion and enhancement concept, the core values of the brand and SL’s common values of public transport services throughout Sweden. and directives as well as instructions issued by the owner. A business plan and overall targets have been formulated on that basis. 50 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 The performance management model has been subdivided into Focus on the customer perspectives based on the five key SL stakeholder groups as well Since 2007, SL has been conducting monthly on-board surveys as the perspective of SL’s common approach. of “Perceived Quality”. The average recorded satisfaction level for 2010 was 74 (76) per cent. Theses perspectives are: •• Customer During the disruption due to snow at the beginning of the finanOwner Supplier •• Supplier rking m cial year and during the winter months at the end of the year, wo e •• Employee Join t tho d the figures for satisfaction fell to their lowest point of 72 per •• Society Customer cent, which had an adverse effect on the average for the year. •• Owner •• Common approach The proportion of dissatisfied customers in SL’s onboard surveys Society Employee of “Perceived Quality” in 2010 was at the level of the outcome for 2009 and amounted to 10 (9) per cent, which means that the per­ centage has halved compared to when the measurements began. As SL’s most important stakeholder group, customers enjoy a privileged position at the centre of the performance management modAccording to the Public Transport Barometer from the Swedish el. The overall objective of the customer perspective is to create “A Public Transport Association, the proportion of county residents greater number of customers and more satisfied customers”. The that were satisfied with SL was 60 (65) per cent and 67 (72) per objective is measured through “Satisfied customers”, “Passengers cent among those who travelled at least once a week. The proporper weekday” and “Proportion of customers in terms of time”. tion of dissatisfied county residents was 9 (7) per cent and 5 (4) per cent among those who travelled at least once a week. These The “common approach” perspective consists of processes, proresults are worse than the previous year and correspond with the cedures and tools which aim to guarantee efficient working methresults recorded in SL’s own on-board “Perceived ­Quality” surveys. ods and bring about the conditions for continuous improvement. The Travel Guarantee is under continuous development with a Market view to meeting customer requirements and is an important serStockholm County has the highest market share for public transvice if disruptions to SL transport services occur. The guarantee portation in Sweden. During peak periods, the inner city average applies to all SL transport services in the county of Stockholm is approximately 80 per cent. Just over 80 per cent of the popuand also for commuter rail services over county boundaries to lation of the county of Stockholm County travel on SL services Bålsta and Gnesta. Payments can be received for both taxi and once a month or more. Just under 15 per cent said they travelled­ car journeys. on public transport less than once a month, and 4 per cent stated that they never travel with SL. In 2010 payments were made in 63 892 (25 953) cases. ­Compensation paid out amounted to 18.6 (7.9) MSEK. On a typical weekday in winter 2010, approximately 700 000 people used SL services. The high outcome for the year is primarily a result of extensive service disruptions due to the snow in February and March 2010. The transport mode that had the highest proportion of journeys Furthermore, there were two extensive power outages on the was the Metro, with 45 per cent, followed by the bus with 40 per Metro green and red lines which resulted in long delays in services.­ cent, commuter rail with 10 per cent and light railways with 5 per cent. The distribution among modes of transport has Graffiti removal and preventive measures to reduce vandalism ­remained stable from last year to this. and graffiti continue to be a high priority. The costs fell in 2010 due to investments in preventive measures and more cost-effecWith its current range and capacity, SL can increase its market tive restoration solutions and also due to the fact that the transshare, in particular during off-peak periods. port contractors assumed more extensive commitments within the framework of a transport services agreement. The costs Travel frequency with SL during 2010 increased by 2.3 (0.7) per amounted to 12 (42) MSEK. cent compared with 2009. The number of journeys on typical weekdays during winter totalled 2 556 000 (2 498 000). The 3. The environment number of passengers on winter weekdays amounted to SL is certified in accordance with ISO 14001:2004 and has sub717 000 (705 000) per day in 2010, a rise of 1.7 (0.6) per cent scribed to the Global Compact since 2009. ­compared to the previous year. The Global Compact is a UN initiative for companies that wish to The number of passenger kilometres has continued to rise in take responsibility for achieving long-term sustainable develop2010, rising to 4 966 (4 872) million kilometres, a rise of 2.0 ment based on ten principles relating to human rights, labour (0.7) per cent. The rise relates to all modes of transport. law, the environment and combating corruption. Total transport capacity measured in available seat kilometres SL carries out activities subject to reporting requirements under fell by 2.1 (2.9) per cent to 15 802 (16 135) million kilometres. the Swedish Environmental Code in connection with the transit SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 51 storage of hazardous waste at the Slakthuset rail depot. The Activities at the Trygghetscentralen security centre are being report has been issued. Furthermore, a report has been issued extended and new supporting technology is constantly being to the County Administrative Board on SL’s own transportations installed. of smaller quantities of hazardous waste. Journeys with SL must be perceived to be safe and secure for Other activities requiring permits and subject to reporting both passengers and staff. SL has trained security guards, so­requirements are carried out by SL’s transport contractors and called safety resources and safety patrols distributed among the they have an obligation to hold permits or issue reports. various modes of transport. The safety resources and safety patrols are there to increase safety and assist both passengers SL is active or has been active in a large number of locations in and staff. Special safety rooms have been prepared at five larger the Stockholm area. At a previous stage an inventory was made of stations where persons who have been detained can be held possible contaminated areas in the properties that remain in SL’s while awaiting the police. Further safety rooms are planned possession but at which SL operations are no longer conducted. A throughout the Metro and commuter rail networks in 2011. couple of these areas have been made subject to chemical analysis and have been assessed in terms of pollutants. In one case, it is The installation and commissioning of a new fire-alarm system in likely that the pollutants derive from before SL took over the land. underground Metro facilities continued in 2010. The system reSL has had an investigation of responsibility carried out and is now acts to both smoke and gases given off when producing graffiti. carrying out discussions with the municipalities in question and the This will enable the system to detect both fire and damage in proSwedish Transport Administration on what should be done. A progress at an early stage. Commissioning will be complete in 2011. vision for remedial measures of 35 MSEK has been made. Further work on safety and security is taking place as part of the SL has carried out systematic noise reduction work during 2010. “Trygg med SL” [Safe with SL] project. Furthermore, a new crisis This has involved, among other things, updated noise surveys for management unit “Tjänsteman i beredskap” (TIB) [Officers in existing rail services and monitoring and evaluating noise rereadiness] has been set up. quirements for new rail vehicles. 4.2 Accessibility – Information to passengers The number of clean vehicles has been systematically increased. On 7 February 2006, the SL Board adopted a programme for At year-end, there were 545 (418) ethanol buses and 131 (103) greater accessibility for passengers with disabilities. The objecbiogas buses in service, corresponding to 33 (26) per cent of the tive of the programme is that anyone who can get to a station or bus fleet. a stop, either alone or with the help of a companion, must also be able to travel on SL services by the end of 2010. This means If the effect of low-blend RME is included, the proportion of that if a person has a disability that does not prevent him or her clean vehicles rises to just over 36 (30) per cent. 218 (185) new from being in an outdoor environment, public transport services buses were delivered during the year, of which 56 (43) were bishould not be any obstacle to that individual’s unrestricted moogas powered, 152 (19) were ethanol powered and 10 were diebility. sel powered. However, the net addition of biogas buses is limited by the fact that 28 buses are temporarily out of operation due to Great efforts have been made during the year to improve the technical problems. accessibility of SL services, primarily with regard to bus and Metro services. This work was extended in 2010 by the considA total of 242 (205) older buses were taken out of service and erable efforts made in information, communication and training, 98 (108) used buses were introduced to SL services, of which 11 among other things. At the start of 2011, 83 of the 100 Metro were ethanol powered. stations’ platforms had been equipped with tactile and visual warning markings. The proportion of low-floor buses rose from In accordance with the SLL and SL environmental objectives based 77 % to 83 % in 2010 and track adjustments to minimise the on Environmental step 5 of the Environmental Policy p ­ rogramme distance both in terms of height and sideways were carried out for Stockholm County Council 2007 – 2011, at least half of the at 80 of the 100 metro stations. buses in SL services must be powered by renewable fuels by 2011. In 2010, investments of 106 (138) MSEK were made in modifi4. Safety, security, accessibility and information cations to increase accessibility. These mostly concerned modifi4.1 Safety – Security cations to station features such as platform heights, lifts, escalaSL works systematically on a long term basis to enhance safety tors and the installation of tactile warning surfaces. In addition, and security for both customers and staff. The company cooper119 (97) MSEK has been invested in enhancing passenger and ates with municipal authorities, the police and voluntary service disruption information and in displaying real-time infororganisations­on a continuous basis. mation on screens and boards. The Board established an updated transport safety policy in A survey of so-called “easily-remedied obstacles” has been car2010. According to this policy, all SL service vehicles must be fitried out at commuter rail and light rail stations. These issues will ted with alcohol ignition interlocks. be remedied gradually during 2011. 52 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 5. Staff risks are managed in compliance with established guidelines. SL’s overall goal in terms of human resources issues is to be an Through its role as coordinator of financing activities in the attractive employer that can recruit and retain employees who county enterprises, SLL’s internal bank, AB SLL Internfinans, has can realize our corporate vision and business concept. In order primary responsibility for the management of financial risks that to achieve this, SL has focused on three target areas: exist within the County Council group. The risks that remain for •• Clear and committed leadership SL are mainly interest rate risks in the form of fluctuations in •• Active brand development in the labour market market interest rates and administrative risks. •• Securing the right skills SL manages the interest rate risk and administrative risk that SL has carried out a number of activities to market the company arises from financing activities by applying an active approach, as an attractive employer in the area of technology. effective human resources management and documented procedures and processes. The most frequent exchange is with the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH). SL has extended this cooperation to also include KTH Developments within the financial markets have created a need South and Uppsala School of Engineering. A number of students for active daily management in consultation with Stockholm from KTH who are in the final stages of their education have been County Council to monitor and ensure that conditions in current employed in projects and have written these degree projects at SL. financial agreements are fulfilled. One of several occupational health initiatives is the offer to all See also Notes 11 and 23. employees of a health examination every other year. In 2010, 112 (112) employees took advantage of this offer. During the Crisis management year, approximately 470 (450) employees made use of the SL A crisis management organisation with an appointed crisis manhealth maintenance subsidy. The well-equipped “gym” is visited agement exists to ensure that the company is well prepared for every week by around 10 per cent of our employees. catastrophes and crises. The SL crisis contingency plan has been revised in 2010. Both equality and diversity plans have been established and these are updated annually. SL is committed to an equal gender The Tjänsteman i Beredskap (TIB) [Officers in Readiness] unit distribution in all professional groups, which includes managerial has been introduced in order to guarantee a high, sustained levstaff at different levels of the organisation. There is an even el of preparedness. TIB is on duty 24 hours a day and has an ­gender distribution in the company management. Among other extensive mandate to manage incidents occurring during perimanagers, the proportion of women is 48 (51) per cent. ods when ordinary executives are not available. 6. Risks and risk management The purpose of crisis management at SL is to reduce the risks Risk assessment and the consequences of serious events are requires functional There has been a major initiative since 2007 to identify and priorganisation, coordination, information and training in crisis oritise significant risks in relation to SL’s ability to achieve estabmanagement within the organisation. lished goals and guidelines. SL risk management comprises eight identified risk areas, including environmental risk, operaA large-scale emergency exercise along with the transport contional risk and financial risk. tractors has been carried out during the year. Risk management is integrated into strategic and operational 7. Financial results management as a natural step in daily planning, follow-up and Business developments control. The profit for the year was –420 (414) MSEK. The difference between 2009 and 2010 is primarily due to higher service costs The SL Board established an Internal Control Plan in February as a consequence of the full-year effects of the increases in ser2010. The Control Plan is monitored and revised each year. vices decided on, the start-up of Spårväg City from August 2010 and a greater commitment to action to improve quality within Insurable risk the framework of the new metro agreement. SL has standard insurance coverage for group property risk and liability risk. The results were further burdened by the costs of achieving the SLL and SL environmental and accessibility objectives, EnvironFinancial risks mental Step 5, of approximately 120 MSEK. Every year, the SL Board establishes its “Guidelines for Financial Activities in AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik”. These guidelines The disruption due to the snow at the beginning of the financial comply with SLL’s financial policy when applicable. year gave rise to lower income and higher costs totalling approximately 120 MSEK. The goal of financial activities is to safeguard the SL Group’s short-term and long-term capital supply and to achieve the lowThe costs of ending the US leases of 70 MSEK have been enest possible financing expenditure, while ensuring that financial tered under financial expenses. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 53 Cont. 7. Business developments (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fare revenues 5 370 5 217 5 099 4 476 4 049 Operating subsidies SLL 6 099 5 945 5 685 5 346 4 588 Work performed by the company for its own use1) 119 89 54 – – Other revenues 2 536 2 597 2 267 2 213 2 545 Total 14 124 13 848 13 105 12 035 11 182 1) No accounts exist for years prior to 2008 Purchased services –9 637 –8 561 –8 049 –7 534 –7 225 Other expenses –4 496 –4 525 –4 119 –3 737 –4 608 Financial items –411 –348 –655 –444 –304 Profit/loss for the year –420 414 282 320 –955 Balance sheet total 35 782 32 769 30 477 29 614 27 418 Tax funding level 51.2 % 48.6 % 49.9 % 51.4 % 52.0 % The tax funding level shows the proportion of the costs of SL’s Expenses for purchased services amounted to 9 637 (8 561) activities covered by subsidies from SLL. MSEK, an increase of 12.6 (5.8) per cent. Within the framework of the new Metro operating agreement, the operator has a greatBased on the County Council’s combined tax revenues, this er in relation to commitment low-frequency maintenance, etc. means that 1.46 (1.46) SEK of every SEK 100 taxed goes to SL. Consequently, the rise in costs is largely due to a redistribution Since the early 1990s, the tax funding level has decreased from of operating costs to service costs. The increase in costs also around 70 per cent to today’s level due to higher revenues and includes the full-year effects of the service increases decided on. reduced expenditure. Furthermore, SL Kundtjänst’s activities have been procured exThe group’s profit/loss ternally during the year and are carried out under contract. The SL Group’s turnover was 14 124 (13 848) MSEK, an increase of 2.0 (6.1) per cent. Fare revenues accounted for 5 370 (5 217) Outsourcing of activities as a step towards the further developMSEK, an increase of 153 (118) MSEK, which corresponds to 2.9 ment of SL as a purchasing organisation has led to a reduction (2.3) per cent. Operating subsidies from SLL amounted to 6 099 in personnel costs. The costs for the year amounted to 486 (5 945) MSEK, an increase of 2.6 (4.6) per cent. (748) MSEK, a reduction of 262 MSEK, corresponding to 35 per cent. Due to the disruption caused by snow at the beginning of the financial year, an additional subsidy of 50 MSEK was received Amortisation/depreciation and write-downs are recognised in from the County Council to cover the reduction in fare revenues group operating expenses at 1 590 (1 469) MSEK. Of this from sales of discounted travel cards. amount, 623 (627) MSEK relates to carriages and vehicles that were financed through financial leasing. In total, it is estimated that fare revenues have fallen by 86 MSEK as a consequence of discounts on travel cards. A capital cost reimbursement made to Statens Järnvägar (the Swedish State Railways) of 57 (53) MSEK has been reported in Other operating income such as revenues from commercial adother expenses. This amount concerns costs for capital works in vertising, rent, etc., totalled 2 536 (2 597) MSEK. the commuter rail infrastructure. Total operating revenues for the parent company amounted to The operating profit was –9 (766) MSEK. 12 773 (12 401) MSEK. The group’s net financial loss was –411 (–348) MSEK. Of that The group’s operating expenses amounted to 14 133 (13 082) amount, interest expenses of 74 (139) MSEK relate to the MSEK. These relate mainly to operating costs for the Metro, bus, interest­component in capital leases. commuter rail and light rail networks as well as costs for the management and maintenance of SL transport facilities. The profit for the year was –420 (414) MSEK. 54 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Operational costs per mode of transport (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro –2 866 –2 760 –2 669 –2 713 –2 584 Commuter rail –1 615 –1 567 –1 492 –1 394 –1 249 Light railways –807 –668 –586 –555 –529 Bus –4 636 –4 234 –4 051 –3 741 –3 299 Joint mode costs –631 –418 –376 –318 –631 Total operational costs –10 555 –9 647 –9 174 –8 721 –8 292 Total operational costs during 2010 increased by 908 (473) Work on environmental and accessibility measures has MSEK, or 9.4 (5.2) per cent. Of this total, 27 (29) per cent was continued­in 2010, as has work to reduce traffic congestion. for the Metro, 15 (16) per cent for commuter rail, 44 (44) per cent for the bus network, 8 (7) per cent for light rail and 6 (4) Transport services agreements are indexed on the basis of an per cent for joint transport modes. index basket which mainly consists of inflation, market interest rates, fuel cost indexes and labour cost indexes. The higher total operational costs are due, among other things, to higher running costs and higher costs for replacement bus Investments services during the disruption due to snow at the beginning of Investments amounted to 4 662 (3 862) MSEK, an increase on the financial year and the high electricity and heating costs at last year of 800 (329) MSEK. These investments consist of new the beginning and end of 2010. investments, investments as a consequence of decisions adopted by State agencies and the extension of existing fixed assets, The costs increased further as a consequence of the full-year as well as investments in vehicles and technical systems. effects of the increases in services decided on and the fact that the new tram system, Spårväg City, entered into service in During the year, 2 (9) properties were acquired for a total autumn­ 2010. purchase­price of 50 (276) MSEK. Investments in the SL public transport network are reported as follows: (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 790 890 1 046 812 707 Commuter rail 671 492 1 083 1 104 1 797 Light railways 1 900 1 101 520 447 284 Bus 886 521 431 387 466 Joint/other 416 858 453 360 191 Total investments 4 662 3 862 3 533 3 110 3 445 Change in per cent 20.7 9.3 13.6 –9.7 49.2 Major investment projects in 2010 The Roslagsbanan light railway has undergone extensive modSpårväg City is the new tram line that in a few years will connect ernisation in the past few years. The extension to a double track much of the centre of Stockholm, running from Värtan to Kungs­ on a number of partial stretches is continuing in order to make holmen via Sergels torg and the centre of Stockholm. The first services less sensitive to disruption and to enable services to instage between Sergels Torg and Djurgården was completed durcrease in the long run. The extension is being carried out in staging the year and has been running since August 2010. es and a double track between Åkers Runö and Åkersberga was completed during the year. The extension of the Tvärbanan Norr line towards Solna is progressing. Extensive work is being carried out to draw up detailed A large number of projects are being carried on to meet the plans for certain stretches and depots. Transport services are need for extensive bus services. Investments are being made in planned to begin in 2013. depots, bus terminals and bus purchases to meet established SLL and SL environmental and accessibility objectives. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 55 Financing of SL’s investments (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Government grants 259 140 208 297 292 Capital leasing 230 210 1 060 1 485 2 253 Loans from SLL 3 500 2 000 1 000 700 900 Equity 673 1 512 1 265 628 0 Total finance 4 662 3 862 3 533 3 110 3 445 SL received 259 (140) MSEK in Government investment grants ronmental work), “Alla reser olika” (Everyone Travels in a different in 2010. An investment subsidy was paid out by the Swedish way) (about SL’s work on accessibility) and “Banarbete pågår” Transport Administration for the new county plan to extend the (Work is being carried out on the Line) (on the Citybanan line). Tvärbana Norr line towards Solna and for the double-track ­extension on the Roslagsbanan light railway. The disruption due to snow and the coordination of efforts Experiences gained from the disruption due to snow at the start of SL’s rail vehicles are largely financed through capital leasing. the financial year has led to the adoption of a number of measures. The distribution of responsibility between SL and the contractors The number of rail vehicles in SL services amounts to a total of has been adjusted so that the transport contractors are now 904, of which Metro vehicles account for 57 per cent, or 513. ­responsible for coordinating action in the event of snow. Furthermore, SL has ordered five new snow ploughs for delivery in 2011. The number of buses financed by SL through capital leases has been somewhat reduced. At the start of the year, 738 (797) buses Procurements of services in 2010 of a total of 2 050 (2 016) buses in operation were financed­via A new transport services agreement has been entitled to with SL. This corresponds to approximately 36 (40) per cent of SL’s Busslink i Sverige AB relating to the areas of Nacka/Värmdö and bus fleet. The buses are leased out to transport contractors Huddinge, Botkyrka and Söder­ort. based on current market conditions. Furthermore, an agreement has been made with Nobina Sverige Cash and interest-bearing liabilities AB on bus services in Norrtälje. The group’s liquid assets amounted to 814 (514) MSEK at the start of the year. Of these liquid assets, 660 (405) MSEK is held Transport services are being procured for the Tvärbanan, in the group account. Disposable cash including unused bank Nockebybanan and Saltsjöbanan lines and the Roslagsbanan overdraft facilities amounted to 1 814 (1 514) MSEK. light railway, along with buses in Bromma and Norrort. The bids will be evaluated in 2011. Interest-bearing liabilities totalled 8 324 (4 918) MSEK at yearend 2010, an increase of just over 69 per cent. Termination of US leases In 2000 AB Transitio, acting on behalf of SL, entered into a Lease financing of vehicles amounted to 12 240 (12 569) MSEK ­leasing agreement with American investors. During the financial at year-end 2010. year, after a decision by the SL Board and the County Council Assembly, an agreement was negotiated regarding the prema8. Other events ture termination of US leases for 88 Metro carriages and 39 SL Access commuter rail carriages at a net cost of 70 MSEK. The cost was SL Access was launched according to plan. All tickets except for more than made up for by greater cost-effectiveness in the prepaid strip tickets are available via SL Access. ­future optimisation of the vehicle fleet and reduced capital costs in the next few years. Sales via SL Access accounted for 53 per cent of ticket sales in 2010. Sales of travel-cards are carried out exclusively via Agreement with the City of Stockholm SL Access. In 2008 an agreement was entered into between SL and the city of Stockholm with regard to the management and extension of The introduction of Reskassan as a replacement for prepaid public transport facilities, housing and workplaces. journeys is planned for autumn 2011. The agreement means the full settlement of approximately fortyDuring the year, the opportunity for passengers to register their year-old delimitation issues. This therefore enables public transSL Access cards for guarantee them against loss was introduced. port travelling environments to be developed and allows modern An e-commerce solution whereby passengers can buy a new new bus depots to be developed in the vicinity of Stockholm. ticket on an existing SL Access card is being introduced in 2011. The positive effects of this agreement will be seen a number of The Stockholm Transport Museum years from now. The Stockholm Transport Museum had a record 96 140 visitors in 2010. The following exhibitions were held in 2010: “Mot förorten” SL Overview 2010 (Towards the Suburbs) (about public transport services and urban Comprehensive work to bring about change “Översyn SL” (SL development), “Sällskapsresan” (Travel in company) (on SL’s enviOverview) has been in progress since March 2010. The aim of 56 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 the project is to develop SL to become a clearer, more efficient this incluce the new commuter rail stations in Vega, the municiclient with a high level of skills. The analysis work carried out pality of Haninge and a new station entrance at Solna station in within this project in the spring led the Board to make a decision connection with the development of Arenastaden. in June on SL’s vision, business concept, governing principles and overall organisational structure. The work continued in the As far as bus services are concerned, work to reduce congestion ­autumn to draw up SL’s new organisational structure. In total, the and adapt capacity in order to be able to offer every passenger new organisation has 48 managers distributed among 6 departa seat on buses operating on stretches of road with a permitted ments, 21 sections and 9 groups. The new managers were speed of over 70 km per hour continues. An extension of the ­appointed in December 2010. The work on the detailed design of transverse articulated bus routes is planned and investments are the organisation continued during December, with descriptions of being made in accessibility measures and signal prioritisation in processes, assignments, responsibility and tasks and specifying collaboration with the municipalities in the county and the Swedservices at departmental, section and group level. The new ish National Road Administration. ­organisation came into force 1 May 2011. The extension and improvement of light railways continues. The A new political organisation for Stockholm County Council. investments involve new track sections, double track extensions, A new transport authority has been appointed with effect from accessibility modifications, noise reduction measures and invest2011. The authority is responsible for public transport services on ments in new vehicles. land, by water and for people with disabilities. The authority has overall responsibility for planning and procuring the necessary­ The planned Spårväg City route includes Ropsten to Kungs­ transport services and for monitoring activities. SL is responsible holmen via Nybroplan and Sergels Torg. The first stage between for ensuring that the transport authority’s decisions are executed­ Sergels Torg and Waldemarsudde was opened on 21 August within the framework of SL’s area of activity. 2010. The first extension, Stage 2 of Spårväg City, covers the Ropsten to Västra Kungsholmen route and also involves upgradRevised specific owner directives and new Articles of Association ing the Lidingöbanan line. were established by the County Council Assembly on 14 – 15 December 2010 and at an Extraordinary Annual General Meeting The building construction of the Citybanan line beneath the city of SL on 21 December 2010. of Stockholm continues and it is estimated that services will begin­in 2017. T-Centralen is affected by the blasting taking 9. Future development place and parts of the Metro station will need to be closed from The population of the county of Stockholm is just over 2 million time to time. The Rådhuset – Kungsträdgården stretch of the and it is estimated that this will grow by just under 32 000 in blue Metro line will be closed in summer 2011. 2010. During the period up to and including 2020, this number is expected to grow by approximately 220 000 – 325 000. The work on the Tvärbanan – Solna branch is continuing and services are planned to begin in 2013. The largest increase in housing will take place in north-eastern and south-eastern districts. Demand for both public transport Plans are being made for an extension of the Tvärbanan line from and private cars will increase in the next decade. The largest Alvik northwards towards Kista. The aim is to improve cross increase in travel will take place from the county outskirts to ­connections in the northern and western regions of Stockholm. central districts, but the number of Tvärbanan orbital line ­journeys will also increase in future. More detailed studies are being carried out on different routing alternatives for the Tvärbana Ost – Saltsjöbanan line and the Stockholm County has long had the highest market share of solution towards Slussen. public transport in Sweden. Just over 80 per cent of the population of the county of Stockholm County travel on SL services 10. Work of the Board once a month or more. The Board of AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik consisted of 13 ­directors and 13 deputy directors in 2010, along with two On a typical day in winter, over 700 000 people travel on SL ser­employee representatives and two deputy employee representavices and travel frequency is continuing to increase. A number of tives. The County Council Assembly appoints a Chair of the associated factors such as the economic situation, unemployment, Board, a first Vice-Chair and a second Vice-Chair from among fuel costs, etc. make it difficult estimate the extent to which ­travel the appointed directors. frequency will increase over the coming years. The transport ­services offered are continually being adapted in collaboration The Board held 13 board meetings during the year. with the municipalities concerned to meet the demand in both new and established housing and work areas. Its work conforms to the rules of procedure established by the Board, and those rules govern the obligations of the Board and Work to develop SL services with the aim of reducing congestion the Managing Director and the distribution of work between them. and improving punctuality is also continuing. A review of the use of capacity in the Metro in close cooperation with the operator is At an Extraordinary Annual General Meeting on 21 December planned for 2011. This review aims to make services more 2010, the County Council Assembly adopted a decision of 14 ­efficient in terms of capacity and sensitivity to disruptions. ­December 2010 relating to the Board for the period from 1 ­January 2011 to the end of the 2011 Annual General Meeting. Commuter rail services are being developed as new housing The decision means that the Board will consist of three ordinary areas and new city districts are being developed. Examples of members. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 57 11. Allocation of profit According to the balance sheet drawn up, non-restricted equity in the parent company amounted to 1 862 485 587 SEK. No transfer to restricted reserves is required. The following profit is at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting: Profit brought forward 2 759 726 517 SEK Profit/loss for the year –897 240 930 SEK 1 862 485 587 SEK The SL Board and the Managing Director propose that this profit be allocated so that 1 862 485 587 SEK can be carried forward. For more detailed information on the profit/loss and financial position of the group and the parent company, please refer to the following income statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements and additional information. 12. Significant events after the end of the financial year At the Board Meeting of 25 January 2011, SL’s MD, Göran Gunnarsson, was also appointed MD of Waxholms Ångfartygs AB. Termination of US leases The conditions for termination of Stockholm County Council guarantee commitment in connection­ with the termination of US leases will be brought before the County Council Assembly for a supplementary decision regarding the term of the guarantee commitment after the termination has taken place. Stockholm 22 February 2011 Christer G Wennerholm Chairman of the Board Helene Hellmark Knutsson Lennart Rohdin Lennart Hallgren Arne Grundberg Employees’ representative Employee representative Göran Gunnarsson MD Our audit report concerning this annual report and consolidated accounts was submitted on 18 March 2011 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised Public Accountant The lay auditors’ detailed audit report concerning the audit for 2010 was submitted on 16 March 2011. 58 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Income statement GROUP PARENT COMPANY (MSEK) Note 2010 2009 2010 2009 Operating revenues Net turnover 1 11 469 11 162 11 469 11 162 Work performed by the company for its own use and capitalized 119 89 120 89 Other operating revenues 2 2 536 2 597 1 184 1 150 Other operating revenues 3 14 124 13 848 12 773 12 401 Operating expenses Contract costs, transport services –9 637 –8 561 –9 677 –8 590 Personnel expenses 4 –486 –748 –461 –498 Depreciation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 5, 9, 10, 11 –1 590 –1 469 –897 –765 Share in profits of related companies 12 –1 –17 – – Other operating expenses 8 –2 419 –2 287 –2 403 –2 401 Total operating expenses 3 –14 133 –13 082 –13 438 –12 254 OPERATING PROFIT/LOSS –9 766 –665 147 Profit/loss from financial items Interest income and similar income statement items 6 230 34 218 9 Interest expenses and similar expenses 7, 11 –641 –382 –450 –133 Total profit/loss from financial items –411 –348 –232 –124 PROFIT/LOSS AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS –420 418 –897 23 Tax on the profit/loss for the year 0 –2 0 –1 Minority share of the profit/loss for the year 0 –2 0 – PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR –420 414 –897 22 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 59 Balance sheet GROUP PARENT COMPANY (MSEK) Note 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 9, 25 Usufructs and leasehold rights 2 7 2 7 Assets in construction 9 6 9 6 11 13 11 13 Tangible fixed assets 10, 11, 25 Facilities and property 6 635 5 251 6 635 5 250 Track infrastructure 7 400 7 110 7 400 7 110 Rolling stock 12 168 12 681 429 476 Plant and equipment 1 592 1 024 1 592 1 023 Assets in construction and advance payments 5 977 4 782 5 491 4 703 33 772 30 848 21 547 18 562 Financial fixed assets Investments in group companies 12 – – 175 175 Investments in related companies 12 13 22 9 9 Other long-term receivables 19 19 19 19 32 41 203 203 Total fixed assets 33 815 30 902 21 761 18 778 Current assets Inventories 13 178 184 179 187 Current receivables Accounts receivable 23 363 486 344 398 Receivables from group companies 3 – – 0 13 Receivables from related companies 3 61 93 61 93 Other receivables 326 319 371 263 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 21 225 271 221 262 975 1 169 997 1 029 Cash and bank 14, 23 814 514 693 457 Total fixed assets 1 967 1 867 1 869 1 673 TOTAL ASSETS 35 782 32 769 23 630 20 451 60 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 GROUP PARENT COMPANY (MSEK) Note 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 15 Share capital 4 000 4 000 4 000 4 000 Restricted/statutory reserves 1 988 1 991 14 14 5 988 5 991 4 014 4 014 Profit or loss brought forward 835 418 2 760 1 869 Profit/loss for the year –420 414 –897 22 415 832 1 863 1 891 Total equity 6 403 6 823 5 877 5 905 Minority Interest 5 5 – – Untaxed reserves 16 – – 1 923 1 923 Depreciation 17, 18 1 132 1 315 1 075 1 228 Long-term liabilities Long-term loans from SLL 19, 23 8 230 4 824 8 230 4 824 Long-term accrued expenses and deferred income 19, 20 5 108 4 801 3 906 4 358 Other long-term liabilities 11, 19, 20 11 666 12 173 2 64 Total long-term liabilities 25 004 21 798 12 138 9 246 Current liabilities Liabilities to SLL 94 94 94 94 Accounts payable 23 1 439 1 031 1 315 837 Liabilities to group companies 3 – – 188 306 Liabilities to related companies 3 2 111 2 97 Other current liabilities 624 682 38 41 Accrued expenses and deferred income 22 1 079 910 980 774 Total current liabilities 3 238 2 828 2 617 2 149 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 35 782 32 769 23 630 20 451 Pledged assets 11 None None Contingent liabilities 24 10 33 10 33 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 61 Cash flow statements GROUP PARENT COMPANY (MSEK) Note 2010 2009 2010 2009 Revenue activities Operating profit/loss –9 766 –663 147 Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and write-down of tangible and intangible fixed assets 5 1 590 1 469 897 765 Provisions –297 –185 –268 –169 Capital gains or losses from sales/disposals 114 12 110 –4 Recognised government grants –217 –156 –187 –223 Miscellaneous 5 –22 –7 6 1 186 1 884 –118 522 Interest received 7 16 4 9 Interest paid –232 –245 –161 –108 Cashflow from current activities before changes in working capital 961 1 655 –275 423 Cashflow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories/supplies 6 72 8 –49 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in receivables 97 158 –26 246 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in current liabilities 230 –517 47 53 Cashflow from current activities 1 294 1 368 –246 673 Investment activities Acquisitions of intangible and tangible fixed assets 25 –4 432 – 3 512 –3 990 – 3 557 Acquisition of subsidiary and related companies 25 – –56 – –56 Sale of subsidiary and related companies 48 – 48 – Sale of tangible fixed assets 0 14 0 13 Cashflow from investments –4 384 –3 554 –3 942 –3 600 Financing activities SLL investment loans 3 500 2 000 3 500 2 000 Changes in other long-term liabilities 300 500 300 500 Amortisation of leasing liabilities –559 –559 – – Amortisation of loans and other liabilities –94 –94 –94 –94 Government grants received 259 140 259 140 Group contribution received – – 467 237 Conditional shareholder contributions paid – – – –24 Changes in other long-term liabilities –8 –10 –8 –10 Cashflow from financing activities 3 398 1 977 4 424 2 749 Cashflow for the year 308 –209 236 –178 Liquid assets at the start of the year 14, 25 514 723 457 635 Exchange rate differences in liquid assets –8 – – – Liquid assets at the end of the year 14, 25 814 514 693 457 62 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Additional information Accounting principles ing is reported as zero. Subsequent profits are not reported until The accounting policies that have been applied in the preparaunreported losses have been booked. tion of this Annual Report for the SL Group and its Parent Company, AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik, are in compliance with Taxes the guidelines stipulated in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act SL recognises current and deferred taxation to the extent that and the general advice and recommendations of the Swedish this exists. No taxation is currently reported in the Parent ComAccounting Standards Board for major companies. Regarding pany or its wholly owned subsidiaries. The Parent Company has pension liabilities and pension expenditure, recommendations accumulated loss carry forwards that can be used in accordance from FAR SRS (the professional institute for authorised public with the applicable tax distribution system. Group and shareaccountants and auditors in Sweden) have been applied (FAR 4).­ holder contributions are used to equalise taxable profits within However, the recommendations of the Swedish Financial Acthe Group. counting Standards Council have been applied in the following cases: RR 1:00 Consolidated Financial Statements, RR 2:02 InOperating revenues ventories, RR 4 Extraordinary Revenues/Expenses and ComparRevenues are reported at fair value for the amount that has ative Disclosures, RR 5 Amended Accounting Principles, RR 6:99 been, or will be, received. Leasing, RR 7 Cash Flow Statements, RR 8 Effects of Foreign Exchange Rate Adjustments, RR 11 Revenues, RR 12 Tangible Revenues from ticket sales in the form of travel cards are Fixed Assets, RR 13 Related Companies, RR 15 Intangible Fixed ­reported on a straight line basis for the period of the card. Assets, RR 16 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent ­Presold unused cards are reported as deferred income in the Assets, RR 21 Borrowing Costs – with the following two excepbalance sheet. Revenues from coupon tickets are booked on the tions, RR 23 Related Party Transactions, and RR 27 Financial sale date. Instruments: Disclosures and Classification. Operating subsidies from SLL represent performance compenReclassifications of the balance sheet items in connection with sation calculated according to a budget approved by SLL. SLL the review of the 2010 account plan has led to the figures for grants may be adjusted annually. Adjustments may be made due comparison with 2009 being updated. to operational changes or the cost of such changes. All figures are stated in million SEK (MSEK) unless otherwise Work performed by the company for its own use and specified. capitalised Costs for the work performed by the company for its own use Consolidated financial statements during the financial year are reported under the item Work perConsolidated financial statements include AB Storstockholms formed by the company for its own use and capitalised and have Lokaltrafik (the Parent Company) and all companies in which the been capitalised as fixed assets. The price per hour is based on Parent Company had a direct or indirect controlling influence direct and indirect costs for manufacturing assets. at year-end 2008. The group accounts were prepared using the acquisition method. In other words, group equity comprises eqGovernment grants uity in the parent company and the portion of equity that results Government grants are reported as revenue in the same period from the acquisition or establishment of group companies. Since as the cost that they are earmarked to subsidise. If the purpose Group companies will not have to pay income tax in the foreof a grant is to cover costs over a period of several years, it is seeable future, untaxed reserves in individual Group companies allocated over the appropriate period. When the purpose of a are reported in full under Group restricted reserves (see taxes). grant is to cover previously incurred losses, it will be reported Intra-group sales, transactions and profits are eliminated on in full. consolidation. Government grants that are earmarked for a fixed asset are Minority interest ­reported as long-term or short-term deferred income in the Minority interest is the portion of a Group company’s net income ­balance sheet, and as revenue in the income statement, accrued and assets that is not directly or indirectly owned by the Parent in a systematic and reasonable manner for the lifespan of the Company. asset. Associated companies Provisions Related companies are companies in which the group’s share Provisions are made for liabilities for which the due dates or of votes is between 20 % and 50 % or in which the group has a amounts are uncertain. Provisions are reported in the balance significant influence. Holdings in related companies are reported sheet if the Group has an existing liability that results from a using the equity method. If the group’s share of a related comprevious event, if it is likely that a payment will be required to pany’s losses are equal to or greater than the holding, the holdsettle the liability and if the amount can be estimated accurately. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 63 Intangible fixed assets requires a foreign exchange adjustment, which is reported in Intangible fixed assets are reported in the balance sheet if it is the income statement. Exchange rate differences on receivables likely that the potential financial benefits associated with the asare entered under interest income and similar income whereas set will flow to the company and if the value of the asset can be exchange rate differences on liabilities are entered in interest measured accurately. Intangible fixed assets are recognised at expenses and similar expenses. fair value less accumulated depreciation and write-downs. The assets are subject to depreciation on a straight-line basis over Borrowing costs their useful lifespan. Depreciation for the period is reported as SL’s borrowing costs are interest expenses for loans for investan expense. ments in fixed assets. SL’s borrowing costs also include the ­interest component in capital leases. Depreciation is based on the estimated period of use of the asset as follows: SL’s borrowing costs are reported for the period in which they occur, with the exception of the X60 commuter train, for which Usufruct rights 5 years interest is included in the acquisition value. Leasehold rights 50 years Leasing Tangible fixed assets Group Tangible fixed assets are recognised at their historical cost on SL as lessee acquisition. After the time of acquisition, tangible fixed ­a ssets Capital leases for which the majority of risks and rewards relaare reported at their acquisition cost less accumulated depreciation to ownership are transferred to the lessee are reported as tion and write-downs. Depreciation is calculated on a straightassets in the consolidated balance sheet from the date of agreeline basis and accrued for the useful lifespan of the ­a sset in a ment. At the start of the lease term, the asset is reported either way that reflects its use. Depreciation for the period is reported at fair value or at the current value of the minimum lease payas an expense. ments, whichever is lower. Liability for future lease payments is divided between financial costs (interest) and reduction of Depreciation is based on the estimated period of use of the ­financial liability (amortisation) and allocated so as to produce asset as follows: a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Financial costs are charged to profit. Buildings, land and facilities and improvements to others’ property 17 – 50 years The amount of depreciation of a leased asset is accrued for the Track infrastructure 20 – 50 years estimated useful lifespan of the asset in line with the same prinRolling stock: ciples for other assets of the same type. Cars 5 years Buses 12 years Leasing agreements for which the lessor retains all the substanRail vehicles 30 years tial risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified Plant and equipment 3 – 17 years as operating leases. For operating leases, lease payments are ­recognised as expenses in the income statement and allocated Stock on a straight-line basis for the duration of the lease term. Inventory is reported at historical cost or net realisable value, whichever is lower. The historical cost is determined using the SL as lessor average method. Allowances for obsolescence are made on a Assets held under operating leases are reported in the balance case-by-case basis. sheet within their respective asset classes. Leasing revenues are reported on a straight-line basis for the duration of the lease Work in progress on behalf of a second party includes assignterm, while leasing costs, including depreciation, are reported ments on current account in which payment is cost based as in the income statement as they are incurred. Depreciation is agreed in the contract. Assignment costs comprise costs that ­calculated in line with the principles for the respective asset are directly related to the specific assignment. classes. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies The initial direct and incremental costs incurred when entering Foreign currency transactions are initially recognised at the into an operating lease are included in the cost of the leased as­applicable exchange rate on the day of transaction. Cash asset and reported for the duration of the lease term. sets and liabilities that are expressed in foreign currencies are adjusted­and reported in the balance sheet at the applicable rate Parent company on the balance sheet day. Since the exchange rate on the date In the parent company, capital leases are reported in line with of transaction­or applied in previous financial reporting normally the policies applicable for operating leases. differs from the exchange rate on the balance sheet day this 64 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Cash flow statements Contingent liabilities Cash flow statements report transactions in cash for the period­ Contingent liabilities are reported when: relating to the current operating, investment or financing a) there is a potential liability resulting from a future event activity.­Cash flow statements are presented using the indirect whose occurrence can only be confirmed by the occurrence or method, by which cash from revenue activities is calculated by non-occurrence of one or more other uncertain future events adjusting net cash for: that do not entirely lie within the company’s control, or b) a liability occurs as a result of occurred events, but is not re•• items in the income statement that do not include cash transported as a liability or provision because it is not likely that any actions outflow of resources will be required in order to settle the liabil•• changes in operating assets and operating liabilities for the ity or the amount of the liability cannot be measured accurately. period and •• items included in the cash-flow for investment or financing Group information ­activities. AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik (SL), organisation registration number 556013-0683, Financial Instruments is owned by Stockholm County Council, Valuations organisation registration number 232100-0016. Financial instruments that are reported in the balance sheet include cash and cash equivalents, debtors, creditors and derivatives such as options, futures and interest rate swaps. A financial asset or liability is recognised in the balance sheet on the date of the transaction, in other words the date on which SL takes control of the contractual provisions of the instrument, and is initially reported­at fair value. Subsequent valuations are calculated ­either at fair value or from the amortised historical cost as described below. A financial asset is no longer recognised when contractual rights are fulfilled or expire, or if SL relinquishes control of the asset. A financial liability is no longer recognized when the contractual obligation is fulfilled or otherwise terminated. Accounts receivable and loans Accounts receivable and loans are recognised at the expected receipt amount after deduction of doubtful debts assessed on a case-by-case basis. Write-downs of accounts receivable are ­reported under operating expenses. Liquid assets Cash and cash equivalents comprise bank balances and the ­balance of the SLL group account. Cash and cash equivalents are reported at face value. Derivative instruments Derivative instruments comprise futures, options and interest­ rate swaps, which are used to reduce the impact of foreign ­exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations. Derivative instruments are calculated at historical cost. Liabilities All liabilities are reported in periodic accounting at accrued historical cost, which is the sum of the remaining instalments. Long-term liabilities have an expected maturity of longer than one year, whilst current liabilities have a maturity shorter than one year. Accounts payable have a short expected maturity and are reported at face value without discounting. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 65 Notes and comments (Amounts in million SEK unless otherwise stated) Note 1 Net turnover Transactions between the parent company and group companies in 2010 Group Parent Company Subsidiary company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities 2010 2009 2010 2009 to from at to Fare revenues 5 370 5 217 5 370 5 217 AB SL Finans 16 34 0 170 SLL operating subsidies 6 099 5 945 6 099 5 945 SL HR-Service AB 0 1 0 8 Total 11 469 11 162 11 469 11 162 SL Kundtjänst AB 1 6 0 5 SL Infrateknik AB 2 2 0 2 The 2010 operating subsidy includes an additional operating subsidy from SL SL Lidingö Trafik AB 0 0 0 2 for snow clearance costs of 50 MSEK. Tågia AB 2 0 0 1 Total 21 43 0 188 Note 2 Other operating revenues Sales by the Parent Company to other group companies comprised 0.1 (0.5) Group Parent Company per cent of operating revenues. Equivalent purchases from other group compa2010 2009 2010 2009 nies comprised 0.3 (1.6) per cent of the parent company’s operating expenses. Vehicle rental 1 304 1 281 27 24 Related companies Rental revenues 596 390 598 443 For purchases and sales of products and services between the SL croup and Government grants, etc. 1) 221 217 191 217 related companies, market prices are applied. Business relations with related Income from advertising 189 196 190 196 companies are governed by transport agreements, leasing agreements, etc. Miscellaneous 226 513 178 270 An agreement with Transitio relates to financing of vehicles and a lease agreement. Total 2 536 2 597 1 184 1 150 1) See Note 22 Transactions between group companies and related companies in 2009. Note 3 Related party transactions Related company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities to from at to Group companies Busslink i Sverige AB 296 2 284 93 109 The full-costing method is applied for purchases and sales of products and AB Transitio 1 2 0 2 services between group companies. The parent company invoices subsidiary companies for administrative costs. Tågia AB 70 56 0 0 Total 367 2 342 93 111 AB SL Finans is responsible for the financing of new investments and reinvestments, primarily for rail vehicles. Sales to and purchases from Tågia include the accounting period to SL HR-Service AB has wound up its activities in the areas of lift and escalator 30/04/2009. services during the year. Transactions in 2010 between group companies and related companies. SL Kundtjänst AB was responsible for combined customer services for SL services up to and including 31/03/2010. The activities were then transferred Related company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities to an external contractor. to from at to Vehicles intended to be externally financed are reported under SL Infrateknik AB. Busslink i Sverige AB 73 1 430 61 0 AB Transitio 0 2 0 2 Tågia AB provides an independent education at upper secondary school level via Total 73 1 432 61 2 a specially-designed industrial programme aimed at servicing and maintenance. The old activities relating to vehicle maintenance were wound up during 2010. Sales to and purchases from Busslink i Sverige AB include the accounting period to 02/08/2010. Transactions between the parent company and group companies in 2009 Subsidiary company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities Transactions between the parent company and related companies in 2009 to from at to Related company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities AB SL Finans 16 36 0 69 to from at to SL HR-Service AB 3 74 0 13 Busslink i Sverige AB 149 2 284 93 95 SL Kundtjänst AB 8 57 2 0 AB Transitio 0 2 0 2 SL Infrateknik AB 4 0 0 223 Tågia AB 35 0 0 0 SL Lidingö Trafik AB 0 0 0 1 Total 184 2 286 93 97 Tågia AB 37 37 11 0 Total 68 204 13 306 Sales to and purchases from Tågia include the accounting period to 30/04/2009. Sales to and purchases from Tågia include the accounting period from 30/04/2009. 66 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Transactions in 2010 between the parent company and related companies. Salaries and other remuneration plus social security expenses Related company Sales Purchases Receivables Liabilities Salaries and other Social security to from at to payments total costs Busslink i Sverige AB 73 1 430 61 0 2010 2009 2010 2009 AB Transitio 0 2 0 2 Parent company 303 286 137 156 Total 73 1 432 61 2 (of which pension costs) (32) (61) Subsidiary companies 17 168 7 76 Sales to and purchases from Busslink i Sverige AB include the accounting (of which pension costs) (2) (20) period to 02/08/2010. Group total 320 454 144 232 (of which pension costs) (34) (81) Stockholm County Council AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik is one of Stockholm County Council’s wholly Salaries and other remuneration owned subsidiaries. 0.2 (0.2) per cent of purchases and 0.7 (0.3) per cent of Board and MD Other employees sales of the SL Group’s total purchases and sales involve other companies and units within Stockholm County Council. 2010 2009 2010 2009 Parent company 2.7 2.7 300 283.6 Miscellaneous Subsidiary companies 0.4 4.8 17 162.6 For information on payments and benefits to senior executives, see the presGroup total 3.1 7.5 317 446.2 entation of the SL Board and management as well as Note 4. Of which Of which Note 4 Personnel Gender distribution Number women Number women 2010 2009 Group Parent Company Board 13 5 13 5 Personnel costs 2010 2009 2010 2009 Deputies 13 6 13 6 Board and MD 3 8 3 3 Company management 13 6 10 4 Other 317 446 300 283 Senior executives 320 454 303 286 in subsidiaries, MD 2 1 5 2 Employee sickness absence Social security expenses 144 232 137 156 Sickness absence among group and parent company employees has been Other personnel costs 22 62 21 56 reported in compliance with the Swedish Annual Reports Act. 166 294 158 212 Total 486 748 461 498 Sickness absence in proportion to ordinary working hours, per cent 0.7 (4.8) MSEK of social security expenses comprise pension costs for the MD Group Parent company at the parent company. 2010 2009 2010 2009 0.8 (5.3) MSEK of the group’s social security expenses comprise pension Sickness absence for women 5.6 6.0 5.3 4.2 costs for the MD at the subsidiary company. Sickness absence for men 2.3 4.2 2.2 2.7 Sickness absence for employees Total employees, salaries and other remuneration aged 29 or under 3.3 5.4 2.8 3.3 Number of employees Of which women Sickness absence for employees aged 30–49 3.5 4.9 3.3 3.6 Average number of employees Sickness absence for employees (full-time equivalents) 2010 2009 2010 2009 aged 50 or older 4.1 4.8 4 3.0 Parent company 650 622 279 255 Total sickness absence 3.8 4.9 3.6 3.3 Subsidiary companies 47 244 21 84 Group total 697 866 300 339 Sickness absence of 60 days or more as a percentage of total sickness absence according to the above table, per cent Number of employees 2010 2009 2010 2009 at 31 December 2010 2009 2010 2009 Sickness absence for women, Parent company 690 725 311 320 60 days or more 2.5 2.3 2.4 1.5 Subsidiary companies 19 258 7 94 Sickness absence for men, Group total 709 983 318 414 60 days or more 0.7 1.8 0.8 1.1 Total sickness absence 60 days or more 1.5 2.0 1.5 1.3 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 67 Benefits to senior executives: Note 7 Interest expenses and similar expenses Salaries and remuneration to the Board and the MD of AB SL amounted to 2 726 (2 736) thousand SEK, of which the MD received 1 849 (1 857) thouGroup Parent Company sand SEK. Of AB SL’s total pension costs, 726 (4 835) thousand SEK relate to 2010 2009 2010 2009 the MD. Interest on loans from SLL –294 –222 –160 –107 MD Ingemar Ziegler left the company on 30 September 2009 and, in Interest on capital leasing –74 –139 – – ­accordance with an agreement, receives a pension corresponding to Interest, other –9 –21 –10 –26 65 per cent of his salary up to the age of 65. Exchange rate losses on Göran Gunnarsson took over as MD of SL on 1 October 2009. liabilities, net 15 0 –1 0 Other financial expenses –279 0 –279 0 Pension terms for the Managing Director: The pension solution complies with Total –641 –382 –450 –133 the rules of the SLL management pension scheme. Managers covered by the SLL management pension scheme are able to decide not to opt for the The group’s other financial expenses include an estimated termination cost pension­benefits in KAP-KL and instead choose to invest the entire pension for terminating the US lease of 281 MSEK. The net resulting amount of 70 premium. The size of the premium in principle corresponds to the cost of the MSEK is entered under provisions as per Note 17. pension benefits in KAP-KL. In the event of dismissal by the company, salary will be payable for a period of 24 months, but no longer than the contractual age of retirement. In the event that the MD receives new income from alternative employment, termination Note 8 Fees and other payments to auditors benefits during the final twelve months will be reduced by 100 per cent of the new income. The notice period, if initiated by the MD, is six months. The amounts apply to both the group and the parent company. The exception is Tågia, which was invoiced an amount of 249 (486) thousand SEK. Auditing work Other work Note 5 D  epreciation of tangible and intangible Amounts in thousand SEK 2010 2009 2010 2009 fixed assets Ernst & Young 1 229 1 410 197 31 Group Parent Company Deloitte – – 100 33 2010 2009 2010 2009 Total 1 229 1 410 297 64 Depreciation Facilities and property –291 –261 –292 –261 The audit involves assessing the annual accounts and accounting records and Track infrastructure –373 –316 –373 –316 the management by the Board and the Managing Director, other work incumRolling stock –724 –735 –45 –38 bent on the company’s auditors and advice or other assistance deriving from observation when such assessment is carried out or the per­formance of such Plant and equipment –188 –153 –187 –150 other work. Everything else is other work carried out by the company’s audiTotal depreciation –1 576 –1 465 –897 –765 tors and auditors representing the company in related companies. Write-downs The item of other work includes the cost of Ernst & Young’s tax consultancy Goodwill – –4 – – service which amounts to 48 (0) thousand SEK. Rolling stock –14 Total write-downs –14 –4 – – Depreciation and write-downs, total –1 590 –1 469 –897 –765 Note 6 Interest revenues and similar revenues Group Parent Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 Interest revenues from SLL 2 4 2 4 Interest revenues from others 2 7 1 5 Proceeds of sales of participations in related companies 0 0 2 0 Exchange rate losses on current receivables, net –5 0 0 0 Other financial revenues 231 23 213 0 Total 230 34 218 9 Other financial revenues for the group include estimated revenues from USbased leasing transactions of 211 MSEK. The net resulting amount of 70 MSEK is entered under provisions as per Note 17. 68 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Note 9 Intangible fixed assets Note 10 Tangible fixed assets Usufruct, leasehold rights and rights of tenancy Transfers from new fixed assets in construction to other types of assets Group Parent Company ­w ithin tangible fixed assets are reported as transfers from new fixed assets 2010 2009 2010 2009 in construction. Opening acquisition value, Land and buildings 1 Jan 154 151 154 151 The asset class Land and buildings comprises buildings, building accessories, Investments – 4 – 4 land, land facilities and fees for improvement of another’s property. Sales/disposals –136 – –136 – Group Parent Company Reclassifications – –1 – –1 2010 2009 2010 2009 Closing acquisition value, Opening acquisition value, 31 Dec 18 154 18 154 1 Jan 8 852 8 030 8 851 8 029 Opening depreciation, 1 Jan –140 –139 –140 –139 Investments 130 138 131 138 Annual depreciation – – – – Transfers from new Sales/disposals 131 – 131 – fixed assets in construction 1 547 702 1 547 702 Reclassifications – –1 – –1 Sales/disposals –3 –18 –2 –18 Closing accumulated Reclassifications – – – – depreciation, 31 Dec –9 –140 –9 –140 Closing acquisition value, Opening write-downs, 1 Jan –7 –7 –7 –7 31 Dec 10 526 8 852 10 527 8 851 Closing accumulated write-downs, 31 Dec –7 –7 –7 –7 Opening accumulated Closing book value, depreciation, 1 Jan –3 590 –3 338 –3 590 –3 338 31 Dec 2 7 2 7 Annual depreciation –291 –261 –292 –261 Sales/disposals 1 9 1 9 Goodwill Reclassifications – – – – Group goodwill associated with the acquisition of shares in Tågia AB. Closing accumulated Group Parent Company depreciation, 31 Dec –3 880 –3 590 –3 881 –3 590 2010 2009 2010 2009 Opening acquisition value, Opening accumulated 1 Jan 4 – – – write-downs, 1 Jan –11 –11 –11 –11 Investments – 60 – – Closing accumulated Sales/disposals – – – – write-downs, 31 Dec –11 –11 –11 –11 Reclassifications – –56 – – Closing book value, Closing acquisition value, 31 Dec 6 635 5 251 6 635 5 250 31 Dec 4 4 – – Tax assessment value 31/12/2010: 238, of which property 79 Opening write-downs, 1 Jan –4 – – – Tax assessment value 31/12/2009: 218, of which property 78 Annual write-down – –4 – – Certain properties have not been assigned a tax assessment value. Closing accumulated write-downs, 31 Dec –4 –4 – – Closing book value, 31 Dec 0 0 – – Intangible assets in construction Group Parent Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 Opening acquisition value, 1 Jan 6 0 6 0 Investments 3 6 3 6 Sales/disposals – – – – Reclassifications – – – – Closing acquisition value, 31 Dec 9 6 9 6 Closing book value, 31 Dec 9 6 9 6 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 69 Track Infrastructure Plant and equipment Track infrastructure comprises track superstructures, substructures plus The asset class Plant and equipment is defined as inventory and equipment, electrical and signalling systems. software assets, computers and works of art. Group Parent Company Group Parent Company 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Opening acquisition value, Opening acquisition value, 1 Jan 9 593 8 274 9 593 8 274 1 Jan 1 799 1 221 1 788 1 209 Investments 0 0 0 0 Investments 0 0 0 0 Transfers from new Transfers from new fixed assets in construction 665 1 339 665 1 339 fixed assets in construction 776 485 776 486 Sales/disposals –4 – –4 – Sales/disposals –40 –3 –29 –3 Reclassifications – –20 – –20 Reclassifications – 96 – 96 Closing acquisition value, Closing acquisition value, 31 Dec 10 254 9 593 10 254 9 593 31 Dec 2 535 1 799 2 535 1 788 Opening accumulated Opening accumulated depreciation, 1 Jan –2 483 –2 171 –2 483 –2 171 depreciation, 1 Jan –773 –626 –765 –618 Annual depreciation –373 –316 –373 –316 Annual depreciation –188 –153 –187 –150 Sales/disposals 2 – 2 – Sales/disposals 18 4 9 3 Reclassifications – 4 – 4 Reclassifications – 2 – – Closing accumulated depreciation Closing accumulated 31 Dec –2 854 –2 483 –2 854 –2 483 depreciation 31 Dec –943 –773 –943 –765 Closing book value, Opening accumulated 31 Dec 7 400 7 110 7 400 7 110 write-downs, 1 Jan –2 –2 – – Sales/disposals 2 – – Rolling stock Closing accumulated Rail vehicles and buses are included in the Rolling stock asset class. Vehicles write-downs, 31 Dec 0 –2 – – in the possession of the group through capital leasing are also included. Closing book value, 31 Dec 1 592 1 024 1 592 1 023 ­Information on leased rolling stock can be found in note 11. Group Parent Company Fixed assets in construction and advance payments 2010 2009 2010 2009 The fixed assets in the construction asset class comprises vehicles not yet in service and current investments in SL transport infrastructure that have not Opening acquisition value, yet been completed. Examples of infrastructure include facility developments 1 Jan 17 296 17 208 583 603 and the renovation of stations, tracks, vehicle depots, bus terminals and parkInvestments 230 273 0 11 and-ride facilities, in addition to new investments in the extension of the TvärTransfers from new bana Norr line towards Solna and the double track on the Roslagsbanan light fixed assets in construction 80 87 80 49 railway, among other things. Sales/disposals –189 –245 –103 – Reclassifications – –27 – –80 Group Parent Company Closing acquisition value, 2010 2009 2010 2009 31 Dec 17 417 17 296 560 583 Opening acquisition value, 1 Jan 4 782 3 960 4 703 3 747 Opening accumulated Investments 4 299 3 441 3 856 3 535 depreciation, 1 Jan –4 615 –4 063 –107 –69 Transfer to other Annual depreciation –724 –735 –45 –38 fixed assets –3 068 –2 613 –3 068 –2 576 Sales/disposals 104 227 21 – Sales/disposals – – – – Reclassifications – –44 – – Reclassifications –36 –6 – –3 Closing accumulated Closing acquisition value, depreciation 31 Dec –5 235 –4 615 –131 –107 31 Dec 5 977 4 782 5 491 4 703 Closing book value Opening write-downs, 31 Dec 5 977 4 782 5 491 4 703 1 Jan – – – – Annual write-down –14 – – – Investments for 2008 include advances of 615 (0) MSEK in the Group and Closing accumulated 212(0) MSEK in the Parent Company. During the year, advances of 0 (29) write-downs, 31 Dec –14 – – – MSEK in the Group have been settled and 0 (3) MSEK in the Parent Company. Closing book value Reclassification relates to reprocessing, which has been re-evaluated and 31 Dec 12 168 12 681 429 476 booked against profit and loss. 70 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Note 11 Leasing contracts Operating leases in which SL is lessor At present, the SL Group does not have any capital leasing agreements in Swedish leasing contracts which a group company is lessor. Capital leasing contracts in which SL is lessee Operating leases in which SL is lessor In addition to its own facilities, the SL Group has had a number of fixed assets The following figures refer to rolling stock. at its disposal during the year through capital leasing contracts (rail vehicles and buses). The book value of these leased assets in the group on the balance Acquisition value 31/12/2010 17 396 sheet date totalled Annual depreciation –724 Accumulated depreciation 31/12/2010 –5 644 Rolling stock Operating leases bear fixed interest, with the exception of leasing contracts 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 for buses, which bear variable interest. Acquisition value 15 398 15 251 Less accumulated depreciation –4 051 –3 522 The maturity structure for future minimum lease payments to the group in non-cancellable leasing contracts is broken down as follows. Specified payLess accumulated write-downs –14 – ments refer to buses, Metro carriages, commuter trains and light railways/ Book value assets trams. Leasing revenues for buses are calculated with an interest rate of 1.6 held under capital leasing 11 333 11 729 per cent for 2011, 2.4 per cent for 2012 and 2.7 per cent for 2013 onwards. Annual depreciation Group and write-downs amount to 623 627 Minimum lease payments 2011 1 279 2012–2015 5 146 Liabilities for leasing amount to 12 240 (12 569) MSEK. Of the leasing liability, 11 664 (12 012) MSEK has been reported under long-term liabilities and 2016 onwards 3 420 amortisation in future years and redemptions and 576 (557) MSEK has been reported as a current liability. These leasing commitments are recognised in US-based leasing contracts the SL group balance sheet. In the SL Group income statement, the cost of In 2001, 2002 and 2003, SL and SL Finans entered into leasing contracts for vehicle leasing is reported as an interest expense of 74 (139) MSEK, which is rail vehicles with US-based banks as investors. Under the terms of these equivalent to the interest component in the lease payments, and as depreciacontracts, SL is liable to pay lease payments for the duration of the contracts. tion of 617 (627) MSEK. A portion of the required funds was deposited as collateral in a bank with an AA credit rating, and the remainder invested in securities with a rating of SL Group capital leases bear variable interest. The SL companies that have AA-AAA. signed these agreements are the parent company, AB SL, and the subsidiary, AB SL Finans. The received advance payments and paid deposits have been reported net in the balance sheet. Contracts were drawn up and examined by legal experts in Future payment obligations for existing lease agreements have been Sweden and the USA and are consistent with customary practice for transacallocated­as follows, calculated with an interest rate of 1.6 per cent for 2011, tions of this type. SL would be exposed to a credit risk if the collateral were to 2.4 per cent for 2012 and 2.7 per cent for 2013 onwards. deteriorate. SL then has the option of transferring it to another bank with a higher rating, or depositing additional collateral. The following figures refer to train carriages and buses: During the past year, events in the financial markets have led to the issue of Group Minimum lease payments additional collateral in the form of bank guarantees amounting to a total of including purchase option Current value 115 million USD to ensure the fulfilment of the conditions in current leasing 2011 717 698 agreements. Agreements on credit commitment have been signed to guarantee that further additional collateral can be issued required. 2012–2015 4 360 3 951 2016 onwards 9 329 7 390 The financial commitments of SL and SL Finans in both the Swedish and the US-based leasing contracts are guaranteed by SLL. If SLL’s credit rating Operating leases in which SL is lessee (currently AA+ with Standard & Poor’s) should deteriorate to a specific The following figures refer to train carriages: agreed level, SL will underwrite the guarantee, primarily for the US-based leasing contracts, with a bank guarantee or similar measure. Parent company Minimum lease payments It is SL’s considered opinion that there is a minimal likelihood that a US-based including purchase option leasing contract guaranteed by SLL will need to be prematurely terminated 2011 9 due to failure to comply with the agreement, which is why no commitments 2012–2015 176 have been taken up in contingent liabilities. 2016 onwards – SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 71 Note 12 Investments in Group and related companies, etc. Parent company Number of Profit/loss Book value Group company Org. reg. number Domicile participations Holding1) Equity for the year 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 AB SL Finans 556402-7166 Stockholm 1 000 100.0 % 0.1 450.2 0.10 0.10 SL HR-Service AB 556402-7190 Stockholm 1 000 100.0 % 0.1 –3.6 0.10 0.10 SL Kundtjänst AB 556401-0022 Stockholm 1 000 100.0 % 7.2 –0.1 0.10 0.10 SL Infrateknik AB 556402-4684 Stockholm 1 000 100.0 % 1.3 425.7 174.90 174.90 SL Lidingö Trafik AB2)3) 556011-3267 Stockholm 11 609 96.74 % 138.0 – – – Tågia AB 556591-7233 Stockholm 3 000 100.0 % 3.7 –3.8 – – Fastighets AB Viggestaberg2) 556094-4158 Stockholm 1 000 100.0 % 0.1 – 0.10 0.10 Total shares and participations in group companies 175.30 175.30 Parent company Number of Profit/loss Book value Group company Org. reg. number Domicile participations Holding1) Equity for the year 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 AB Transitio 556033-1984 Stockholm 87 000 43.5 % 18.4 0 8.7 8.7 Stockholms Terminal AB7) 556255-1928 Stockholm – – – – – 0.4 Samtrafiken i Sverige AB 4) 556467-7598 Stockholm 30 2.12 % – – Total shares and participations in related companies 8.7 9.1 Total shares and participations in group companies and related companies, etc. 184.0 184.4 Share of profit/loss and equity in related companies Note 13 Inventory Group 2010 2009 Group Parent Company Profit/loss from participations in related companies –1 –17 2010 2009 2010 2009 Materials in stock 116 122 116 119 Equity in related companies Work in progress on Busslink i Sverige AB7) 0 5 behalf of other parties 62 62 63 68 AB Transitio 13 16 Total 178 184 179 187 Stockholms Terminal AB7) 0 1 Total equity in related companies 13 22 Work in progress on behalf of other parties mainly relates to expenses incurred for the Citybanan project. Current invoices are issued on a monthly Share of profit/loss and equity from investments in related companies is basis. partly based on provisional figures. Note 14 Cash and bank – cashflow statement 1) Holding = share of voting rights 2) Dormant company The cash balance of the SL Group account at SLL has been reported as “Cash 3) 96.74 per cent owned by SL Infrateknik AB and bank”. This balance is a current receivable from SLL within the frame4) Not a related company work of the group accounting system. Liquidity is distributed as follows: 5) Equity from closing balance 2009 Group Parent Company 6) Profit/loss for the year partly based on provisional figures 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 7) All participations in the company have been sold in 2010. Balance of group account 660 405 660 405 Other bank balances 154 109 33 52 Total 814 514 693 457 Group cashflow has been affected by extraordinary items. 72 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Note 15 Equity Group Brought forward Annual Total Share capital Restricted reserves profit/loss results Equity Opening equity 01/01/2009 4 000 2 029 68 282 6 379 Acquisition adjustments* – –5 35 – 30 Transfer between restricted and unrestricted reserves – –33 33 – 0 Allocation of profit by order of the AGM – – 282 –282 0 Profit for the year – – – 414 414 Equity 31 Dec 2009 4 000 1 991 418 414 6 823 Transfer between restricted and unrestricted reserves – –3 3 0 Allocation of profit by order of the AGM – – 414 –414 0 Profit for the year – – – –420 –420 Equity 31/12/2010 4 000 1 988 835 –420 6 403 * Adjustments in connection with acquisition of participations in Tågia up to 100 % Parent company Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Brought forward Annual Total Share capital Restricted reserves profit/loss results Equity Equity 01/01/2009 4 000 14 1 248 154 5 416 Allocation of profit by order of the AGM – – 154 –154 0 Group contribution paid/received – – 467 – 467 Profit/loss for the year – – – 22 22 Equity 31 Dec 2009 4 000 14 1 869 22 5 905 Allocation of profit by order of the AGM – – 22 –22 0 Group contribution paid/received – – 869 – 869 Profit/loss for the year – – – –897 –897 Equity 31/12/2010 4 000 14 2 760 –897 5 877 Share capital i AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik: Number of class A shares: 315 000 with a quota value of SEK 50 per share. Number of class B shares: 79 685 000 with a quota value of SEK 50 per share. In previous years, the parent company has received conditional shareholder contributions of 36 211 MSEK from SLL. Note 16 Untaxed reserves Parent company 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Accumulated excess depreciation 1 923 1 923 Total 1 923 1 923 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 73 Note 17 Provisions Group Requisitioned Reversal Requisitioned Reversal during not used Annual during not used Annual 31/12/2008 the year amount provision 31/12/2009 the year amount provision 31/12/2010 Provisions for pensions (note 18) 264 – – 45 309 – – 15 324 Estimated maintenance costs 530 –43 –96 125 516 –2 –22 50 542 Reserve for restructuring 93 –65 –13 64 79 –51 –4 73 97 Payments to SJ 564 –275 –9 – 280 –277 –3 – 0 Reserve for facilities 80 – –11 – 69 – –69 33 33 Reserve for environmental risks – – – 35 35 – – – 35 Termination of US leases – – – 70 70 Miscellaneous 25 –15 –8 25 27 –21 – 25 31 Total 1 556 –398 –137 294 1 315 –351 –98 266 1 132 Parent company Requisitioned Reversal Requisitioned Reversal during not used Annual during not used Annual 31/12/2008 the year amount provision 31/12/2009 the year amount provision 31/12/2010 Provisions for pensions (note 18) 259 – – 44 303 – – 14 317 Estimated maintenance costs 530 –138 – 124 516 –2 –22 50 542 Reserve for restructuring 81 –65 -1 57 72 -47 -1 73 97 Payments to SJ 564 –275 –9 – 280 –277 –3 – 0 Reserve for environmental risks – – – 35 35 – – – 35 Termination of US leases – – – 70 70 Miscellaneous 19 –11 –8 22 22 –18 –1 11 14 Total 1 453 –489 –18 282 1 228 –344 –27 218 1 075 •• Estimated maintenance costs relate to Metro carriages, commuter train •• In 2010 SL has met its estimated payments to Swedish State Railways vehicles and Tvärbanan orbital line carriages. The need for provisions is relating to previous investments in the commuter train system that are not estimated on the lifespan of the vehicle, 30 years. The maintenance reconsidered to be of any further benefit to SL. The final negotiations serve is based on a detailed maintenance plan for each type of vehicle. SL ­between the parties are in progress. has a commitment to SLL to operate rail services in the county of Stock•• Provisions for the reserve for environmental risks relate to land pollution. holm. In addition to this commitment, SL also has a commitment relating to certain specific vehicles associated with the so-called US Lease Agree•• The termination of US leases relates to the decision to terminate US leases ments that SL signed when financing these vehicles. See note 11. As a adopted by the SL Board and the County Council Assembly. consequence of a new transport services agreement for Metro services from 2009, the reserve for Metro carriages is removed from 2010 for 20 •• Miscellaneous consists of a number of minor items for which claims have years, which corresponds to the estimated remaining lifespan of the Metro been made against SL or for which it has proved problematic to evaluate ­c arriages. the exact size of the commitment. These items should be settled within a few years. •• Reserve for restructuring refers primarily to commitments to contractors or their owners. 74 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Note 18 Provisions for pensions Note 19 Maturity of long-term liabilities Pension commitments that were incurred during or after 1992 are reported­ Group by SL as a pension liability in each company. 31/12/2009 1 – 5 years After 5 years Total 2031/12/10 31/12/2009 Long-term loans from SLL 375 4 449 4 824 AB SL 317 303 Accrued expenses and SL HR-Service AB 7 6 deferred income 1 659 3 142 4 801 Total 324 309 Long-term liabilities 2 578 9 595 12 173 Total 4 612 17 186 21 798 The SL Group’s commitment to occupational pensions for employees is Group ­provided for through the centrally agreed collective agreement KAP-KL. An 31/12/2010 1 – 5 years After 5 years Total exception is Tågia AB, which applies the ITP1 and ITP2 plans. In 2002, Tågia Long-term loans from SLL 375 7 855 8 230 chose an insurance solution to safeguard pensions. Accrued expenses and Under the terms of KAP-KL, the defined contribution component is calculated deferred income 1 898 3 210 5 108 as a specific percentage of the total salary base. The portion of the salary Long-term liabilities 3 483 8 183 11 666 above 7.5 income base amounts is included in the defined benefit retirement Total 5 756 19 248 25 004 pension and recognised as a pension liability. During the year, reprocessed defined contribution retirement pensions are not included in provisions but Parent company reported as a current liability. 31/12/2009 1 – 5 years After 5 years Total Interest is set annually by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, FI, Long-term loans from SLL 375 4 449 4 824 and applies for the following year. The discount rate established by FI on Accrued expenses and 15 October­2009 is 3.5 % for nominal bonds and 1.8 % for indexed bonds deferred income 1 569 2 789 4 358 for 2010. For 2011, on 14 October 2010, FI established the corresponding Long-term liabilities 64 0 64 interest rates at 3.6 % and 1.4 %. SLL has adopted the decision centrally that Total 2 008 7 238 9 246 a lower interest rate, 1.4 %, will be applied for indexed bonds for 2010. Costs for pension commitments for the period prior to 1992 are reported by Parent company and charged to SLL. 31/12/2010 1 – 5 years After 5 years Total Long-term loans from SLL 375 7 855 8 230 Accrued expenses and deferred income 1 687 2 219 3 906 Long-term liabilities 2 0 2 Total 2 064 10 074 12 138 See note 20. Note 20 Long-term accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent Company 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 State grants under the “County Plan” the “Dennis Agreement”, etc. 2 637 2 474 2 637 2 474 The Swedish Rail Administration’s “Future Plan” 791 861 0 861 State grants to offset the additional costs of the congestion charge trial scheme 272 290 272 290 Finance subsidy 453 479 42 36 Deferred income on properties 955 697 955 697 Total 5 108 4 801 3 906 4 358 Government grants relating to the “County Plan” and the “Dennis Agreement”, etc. comprise grants for investments in fixed assets. Of the Government grants to offset additional costs arising from the congestion charge trial scheme, 144 (162) MSEK relates to investments in fixed assets. In 2010 the subsidy for the Roslagsbanan light railway of 40 MSEK was transferred to a State subsidy at the parent company in accordance with the County Plan and the “Dennis Agreement”, etc. 821 MSEK was transferred from the parent company to the subsidiary SL Infrateknik AB in 2010. Deferred income includes deferred income that has been reclassified from Long-term liabilities. The comparison figures from 2009 have been updated. The current portion is reported in Note 22. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 75 Note 21 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent Company 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Prepaid pension premiums 12 10 12 9 Prepaid private operator costs, transport services 0 19 0 19 Prepaid private operator costs 137 140 137 140 Accrued transport revenues 0 21 0 21 Accrued contract revenues 15 2 15 2 Accrued fare revenues 23 20 23 20 Miscellaneous 38 59 34 51 Total 225 271 221 262 Note 22 Accrued expenses and deferred income Group Parent Company 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Accrued private operator costs, transport services 216 34 216 34 Accrued interest expenses 81 81 – – Prepaid tickets and cards 251 285 251 285 Current portion of long-term accrued expenses and deferred income 194 231 180 210 Social Security, pension and salary costs 26 73 25 62 Accrued contract costs 72 110 72 110 Miscellaneous 239 96 236 73 Total 1 079 910 980 774 Note 23 Financial instruments In the course of its operations, the SL Group may be exposed to various types Transactions in financial instruments can result in the company being exposed of financial risk. It is SL’s responsibility to identify and manage these financial to one or more of the financial risks described below, or transfer risk to anrisks in consultation with AB SLL Internfinans. All companies and administraother party.­The financial risks that impact on SL are currency risk, interest tive bodies that are wholly owned subsidiaries of SLL are required to comply rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk. with its policies when applicable. The purpose of the financial policy is to d­ efine Currency risk comprehensive rules and regulations for financial activities. Entering into an agreement linked to a foreign currency can lead to a currency The goal of financial activities is to manage resources in such a way that the risk exposure. In accordance with SL’s guidelines and SLL’s financial policy, no requirements for a good return and sound investments are fulfilled. Within a significant currency risk exposure will be permitted. Financing and investments­ defined risk framework, SL is committed to achieving a good return on its may be carried out in foreign currencies, but all currency risk exposure should investments and incurring the lowest possible costs for borrowings and debt be eliminated when contracts are entered into unless otherwise authorised by management. The group engages in derivative transactions, primarily AB SLL Internfinans. All currency flows that take place twelve months after a currency­futures and interest rate swaps, with the aim of managing the contract is signed or where the contract involves more than 5 MSEK should be ­currency and interest rate risks that result from the Group’s operations and hedged using derivative instruments. The form and level of currency hedging financing activities. All trading in financial instruments is undertaken for must be agreed with AB SLL Internfinans before entering into foreign currency hedging purposes only. contracts. SLL is the counterparty for all transactions that reduce currency and interest Interest rate risk rate risk. By the year-end, 31/12/2010, SL had engaged in interest rate Interest rate risk occurs when the value of a financial instrument varies due swaps totalling 3 700 (3 700) MSEK. Their market value on 31/12/2010 was to fluctuations in interest rates. SL Group leasing contracts bear variable –109.0 (–204.6) MSEK. In other words, the fair value of swaps was lower than interest, which provides attractive financing potential but also entails a risk of their book value. However, SL intends to retain them until they mature. Their increasing interest expense in the event of an interest rate rise. To offset this, market­value will vary over the duration of respective agreements, but with SL has entered into in interest rate swap agreements with AB SLL Internfinans no impact on profit. When the swaps mature, their market value will be zero. totalling 3 700 (3 700) MSEK. Gains and losses on currency futures and currency options are reported when At the balance sheet date, 31/12/2010, the averaged fixed interest period they occur. Amounts payable or receivable resulting from interest rate swaps was 2.0 (2.7) years, which lies within the boundaries of SL’s guidelines and are reported on a daily basis as interest expense or interest revenue. SLL’s financial policy. 76 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Credit risk Note 25 Cash flow statements Credit risk is the risk that one party in a financial transaction will be unable to meet its financial obligations, thereby causing the other party to incur a loss. Acquisition of intangible and tangible fixed assets In the case of advance payments, the risk is that a supplier will become insolAcquisition of Group Parent company vent before delivery has been completed. fixed assets 2010 2009 2010 2009 SL avoids advance payments as far as possible. In the event of an advance Investments/acquisitions payment occurring, the supplier must first provide a bank guarantee. About as per Notes 9–10 4 662 3 922 3 990 3 694 half of SL’s net turnover consists of SLL subsidies with the remainder being Non-cash items: generated by ticket revenues primarily through ticket agents and resellers. Group goodwill – –60 – – Such sales carry a minimal risk exposure due to the diverse customer base Recognised capital leasing –230 –213 – – and the option to exclude an agent quickly in the event of misconduct. Unadjusted property acquisitions – –137 – –137 Liquidity risk Total cashflow Liquidity risk is the risk that a company will have difficulty obtaining cash or from investments 4 432 3 512 3 990 3 557 cash equivalents to meet financial commitments relating to financial instruments. SLL acts by agreement as guarantor for all SL’s financial commitments during the business year. The risk of a liquidity shortage is therefore minimal. Cash flow risk Cash flow risk is counteracted by means of an agreement between SLL and SL in which SLL guarantees all current and future loss coverage in SL and its subsidiaries. Furthermore, investment expenses are financed through loans from AB SLL Internfinans, through capital leasing in consultation with AB SLL Internfinans and via Government grants. Note 24 Contingent liabilities Group Parent Company 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Guarantee Stockholm Terminal AB – 23 – 23 Environmental risks 10 10 10 10 Total 10 33 10 33 SLL is responsible for reporting guaranteeing for the SL Group’s pension commitments for the period up to and including 31 December 1991. New commitments from 1 January 1992 onwards are reported by SL (see Note 18). SLL also guarantees these. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 77 Audit report To the Annual General Meeting of AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik Org.reg. no. 556013-0683 We have audited these annual accounts, which comprise pages member­or the managing director has, in any other way, acted 50-77, the consolidated accounts, the accounting records and in contravention of the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish the administration of the Board and the Managing Director of Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. We believe AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik for the financial year 1 January that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion as set 2010 – 31 December 2010. The Board and the Managing out ­below. ­Director are responsible for these accounts, for corporate ­administration and for ensuring that the Swedish Annual The annual accounts and the consolidated accounts have been ­Accounts Act is applied correctly when preparing the annual prepared in compliance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act accounts and the consolidated accounts. Our responsibility is and provide­a true and fair view of the financial position and to express an opinion on the annual accounts, the consolidated ­results of the company and the group in accordance with accounts and the administration on the basis of our audit. generally­­accepted accounting principles in Sweden. The ­s tatutory ­administration report is consistent with other parts I conducted my audit in accordance with generally-accepted of the ­annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. accounting standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the income that the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free of statements and balance sheets of the parent company and the material misstatement. An audit entails examining a selection of group be adopted, that the profit of the parent company be evidence in order to establish the amounts and other disclosures­ dealt with according to the proposal in the administration report in the accounts. An audit also involves assessing the accounting and that the members of the Board and the Managing Director principles used in the annual accounts and the consolidated be discharged from liability for the financial year. ­accounts, their application by the Board and the Managing ­Director, significant estimates made by the Board and the ­Managing Director when preparing the annual accounts and Stockholm 18 March 2011 consolidated accounts as well as an assessment of the overall presentation of information in the annual accounts and the Ernst & Young AB ­consolidated accounts. As a basis for our opinion ­concerning discharge from liability, we examined significant ­decisions, actions­ Magnus Fagerstedt taken and circumstances within the company to determine the Authorised Public Accountant liability, if any, to the company of any board member or the managing director. We also examined whether any board 78 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Review report Review report of AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik for 2010 We, the lay accountants appointed by the County Council, have We note that problems exist within the company’s Board. These examined the activities of AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik for the relate­primarily to the management of agreements, project 2010 financial year. management­and the fulfilment of objectives. The company has taken­action, the effects of which have not yet become apparent. The Board and the MD are responsible for ensuring that company­ We note that there have been improvements, but also that activities are conducted in accordance with the current Articles ­problems with internal control remain. This applies ­particularly of Association, the directives and decisions of its owners and to the monitoring and checks in relation to the transport services the applicable instructions for the company’s operations. They agreements and checks within the SL Access system. are also responsible for ensuring that there is sufficient internal control and that reports are provided to the County Council. The After consulting the authorised public accountant, our opinion is responsibility of the lay accountants is to review the company’s therefore that there are deficiencies in terms of management management and internal control and determine whether operaand internal controls in important respects. It is therefore our tions have been conducted according to the mandate from the opinion­that the company’s operations have not been managed County Council. in a fully appropriate and, from a financial standpoint, satisfactory manner. The review has been conducted in accordance with the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Municipality Act, generally accepted accounting standards for municipal corporations and the County Stockholm 16 March 2011 Council’s auditing rules. Our review was performed with the focus­and scope necessary to provide a reasonable basis for our Gunilla Jerlinger assessment and has resulted in the outcome described in the Bernt Östh Göran Dahlstrand attached 2010 Annual Report for AB Storstockholms Lokal­trafik. Gunilla Hansson Benkt Kullgard We attach a report on the results of the review.1) 1) The 2010 Annual Report for AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik, SL is available at www.sll.se/rev. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 79 Special transport services Annual accounts and administration report • Special transport services Org. reg. no. 232100-0016 The Board and the Managing Director of AB Storstockholms The special transport services authority (the Authority) has, after Lokaltrafik hereby present the annual report for special transconsulting SL, decided to increase the annual travel allocation to port services for the financial year 31/12/20010 – 31/12/2010. the special transport service passengers by eight journeys to a total of 198 journeys per passenger. For this reason, among others, Ownership the volume of travel has risen in comparison with the previous year. Special transport services is a profit centre within Stockholm County Council which reports are issued on the County Council’s In accordance with a decision by the SL Board, special transport special transport services, excluding specific services provided services customer services have made permanent their extended by public authorities. Special transport services have been opening times of 07.00–20.00 on weekdays and 09.00–17.00 at ­managed by SL since 01/07/2009 in accordance with a decision weekends and on public holidays in order to offer greater accesby Stockholm County Council and the specific directives of the sibility. owners and the amended Articles of Association established by A new combined travel card – special transport services in comthe County Council in a decision of 12/05/2009. bination with SL Access – has been provided to new special Special transport services have no employed staff. transport service travellers since October 2009. The card is valid for travel on special transport services and on SL services. Existing­ Nature and purpose of the activities travellers’ travel cards have been replaced during 2010. Since Special transport services are public transport for people with 1 September 2010 only the new travel card have been valid. disabilities and are governed by the Swedish Special Transport Services Act. In the county of Stockholm, the municipalities have An agreement on the receiption of orders for special transport assigned­their statutory responsibility for special transport services expired on 31 January 2010 and was extended while ­services to the County Council, which have transferred responsiawaiting the procurement of a replacement agreement. Following bility for special transport services to SL. Besides special transa review, a new agreement entered into force on 1 June 2010. The port service journeys, the activities also include local services, unit’s other agreements on ordering special transport services was patient transport and business travel. Patient transport journeys extended until 31 January 2012. An extensive procurement of taxi are governed by the Swedish Act on Reimbursement of Traveltransport services and ordering special transport services will be ling Costs for Patient Transport Journeys. The journeys are carcarried out in 2011. The responsibility for the cost of patient transried out by procured taxi, bus and special vehicle operators. port journeys will be transferred to health and medical care in 2011. Assessment for permits and allocation of travel is the responsiA wheelchair taxi service began operating in October 2008. The bility of a Special Transport Committee which acts as a Governservice is offered with customer choice. Demand for wheelchair ment agency. Permits for patient transport are issued by the taxi services is increasing. The number of journeys has risen to care provider. 259 000 (93 000). Agreements have been signed with new suppliers in 2010. Financial results Specialised vehicle transportations for special transport services The operating income for 2010 amounted to 1 125 MSEK. and patient transport journeys with the focus on travel chosen by ­Operating income mainly consists of subsidies from the County the customer have been procured in 2010. This procurement Council. It also includes its own charges for special transport has been reviewed and the review has been approved. When it services and patient transport, income from sales of business was heard before before the Administrative Court of Appeal, the travel to the County Council managements, income from lease of case was referred in part to the administrative court. The current communications equipment to transport contractors and sales of agreement applies until 31 January 2011. Thereafter, passengers training for drivers of special vehicles. who require special vehicles will be referred to wheelchair taxis. The costs amounted to 1 168 MSEK. Operating costs mainly relate­ Certain special services such as stretcher transport and some to purchased transport services. The also include costs for IT syslocal transport services that were previously included in the tems linked to special transport services, call centre telephony, ­special vehicle agreement have been procured separately. fi­nancial administration, postage and certain information. Local transport services were extended with two lines operating The loss after net financial items amounted to –43 MSEK. special vehicles in Bromma in December 2010. Another line in Nynäshamn due to be launched in spring 2011. Investments No investments were made in 2010. A review of SL’s organisation has been carried out in 2010. A new organisation with a clearer focus on the client comes into Significant events during and after the financial year effect on 1 May 2011. Special transport services are fully inteAn agreement between the County Council and the municipal grated in SL’s new organisation, but continue to be an independauthorities in the county on future responsibility for special ent profit centre. transport services entered into force on 1 January 2010. CounA new political organisation entered into force from the beginty-wide special transport services with the County Council as ning of 2011. A special transport authority will be given responprincipal are being maintained. The agreement applies until fursibility for public transport services on land by water and for ther notice. travel for people with disabilities. 80 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Allocation of profit Balance sheet Loss for the year –42 984 917 SEK (MSEK) Note 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 The SL Board and the Managing Director propose that the loss, ASSETS in accordance with current rules for profit centres within the County Council and while awaiting transfer to the County Fixed assets 0 0 Council­group financing, be allocated so Tangible fixed assets Plant and equipment 3 0 1 as to be carried forward –42 984 917 SEK Total tangible fixed assets 0 1 With regard to the reported profit/loss and financial position for Total fixed assets 0 1 2010, reference is made to the following income statements, balance sheets, cash flow statements and additional information. Current assets All amounts are given in MSEK unless otherwise stated. Current receivables Accounts receivable 23 22 Stockholm, 15 February 2011 Other receivables 10 8 Christer G Wennerholm Göran Gunnarsson Prepaid expenses Chairman of the Board of Director Managing Director and accrued income 4 12 16 AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik AB Storstockholms Total current receivables 45 46 Lokaltrafik Cash and bank 5 11 0 The County Council auditors issue an annual report for special transport services. This report is available at www.sll.se/rev Total current assets 56 46 TOTAL ASSETS 56 47 Income statement EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 01/07/2009 (MSEK) Note 2010 31/12/2009 Equity Operating income Equity 6 48 0 Net turnover 1 1 125 542 Loss for the year –43 –23 Total operating revenues 1 125 542 Total equity 5 –23 Operating expenses Current liabilities Accounts payable 48 42 Private operator costs, Unused bank overdraft facilities 5 0 18 transport services –1 127 –544 Other current liabilities 0 0 Other external expenses 2 –40 –20 Accrued expenses Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 3 –1 –1 and deferred income 7 3 10 Total operating expenses –1 168 –565 Total current liabilities 51 70 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 56 47 OPERATING LOSS –43 –23 Pledged assets None None Profit/loss from financial items Contingent liabilities None None Interest income and similar income 0 0 Interest expenses and similar expenses 0 0 Total profit/loss from financial items 0 0 LOSS AFTER FINANCIAL ITEMS –43 –23 LOSS FOR THE YEAR –43 –23 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 81 Cash flow statements Additional information (MSEK) 2010 2009 Accounting principles Current activities The annual accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the Operating loss –43 –23 Swedish Local Government Act, the Swedish Act on Municipal Provisions 0 0 Accounting and the recommendations issued by the Council for ­Municipal ­Accounting. Depreciation 1 1 –42 –22 Receivables are recognised at an amount estimated for receipt after valuation. Liabilities are reported at their original historical Interest received 0 0 cost. Interest paid 0 0 Income Tax paid 0 0 Revenues are reported at fair value for the amount that has Cash-flow from current activities –42 –22 been, or will be, received. Operating subsidies from SLL reprebefore changes in working capital sent performance compensation calculated according to a budget approved by SLL. SLL grants may be adjusted from year to Changes in working capital year owing to operational changes or the cost of such changes. Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in receivables 1 –46 Passenger charges are invoiced to special transport services and patient transport on a monthly basis. SLL establishes the Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in stocks 0 0 level of the charges in its budget decision. Business travel is inIncrease(+)/Decrease(-) in liabilities 0 52 voiced monthly to the County Council management and other Cash-flow from current activities –41 –16 parties to agreements based on the costs incurred by the special transport service in respect of such services. Other income Investments is invoiced on an open account. Investments i tangible fixed assets 0 –2 Tangible fixed assets Cash-flow from investments 0 –2 Tangible fixed assets are recognised at their historical cost on acquisition. After the time of acquisition, tangible fixed ­a ssets are Finance reported with a deduction for accumulated depreciation­and any Coverage of profit/loss received 23 0 write-downs. Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis Portion of equity received 47 0 and accrued for the useful lifespan of the asset in a way that reflects its use. Depreciation for the period is reported as an Cash-flow from finance 70 0 expense. Cash-flow for the year 29 –18 Depreciation is based on the estimated period of use of the ­a sset as follows: LIQUID ASSETS Plant and equipment 3 – 5 years Liquid assets at the start of the year –18 0 Change in liquid assets 11 –18 Receivables Liquid assets at the end of the year 29 –18 Receivables are reported at the amount estimated to be received. Cash flow statements Cash flow statements report transactions in cash for the period relating to the current operating, investment or financing activity. Cash flow statements are presented using the indirect method, by which the net profit/loss from current activities is adjusted by: • Items in the income statement that do not include cash transactions. • Periodic changes in operating assets and operating liabilities and • Items included in the cash flow for investment or financing ­activities 82 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Notes Note 5 Cash and bank The unit’s balance in the SL Group account at SLL has been reported as NOTE 1 Operating revenues “Cash and bank”. This balance is a current receivable from SLL within the framework of the group accounting system. The credit limit granted on the 2010 2009 group account amounts to 84 MSEK. 0(18) MSEK of that credit had been Passenger charges 160 82 used at the end of 2010. Operating subsidies from SLL 946 450 Sales of other services 19 10 Total 1 125 542 Note 6 Equity The special transport service unit is an profit centre managed by the County­ The distribution of the balance sheet of the former special transport services Council Executive Committee. 84 % of turnover is accounted for by an operatauthority between the special transport services authority and the special ing subsidy from Stockholm County Council and 1 % is accounted for by sales transport services unit ended in 2010. to other units and companies within Stockholm County Council. 3 % of the total costs in the balance sheet consist of purchases from other County Equity Council­ units. Opening equity 01/072009 0 Profit/loss for 2009 –23 Equity at 31/12/2009 –23 NOTE 2 Fees and other payments to auditors Transfer of the profit/loss for 2009 Fees to auditors have been paid by the Stockholm County Council audit office. to the County Council group financing 23 Allocated County Council capital 48 Profit/loss for the year –43 NOTE 3 Fixed assets Equity at 31/12/2010 5 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Plant and equipment Note 7 Accrued expenses and deferred income Opening acquisition value 1 Jan 2 0 Investments for the year 0 2 31/12/2010 31/12/2009 Closing acquisition value 31 Dec 2 2 Purchased services 2 9 Other accrued expenses 1 1 Opening accumulated depreciation 1 Jan 1 0 Total 3 10 Depreciation for the year 1 1 Closing accumulated depreciation 31 Dec 2 1 Closing book value 31 Dec 0 1 Note 4 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2010 2009 Prepaid expenses 0 1 Accrued income for traveller charges, special transport services 11 11 Accrued income for traveller charges, patient transport services 0 3 Other accrued income 1 1 Total 12 16 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 83 Board and auditors from January 2011 onwards 1st Vice-Chairman Chairman since 2007 2nd Vice-Chairman Employee representatives since 2007 Christer G since 2011 Lennart Hallgren Arne Grundberg Lennart Rohdin (FP) Wennerholm (M) Helene HellmarkSACO SKTF Born in 1947, Gräddö Born in 1953, Knutsson (S) Born in 1950, Enskede Born in 1956, Haninge Former Member of the Stockholm Born in 1969, Project Leader Safety Coordinator Swedish Parliament County Commissioner, Sundbyberg Public Transport County Commissioner Deputy employee representatives Martin Lindahl Mona Tallberg SACO SKTF New political organisation ­ ecision from 14 December 2010 relating d Board On 30 November 2010, the County Counto the Board for the period from 1 January The Stockholm County Council Assembly­ cil Assembly decided on a new political 2011 to the end of the 2011 AGM. This appoints Board members and lay auditors­ organisation for SL. A transport authority­ decision means that the Board will consist for AB SL, while the authorised public has been set up with responsibility for of three ordinary members. accountant and deputy auditors are public transport services on land, by elected by the AGM. The right of attenwater­and for people with disabilities. The Annual General Meeting dance for employee representatives is authority has overall responsibility for SL’s most recent Annual General Meeting­ defined in the Swedish Board Represenplanning and procuring the necessary was held on 18 May 2010. The meeting­ tation (Private Sector Employees) Act transport services and for monitoring adopted the income statements and (1987:1245). On the SL Board, employee activities. The authority is responsible ­balance sheets for 2009. The AGM also representatives have the right to express for the County Council’s transport plandischarged the Board and the Managing their opinions, to propose a motion or to ning and for putting forward proposals Director from liability for their managehave opinions recorded in the minutes, for a transport services provision plan. A ment during 2009. but they do not have any decision-making special­transport services committee and powers. two commissions were also appointed to Articles of Association ­support the transport authority. The purpose of SL’s activities, in accorThe Board held 12 meetings in 2010. dance with its current Articles of AssociaDuring these meetings, the Board dealt The Special Transport Services Committee­ tion, is to provide, on behalf of Stockholm with permanent items such as the state of replaces the current Special Transport County Council, through its transport business, procurements, financial reportServices authority and is responsible for authority, local and regional passenger­ ing, investments and the budget and serthe County Council’s activities in the form transport services on land and, in accor­ vice adjustments for the commuter rail of scrutiny and decisions regarding the dance with permits granted by the transand Metro systems. In addition, general need for further allocation of resources. port authority, handle the information strategic issues such as SL’s future com­required to guarantee a satisfactory mitments and visions were discussed. As a consequence of the new organisaspecial transport service. This mandate ­Ingela Svanberg served as Board Secretary. tion, the number of members of the SL includes carrying out procurements of Board has been reduced. At an extraornecessary goods, services and contracts Chairman dinary AGM on 21 December 2010, the in accordance with decisions by the The County Council Assembly appoints County Council Assembly ratified the transport authority. the Board Chairman and Vice-Chairmen. 84 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Since 1 January 2007, the Board Chairadministration of the Board and the ManAuthorised Public Accountant man has been County Commissioner for aging Director in accordance with generMagnus Fagerstedt, Ernst & Young AB. Public Transport, Christer G Wennerholm­ ally accepted accounting standards. The (M). Lennart Rohdin (FP) has been 1st Authorised Public Accountant is elected Lay auditors Vice-Chairman since 1997 and ­Helene by the AGM. Lay auditors shall audit the Gunilla Jerlinger (S), Chairman, Hellmark Knutsson (S) has been 2nd company’s activities and ensure that they Berit ­A ssarsson (M), Vice-Chairman, Vice-Chairman since 2011. are managed in an appropriate and finanKarin Brodin (M), Gunilla Hansson (C), cially satisfactory manner and that the Amir Sajadi (MP) Managing Director company’s internal control is adequate. The MD is responsible for the day-to-day­ The audit shall be carried out in accormanagement and for supervising company dance with accepted principles for lay activities in accordance with the instrucauditors. Lay auditors are elected by the tions adopted by the Board. After­consulStockholm County Council Assembly and tation with the Chairman, the Managing are announced at the AGM. Director will ensure that Board members are provided with information and the necessary supporting documents for ­decisions. The Managing Director, or his delegate, is also required to report and put forward proposals at Board meetings­ that concern issues taken up by the Board, auditors ­executive management, and will continuand MD ously keep Board members and the Board AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik 2010 Chairman well-informed on the company’s and the group’s financial position and progress. The MD presents matters to the Chairman Employee representatives Christer G Wennerholm (M) Arne Grundberg SKTF transport authority. Lennart Hallgren SACO 1st Vice-Chairman Executive Management Team Lennart Rohdin (FP) Deputies The Managing Director of AB SL leads Wivianne Ling SKTF SL’s Executive Management Team. Besides 2nd Vice-Chairman up to and including 12/05/2010 Lars Dahlberg (S) Mona Tallberg SKTF the MD, the Executive Management Team up to and including 31/12/2010 From 13/05/2010 also consists of the persons appointed by Martin Lindahl SACO the MD, see page 86. This is a consultaMembers, up to and including tion body for the MD and has no autono31/12/2010 Auditors 2007 – 2010 Charlotte Broberg (M) Gunilla Jerlinger, Chairman mous decision-making authority. The Lennart Kalderén (M) Bernt Östh Executive Management Team meets as Marie Bladholm (M) Benkt Kullgard determined by the MD. Peter Kockum (M) Gunilla Hansson Jan Stefansson (KD) Göran Dahlstrand Financial reporting and internal Tage Gripenstam (C) Johan Sjölander (S) Ernst & Young AB control Nanna Wikholm (S) Head Auditor The Board is responsible for ensuring that Gun Eriksson (S) Magnus Fagerstedt the company’s organisation is such that Yvonne Blombäck (MP) (Authorised Public Accountant) its financial state can be adequately veriDeputies, up to and including Deputy fied and that financial reports are com31/12/2010 Magnus Fredmer piled in accordance with the law, existing Shashika Padmaperuma (M) (Authorised Public Accountant) accounting standards and other existing Tobias Lodestrand (M) requirements. The MD must ensure that Ingmar Wallén (M) Managing Director financial accounting in the group’s compaRoland Dehlin (M) Göran Gunnarsson Stella Fare (FP) nies is carried out in compliance with the Alexandra Birk (FP) law and that the management of assets is Michael Stjernström (KD) conducted in a satisfactory manner. Andreas Strömberg (C) Staffan Holmberg (S) Göran Wrene (S) Auditors Erika Ullberg (S) The company’s authorised public accounHelena Söderlind Paues (S) tant shall audit the accounts and the Gunilla Roxby Cromvall (V) SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 85 SL’s Executive Management Team from January 2011 onwards Bengt Carlsson Sara Catoni Göran Gunnarsson Ragna Forslund Jens Plambeck Director of Security Senior Legal Advisor Managing Director, Traffic Director Director of Strategic since 2009. since 2010. employed at SL since Employed at SL since Development Employed at SL since Employed at SL since 2009. 2004. Employed at SL since 1996. 2006. 2010. Johan von Schantz Jan Hamrin Madelene Raukas Niklas Personne Björn Holmberg Technical Director Human Resources Vice-MD since 2010. CFO Chief of Staff since since 2004. Director since 1998. Employed at SL since Employed at SL since 2007 Employed at SL since Employed at SL since 2010. 2010. Employed at SL since 2004. 1980. 1988. 86 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 SL owns and manages The task of the Property Division is to develop existing properties­ Property investment in 2010, in million SEK consisting of stations, stops, terminals, depots and other properties. The managed properties are leased to private transport and Metro 213,4 Metro 213,4 workshop operators as part of ­transport agreements and to Commuter rail Commuter rail 157,1 157,1 ­other lessees on commercial terms. The lease revenues for Light rail 3,3 Light rail 3,3 these leasing activities in 2010 amounted to 478 MSEK. Bus 664,0 Bus 664,0 Joint 86,1 SL’s property division carries out extensive project work. 1.1 billion­ Joint 86,1 SEK was invested in property in 2010. The most important investments in 2010 included the construction of a new bus depot in Frihamnen, the work on new bus depots in Gubbängen and Charlottendal and biogas facilities on Lidingö, in Gubbängen and in Frihamnen. The work on wheel-lathes in Bro, a bus terminal in Jakobsberg and replacing automatic barriers has also continued Lease income in 2010, in million SEK in 2010. Revenues Revenuesfrom fromleases leases 384384 AB SL’s rights to land and facilities for operating transport ininSL’s SL’sactivities activities ­services are divided between modes of transport: Revenues from external 94 Revenues from external 94 leases leases •• Rights to Metro facilities mainly consist of a right of use and easements, though Metro workshops are located on land owned by SL. •• Commuter rail activities are carried out in and at the Swedish Transport Administration and Jernhusen’s facilities which SL uses under the form of agreement of transport operation right. Workshop facilities are based on land owned by SL, ­except for the Älvsjö depot, which is located on Jernhusen’s land. •• The Roslagsbanan, Saltsjöbanan and Lidingöbanan lines, ­including their workshop facilities, are located on land owned by SL, the Nockebybanan and Tvärbanan lines are based on land at SL’s disposal via easement. Site leasehold rights apply to the Bromma depot. The land for Spårväg City is held under usufruct. •• Bus depots and terminals are at SL’s disposal under different forms of possession such as ownership, site leasehold rights, rental and usufruct. SL owns a total of 3.6 million square metres of land and 1.2 million square metres of premises, of which 463 000 square metres are rental premises. Operational space, platforms and entrance halls are not included in the leasable area. These are reported on the following pages per mode of transport and municipality. SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 87 Stock of properties square metres Mode of transport Municipality Area of land Area of premises Rental premises Metro Botkyrka 18 240 899 Metro mode of transport Danderyd 9 472 237 includes stations and depots. Huddinge 6 091 381 Solna 3 385 35 910 3 286 Stockholm 394 601 536 203 184 000 Sundbyberg 43 857 46 690 29 395 Metro total 441 843 652 606 218 198 Commuter rail Botkyrka 2 083 Commuter rail mode of transport Gnesta 504 includes stations and depots. Haninge 20 315 89 Huddinge 20 427 37 Järfälla 20 980 83 Nynäshamn 10 590 Salem 9 167 6 Sigtuna 4 290 Sollentuna 16 876 6 Solna 4 983 6 Stockholm 69 553 28 910 Södertälje 5 462 43 428 25 401 Upplands Väsby 8 028 6 Upplands-Bro 428 332 31 966 29 060 Commuter rail total 433 794 263 190 83 604 Light railways Danderyd 236 497 13 925 7 778 The light railways mode of transport Lidingö 176 587 5 216 4 699 includes the Lidingöbanan, Nacka 308 106 6 509 5 686 Nockebybanan, Roslagsbanan, Norrtälje 143 811 Saltsjöbanan, Tvärbanan lines Solna 9 002 and Spårväg City. Stockholm 180 087 32 759 23 233 Täby 376 523 10 206 914 Vallentuna 400 473 5 086 358 Österåker 243 433 4 321 156 Light railways total 2 074 519 78 022 42 824 Bus Botkyrka 30 315 7 403 4 637 The bus mode of transport includes Danderyd 344 358 bus depots and bus terminals. Ekerö 16 440 3 910 3 053 Haninge 67 735 5 377 3 939 Huddinge 140 96 Järfälla 19 349 2 709 2 002 Nacka 37 313 6 647 4 383 Norrtälje 26 437 2 856 1 648 Nynäshamn 12 167 1 785 1 209 Salem 15 Sigtuna 24 194 2 787 1 976 Sollentuna 65 43 Stockholm 149 812 119 923 75 185 Sundbyberg 57 131 12 916 9 304 Södertälje 21 420 3 494 2 807 Tyresö 32 398 4 468 2 543 Täby 46 995 8 379 7 741 Vallentuna 32 396 1 015 984 Vaxholm 3 261 30 40 Värmdö 22 715 2 327 1 360 Österåker 12 220 510 610 Bus total 612 298 187 100 123 918 Total 3 562 454 1 180 918 468 543 88 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Operating figures Population of Stockholm County (in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Population 2 050 2 017 1 981 1 949 1 918 Total private cars in Stockholm County (in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Private cars 800 793 791 783 759 Journeys on an ordinary weekday in winter (in thousands) Mode of transport 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 1 137 1 123 1 117 1 094 1 072 Commuter rail 258 252 250 242 233 Light railway 136 126 126 123 116 Bus 1 025 997 989 975 971 Total 2 556 2 498 2 482 2 434 2 392 Journeys (million) Mode of transport 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 310 307 307 303 297 Commuter rail 70 69 68 66 64 Light railways 38 34 35 34 32 Bus 284 277 270 269 267 Total 702 687 680 672 660 Passengers (million) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Total 436 427 422 417 410 Passenger kilometres (millions) Mode of transport 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 1 731 1 715 1 715 1 690 1 657 Commuter rail 1 226 1 218 1 211 1 177 1 147 Light railway 252 226 241 240 225 Bus 1 757 1 713 1 673 1 654 1 639 Total 4 966 4 872 4 840 4 761 4 668 Available seat kilometres (million) Mode of transport 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 4 131 4 475 4 289 4 390 4 502 Commuter rail 5 010 4 867 4 855 4 504 4 620 Light railway 1 082 944 921 938 941 Bus 5 569 5 849 5 609 5 336 5 723 Total 15 802 16 135 15 674 15 168 15 786 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 89 Public transport share (%) Entrance point 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 City entrance point 6–21 67 66 66 66 64 City entrance point peak periods 80 79 78 78 77 Number of tickets sold (in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 30-day tickets 4 379 4 010 4 056 3 969 3 792 Student tickets (up to and including the 2010 spring term) 47 88 77 36 – 90-day tickets 53 – – – – Season tickets 187 183 181 191 213 Annual and corporate tickets 18 15 4 3 1 Reduced price tickets and strip tickets – total coupons 129 105 136 927 143 086 111 000 51 822 Cash and pre-paid coupons 7 894 10 154 10 812 11 259 4 506 Zone tickets (SMS, SL Access, vending machines) 10 724 8 764 7 148 3 676 – Number of vehicles in SL transport services 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro carriages, older 242 242 244 264 264 New Metro carriages, C20 271 271 271 271 271 Commuter rail carriages, older 136 144 166 188 236 New commuter rail carriages X60 71 71 58 38 11 Light railway/tram carriages 194 184 188 188 188 Buses 2 050 2 016 1 929 1 897 1 924 Total 2 954 2 928 2 869 2 866 2 921 Number of passengers per weekday in winter (in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Total 722 705 701 687 675 Punctuality (% departures on time) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 93.5 94.8 94.1 92.7 91.0 Green line 91.8 92.6 92.2 91.6 87.8 Red line 94.0 95.3 94.7 93.0 92.9 Blue line 96.9 98.0 97.5 95.4 95.9 Commuter rail 84.8 90.4 87.7 84.5 81.1 Roslagsbanan light railway 90.6 95.4 96.0 92.9 93.5 Lidingöbanan line 94.3 95.2 95.6 95.2 95 Tvärbanan line 95.9 96.5 95.8 95.2 97.7 Nockebybanan line 99.0 98.3 98.4 98.6 99.1 Saltsjöbanan line 82.9 91.7 93.6 94.1 94.1 Spårväg City 96.9 Bus services 88.0 91.1 91.0 91.2 91.5 northern region 93.9 96.3 95.5 95.3 95.9 central region 83.4 88.3 88.4 88.5 88.6 – of which, city centre 76.7 82.0 82.8 83.7 84.3 southern region 93.2 95.4 95.3 95.7 95.5 90 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Cancelled departures (% of scheduled departures) 2010 * 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro 2.5 0.7 0.6 1.0 2.0 Green line 2.7 0.6 0.4 0.4 1.3 Red line 3.2 0.9 0.9 1.3 3.3 Blue line 1.4 0.6 0.6 1.3 1.3 Commuter rail 3.4 1.5 1.7 2.3 2.7 Roslagsbanan light railway 1.2 0.4 0.3 1.4 0.7 Lidingöbanan line 0.8 0.6 0.6 1.1 1.1 Tvärbanan line 1.0 0.9 0.9 1.4 1 Nockebybanan line 0.2 1.1 0.7 0.5 0.2 Saltsjöbanan line 1.1 0.5 0.6 0.3 0.6 Spårväg City 2.1 – – – – Bus services 0.4 0.3 1.7 0.3 0.4 northern region 0.3 0.2 1.2 0.2 0.3 central region 0.5 0.4 2.4 0.5 0.6 – of which, city centre 0.5 0.5 2.9 0.8 0.7 southern region 0.4 0.3 1.2 0.2 0.4 * Outcomes in 2010 were affected by problems with snow, cold and slippery conditions, particularly in February. Disruption to Metro services (more than 10 minutes) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Metro total 176 244 333 357 515 Green line 74 85 133 152 226 Red line 70 112 149 140 199 Blue line 32 47 51 65 90 Proportion of satisfied passengers and county residents (%) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Proportion of satisfied passengers (SL on board) 74 76 72 68 64 Proportion of dissatisfied passengers (SL on board) 10 9 11 14 15 Proportion of satisfied passengers (Swedish Public Transport Association) 64 68 62 60 58 Proportion of dissatisfied passengers (Swedish Public Transport Association) 5 4 6 9 9 Proportion of satisfied county residents (Swedish Public Transport Association) 60 66 60 55 55 Proportion of dissatisfied county residents (Swedish Public Transport Association) 9 7 8 11 11 Finance and investments Fare revenues, net expenses and operating subsidies at current prices (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fare revenues 5 370 5 217 5 099 4 476 4 049 Net expenses including profit/loss 11 469 11 162 10 784 9 822 8 637 Operating subsidies, SLL 6 099 5 945 5 685 5 346 4 580 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 91 Fare revenues, net expenses and operating subsidies at 2010 prices (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fare revenues 5 370 5 347 5 226 4 588 4 150 Net expenses including profit/loss 11 469 11 441 11 054 10 068 9 194 Operating subsidies, SLL 6 099 6 094 5 827 5 480 5 044 Fare revenues, net expenses and operating subsidies per passenger at 2010 prices (SEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Fare revenues per passenger 12.43 12.52 12.39 11.00 10.12 Net expenses including profit/loss per passenger 26.3 26.8 26.2 24.1 22.4 Operating subsidies, SLL per passenger 13.87 14.27 13.81 13.14 12.30 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating subsidies/taxable SEK 1.46 1.46 1.44 1.44 1.30 Tax funding level (%) 51.2 48.6 51.4 53.1 52 Gross investments 4 662 3 862 3 533 3 110 3 445 Fare revenues per ticket type at current prices (MSEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Period tickets 3 758 3 565 3 466 2 949 2 697 Pre-paid and discount coupons 1 192 1 261 1 291 1 129 740 Zone tickets and coupons 394 374 337 354 578 Other tickets 26 17 5 44 34 Price of 30-day card including VAT (SEK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Current prices 690 690 690 620 600 At 2010 prices 690 707 707 636 615 Operating figures for specialised public transport OPERATING FIGURES specialised public transport – 2010 (%) Proportion of satisfied passengers 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Time spent on journey (within 10 minutes) * 91 88 89 90 Taxi 93 94 93 93 93 Special vehicles 91 92 92 93 91 * No information available Number of journeys (in thousands) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Special transport services 3 037 2 894 2 775 2 765 2 869 Patient transport journeys 694 660 662 689 674 Total 3 789 3 612 3 437 3 454 3 543 92 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Definitions Accessibility Journeys Accessibility is a concept used to describe The number of times a passenger boards how well an activity, place or premises one of SL’s vehicles. works for people with disabilities. It includes the physical condition of the premises, Punctuality ­access to information and good treatment. Proportion of approved departures (a maximum of three minutes after and one minute AOD, Audio On Demand before the scheduled time) of scheduled A voice function whereby visability impared departures. passengers press a button and have information read out to them. RME Rape methyl ester is a biodiesel which is Average number of employees produced from rapeseed oil and methanol. The total number of hours worked for all RME is a biocomponent that can be mixed employees divided by the normal working with ordinary diesel on a large scale. time per employees. SLL City entrance point Stockholm County Council The entrances to the city centre, often the historic points of entry. Social media Social media refers to activities that comDegree day bine technology, social interaction and userThe number of degree days in a year is generated content. This may take the form the sum of the deviations in average daily of internet forums, blogs, Facebook and the temperatures from a reference temperaphoto sharing community Flickr. ture. Degree days are used among other things to continuously generate a fair Tax funding level assessment of how efficiently a property The proportion of the costs of SL’s activities is heated by its heating system since the covered by subsidies from Stockholm County energy consumption to heat a building is Council. closely correlated to the outdoor temperature. Full journey Every passenger’s journey, from departure to destination, including changes. Global Compact A strategic UN initiative which aims to get trade and industry to endeavour to promote ten universally acknowledged principles in the areas of human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Production: SL in collaboration with Geelmuyden.Kiese and Intellecta Infolog 2011 Printing: Intellecta Infolog, Solna 2011. Ecolabelled printing matter 341077, 3089. Photograph: Åsa Alenskog, Janne Danielsson, Hans Ekestang, Jeanette Hägglund, Marcus Kurn, Melker Larsson, Erja Lempinen, Jan E Svensson, Maria Wester. Folio: David Bicho. Johnér: Elliot Elliot, Ellinor Hall, Ulf Huett Nilsson. Scanpix: Bertil Ericson, Thomas Oneborg/SvD, Ulf Palm. iStockphoto. AB Storstockholms Lokaltrafik 105 73 Stockholm, Sweden Tel. +46 8 686 16 00 sl.se 94 SL ANNUAL REPORT 2010
