E URO TE CH UN GLOBA L C OMPAC T CO MMU NI CA TIO N O N PRO GRE SS Reporting Period : November 2009 February 2011 2 Index STATEMENT FROM EUROTECH CEO 5 1. SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS 9 1.1 Implemented Activities 9 1.2 Future Plans 10 2. SUPPORTING LABOUR RIGHTS 11 2.1 Implemented Activities 12 2.2 Future Plans 16 3. FOSTERING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 17 3.1 Implemented Activities 17 3.2 Future Plans 19 4. A STEP FURTHER: STRATEGIC APPROACH TO SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 21 5. FIGHTING CORRUPTION 23 6. SUPPORTING THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS 25 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT 27 THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS 27 3 4 Statement from Eurotech CEO I am glad to present Eurotech‟s first COP as a member of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in November 2009. Adhering to the UN Global Compact has been for Eurotech a natural evolution, since the Company has in its „DNA‟ the principles the Global Compact supports: within this valuable initiative we have found the proper frame to structure and plan the evolution of our commitment and activities in favor of social and environmental development. During this year we worked for supporting the ten Principles of the Global Compact, and for structuring their link to the strategy, the culture and the daily operating of Eurotech, and we renew our firm intent of continuous improvement in integrating and implementing the Principles of the Global Compact in our business activity and of advancing them within our sphere of influence. Ultimately, doing Business is about how to participate in creating a better world. This we think we do by running our business activities in a way that Is financially profitable in the medium and long term Explores innovative technology and business models Maximizes the efficiency of our operating Responds to high ethical and fairness standards Fosters the personal fulfillment and professional performance and development of our employees Cares for the environment, putting sustainability at the centre of our technological research and integrating it in our business strategy Makes sure we have a positive impact on the communities we are directly or indirectly linked to. In other words, all this ultimately means that our business is run in a sustainable way. At the core of its business, Eurotech is natively supporting environmental sustainability. In fact, the ubiquitous and pervasive use of computers has a fundamental role in making our Planet greener: if we want to make infrastructures and tools greener, we have to make them smarter, which means maximizing their output efficiency for minimizing their need of input resources. For doing so, we have to rely on computing technology for optimizing their operational processes and functioning. The more computers are pervading our infrastructures and tools, the more we will succeed in making them environmentally sustainable. 5 Eurotech has developed its business on its core competence in low-power miniaturized computers, and is a leader in developing and producing the building blocks of the Pervasive Computing Infrastructure: from boards, to systems, to ready to use products, to data device management solutions, Eurotech products contribute to reducing the need and to optimizing the use of energy, space and materials in industrial and service activities. Throughout the years, Eurotech fair and ethical acting towards all our stakeholders has been assured by our Code of Ethics and the continuous monitoring activity of our auditing and counseling bodies: the Remuneration Committee, the Internal Control Committee, the Related Parties Committee and the Supervisory Body. Eurotech has always promoted equal opportunities and diversity at work, which, together with continuous development and enhancement of our employees capabilities, has always been essential for our ability of creating value and a cornerstone of our competitive advantage. As well, Eurotech guarantees high standards for health preservation and security of its employees. As a member of the community, we have always contributed to social development by supporting cultural, educational, sporting activities in the communities we are acting in, and by supporting humanitarian actions in communities distant from us. Specifically focusing on the activities carried on during 2010, Research has been carried on, and Products have been developed and commercialized which play a major role in optimizing resources consumption improve people‟s life. Beyond supporting sustainability with our core business activities, becoming a member of the UN Global Compact has been the occasion for a deeper and broader understanding of how to integrate social and environmental development in our business strategy, and use it as a source of inspiration in our business development and management. We have focused on Promoting awareness on sustainability at different levels within Eurotech Assuring our employees participate to the company culture and strategy, are facilitated in their working activity and have improved access to professional development Acting at organizational level for empowering Eurotech initiatives and activities which represent a breakthrough in environmental sustainability Promoting actions with a positive impact on our community. 6 Moreover, we have created the organizational cornerstones and initiated the activities allowing us to further structure our focus and improve our performance on social and environmental sustainability: We have created at Corporate level a position for social and environmental sustainability management We have entered an agreement with The Natural Step which will help us in comprehensively integrating sustainability in our strategy and business management during 2011. We are proud of the results achieved in 2010, and we are sure we have laid down the right organizational structure, the initiatives and the future plans for fulfilling our ambitious commitment. My Best Regards, Roberto Siagri President & CEO 7 8 1. SUPPORTING HUMAN RIGHTS Eurotech is fully adhering to and supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In the countries where we are present with our subsidiaries we are strictly respecting the local legislations, which are fully adopting and respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1.1 Implemented Activities Community Involvement Supporting Local Communities. As a member of the communities where we are acting, we have a tradition of supporting cultural, educational, and sporting activities of positive social relevance to the community. Throughout 2009 and 2010 Eurotech has sponsored such activities for a total amount of 83.000 euro. Support of Activities of Humanitarian Relief. We think it is our duty to assure that results of our business activity benefit needing communities, not depending on how far are they from us. During 2010, we have donated to Médecins Sans Frontières 25.000 euro for supporting their activity of humanitarian relief. Products Development and Commercialization We are glad of having had during 2009 and 2010 the opportunity of developing the HW building blocks of products which allow people with severe physical disabilities to express themselves, and which facilitate their participation to the community: Eurotech products power the ES&S AutoMARK® Voter Assist Terminal, breakthrough ballot-marking technology that allows voters with disabilities and other special needs to mark a ballot privately and independently when using an optical scan voting system. Beyond this, the technology also provides language assistance to voters who are more comfortable speaking a different language or who need help to better understand written instructions. Eurotech provides the computing platform for the DynaVox Xpress unit, a device that allows people who cannot speak to communicate using a simple interface based on images. The Xpress unit is light, so a child affected by autism can use it throughout a school day to speak with teachers and classmates, and small, so an adult who may have had a stroke can use it without drawing undue attention to himor herself. 9 1.2 Future Plans Managing Suppliers and Contractors Integrating Human Rights Considerations in the Choice of Suppliers and Contractors. Sourcing our components globally, we cannot restrict ourselves to our immediate sphere of influence when considering the respect of human rights, and we want to proactively support their respect in the whole value chain where we are acting. From next year, we intend to include the performance with respect to human rights within our selection criteria of suppliers and contractors. Community Involvement Supporting Local and Distant Communities. We will continue our activity in support of local communities where we are acting and of distant communities, when the tragedy strikes and the need of assistance requires immediate and professional response. Strategy and Operations Management Promoting a Comprehensive Approach to Sustainability Management. For adopting a broader approach to sustainability management, during 2010 we have entered in an agreement with The Natural Step (http://www.naturalstep.org) for implementing the project “Eurotech Sustainability Management: a Step Further” for comprehensively integrating social and environmental sustainability into Eurotech‟s business strategy and activity. The project is described in section 4. 10 2. SUPPORTING LABOUR RIGHTS We are fully adhering and supporting The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In the countries where we are present with our subsidiaries, we are strictly respecting the local legislations, which are respecting The International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. In our Code of Ethics, Eurotech full respect of labour rights and universally accepted rules of employment legislation is declared and detailed. Employees are requested to report to the company any infringement of our Code of Ethics. Eurotech guarantees high standards for health preservation and security of its personnel, and promotes development and enhancement of their capabilities. As well, Eurotech guarantees equal employment opportunities, fair treatment, promotions on merit, freedom to join unions and to conduct collective negotiations. Eurotech rejects any form of forced labour, child labour and discrimination of any kind. 11 2.1 Implemented Activities Employees Management Facilitating Employees Access to Information on Eurotech Business Activity. Counting about 450 employees in Europe, US, and Asia, we have been active in working for assuring all our employees have access to information and can link with Eurotech, vision, business context, strategy, culture, organization, business activity: Activity Outcomes Survey on Eurotech Integration More than 100 people undertook the one-to-one survey interviews. In 2009, we conducted a survey across EU and US subsidiaries, asking to The findings of the survey gave rise to the implementation of the employees during personal interviews Eurotech Awareness Days and the Professional ID Card described in What was their perception of „being part of‟ the Eurotech Group this COP. What was their level of knowledge of Eurotech global organization, strategy and objectives, and of the activities in the different subsidiaries What they were wishing for the operational interaction and integration of the different Eurotech companies What they were wishing for their interaction with the employees in the various Eurotech subsidiaries Eurotech Awareness Days All Eurotech employees attended the Eurotech Awareness Day in the different companies. Between September 2009 and January 2010, we held in all Eurotech subsidiaries the Eurotech Awareness Day, an all-staff meeting in which All Eurotech employees have been informed comprehensively on Eurotech vision and mission, strategy , values, objectives, business activities, Eurotech vision, values, strategy objectives, organization, business organization were comprehensively presented and explained, and the activity. corporate and subsidiaries top managers were presenting themselves to the employees. 12 Assuring Employees Have Access to Operational Contacts and Knowledge Sources. Following the requests made by Eurotech employees in the Survey on Eurotech Integration , we have made sure that all employees have proper operational tools for accessing operational contacts and knowledge sources on a global scale within the company: Activity Outcomes Eurotech Professional ID Card In 2010, the employees in the European and US subsidiaries entered their professional data in the Eurotech Intranet. During January 2010, Eurotech employees were requested to fill a questionnaire over the Intranet the Professional ID Card in which they By end February 2011 the employees from the Japanese subsidiary are were asked to enter self-assessed data about their expected to enter their data. Role and Business Contact Details All Eurotech employees can access their colleagues professional data. Present professional role This facilitates them in fulfilling their working duties and in accessing on Skills a global scale Eurotech operational and knowledge resources. Education Spoken Languages Work Experience Professional Objectives The employees have permanent access to their set of data for updates. We have made available to all employees in Eurotech via the intranet the following data about their colleagues: Present Role and Business Contact Details Skills Spoken Languages Work Experience 13 Harmonizing the Employees Professional Appraisal System. Throughout 2010, we have worked for harmonizing the performance appraisal, objective setting, and the competences management of Eurotech employees: Activity Outcomes Employees Appraisal System During January and February 2011, the employees in Eurotech subsidiaries in EU are undertaking the appraisal interviews. During 2010 we have developed new Employees Appraisal System to be adopted across all the subsidiaries in Europe. Employees actively participate in the company‟s evaluation of their working performance and objectives, their competences and their need The adopted Appraisal System consists in one–to-one interviews, focusing on of training and professional development. Evaluating employees‟ professional performance Setting working objectives and evaluating their implementation During 2011, we will explore the adoption of this Appraisal Systems in our subsidiaries in US and Japan, with the aim of assuring that on a Evaluating professional competences global scale Eurotech employees are evaluated with the same systems Identifying competences development and training needs and criteria. Assessing the employee‟s opinion his work and the company Objectives appraisal and settings will be renewed three times a year, while working and competences appraisal will be renewed once a year. 14 Community Involvement Lowering the entry barriers to the Job Market: the „Unlocking Innovative Talent‟ Program. In these last two years of economic downturn, accessing the Job Market has been especially difficult for young people. The best way Eurotech has for acting on this is leveraging on its business activity and network by identifying young talented people, allowing them to prove their ideas, nurturing their talent, developing their professional skills, and access the best professional path. Activity Outcomes „Unlocking Innovative Talent‟ Program Within the first half of 2011, the selected trainees will start their Training Program in ETH Lab. During 2010 we have worked for setting up the project Unlocking Innovative Talent, a training program dedicated to bachelor degree graduates and PhD The Program will give to the trainees a robust and qualifying working graduates who will have the possibility of spending 2 years working and experience which will help them in finding and being considered for studying in ETH Lab, Eurotech Talent and Innovation „Factory‟. further interesting working opportunities. The Training Program consists mainly in the following activities: Whether they will continue working for Eurotech or not, the experience Participating in ETH Lab research activities they will have been exposed to will make an important difference in Evaluating new technologies and business ideas their ability of entering the Job Market. Continuous on the job training Institutional Training Travelling worldwide for scouting technological and business model innovative ideas At the end of the 2 years training, the trainees will be considered for positions in Eurotech subsidiaries or in ETH Lab. The attraction for the „Unlocking Innovative Talent‟ Program has started in January 2011. 15 2.2 Future Plans Employees Management Assuring employees access to operational and knowledge sources. In 2011 we will organize further activities in order to keep Eurotech employees updated on the company‟s strategy, objectives, organization, business activities and results. Harmonization of Employees Appraisal. In 2011 we will investigate the adoption of the Appraisal System of the European subsidiaries in the ones in US and Japan, in order to allow all Eurotech employees to access the same system and criteria of performance appraisal and professional development. Managing Suppliers and Contractors Integrating Labour Rights Considerations in the Choice of Suppliers and Contractors. Sourcing our components globally, we cannot restrict ourselves to our immediate sphere of influence when considering the respect of labour rights, and we want to proactively support their respect in the whole value chain where we are acting. From next year, we intend to include the performance with respect to labour rights within our selection criteria of suppliers and contractors. Community Involvement Lowering the Entry Barriers to the Job Market. We will continue supporting the access of young talents in the Job Market. We intend to renew the Unlocking Innovative Talent Program in the next years. Strategy and Operations Management Promoting a Comprehensive Approach to Sustainability Management. For adopting a broader approach to sustainability management, during 2010 we have entered in an agreement with The Natural Step (http://www.naturalstep.org) for implementing the project “Eurotech Sustainability Management: a Step Further” for comprehensively integrating social and environmental sustainability into Eurotech business strategy and activity. The project is described in section 4. 16 3. FOSTERING ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY We are fully supporting The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. At the core of its business, Eurotech is natively supporting environmental sustainability. In fact, the ubiquitous and pervasive use of computers has a fundamental role in making our Planet greener by making infrastructures and tools smarter, maximizing their output efficiency for minimizing their need of input resources. Eurotech is a leader in developing and producing the low-power, miniaturized building blocks of the Pervasive Computing Infrastructure: from boards, to systems, to ready to use devices, to data device management solutions, Eurotech products contribute to reducing the need and to optimizing the use of energy, space and materials in industrial and service activities. 3.1 Implemented Activities Research activities Harvesting Energy from Non-Conventional Renewable Energy Sources. Eurotech research activity is fully technology pushed and takes place in a dedicated subsidiary, ETH Lab, which carries on research activities in collaboration with top Universities and Research Institutions. With particular relation with environmental sustainability, since 2007 ETH Lab, together with University of Bologna, has carried on research on piezoelectric harvesting devices able to harvest energy from vibrations rectifying antennas (rectennas) which are able to absorb the dispersed energy from radio frequency source, e.g. a neighbouring mobile phone or a Wi-Fi access point, by intercepting the electromagnetic field and transducing it into electrical energy. These harvesting systems can be used, in place of or in addition to batteries, to supply energy to devices that are required to operate where power lines are absent. ETH Lab is also involved in the project denominated: END Models, Solutions, Methods and Tools for EnergyAware Design”, funded within the Eniac Joint Undertaking of the European Commission, aiming at the development methods and technology element enabling the for the design of Green Electronic systems, i.e. that make use of renewable energy sources for the extraction of the power required for their operations. 17 Products Development and Commercialization Minimizing Energy Consumption. During 2009 and 2010, we have continued to focus on the development of products which inherently minimize resources consumption: from fostering moving bits instead of atoms, to allowing optimal resource management through IT, to harvesting energy from the environment, to drastically reducing energy consumption during their usage, to minimizing the use of resources in their production… We are particularly proud of having developed and commercialized computing devices such as “Aurora”, one of the most impacting innovations in the HPC Market, which besides its outstanding computational performance, allows up to 60% savings through lowered emission of operational heating, improved efficiency in energy use and an innovative system of liquid cooling The “Catalyst Module” family of products, a class of energy efficient devices conjugating the convenience and performance of a PC-like environment with one of the lowest power consumption figures on the market for this type of computing units. Organizational Development Fostering Sustainability Management. Since 2011 we have created a Corporate position for Eurotech social and environmental sustainability management. Business Development of Solutions for Device Data Management via the Cloud. Cloud Computing Technology, enabling non-local data management via centralized and optimized computing resources, allows dynamic usage of IT capacity according to real-time needs of computational power, and full scalability of IT infrastructure thus minimizing upfront IT deployment and dead capacity and maximizes the efficiency in IT projects deployment. Eurotech has since the beginning understood the business potential of this technological innovation and its significant impact in minimizing energy consumption, IT resources consumption and material investment. During 2010, Eurotech has deployed the necessary organization and business model for supporting the Business of Device Data Management via the Cloud. Activity Outcomes Set up of the Company Isidorey Isidorey‟s business activities have started. The company is presently employing 6 people. In the US, Eurotech has participated in the strategic, financial and operational set-up of Isidorey, a company completely dedicated to developing the necessary SW for enabling Device Data Management via Cloud. „Isidorey Cloud‟ is a complete, scalable infrastructure that, working together with ESF, Eurotech Everyware Software Framework, enables Eurotech to offer to the Market Solutions for Device Data Management via the Cloud. 18 Learning Learning Insights form Singularity University. In order to foster internal knowledge and discussion on the major interaction between technological innovations, Eurotech activity, and environmental sustainability, we have asked to a participant to the 2010 Summer Course of Singularity University* to hold a series of workshops in Eurotech for discussing these topics with our strategy, marketing, business development and technical managers. The workshops have started in January 2011, and will continue till April 2011. *Singularity University Mission is “to assemble, educate, and inspire leaders who understand and develop exponentially advancing technologies to address humanity's Grand Challenges”. 3.2 Future Plans Business Management: Managing Suppliers and Contractors Integrating Environmental Considerations in the Choice of Suppliers and Contractors. Sourcing our components globally, we cannot restrict ourselves to our immediate sphere of influence when considering the respect environmental sustainability, and we want to proactively support their respect in the whole value chain where we are acting. From next year, we intend to include the performance with respect to environmental sustainability within our selection criteria of suppliers and contractors. Strategy and Operations Management Promoting a Comprehensive Approach to Sustainability Management. For adopting a broader approach to sustainability management, during 2010 we have entered in an agreement with The Natural Step (http://www.naturalstep.org) for implementing the project Eurotech Sustainability Management: a Step Further for comprehensively integrating social and environmental sustainability into Eurotech business strategy and activity. The project is described in section 4. 19 20 4. A STEP FURTHER: STRATEGIC APPROACH TO SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY During 2010 we have worked for fostering environmental sustainability awareness within our employees and we have initiated an approach to sustainability management which more comprehensively includes our business strategy, management, organization, and processes. Integrating Sustainability in our Business Strategy and Management. For adopting a broader approach to sustainability management, during 2010 we have entered in an agreement with The Natural Step (http://www.naturalstep.org) for implementing the project Eurotech Sustainability Management: a Step Further for more comprehensively integrating social and environmental sustainability into Eurotech business strategy and activity. Activity Outcomes Project „Eurotech Sustainability Management: A Step Further‟ The foreseen outcomes are Developed capacities in sustainability The project aims at integrating and making social and environmental sustainability a source of management inspiration for the company business strategy and operating activities, in order to enter in a Clearer strategy and long-term guidelines for self-fuelling virtuous circle in which the company objectives and activities are naturally sustainability management aligned with environmental and social sustainability goals. Identification of short and medium terms The project is starting in March 2011, and will be implemented during the whole year 2011, projects of sustainability management involving Eurotech managers and employees. It will consist in Implementation of the identified projects Learning Tools of sustainability management Exploring the integration of sustainability into Eurotech strategy 360 degrees assessment of Eurotech sustainability management Laying down a long-term strategy for sustainability management for Eurotech Identifying shortand medium-term sustainability management projects Implementation of the identified projects The project will focus on areas of such as Marketing Communication, Product Development and Management, Supply Chain Management, Material Management, Process Management, Manufacturing Management. The project will involve the Corporate employees together with the ones of the Italian subsidiary. This will allow us to act within a scope and a scale assuring focus, and lean acting, feed-back and learning. Once we have matured experience, we will develop further projects of sustainability management involving all the Eurotech subsidiaries. 21 Fostering Awareness and Commitment within Eurotech. Employees awareness, support and commitment is a pre-requisite for assuring Eurotech efforts in sustainability management become successful results. During 2010, we have worked for rising the awareness of our employees on social and environmental sustainability, and for gaining their commitment to participate in the implementation of the future sustainability management projects. In various institutional occasions involving Eurotech top managers, the issue of social and environmental sustainability has been rosen and widely discussed, and the business case for sustainability for Eurotech and its Industry has been presented. Eurotech top managers are now aligned on Eurotech plans of sustainability management. In 2009, we have communicated to the employees in all Eurotech subsidiaries the steps undertaken in supporting the UN Global Compact, and we are now distributing to the employees in all Eurotech subsidiaries the COP on our first year of participation to the UN Global Compact. By informing all the employees of our commitment, plans and actions of sustainability management, we aim at promoting transparency in our acting and at fostering employees engagement on sustainability. During 2011, we will continue to communicate to our employees the information on our activity in sustainability management. We will communicate the objectives, activities and results of the project Eurotech Sustainability Management: A Step Further to the employees in all Eurotech subsidiaries. This will contribute to rise awareness and support within Eurotech employees, who will take part in further projects of sustainability management involving all Eurotech subsidiaries. 22 5. FIGHTING CORRUPTION We are fully supporting The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Eurotech Code of Ethics explicitly condemns any form of bribery or corruption in business management. Employees are requested to report to the company any case of actual or potential corruption. Moreover, the risk of corruption and bribery is prevented by the activity of the following bodies: The Internal Control Committee, in charge of monitoring Eurotech exposure to risk in the different business management areas. During 2009 and 2010 the Internal Control Committee has not reported any anomaly or exposure to risk of corruption and bribery. The Supervisory Body, in charge of monitoring Eurotech procedures and activities in order to avoid risk of mismanagement or law infringements in the areas of Relations with the Public Administration, Working Safety, and Intellectual Property. The Supervisory Body conducts every year audits on specific areas of our business activities. During 2010 it carried out audits on Calculation of Due Taxes Procedures assuring Safety at Working Sponsoring Initiatives Representation Expenses Projects financed by public administration No anomalies have been reported by the audits. In order to avoid risk of anomalous business interactions benefiting irregularly specific persons related to Eurotech, during 2010 we have established the Related Parties Committee, which is in charge of monitoring business interactions between Eurotech and Eurotech managers, administrators or parties and companies related to them, in order to make sure these business interactions are not happening at conditions and value out of the market benchmarks. 23 24 6. SUPPORTING THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Eurotech is fully supporting the Millennium Development Goals. We think technology has a impressive potential in contributing to the fulfillment of the Millennium Development Goals, and we feel the responsibility of making this belief a concrete reality. In the last years it has become evident how the development and adoption of innovative technology, together with the implementation of proper business model addressing the needs of the „Bottom of The Pyramid‟, can make a difference in allowing the poorest layers of society access to energy, to credit, medical care, material resources, in fighting un-equalities in economic eco-ecosystems, in fostering education… Not only this is happening; it is happening in a inherently long-term self-sustaining way, since financially profitable and linked to the development of business activities, not only to charitable initiatives. Eurotech has decided to accept the challenge of participating in this: during 2011 we will explore the potential of the application of Eurotech products for addressing the needs of the „Bottom of The Pyramid‟, and the business viability of this opportunity. 25 26 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. THE MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS Goal 1: Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Goal 2: Achieve universal primary education Goal 3: Promote gender equality and empower women Goal 4: Reduce child mortality rate Goal 5: Improve maternal health Goal 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases Goal 7: Ensure environmental sustainability Goal 8: Develop a global partnership for development 27 28
