UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE “Communication on Progress” 2011 CSO’s Statement Tata Power is in the sixth year of reporting “Communication on Progress” under Global Compact Initiative. Tata Power is a member of Tata Group, which is well known for its business ethics, labor welfare, customer centric policies, Corporate Sustainability and Social Responsibility. Tata Power, a pioneer in the private power sector in India, has historically been committed to the mission of improving the quality of life, community service and environment enrichment through afforestation, water conservation, nurturing local species of fauna and social developmental programmes in its areas of operations. In the current scenario of Climate Change, Tata Power has identified Sustainable Growth as an integral part of the Mission statement. Tata Power has a Sustainability Council since 2008 and has defined Sustainability as an ‘Eight Fold Path’ for the organization. This Eight Fold Path covers the various aspects of community, environment, biodiversity, energy efficiency and natural resources. The organization has also formulated an innovative index termed as Green Manufacturing Index to monitor and act on various plans to address the Eight Fold Path. Tata Power is continuing its program with school children on energy efficiency and conservation methods in day-to-day life. This program has been extended beyond the city of Mumbai and reached different cities across the country. We have now sensitised over 11 million students. More than 10000 energy champions have saved 3 million units (kWhr) of electricity. Our drive to sensitize the entire workforce on sustainability and climate change and to address the lifestyle changes within the organization continues. Tata Power continues on its growth path. Renewable energy power generation will form a significant part of the portfolio. It has increased its wind generating capacity to 226 MW. In addition two clean energy plants each of 120 MW at Haldia in West Bengal and Jamshedpur in Jharkhand have been operational. The Haldia plant is based on waste heat recovery whereas the Jamshedpur plant is based on hat recovery from petcoke production gases. In addition to the existing hydro power generating units, Tata Power is further exploring new hydro based power generation capacity of over 900 MW in the northern parts of India. Further, Tata Power is also evaluating the applicability of various renewable based power generation technologies to be scaled up to commercial production. Energy efficiency, resource conservation and renewable energy generation are the key focus areas for the sustainable growth of the organization. Tata Power is committed to conduct its business by adhering to the ten principles of the Global Compact Initiative not only in letter but in spirit as well. Dr. Avinash Patkar Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) Tata Power June 10, 2011 Systems Tata Power’s business is guided by the “Tata Code of Conduct” (TCOC), a document that all employees are signatory to, and bound to abide by. This code has been revisited and modified this year to keep pace with the national/international social, business and legal changes. The code is comprehensive in content and includes issues of business ethics, environmental responsiveness, fair and transparent business practices. Besides, the Company has documented policy statements on Insider Trading, Business dealings, HIV and AIDS, Media, Whistle Blower, Anti Sexual harassment, Environment, Safety & Health, corporate Sustainability, Affirmative Action and Quality. Apart from Technical/ functional manuals; manuals on Safety, Administration and Corporate Identity direct the operations of the Company. The Environment and Safety cell has been integrated and enlarged giving due importance that the subject deserves. A Review Schedule ensures appropriate checks and balances on implementation and constant improvement to the processes. All thermal generating stations are ISO 9000, 14000 and OHSAS certified. As an improvement, the Company ahs adopted the Process Based Management System (called the EPM – Enterprise Process Management), based on the framework of APQC (American Productivity in Quality Centre). The EPM is a holistic framework covering all facets of Business Excellence. With respect to the principles related to human rights, the Company has taken following actions: 1. Protect the human rights of employees 2. Impart them training in latest skills and introduce performance linked bonus 3. Establish programs to promote the general health and welfare of employees – e.g. Annual Medical examination for all employees, Group Medical Insurance, HV/AIDS awareness 4. Ensure that security arrangements do not cause human rights violations. With respect to the principles related to labor, the Company has taken following actions 1. Allow workmen to freely choose whether or not they wish to set up or join trade units and bargain collectively 2. Enable workmen’s representatives to carry out their functions by allowing them to meet on company premises, post trade union notices in the premises, etc. Joint committees of Officers and workmen address SHE and cultural matters 3. Utilize adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment 4. Eliminate any form of discrimination with respect to gender, caste or creed in recruitment, service conditions, training and career development With respect to the principles related to the environment, the Company has taken following actions 1. Use more environmentally benign inputs and outputs in product development 2. Conduct environmental impact assessments for new installations with transparency 3. Formalize commitment through an environment supportive management system approach such as ISO 14001 at its generating stations. With respect to principle regard corruption, bribery and extortion, the company has taken following action 1. Fraud Risk Mitigation Plan is reviewed and monitored quarterly. Global Compact Company's Policy Specific Actions Measures Outcomes with key results and Data/ Result Review Principles & Direction taken during the measurements collected forum current financial from the year internal departments/ functions (champions) Principle 1 The principles of Company policies Employee Employee Engagement survey for 2010 has been HRCorporate ESS Business should support international and guidelines Engagement completed. Action and respect the protection Declaration of Human ensure human rights Score plans are of internationally rights are followed by compliance across converted proclaimed human rights. the company. Its the system. to Voices policies support, initiative respect and protect the and rolled Human rights of its out across direct as well as company indirect employees Formulation of CR No. of • The Community Relations of Tata Power has CSR Group In CSR Policy, CR Strategy Policies reached out 2,80,826 people of 50,353 households Review and Principles of added/ in 176 villages, 14 districts of seven states in India. Community modified Population covers 12% Scheduled Caste (SC), 18% Engagement Scheduled Tribe (ST) and remaining 70% General respectively. community including Other Backward Classes (OBC). • Income Generation o The BPO at Khopoli has 213 persons from communities employed, where 29% belong to SCs and STs and earning approx. Rs 13 lakhs per month. o 532 youth have been trained in various vocations o 1,480 members from 89 Self-Help Groups (SHGs) have saved approx. Rs 12 lakhs. o 324 farmers have been supported for agriculture and sericulture. • Energy and environment o 4,56,750 saplings planted o Awareness on energy and environment covered 3,726 people. o Alternative energy: Five bio-gas plant and 100 efficient chullahs installed • Healthcare o Mobile medical services and health camps by Tata Power serviced 19,640 patients o HIV/ AIDS awareness covered 45,890 people across Mumbai. o 53 units of blood donated by employees in various camps. • Education o Special coaching program benefited approx. 13,000 students of schools in our communities around Maithon (Jharkhand) o Computer and English coaching benefited 395 youth including students. o Education materials were provided to 691 students. o One year long Sports (Football) coaching arranged for 38 students at Haldia • Social welfare o Employee volunteering: 1,009 volunteers have contributed 6,242 hours for various social and environmental issues. o Employees contributed Rs 20,000 and donated food materials to Orphanage at Jojobera. Jharkhand o During National Wild life week, Quiz Competition organized at Naraj Marthapur where 22 school teams participated. o 577 women participated in International Women’s Day Program. o Supported various programs such as § Rann Utsav, promoted by Gujarat state government, § Tribal Cultural program at Jojobera, Jharkhand § Cricket Tournament at Naraj Marthapur, Odisha § CSR Conference (Turnaround in mineral industry: Role of CSR) at Dhanbad by Maithon; Jharkhand § Tubectomy laparoscopic camp and National Deaf Cricket Tournament held at Jamshedpur, Jharkhand • Infrastructure o Eight water bodies (well, bore well and pond) renovated to provide safe drinking water. o 33 sanitation units were constructed. o 7.5 km road asphalted at our hydro power operations in Maharashtra o 12 R.O. plants in schools and one unit of 1000 lph in a village were installed in partnership with WASMO (Government of Gujarat). o Two community halls, one check dam and one culvert were built. • Recognition o Tata Power was recognized at the following domain platforms § Business world FICCI-SEDF Corporate Social Award § Pinnacle Group Singapore supported Global CSR Award 2010 Affirmative Action Number of Tied up with two Industrial Training Institutes (ITI) in CSR Group Policy for underinitiatives remote areas for imparting training and improving privileged community employability to rural youth. formulated as per Tata Power is in the process of developing various Tata Group short/ long duration programmes to cater to the Guidelines for needs of Scheduled Caste / Scheduled Tribe improving the 4 Es(SC/ST) students. Employment, employability, Education, Entrepreneurship Web based system All During the year 601 employees succeeded in Chief Ethics Apex called employees completing the web based training. Counselor and Committee 'SADACHARAN'was are team Review launched in 2009-10 expected to for training take the employees on web based expected Ethical training. behavior Policy for Sexual A mechanism for Concerns Punitive action for cases reported Chief Ethics Quarterly Harassment is in addressing raised and Counselor and reviewed place complaints related to action taken team by Apex sexual harassment Committee across the chaired by organization has MD. been implemented. The existance of a committee to address issues and specialised woman councilor for female employees are in place. Concerns redressal Efforts made to Concerns 83 % concerns resolved in 60 days. Chief Ethics Quarterly 60 address concerns resolution Counselor and reviewed within 60 days time team by Apex Committee chaired by MD. Consumer Consumer meets are complaints/ Overall Customer Satisfaction Index for reporting Consumer Annual Satisfaction & delight held regularly Suggestions period: 85 Relations Customer by policy of , Customer Department Satisfactio transparency. Satisfaction n survey index Principle 2 CSR Policy Public hearing and Number of Project Group In projects Business should ensure Rehabilitation and interaction with Public Wind power project at Visapur. Review that they are not complicit resettlement project site people hearings/ EIA Solar power project at Mulshi. in human rights abuses (R & R Policy) held. View of land carried out losers, villagers expectations and issues are heard. Environmental Impact Assessment is also carried out. Principle 3 The Company follows The Company has Number of Monthly meetings are held by HR & concerned Regular In HR review Business should uphold various laws enacted an IR Cell to deal regular Divisional Heads with local union Meetings were the freedom of association by the Government, with all Union related meetings representatives for resolving issues. held by HR and the effective as applicable to the issues. Corporate at recognition of the right to establishment from Clause 23 of TCOC also supports citizenship Divisions. collective bargaining time to time. These For officers, open and Freedom of Association. laws are in dialogues, MD' s conformance to the dialogues are held. International Labor Organization (ILO). Company has recognized Trade Union for bargainable category of workmen The Union submits Implementation of COD status Continued the Performance Linked Award for HRCorporate In HR review Charter of Demands the settlement bargainable staff. The settlement also covers (CoD) for revising the signed for revising opportunity for Training, Guidelines for allowances and the benefits to Production and productivity, efficient utilization benefits for bargainable category of working time, Co-operation bargainable category employees for period of employees. The of 4 years Industrial Relation (IR) committee constituted to discuss various issues raised by Union and for discussing the CoD along with Union representatives. After negotiations, terms of settlement are finalized. The Settlement signed with the Union is registered as per law. The duration of the settlement is for 4 years Principle 4 The Company abides The Company Number of Audit by external agencies under way on Legal / Monthly Business should support by the law of the conducts periodic cases of forced compliance of various labor laws. Administration / meeting of the elimination of all forms land. The Factories internal audits, third labor HR HRof forced and compulsory Act, The BIR Act, party audits and departments Corporate labor Contract Labor regular inspection by No cases of forced labor. Abolition and the government Regulation Act, etc labor officers which helps in validating the adherence to the various labor laws ensuring proper service conditions of employees, working hours, health, safety and working conditions, etc. Principle 5 The Company abides All contractors are % of 100% compliance Administrative All SBU Business should uphold by the law of the made aware of contractors Departments. heads the effective abolition of land. The Factories company’s complied to the child labour. Act, The BIR Act, commitment to these rules Contract Labour laws and are asked Abolition and to sign a declaration Regulation Act, etc. to follow the same. Employee State % of 100% compliance Operational Monthly Insurance Scheme contractors Departments meetings of (ESIS) registration of complied to the all SBU heads all the contract rules labour is made mandatory for all the contractors, which ensures that children are not employed for the jobs. Principle 6 Company has a clear Job opportunities are Number of 100% jobs HRCorporate In HR review Business should uphold and transparent posted on Tata advertisements the elimination of policy of employment Power web site for jobs in discrimination in respect opportunities, and no giving opportunity to public domain / of employment and discrimination of any all. The entrance intranet occupation. kind is done in written test also is respect of web based so that employment and people from all occupation. across the regions can easily appear. Intra group movement opportunity also provided through open job posting. TCOC clause 4 All new recruits are % new recruits 100% officers pledged to follow TCOC HRCorporate Chief Ethics promises given a copy of covered Counselor equal opportunities to TCOC and all encouraged to freely raise any concerns Principle 7 All operation Environmental, Number of Three processes for Environment, Fourteen Data is Yearly review Business should support divisions have robust Sustainability and processes processes for Safety and five processes for received from of EPM by precautionary approach to environmental safety policies are developed Sustainability have been developed and generating internal Environmental Challenge management system, implemented at all under deployed. stations. Data auditors in conformance with the existing locations Enterprise is developed, State and Central Process Model generated, Government Rules (EPM) recorded and and Regulations, to documentation address a made internally precautionary within various approach to departments. environmental challenges. Annual % compliance 100% compliance to the Statutory requirement Data results Environmental environmental at all the generating stations of Tata Power received from Audit by Cstatements are all the depts. SHE , submitted to the Of Trombay Internal Audit Government Thermal by Audit authority as per their Stations viz. committee guidelines Operation, yearly Performance, Chemical, Mechanical, Electrical, Civil & Instrumentation Tata Power' s OHSAS Certificate continued Data is Environmental Trombay Thermal Certificate developed, Audit by CPower station generated, SHE. continued with recorded and Surveillance OHSAS 18001 documentation audit once in certification internally made a year within various departments. Tata Power' s three ISO 14001 Certificate continued Data is Environmental Hydro stations certificate developed, Audit by Ccontinued with ISO generated, SHE. 14001-2004 recorded and Surveillance Environment documentation audit once in Management internally made a year System within various departments. Tata Power' s Integrated Certificate continued Data is Environmental Jojobera division has Management developed, Audit by Ccontinued with System (IMS) generated, SHE. Integrated certificate recorded and Surveillance Management documentation audit once in System internally made a year within various departments. Project registered for Number of Wind Power project at Khandke: CDM potential Data is Frequency of CDN benefits by carbon credits developed by review is as UNFCCC external per UNFCCC agency and requirement internally during monitoring Principle 8 Company is following 1) The company is Annual Report Submission of yearly report to statutory Data is Environmental Business should its Mission statement responsible for to MPCB, authority (MPCB) received from Audit by Cundertake initiatives to “Innovating and submitting “Charter Corporate all generating SHE promote greater deploying cutting for Environment And Responsibility CO2 footprint report for FY 11 is under stations Yearly review environmental edge eco-friendly Protection” (CREP) Report as per preparation. by Audit responsibility technologies” & including action GRI G3 committee. TCOC (Clause 8) . plans to Guidelines CDP report for FY 11 is prepared and uploaded All strategies and Maharashtra State on CDP website. business plans of Pollution Control Tata Power are Board (MPCB). directed towards 2) Green achieving the above. Manufacturing Index covering statutory and non-statutory parameters is introduced at operating divisions. 3) Corporate Sustainability protocol score is introduced. The Fly ash % Utilization Tata Power has achieved 100% fly ash Data is Yearly review generated from the utilization target for its Trombay Thermal Power received from by Power plants is used Station. performance at government as replacement of Bottom ash is disposed in ash pond approved Trombay and authorities like cement in ready mix by regulatory agency. Jojobera MPCB, CEA. concrete. Half yearly review by internal audit. Clause – 8 of TCOC Number of Number of concerns Data is Environmental Ensures concerns zero received by Audit by CEnvironmental environment SHE Preservation department of Trombay & Jojobera Principle 9 As a commitment to 1) Total capacity of Installed 1) Completed installation and commissioning of Data received Monthly Business should Continuous wind power has capacity in MW 3 MW Solar Power plant at Mulshi. from project review encourage the improvement of the increased to 206 2) Completed installation and commissioning of group meeting by development and diffusion environmental MW 3 kW Hybrid Solar-Micro Wind turbine at management of environmentally friendly performance, it is 2) Initiatives like Trombay technology. company’s objective Solar based LED 3) Completed installation and commissioning of to minimize the lighting, Energy 60 kW Rooftop Solar Power system at quantity of waste efficient LED lighting Corporate centre Carnac, Mumbai. generation and 3) Installation of energy consumption solar micro-wind from the processes hybrid by installing eco4) Installation of friendly Organic waste technology, or by converter increasing the use of renewable source of energy. Company will develop and use ecofriendly technology for safe production, transportation, use and disposal of products. Company shall extend knowledge by conducting or supporting research on the Health, Safety and Environmental effects of our products, processes and waste materials Trombay Thermal Treatment of Ongoing Environment Monthly Power Station oily sludge dept. Trombay review continued in-house Initiated burning of Hazardous Waste under meeting by Ctechnology in guidance of CPCB. SHE collaboration with TERI for disposal of oily sludge in eco friendly manner. Principle 10 Adherence to Tata Clause added in Number of No concerns Monthly Business should work Code of Conduct – order copy to all concerns received. review of against corruption in all its Clauses 5,6,7,17, 20 vendors explaining received Central forms, including extortion & 25 the TCOC being & resolved. Sourcing and bribery followed by Tata Group (CSG). Power and encourages them to freely lodge any complaints / concerns. Fraud Risk Number of Fraud Risk mitigation plan Risk Periodical/ Mitigation Plan is concerns/ Management Quarterly reviewed and Fraud and Internal review of monitored at the polices Audit Group. Internal quarterly Risk Audit/MD Management Sub Committee meetings held during the year. Report on the investigation carried out is reviewed by the Management and actions taken Certain concerns monitored periodically. raised were also investigated by the internal auditors and dealt with appropriately. Annexures Clause No. Refer Item Clauses Equal Opportunities Employer: A Tata Company shall provide equal opportunities to all its employees and all qualified applicants for employment without regard to their race, caste, religion, color, ancestry, martial status, gender, sexual orientation, age, nationality, ethnic origin or disability. Human Resource Polices should promote diversity and equality in the workplace, as well as compliance with all labor laws, 4 Principle 6 while encouraging the adoption of international best practices. Employees of a Tata Company shall be treated with dignity and in accordance with the Tata policy to maintain a work environment free of all forms of harassment, whether physical, verbal or psychological. Employee policies and practices shall be administered in a manner consistent with applicable laws and other provisions of this code, respect for the right to privacy and the right to be heard, and that in all matters equal opportunity is provided to those eligible and decisions are based on merit. Gifts and Donations: A Tata Company and its employees shall neither receive nor offer or make, directly or indirectly, any illegal payments, remuneration, gifts, donations or comparable benefits, which are intended to or perceived to obtain business or un-competitive favors for the conduct of its business. The company shall cooperate with governmental authorities 5 in efforts to eliminate all forms of bribery, fraud and corruption. However, a Tata Company and its employees may, with full disclosure, accept, and offer nominal gifts, provided such gifts are customarily given and/ or are of a commemorative nature. Each company shall have a policy to clarify its rules and regulations on gifts and entertainment, to be used for the guidance of its employees. Government Agencies: A Tata Company and its employees shall not, unless mandated under applicable laws offer or give Principle 10 any company funds or property as donation to any government agencies or their representatives, directly or through 6 intermediaries, in order to obtain any favorable performance of official duties. A Tata Company shall comply with government procurement regulations, and shall be transparent in all its dealings with government agencies as applicable. Political Non-alignment: A Tata company shall be committed to and support the constitution and governance systems of the country in which it operates. A Tata Company shall not support any specific political party or candidate for political office. The 7 company' s conduct shall preclude any activity that could be interpreted as mutual dependence/favor with any political body and shall not offer or give any company funds or property as donations, directly or indirectly, to any specific political party, candidate or campaign. Health, Safety and Environment: A Tata Company shall strive to provide a safe, healthy, clean and ergonomic working environment for its people. It shall prevent the wasteful use of natural resources and be committed to improving the environment, particularly with regard to emission of greenhouse gases, and shall endeavor to offset the effect of climate 8 Principle 8 change in all spheres of its activities. A Tata Company, in the process of production and sale of its products and services, shall strive for economic, social and environmental sustainability. Conflict of Interest: An employee or director of a Tata company shall always act in the interest of the company, and ensure that any business or personal association which he / she may have does not involve a conflict of interest with the operations 20 Principle 10 of the company and his / her role therein. An employee, including the Executive director (other than independent director) of a Tata Company, shall not accept a position of responsibility in any other non-Tata Company or not-for profit organization without specific sanction. The above shall not apply to (whether for remuneration or otherwise): Nominations to the Boards of Tata Companies, joint ventures or associate companies Memberships/positions of responsibility in professional bodies wherein such association will benefit the employee/Tata Company Nominations/memberships in Government committees/bodies or organizations Exceptional circumstances as determined by the Competent Authority Competent authority in case of any employee shall be the chief executive who in turn shall report all such exceptional cases to the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. In case of the chief executive and directors, the Group Corporate Centre shall be the competent authority. An employee of a Tata Company shall not engage in any business, relationship or activity which might conflict with the interest of his/her Company or the Group. A conflict of interest, actual or potential may arise where directly or indirectly (a) An employee of a Tata Company engages in a business, relationship or activity with anyone who is party to a transaction with his/her Company, (b) An employee is in a position to derive an improper benefit personally or to any of his/her relatives by making or influencing decisions relating to any transaction and (c) An independent judgment of the Company' s or Group' s best interest cannot be exercised. The main areas of such actual or potential conflicts of interest shall include the following: a) An employee or a full time director of a Tata company conducting business of his/ her company or being in a position to influence a decision with regard to his / her company' s business with a supplier or customer where his/her relative is a principal officer or representative, resulting in a benefit to him/her or his / her relative. b) Award of benefits such as increase in salary or other remuneration, posting, promotion or recruitment of a relative of an employee of a Tata Company where such an individual is in a position to influence the decision with regard to such benefits. c) The interest of the company or the Group can be compromised or defeated. Notwithstanding that such or other instances of conflict of interest exist due to any historical reasons, adequate and full disclosure by the interested employees shall be made to the company' s management. It is also incumbent upon every employee to make a full disclosure of any interest which the employee or the employee' s immediate family, including parents, spouse and children, may have in a family business or a company or firm that is a competitor, supplier, customer, distributor of or has other business dealings with his/her Company. Upon a decision being taken in the matter, the employee concerned shall be required to take necessary action, as advised, to resolve/ avoid the conflict. If an employee fails to make a disclosure as required therein and the management of its own accord becomes aware of an instance of conflict of interest that ought to have been disclosed by the employee the management would take a serious view of the matter and consider suitable disciplinary action against the employee Citizenship: The involvement of a Tata employee in civic ar public affairs shall be with express approval from the chief 23 Principle 3 executive of his/ her company, subject to this involvement having no adverse impact on the business affairs of the company or the Tata group. Reporting Concerns: Every employee of a Tata Company shall promptly report to the Management, and/ or third party ethics helpline when she/he becomes aware of any actual or possible violation of the Code or an event of misconduct, act of misdemeanor or act not in Company' s interest. Such reporting shall be made available to suppliers and partners, too. 25 Principle 10 Any Tata employee can choose to make a protected disclosure under the Whistle Blower Policy of the company, providing for reporting to the chairperson of the audit committee or the board of directors or specified authority. Such protected Disclosure should be forwarded, when there is reasonable evidence to conclude that a violation is possible or has taken place, with a covering letter, which shall bear the identity of the Whistleblower.
