Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Emphasizing the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources, to Contribute to Society through Our Business Independent Review Report Our Philosophy for CSR We aim to contribute to sustainable society through its business with our Mission Statement “Create social value while fulfilling stakeholders expectations”. Our desire is to make contributions toward building a better society with a recognition, at all times, of what society demands over the short and long terms. As globalization of our businesses advances and the our stakeholders grow more diverse, we have prepared this CSR Report to communicate to all stakeholders around the world our lasting philosophy and efforts. Cover photo: Miyajima Marsh, near the plant of Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd., which produces Sekisui Heim products, and Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd., which produces pipes and other products. In 2002 Miyajima Marsh was designated under the Ramsar Convention, intended to preserve precious wetlands internationally. Summary of Independent Review Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Hokkaido Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Heim Co., Ltd. Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Check of Formulation of Performance Quality assurance Submittal of Review report final edition of review plan of review procedures review report CSR Report Evaluations Ranked 113th in Nikkei Environmental • Review at Sekisui CSR in• Confirmation Earned of reSAM “Silver Class”HeadChemical CSR rating Management Ranking General view scope, subject Earned selection• for items, information quarters FTSE4 Good Environment Winner of the Environmental Advertisement • Obtaining managecollection methods, Review at visited Prize• Check and Minister of appropri-of the Environment Prize in etc. Global Indexes business sites (perfor• Reporting results of ment confirmation • Follow-up on items mance of procedures completed review, such as matters Nikkeiateness of the review Advertising by professionals Awards letter • DecisionIncluded in the Morningstar on review including fieldSocially obsermatters for compointed out in Step 3 • Submittal of Indeprocedures, review ment, etc. other than the review scheduleResponsible (HeadInvestment Index vation, analytical team pendent Review quarters, business procedures, docuCS and Ranked 20th in Nikkei Quality Report be visited87th sites toRanked for in Toyo Keizai mentary CSR Ranking verification, Quality Management Ranking review),Ranked etc. inspection of mate119th in Nikkei NICES rials, and ranking system inquiries) Awarded Award for Excellence in Toyo Keizai Sustainability Human Ranked 17th in Nikkei Ranking of Best Reporting Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters, Tokyo Headquarters, and Taga Plant Resources Award Companies to Work For 165Corporate Corporate Social Social Responsibility Responsibility Report Report 2011 2011 C O N T E N T S About Our Report Top Message 3 •The pages of this report are structured in line with the Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of its CorpoOur Company 5 rate Social Responsibility (CSR) in terms of Three Our Strategies 6 Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources — along with Three Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide 7 Attitudes of Sincerity: in Compliance, Risk ManageOur CSR 9 ment, and Disclosure & Communication. Corporate Governance & CSR management 10 •We have decided on the information that should be covered in this report through consideration of its CSR Activities 11 importance both to society and to Sekisui Chemical Group, based on inputs including surveys Recovering from the Great 13 conducted within and outside the Group and East Japan Earthquake independent review. •Aensure separate Data section has been established to that the report is both comprehensive and Special Features easy to read. 1 Toward a Sustainable Society • Continuing efforts for which there was not enough room in the report are covered on the Sekisui Housing Businesses 15 Chemical Group website. Urban Infrastructure & 17 Environmental Products Businesses •Information about Sekisui Chemical Group’s business is disclosed publicly through this report High-Performance Plastics Businesses 19 and the Annual Report, which reports financial information concerning the Group. 2 Global Presidents’ Meeting 21 •Tomental ensure the reliability of this report, its environand social reporting have been subjected to Three Prominences independent review. Environment 23 Guidelines Complied with or Referenced • This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the B+ Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products / Climate Change / Resource Efficiency / application level as defined in those guidelines. A GRI Air, Water & Soil / Biodiversity Guidelines comparison table is available on the Sekisui Chemical Group website. • In preparing this report, we also have referred to the Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental Reporting Guidelines CS & Quality 35 (2007 Edition). Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality / Scope of This Report Education and Training / R&D, Intellectual Property, Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of and Procurement this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2010 March 2011 (including examples of activities through May 2011) Human Resources 43 Our Philosophy / Global Talents / Career Development Scope of Independent Review The environmental and social information in this report has and Evaluation / Decent Work and Diversity / Safety been subjected to an independent review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Verified Bases of CSR Disclaimer Compliance 57 Readers are requested to note the following: The information in this report includes not only past and present facts concerning Sekisui Risk Management 59 Chemical Co., Ltd, and its affiliates but also future forecasts based on current plans and projections and management plans and manageDisclosure & Communication 60 ment policies as of the time of publication. Changes in various factors Nature Conservation & Social Contribution 61 could cause the results of business activities in the future and other circumstances to differ from these forecasts. Also, since the figures in the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data Independent Review Report 65 for past fiscal years has been revised in connection with expansions in scope, revision of calculation methods, and changes to environmental History 66 load coefficients. Editors’ notes 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 2 Top Message To be a Company Sustainable for the next 100 years Groupwide Contributions Toward level largely offsetting carbon-dioxide emissions from our Disaster Recovery domestic production activities, as we have demonstrated steady Together with expressing our deepest concern for the victims of progress toward the goal in our vision for 2030 of achieving the the Great East Japan Earthquake, we offer our heartfelt hopes and carbon negativity. prayers for a quick recovery of the affected areas. At the same time, the year also saw some matters requiring Sekisui Chemical Group has numerous customers and reconsideration. A problem arose concerning fires in MJS telebusiness partners in the areas affected by the earthquake. As an phone exchange systems that we had supplied, greatly enterprise involved in the residential and water infrastructure inconveniencing customers and other related parties. It cannot businesses essential to building the infrastructure of society, truly be denied that behind this problem was insufficient sensitivity in our social mission is to continue supplying products and services the areas of compliance and risk management. We intend to just as we did before the earthquake. While the road to restoration prevent reoccurrence of such problems through reviewing and recovery is a very long one, we will do our absolute best on related systems together with striving to raise consciousness of behalf of our communities, customers, and business partners. such matters. Although a number of Sekisui Chemical Group business facilities were damaged by the earthquake and tsunami, we have Global CSR Efforts strived to restore our production and other systems and have Over the past five years, the percentage of Sekisui Chemical resumed operation at such facilities. In the future, the Group will Group’s sales ratio of overseas businesses has roughly doubled. As dedicate its combined abilities not just to aiding the recovery of seen in developments such as substantial increases in numbers of affected areas but also to building safe and secure residences and Group companies and employees overseas, globalization communities as well as a sustainable society. is accelerating. Based on such circumstances, we believe that it is extremely Reviewing Fiscal 2010 important to share Group ways of thinking and values. For this Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR management efforts are reason, each year we hold a meeting in which the presidents of based on the principles of the Three Prominences in the Envioverseas affiliate companies gather together in one place. In ronment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources and the Three deploying CSR management at overseas affiliates, the most Attitudes of Sincerity of Compliance, Risk Management, and important things are ensuring that the presidents of overseas Disclosure & Communication. affiliates understand the importance of CSR management and The greatest result in fiscal 2010 was expansion and growth can speak on the subject in their own languages and working of Environment-Contributing Products. We defined Environmenttogether to address issues common to overseas areas. For this Contributing Products as those that can contribute to reducing purpose, we will strive to grow our businesses and achieve society’s environmental load instead of just incorporating the permeation of CSR management while continuing to hold perspectives of consideration for the environment, and we have area-specific company presidents’ conferences together with strived to expand the lineup of such products. As a result, in these meetings. In addition, in the future too we will continue fiscal 2010 we surpassed our target of sales of Environmentsupporting the United Nations Global Compact as a platform for Contributing Products accounting for a percentage of 33% of net deploying CSR management on a global basis. sales. In addition, the effects of Environment-Contributing Products on reducing carbon-dioxide emissions have grown to a 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Aiming to be a Sustainable Company We believe that when each employee is conscious and for the next 100 years proud of his or her membership in Sekisui Chemical Group – In CSR management, I place the greatest importance on being a through contributing to sustainable society by expanding company that will maintain its presence even 100 years in Environment-Contributing Products with a balance between the future. ecological and economic objectives while also growing our For this purpose, we need first of all to reform our business businesses in the area of the environment, supplying truly satisfymodel with constant sensitivity to changes in the external ing products and services by being open to customer feedback, environment, as we in Sekisui Chemical Group continue SHINKA and achieving an environment in which individual employees can (“evolution”) ourselves. grow through their work, seeing themselves as leaders and taking Another important element is that of energizing the organion challenges with full devotion to their work – Sekisui Chemical zation internally. For this purpose, it is important that each and Group will be able to grow as well. every employee working in Sekisui Chemical Group at all times In the future as well, we will aim to be a sustainable feels that he or she plays a leading role, as well as having pride in enterprise with presence, evolving Sekisui Chemical Group his or her own work. CSR management. President Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 4 Our Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. has three division companies inside, and Sekisui Chemical Group conducts its businesses through these companies. Sekisui Chemical Co., ltd. President Company President Company President Company President Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Housing Company Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Housing Piping Materials Information Technology • Steel Frame Modular Housing • Water and sewer pipes, pies for •Optical LCD and display materials Sekisui Heim Series electricity, gas, and telecommunications use •materialsand semiconductor •Two-U Timber-framed Modular Housing Series •Pipe rehabilitation Automotive • Interlayer film for laminated glass • Molded automotive components • Expanded polypropylene interior materials Construction Renovation •equipment Construction materials and •expansion, Home maintenance, (rain gutters, decking materials, insulation materials) remodeling •Modular baths Medical •Medical Diagnostic reagents • devices Functional Materials Real Estate •Interior sheets for aircraft cabin Functional Materials •rental Brokerage services and •motor-vehicle Interior and exterior sheets for •Packing tape management for outstanding use •Molded Packing and agricultural films preexisting homes •Synthetic wood • products for industrial use Sekisui Chemical Group Established: March 3, 1947 Domestic Subsidiaries: 121 Net Sales: 915.4 billion yen Company Profile Capital: 100.002 billion yen Overseas Subsidiaries: 81 Operating Income: 49.3 billion yen (As of March 31, 2011) Employees: 19,770 Affiliated Companies: 18 Net Income: 23.5 billion yen 5 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Our Strategies Group Vision In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated its group vision, identifying the ideal form the group would aim to achieve over the medium to long term. To realize this group vision, it develops management strategies centered on midterm management plans. Through prominence in technology and quality, Sekisui Chemical Group will contribute to improving the lives of the people of the world and the earth’s environment, by continuing to open up new frontiers in residential and social infrastructure creation and chemical solutions. Midterm Management Plan GS21-SHINKA! Realization of the Group Vision A prominent, highly profitable leading company In fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group formulated the midterm management plan GS21-SHINKA! covering the period through the 2013 fiscal year. Under this plan, with Nextthe goal of being a prominent, highly profitable leading generation company, we will implement our Frontier SHINKA efforts businesses through global deployment and deployment across the value chain and developing new growth segments, along Frontier 7 with innovations in production (Manufacturing SHINKA) High Performance Housing Company and human resources (HR SHINKA). Residential and Social Plastics Company Infrastructure Creation Chemical Solutions Our business strategies call for establishing what we Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company call the Frontier 7 — seven high-growth fields including Core businesses the IT, automotive, and medical fields and the pipe rehabilitation and residential environment businesses — Manufacturing Frontier SHINKA HR SHINKA SHINKA and focusing our efforts on these as leading businesses of the future. Main Products and Services (results based on Sekisui Chemical research) Residential Information Technology • Homes with solar power generation systems • LCD sealant materials Top market share in the world Cumulative total of 100,000 homes (highest figure in Japan) (73% with zero energy costs) Automotive Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products • Interlayer film for automobile laminated glass • Water and sewer pipes of rigid PVC Top market share in the world (54%) Second highest market share in Japan (24%) Medical • No-Dig method sewage pipe rehabilitation • Clinical diagnostic reagent for good/bad cholesterol Top market share in Japan (21%) Top market share in the world (50%) by total distance covered Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 6 Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Sekisui Chemical Group is actively advancing globalization of its businesses. As a result, in fiscal 2010 overseas sales accounted for 19.7% of net sales – double the share in the 2004 fiscal year. Activities now underway aim to reach a level of 30% by the 2013 fiscal year. Europe Companies 23 Employees 1,203 China Companies 12 Employees 1,241 Japan Companies 86 Employees 15,476 Asia/Oceania (not including China) Companies 16 Employees 691 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Net Sales by Region Percentage of net sales from overseas Other 30.0% Asia 7.4% 1.0% 19.7% Europe Japan 5.5% 9.5% 80.3% U.S. 5.8% 2004 2010 2013 Americas (North, Central, South) Companies 18 Employees 1,159 Key: Housing Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products High Performance Plastics Headquarters Note: Figures current as of March 31, 2011 (consolidated basis) Employees by Region China Asia/Oceania 1,241 691 Europe Japan 1,203 Americas (North, Central, South) 15,476 1,159 Total: 19,770 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 8 Our CSR “Our Principle” In 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group established its Mission Statement The Mission Statement identifies “Customers,” “Shareholders,” calling for it to “create social value while fulfilling stakeholders “Employees,” “Business Partners,” and “Local Communities and expectations.” In 2009, it established “Our Principle,” bringing the Environment” as five key stakeholders and declares that together the Company Creed, the Mission Statement, the Group Sekisui Chemical Group will meet their expectations. Vision, and its management strategies. •fullest Satisfy customer needs to the extent •growth Strive for the sustained •services Provide the best possible to customers Sekisui Chemical Group’s Principle (“Our Principle”) of corporate value Customers •disclosure Ensure the clear and timely of information •partners Deepen relationships with business and associated companies Company •co-prosperity Promote coexistence and through fair Creed Shareholders Business transactions Partners Mission Statement •encourages Establish a culture that employees to set Group Vision their own goals and take on new challenges •Assure the validity of performance-based Employees Local Communities and the •environment Contribute to society and the Management Strategies with our products evaluation Environment •communities Build harmony with local as a good Midterm Management Plan corporate citizen Our CSR CSR: The Foundation of Management Sekisui Chemical Group considers CSR to refer to contributing to Environment sustainable society through its businesses: in essence, making the Make the ecology and economic Mission Statement reality. activities compatible We believe that promoting CSR management increases the quality of corporate management. Three Prominences It is our philosophy that sustained business growth and Human Resources CS & Quality business innovation require the continuation of serious efforts at Encourage employees to Gain and maintain the full positively set their trust of our customers CSR management without regard for conditions of business own goals environment and continuation of reform and SHINKA (“evolution”). Three Prominences and Three Attitudes of Sincerity Sekisui Chemical Group has identified as key themes of CSR management Three Prominences — in the Environment, CS & Risk Quality, and Human Resources — and the Three Attitudes of Disclosure & Management Sincerity — in Compliance, Risk Management, and Disclosure & Communication Take thorough steps to preCommunication. The Three Prominences in particular have been Reflect stakeholders’ vent trouble occurring and opinions in corporate activities reduce the generation of chosen because efforts in the areas of the Environment and CS & after-the-event risks Quality are the natural responsibilities of a manufacturer and it is Compliance human resources who advance such efforts. Enhance each employee’s awareness Efforts under the midterm management plan also have a focus on CSR, and we believe that issues to address in the future are those of achieving further permeation of CSR within the Three Attitudes of Sincerity organization and deployment of CSR management on a global basis. 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Corporate Governance & CSR Management Corporate Governance CSR Management To maximize corporate value, Sekisui Chemical Group has built its A CSR Department made up of environmental, management structure based on a system of three division CS and quality, and HR sections companies. Believing that increasing the transparency and To advance CSR management powerfully, the CSR Department fairness of management and pursuing swift decision-making are consists of the sections responsible for groupwide CSR planning important to continually increasing corporate value amid a and strategy and for the key CSR themes identified as the changing business environment, it implements a variety of efforts Environment, CS & Quality, and Human Resources. related to corporate governance. The CSR Committee, with Participation by Strengthening the Business Execution Function Top Management and Employee Representatives Together with assigning operating officers specializing in As venues for deliberation on CSR management, the CSR business execution to each division company, an Executive Committee and each of four subcommittees — the Environmental Committee has been established to serve as the top decisionSubcommittee, the CS & Quality Subcommittee, the Human making body in each division company. As such, a broad range of Resources Subcommittee, and the Compliance Subcommittee — authority has been transferred from the Board of Directors to the meet at least once every half-year. Executive Committee. The Board of Directors strives to achieve Chaired by the President, the CSR Committee’s membership continual improvements in corporate value as an organization also includes the president of each division company and three responsible for decision on basic policies of Sekisui Chemical representatives of employees — one key group of stakeholders—to Group management as well as high-level decision-making and help improve deliberation and policies. Each Subcommittee supervision of business execution. promotes groupwide efforts for Sekisui Chemical Group while ascertaining and deliberating on companywide topics as they relate Compliance Surpassing the Requirements of to matters such as issues involved in the themes of which each Japanese Law subcommittee is in charge and the state of activities in each division • Appointment of external directors company. Under this system, operating officers must take part in • Operating officer system (term: one year) the subcommittees concerned with their areas of responsibility. • Early issue of notices of general meetings of shareholders • Exercise of voting rights electronically in general meetings Promoting CSR in Unity with Management Planning of shareholders CSR is put into practice within daily business activities through • Formulation of rules on corporate information disclosure breaking down the matters deliberated on in the CSR Committee and each subcommittee to their appropriate places in the management plans of each division company and headquarters. Corporate Auditors (including External Corporate Auditors) Board of Directors External Directors Board of Directors Operating Officers President and CEO Reports, Deliberations CSR Committee Chairperson: President President President President Members: Division Company Presidents, Headquarters Directors, Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Environmental 3 Employees Subcommittee Representatives: Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer Operating Officer the chairperson of the Labor Union, a Representative of CS & Quality Subcommittee Female Employees, and a representative of employees of Urban Infrastructure High Performance affiliated companies Housing Company & Environmental Headquarters HR Subcommittee Plastics Company Products Company Compliance Subcommittee Note: See the Corporate Governance Report for details. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 10 CSR Activities Midterm Plans Sekisui Chemical Group has incorporated CSR plans within its Overall, plans have progressed on schedule. Efforts were management plans, to link its business activities to its CSR activities. reviewed as needed in light of environmental changes in Since 2010 was the middle year of the midterm manageeach area. ment plan GS21-SHINKA!, the plan was subjected to a check on its progress and a review. CSR Staff Meeting In promoting CSR, activities in the field – at business facilities and affiliated companies – are essential. Key to such activities are the individual CSR staffs. For this meeting, in November 2010 a CSR staff meeting was held in order further to spread CSR efforts across and throughout the organizations of business facilities and affiliated companies and to strengthen coordination among CSR staffs. In this liaison conference, which overcame the lines between division companies, participants proactively exchanged opinions on efforts at their facilities and companies and the difficulties they encountered in advancing such efforts. Plans call for holding this meeting periodically in the future A scene from the CSR staff meeting as well. VOICE The ways of thinking and behavior of CSR are a core component of recognition of that fact. This should be the key to transforming social activities, spreading across society as a whole and even into behavior. publicand private-sector organizations. In the future, I would like us to aim to carry out activities to Even within Sekisui Chemical Group, while reports have been enable each individual to have a stronger awareness of his or her made in the past on the efforts of each business facility, there have relations with society, through sharing been few opportunities to share information on subjects such as the information on unique activities suited to issues and challenges of actual CSR management and promotion. each business facility and those involving For this reason, this opportunity for CSR staffs to meet together and interaction with local communities, exchange opinions has proven highly significant for the future based on the theme of a rewarding place spread of CSR management. to work. I believe that CSR is not a difficult matter. Rather, it is something that we already put into practice every day. However, it Naoyuki Kuga is important that each individual and company has a strong Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Respect for International Norms Sekisui Chemical Group respects international norms and international social-responsibility guideline established in standards regarding CSR. In March 2009, it announced its support November 2010, has been added to this CSR Report together for the United Nations Global Compact and joined the Global with internal checking of the consistency between efforts made Compact Japan Network, an organization of companies in Japan and ISO 26000 and employing ISO 26000 as a reference for that have signed on to the Global Compact. future efforts. In addition, coverage of the subject of ISO 26000, an Main Areas of Progress in the CSR Midterm Plan Three Prominences Theme Main Activities FY2010 Results FY2013 Targets • Increase Environment-Contributing • 33% of net sales (target: 27%) • Over 40% of net sales Products Environment • Maintain reduction above 20% of • 21% reduction from FY1990 level FY1990 level (domestic) • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions (domestic) (target: 14% reduction) • Reduce by over 5% from FY2008 level (overseas) (unit: GJ/ton-CO2) • Reduced by ¥4.2 billion (from • Reduce by ¥5.0 billion (from FY2004 • External failure costs FY2004 level) level) CS & Quality • Major quality issues • 2 cases (target: 0 cases) • 0 cases • Increased “Global Talents” • Global talents employees to 224 people • 300 people • Expanded international recruiting Human • 22 cases of using an Intra-group Resources • Career development & evaluation Job Posting System for • 20 cases/year post-hiring transfers • 25% of new graduate recruits • Decent work & diversity were women (target: 30%) • 30% Three Attitudes of Sincerity Theme Main Activities FY2010 Results FY2013 Targets • Education and instruction catered to • Continue raising awareness • Continue raising awareness staff level and specific groups Compliance • Cultivated key individuals for • Develop overseas compliance • Compliance and local law training at overseas compliance overseas bases • Constructed overseas safety measure • Establish an overseas crisis programs management system • Created overseas crisis management • Continue overseas development Risk Management guidelines • Continue risk management • Construct a Sekisui Chemical Group risk management system • Constructed a Sekisui Chemical Group activities risk management system • Earned Sustainable Asset Management • Enhance external recognition and (SAM) “Silver Class” CSR rating Disclosure & perception of the Company • Earned selection for FTSE4Good Global • Increase communication efforts in Communication • Continue open dialogue with Indexes each region employees • Included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 12 Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake The 9.0-magnitude earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011 and the ensuing tsunami had a massive impact on the areas directly affected by the disaster and on Japan as a whole. While Sekisui Chemical Group was affected as well, at present the Group has resumed its operations with its intension to meet its responsibilities to customers and will contribute to the recovery of affected areas through its business activities. Contributing to recovery through business Sekisui Chemical Group engages in businesses related to Supply of Products intermediate materials in fields such as the housing business, Production facilities in affected areas resumed production the infrastructure business, and the information-technology activities steadily following the earthquake, and by April 1 and automotive fields. Each of these is essential to formation of production had been restored at all sites. Since then production the infrastructure of society. We consider it our social responsiactivities have continued with the exception of some tempobility to continue these businesses in a manner unchanged rary stoppages due to aftershocks and other causes. from before the earthquake and to fulfill our responsibility to In the housing business segment, while difficulties remain supply products to our customers. in the procurement of some parts and materials, the production Without restricting ourselves to these responsibilities system mostly has been restored. As requested alone, we also intend to contribute to the building of a sustainby the government of Japan, temporary housing was produced able society through proposing and providing to society safer, at plants in eastern Japan and constructed at sites in affected more secure energy-conserving homes and infrastructure that areas. While some facilities such as model home centers and is strongly resistant to disasters. sales offices are unavailable for use due to the earthquake and evacuation measures in the vicinity of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi For Customers nuclear power plant, the sales structure has been maintained. In the housing business segment, our activities include checkIn the infrastructure business segment, there are expectaing on the state of damage and handling repairs, through tions of growth in demand for temporary housing and PVC successively visiting customers residing in affected areas on an pipes for water-supply and sewer use. In Japan, operation of individual basis along with strengthening the customer service facilities in the Hokkaido, Kansai, and Kyushu regions has been centers serving affected areas. increased in light of the possibility that plants in the Kanto To overseas customers we are providing individual region could be affected by rolling power outages. Overseas, a explanations concerning the supply structure. We also are system capable of supplying imports to Japan is being responding to the issue of contamination by radiation, taking prepared through efforts to attain JIS certification and certificadevelopments on the part of government and industry association under the relevant associations with jurisdiction at tions into consideration. PVC-pipe production facilities in China, South Korea, and Taiwan. In the area of procurement of parts and materials, we are striving to secure stable procurement of raw materials and subsidiary materials. 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Post-earthquake responses Immediately following the March 11 earthquake, an emergency customer service through establishment of an emergency task force led by the President was set up at Sekisui Chemical’s customer service center. This information was made available Tokyo Headquarters, and that same day a virtual conference room through keeping it up to date at all times on the Sekisui Chemical for emergency communication was set up on the intranet and website. The President also visited the affected areas to express efforts were made to confirm the safety of employees and their concern for and to encourage employees. families. On March 14, shipment of relief supplies to employees in No employees have lost their employment due to affected areas began and the decision was made to donate relief the earthquake. funds to affected areas. Efforts also were made in the area of Damage The safety of some employees has yet to be confirmed. At the time of publication, efforts to confirm the safety of employees and their families continued. While there was some damage to the buildings and equipment of production facilities, as of April 1 all production facilities had resumed operation. At the same time, some sales facilities suffered damage due to partial destruction of their buildings and flooding. Relief for employees harmed by the earthquake Together with efforts such as providing relief supplies and An intranet site featuring messages of support from employees at temporary housing to employees harmed by the earthquake, we affiliate companies in Japan and around the world are providing mental health care as well. In addition, a site has been added to the intranet for collecting together messages of support from employees at affiliate companies in Japan and around the world. Aid activities to affected areas As emergency aid for affected areas, on March 14 Sekisui Chemical Furthemore, we contidecided to donate 100 million yen in relief funds. Subsequently, nue aiding recovery of donations were collected from Group employees worldwide, affected areas through with more than 3,000 employees donating approximately 36 supply of products million yen in total. Sekisui Chemical donated a matching gift in such as temporary the same amount. The labor union also donated approximately housing and resin 3 million yen. piping materials. In addition, based on the concept of sending only what was needed in the quantities needed, relief supplies that have been donated include 10,000 plastic buckets, 10,000 plastic containers for fluids, the equivalent of approximately 2,500 tatami mats of Collecting donations at Sekisui-SCG Industry Co., Ltd. (Thailand) resin foam for use as mats, and 100,000 highly dust-tight masks. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 14 Special Feature 1 Toward a Sustainable Society Housing Businesses From Zero Energy Cost House to Smart Heim and Homes With Energy Self-Sufficiency It is a fact that the average life of a home in Japan, at approximately 26 years, is substantially lower than the averages of 45 – 75 years in the West. For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group continues development of products suited to the needs of the times, with a focus on the environment, comfort, and safety and security. This reflects the housing businesses’ mission of providing environmentally sound homes in which people can continue to live in safety and comfort for 60 years or longer. Background of these Efforts: Advocating the Concept of Resource Recycling Home Building Sekisui Chemical Group’s concept of resource recycling home building The building and dismantling of homes involves new resource consumption and waste generation. In addition, the flip side of the •Reducing resource inputs pursuit of comfortable living is increased use of energy by equipHome •Zero waste emissions ment, machinery, and other devices. building Increased carbon-dioxide emissions also constitute a problem that cannot be overlooked. In light of such issues, there is a need to •(Reconstruction-system Reuse of resources homes) Home strive to reduce environmental load throughout the life cycle of a •Recycling Residence (living) home: building, use (living), and waste disposal. This is the concept of resource recycling in home building. A home’s total environmental load can be reduced through efforts to realize effective use Waste •(Zero Energy conservation energy Cost House) disposal of resources and zero waste emissions by producing homes in factories to the extent possible, keeping down energy use while living in the home through building energy-conserving homes, and advancing recycling and reuse of resources when rebuilding and dismantling the home. Action 1 Energy-conservation/utility cost-cutting effects of Proposing Zero Energy Cost House Zero Energy Cost House Japanese homes face strong demands for building homes with long lives, in 234,000 which people can continue to live with peace of mind over a long period of time, and for reducing energy used when living in them. Appliances etc. 82,000 Zero Energy Cost Houses are products that make it possible to reduce (Yen) 128,000 the environmental load of living in a house over a long period of time. These Water heating 73,000 homes keep down energy consumption for air-conditioning and other uses (Yen) 77,000 through constraining the impact of outside air temperature by securing Heating and air-conditioning 79,000 13,000 high levels of thermal insulation and airtightness, as well as reducing energy (Yen) 38,000 0 consumption from heating water through use of high-efficiency heat-pump water heaters along with expanding power generation capacity through 500 CO2 emissions efficient placement of solar power generation panels. These efforts make it (kg-CO2) possible to reduce annual energy costs — even eliminating them completely. 2,600 The Sekisui Heim homes supplied by Sekisui Chemical Group curb the 4,100 environmental impact of the home through realization of such Zero Energy Cost House, both cutting utility costs and greatly reducing carbon-dioxide Ordinary home Sekisui Heim Sekisui Heim (Fully electrified) (Zero Energy Cost House) emissions from energy used while living in the home. 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Action 2 Advancing Zero Energy Cost House Increasing the generating capacity of the solar power-generation systems used to generate energy is essential to advancing zero energy cost. Together with improving thermal insulation and airtightness, Sekisui Heim has strived proactively to develop homes that can use greater amounts of solar energy, through measures including use of roof shapes that make it possible to install large-capacity solar power generation panels and highly efficient methods of installing the panels. As a result, through now it has sold more than 100,000 homes with solar power generation systems installed — Japan’s highest level of performance in this area. As part of this sales performance, the percentage of newly constructed homes with solar power generation systems installed has increased from 52% in fiscal 2006 to 79% in the 2010 fiscal year. The target for fiscal 2013 is 100% of newly constructed homes having solar power generation systems installed. At the same time as creating energy, it also is important to use energy efficiently. Sekisui Heim has provided solutions that enable customers to choose effective home plans, equipment, and devices during construction, using special software for forecasting the energy consumption and utility costs of living, known as Q-value1 energy-cost software. While according to a 2005 survey the percentage of customer households that actually had achieved the level of zero energy costs was 40%, in 2010 this percentage had grown to 73 percent. Reports also indicate that realizing energy conservation and zero energy costs 2010 survey has had the effect of raising customers’ environmental awareness as well. Achievement of zero energy costs 1 Q-value: a value used to indicate a building’s thermal-insulation and airtightness performance 2005 survey Action 3 Energy-Optimized Homes: Practical Application of the Smart Heim To lessen environmental impact more reliably and pursue the results of such achievements to their maximum extent, it is essential not just to install appropriate devices and equipment but to use them wisely as well. Solar power-generation Air-conditioner equipment Data center The Smart Heim concept developed from this perspective refers to homes that can reduce carbon-dioxide emissions to a greater extent Lighting through use of information and communication technologies (ICT) to Internet visualize and optimize the relationship between energy generation and Electric vehicle consumption in the home. For example, if one knows the times at which the solar panels installed on a home generate the greatest amounts of electric power then energy can be conserved through using electric appliances during those hours as much as possible. In addition, if one knows that electricity charges are lower at night then housework can be completed at night to save energy, for example by using timers. High-efficiency heat-pump water heater Sekisui Chemical Group is the first in the home industry to include a system for management of energy consumption in the home (Smart Heim Navi) as standard equipment on all homes with solar power generation systems. A Smart Heim Navi screen Action 4 Electrical Storage and Developing Energy Self-Sufficient Homes After reducing energy used in living (energy conservation), creating energy (energy creation), and using it wisely (energy optimization), the next promising development is storage of electricity and other energy (electrical and energy storage). Storing electricity and other forms of energy can be expected to lead to leveling — and thus increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of — energy use, and to increasing energy stability. By 2013, Sekisui Chemical Group aims to bring to market homes designed to store electricity. Furthermore, it also plans to link such efforts to development of energy self-sufficient homes that will make it possible to generate the energy for household uses in the home itself, to contribute to further progress in the areas of the environment and comfort. In this way, we will contribute to building a sustainable society through achieving progress in the homes we provide, meeting the demands of the times and the needs of our customers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 16 Special Feature 1 Toward a Sustainable Society Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Businesses Toward Resolution of the World’s Water Environmental Problems As the aging of water and sewer pipes advances in major cities around the world, rehabilitation of such pipes has become a matter of pressing concern. At the same time, in rapidly growing emerging countries there are numerous regions in which the water infrastructure itself remains underdeveloped. Sekisui Chemical Group is working proactively toward resolution of the social issue of water infrastructure problems, which is one of the most important issues in the urban infrastructure. Background of these Efforts: Aging of Sewer Pipes: A Worsening Problem Around the World Sewers constitute one of the most fundamental aspects of the urban infrastructure, and in recent years problems such as road subsidence resulting from sewer-pipe damage due to such aging have become issues. Even in Japan, approximately 10,000 kilometers of existing sewer pipe are said to have surpassed their durable lives. Overseas too, the situation is similar in other developed nations. In the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency has ordered 20 cities across the U.S. to improve their sewer facilities. While in this way there is a pressing need for rehabilitation of sewer pipes in cities around the world, it is a fact that Road subsidence due to sewer-pipe damage rehabilitation has not advanced sufficiently due to resulting problems such as traffic congestion and generation of massive amounts of waste materials, since most sewer pipes are installed underground beneath main thoroughfares. Action 1 SPR Method Solutions, Making It Possible To Rehabilitate Sewer Pipes Without Excavation To solve such issues, Sekisui Chemical Group has independently developed the Comparison of Traditional Methods to the SPR Method Sewage Pipe Rehabilitation (SPR) Method. The SPR Method is one method of replacing Resource use: 380 tons worn sewage pipes, known as a non-excavating method. It involves rehabilitating Traditional method pipes through using a belt made of rigid PVC resin to create a rehabilitated pipe inside Waste: 300 tons an existing sewage pipe. The new pipe is then combined with the existing pipe using backfill material. SPR Resource use: 18.1 tons Since this method does not require digging up existing roads or the ground method Waste: almost none surface, it makes it possible to keep construction-related traffic restrictions to a minimum and also to reduce greatly material use, waste generation, and noise and vibration from *Sekisui Chemical estimates Conditions of estimates: Pipe culvert 1.7×1.5 m; length 30 m; construction. It also can greatly shorten the time required for construction. overburden 1m Flow of construction under traditional sewer construction method Traffic congestion, noise in the vicinity Road fully closed to traffic (whole day: 48 days) Temporary Removal of Dismantling pavement, Dismantling New pipe temporary Excavation drainpipe Refilling Road pavement lining installation existing pipes installation drainpipes installation Waste asphalt Waste earth Waste concrete New pipes Rubble Earth Pavement Day 10 Day 20 Day 30 Day 40 Day 50 Flow of Construction Under SPR Method One lane closed in each direction (12 days) Connection of Pipe winding Fixation branch pipes Pipe winding materials Mortar Day 5 Day 10 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Action 2 Advancing Rehabilitation Methods Suited to the Needs of Society Not just sewer pipes but water pipes and agricultural canals too require rehabilitation. In addition, use of pipe rehabilitation is advancing overseas as well, and the SPR method has been used in countries including South Korea, the U.S., Singapore, Hong Kong, Russia, and Poland. To respond to such needs, we are making efforts such as further improvements to the SPR method itself and deployment of rehabilitation methods suited to the types of pipes needing rehabilitation, making possible pipe rehabilitation suited to a variety of needs, including development of methods for rehabilitation of larger-diameter pipes, giving greater freedom in cross-sectional shape to service pipes, and expanding the length of pipe that can be wound at one time. In addition, by being the first in the world to enable construction on sewer pipes while they still are in use we have succeeded in keeping the impact on the vicinity of a pipe rehabilitation project to a minimum. Contributing to Furthermore, at present we are adThe SPR method COLUMN Earthquake Recovery: vancing automation efforts from the Chosen for the First Recovery perspective of ensuring worker safety. Construction Project following At the same time, to spread the SPR the Mid Niigata Prefecture method we are actively developing Earthquake of 2004 contractors and training technicians Thanks to its unique properties as a construction method, the SPR method is recognized to be highly to carry out SPR method work. earthquake resistant. In the Mid Niigata Prefecture As a result of these efforts, the Earthquake that occurred in October 2004, despite length of pipe in Japan and around subsidence and fissures caused by the quake in nearby roads, sewer pipes rehabilitated using the the world that has been rehabilitated SPR method were unaffected. For this reason, using the SPR method has reached more the SPR method was chosen for the first than 700 kilometers. In the future as well, recovery construction project following the earthquake. we will continue striving to solve the issues The Omega Lining method faced by society through repeated improvements corresponding to the needs of the times. Action 3 Eslon Products Contribute to Water Infrastructure Improvements in Emerging Countries An issue concerning water infrastructure in emerging countries is insufficient development of water and sewer systems themselves in some regions. Products and technologies with approximately 60 years of performance in Japan, such as Eslon HI PVC pipes and Eslon RCP reinforced composite plastic pipes, are contributing to solving such problems around the world. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will continue developing products to improve water and sewer systems and enable people around the world to live in happiness and comfort. Note: See p. 38 concerning development of Eslo Hyper, which improves upon Eslon pipes. Eslon RCP Eslon HI pipes Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 18 Special Feature 1 Toward a Sustainable Society High-Performance Plastics Businesses Aiming for Products to Support the New Society Innovation and revolutionary new products and services have been an essential part of society’s progress through today. This is likely to remain the case in the future as well. Sekisui Chemical Group already has provided numerous products beneficial to society. In the field of information technology as well, we have created numerous intermediate materials that support the functions and performance of familiar products. Background of these Efforts: Ubiquitous Technology, a Key to Building a Sustainable Society According to the 2004 White Paper Information and Communications in Japan, a “ubiquitous network society” is one in which information technology can be used throughout society, “fully accessible to anybody on anything at any time and in any place.” Through incorporating information technology into existing ways of living, a ubiquitous network society makes it possible to provide more diverse and more advanced services. One example is the smart grid, which is expected to serve as the energy management system of the future. Transformation to a ubiquitous network society can be considered to play an important role in building the sustainable society we aim to achieve in the future. Action 1 Supplying Materials to Support the Functions and Performance of LCD Panels Further functional improvements to existing IT devices and systems will be essential to advancing the transformation to a ubiquitous network society. Sekisui Chemical Group develops and supplies materials essential to increasing the performance of the LCD panels employed in products used every day by consumers, such as smartphones and LCD televisions. LCD panels generally employ a structure consisting of a liquid-crystal layer sandwiched between two sheets of glass substrate, with sealant used around the perimeter to prevent leakage of the liquid-crystal materials and keep them clean. If this sealant material dissolves into the liquid crystal it could cause a worsening of the LCD image quality. Sekisui Chemical Group supplies Photolec S, a high-performance sealant material with outstanding workability developed using our own technologies. In addition, if the liquid-crystal layer is not uniform in thickness then visual information cannot be displayed accurately. For this reason, materials known as spacers are used to keep the layer’s thickness uniform. Advanced microparticle technologies are needed to keep this ultra-thin layer only a few microns thick uniform in thickness (there are 1,000 microns to a millimeter). Sekisui Chemical Group provides support for further increases in the precision and functions of LCD displays on smartphones and other devices through development of Micropearl spherical plastic microparticles. Electrode Cell-gap spacer Color filter Glass substrate Sealant Liquid crystal Perimeter sealant Seal spacer LCD Panel Structure 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Action 2 Supplying Materials Indispensable to Touch Panels As Well Touch panel technology, which has become firmly entrenched as an everyday technology with the spread of devices such as handheld videogames and smartphones, makes it easier to use the equipment on a device through intuitive operations such as touching or sliding a finger across an area of the display. Since these touch panels sense the parts of the screen that have been touched using a thin film called ITO film, they require advanced technology known as sputtering technology that deposits a thin metallic film onto a substrate. Cover panel Combination with an LCD panel makes it easier to use IT devices by uniting display and control units. These components and materials Double-faced tape are adhered to each other using double-sided tape for fixing LCD materials in place, combining ITO film adhesiveness with light shielding and reflectivity functions. Sekisui Chemical Group develops and supplies materials like these indispensable to LCD module building touch panels. Touch Panel Structure Action 3 Supplying Materials to Support Reduction in Size and Weight Lightweight, compact, and thin mobile phones and other mobile devices are essential to the ubiquitous network society. Even if each of the individual components of an electronic device has a high level of performance, the products that combine such components together need to be easy to use as well. Industrial tape is used to attach the components of mobile devices. In the case of a mobile phone, thin tape with outstanding adhesiveness is used to fix in place the frame of the LCD unit, the LCD panel gasket, and the backlight unit. The industrial tape used in mobile phones and other devices has more functions than simple adhesiveness. Tape impenetrable by light can serve in functions such as preventing leakage of light from the backlight unit to the back of the mobile phone. Furthermore, use of foam combining high sealing and cushioning performance makes it possible to eliminate gaps between parts and materials and to minimize the effects of shocks on the parts and materials. Fixing frame in place In these ways, Sekisui Chemical Group contributes to realization of the ubiquitous network society through supplying high-performance parts and materials in the IT field. Fixing LCD panel gasket in place Fixing keypad in place Fixing backlight unit in place Foam used in an LCD display component Industrial Tape Used in Mobile Phones Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 20 Special Feature 2 Global Presidents’ Meeting Gathering Together Top Management From Affiliates Around the World To Discuss Issues Faced in Each Area Currently Sekisui Chemical Group is actively advancing the globalization of its businesses, with overseas sales having doubled from the 2004 fiscal year. This growth in business has led to a rapid increase in the number of stakeholders as well, so that in order to continue reliably fulfilling our CSR responsibilities in the future too there is a need to actively address social issues in individual areas together with sharing the Group principles, values, and management policies among employees worldwide. For this purpose Sekisui Chemical Group has since 2007 held Global Presidents’ Meetings for presidents of affiliated companies overseas. Europe Improving the Sekisui Brand As member of the European Group I was deeply impressed how companies with different structures, sizes and products are able to communicate and agree on a plan which has the target to increase the reputation of the Sekisui brand. In Japan the Sekisui brand has been already prevailing among the employees. It looks like this could also be achieved in the overseas divisions. The internal identification of our employees with our company is a key asset to achieve the expected growth for the future. Individual feelings like “I am part of a strong Group” help difficult times. I am expecting the started process is able to keep the “one brand” “one Edmund Luksch philosophy” feeling running. The local area presidents need continuously Sekisui SPR Europe to link each function of their company activities together. Key CSR G. m. b. H. messages are providing the best common ground for such a project, which will be followed up in the regional presidents meetings. Asia-Pacific Driving Our Growth I was pleased to be a participant of the Presidents’ Meetings. A major benefit of attending this meeting was the opportunity to meet with Presidents of Sekisui Chemical Group companies from around the globe. While there were time constraints, the real benefit of these workshops was the interaction created between Presidents within each group, in building a communication bridge for further discussions. These workshops have now been adopted by region. Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing very interesting and innovative Rocco Romiti initiatives: a new intranet initiative and an employee satisfaction survey Thai Sekisui conducted on a global basis. I feel that these initiatives will drive our Foam Co., Ltd, Company forward. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Identifying Subjects by Area and Discussing Related Issues Americas In the meetings held until now, discussions had been conducted based on certain Building a Foundation for Continued Growth specific subjects, with the objective of In the Americas Area the presidents from North America joined together to talk about the topic of “controlling functions.” We pulled deepening shared understanding of Sekisui out three common programs that we could benefit from which Chemical Group CSR. focused on leadership training, corporate values, and shared job In fiscal 2010, discussion of area-specific postings. Each of our specific contributions to the market are different subjects was intensified, since issues vary by but the opportunity to network and share ideas with each other is region. On the day of the meeting, presinvaluable. I believe these types of frank discussions create the base for continued growth. idents of more than 40 companies from I understand that within each company cultures are very around the world (two-thirds of whom were Neil Beckhusen different. But I believe it will be important and necessary to recognize Sekisui Voltek, LLC. non-Japanese took part). a common theme that has been essential to each company’s success, The meeting began with an explanaand those programs can be shared as a benefit to all. tion by Corporate Headquarters of subjects Looking to the future, based on these meetings and the relationships we have developed, we will be able to further continue to that should be shared throughout the entire develop a common theme. Group. Then, participants split into five groups — the Americas, Europe, China, Asia-Pacific, and South Korea — and each identified its own subjects. Lively group discussions were held, generating outputs including current issues faced and courses South Korea of action of proposals toward their solution. A Place to Find Clues for Management The meeting concluded with presentations Improvements and Business Expansion to members of management including the The South Korea team is made up of four companies in total: two President of Sekisui Chemical. each in the Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company These presentations served to deepen and the High Performance Plastics Company. awareness of the issues on an area-wide While these companies’ markets, industries, and the products basis, surpassing the boundaries between they handle differ, trends related to the environment in South Korea operating companies. For example, some are changing rapidly, so all of them in common face issues related to conservation of energy and other resources, expansion of ChoonTae Lee groups identified specific roadmaps toward Environment-Contributing Products, and preserving nature. In Sekisui Korea Co., Ltd. practical solutions. addition, the scope of other issues such as those concerning employee safety and health and social contribution activities is increasing as well, so that there was not enough time to discuss everything fully. In the future, we would like to hold Presidents’ meetings in South Korea as well, as Creating New Synergies In places to find clues for management improvements and business expansion. Group Management Through Presidents’ Meetings In fiscal 2010 regional Presidents’ meetings China were held for in-depth discussion of matters prior to the Global Presidents’ Meeting. Toward Strengthening the Management These meetings are intended to Capabilities of Sekisui Chemical Group provide opportunities to discuss issues To me, this meeting is both a very valuable once-a-year opportufaced in an area one after the other, as an nity to meet with company presidents from around the world and a autonomous activity in each area. They also meaningful time in which we can get a true feel for the globalizahave the goals of more steadily fulfilling tion of the Group. social responsibilities in each area and In China there are many young companies that entered the market only a few years ago. As such, in these brainstorming advancing Group management, through sessions we discussed a variety of issues faced by company Ryo Yoshii coordination within each area of companies presidents managing businesses amid China’s own unique political Sekisui (Qingdao) involved in different businesses. conditions and market rules. HR and labor management in particuPlastic Co., Ltd. lar is an issue common to all companies, and we will continue discussing these in China Presidents’ meetings from now on. In the future, I hope that the numbers of issues raised and solutions proposed from Presidents’ meetings will increase, so that Sekisui Chemical Group’s management capabilities will strengthen more and more. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 22 Environment We aim to be an environmental leader, pursuing both ecological and economic goals Pioneering a New Future with Balance between Ecology and the Economy Global Contributing to Our Philosophy Contributing to the environment Products environment the environment and society Toward and society through business through nature being activities and Local conservation a leader in products Business Global environmental issues constitute one of the most important communities activities environmental processes subjects faced by society and businesses. As a manufacturer, Activities by management Reducing environmental concerted efforts Sekisui Chemical Group was an early mover in efforts to find of all employees load in all business processes solutions to the environmental issues of society through its products and services, in addition to lessening the environmental load of its business. In 1962, to solve the waste processing problems in Tokyo that were a subject of concern in society at the time, we greatly changed the practice of disposing of wastes by proposing the method of having each household place its wastes in polyethylene garbage containers and leave them outside for collection by garbage trucks. In addition, during the years of the 1960s through the early 1970s, an era afflicted by pollution, we established an environmental management department. Through the 1990s, we strived to lessen our environmental load through voluntarily setting even stricter reduction targets than those required to comply with laws and regulations, for our environmental load including those related to wastes, carbon dioxide, and chemical substances. Furthermore, incorporating the idea of transforming management along the axle of the environment in the term “Environmentally Creative Organization,” in 2003 we moved forward from the concept of environmental conservation to that of environmental management to achieve sustainable growth while pursuing both ecological1 and economic2 goals, positioning this as one important pillar of CSR management. While environmental issues change with the times, covering subjects including climate change, water use, and biodiversity, Sekisui Chemical Group’s approach of contributing to the environment through its products and services remains unchanged, and in the future as well we will continue aiming to be a leader prominent in our approach to the environment. 1 Ecology 2 Economy The Environmental Caring for and contributing to the global environment, Ensuring economic benefits for both Management Policy See ”Data” P19, 21 and living in symbiosis with the local environment customers and businesses and System Vision for 2030 In 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group established the “Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030” as a vision to make clear the courses of action and achievement levels of environmental management and serve as a guidepost to sustainable growth. This vision depicts the type of society that Sekisui Chemical Group aims to achieve as a society on the environmental frontier. This refers to a society in which environmental awareness and environment-friendly lifestyles become broadly and firmly established among people and both businesses and governments recognize the environment to be one of their most important values. To realize this vision, we have identified the three Three areas of focus Two targets areas of focus of preventing global warming, efficient Preventing utilization of resources, and biodiversity and the two targets Global Warming Achieving negative carbon of achieving negative carbon3, which is common to the Efficient Utilization of first two areas of focus, and preservation of biodiversity. Resources 3 Negative Carbon Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions attributable to business activiPreservation of biodiversity ties such as raw materials and production with offsetting reductions in Biodiversity greenhouse-gas emissions during product use 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Midterm Plan Environment Sekisui Chemical Group is promoting groupwide, both in Progress on the Four Key Themes of Japan and around the world, the Midterm Environmental the Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA! (See “Data” P. 3) Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA!, which FY 2010 establishes targets for the current five-year period based on FY 2013 target performance Verified back-casting1 from the Sekisui Eco-Frontier 2030 goals. Increase sales of Environment40% of net sales 33% This plan establishes the four key themes of expanding Contributing our sales of Environment-Contributing Products (see p. 25) Products CS & Quality and reducing greenhouse-gas emissions, two inseparable 20% or more reduction Reduce parts of achieving negative carbon, along with reducing greenhouse-gas compared to fiscal 1990 Reduced 21% emissions (domestic production sites) volumes of waste generated, which is connected to effective utilization of resources, and increasing the efficiency of environmental management using the Sekisui Eco Value Reduce wastes 40% reduction in base units generated compared to fiscal 2007 Increased 2% Index, our own environmental management indicator. (domestic production sites) Human Resources 1 Back-casting A method of considering steps that should be taken at present by envisioning a goal for the future and working backward to the present state. Sekisui Over three times Eco Value Index the fiscal 2007 value 2.2 times Bases of CSR EMS In an effort to carry out environWe have developed a structure for collecting data on environmental load at mental management effectively, overseas production sites and offices and are implementing efforts to miniwe have developed our environmize environmental load at each of these sites. In addition, all 45 main sites have mental management system Overseas Sites established targets of acquiring ISO 14001 certification and achieving the goal (EMS) in accordance with the ISO of zero waste emissions. In fiscal 2010 Allen Extruders, LLC., (in the United States) and Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. (in Germany) attained ISO 14001 certification 14001 standard and are working and a number of other companies began efforts toward acquiring certification. to expand application of this system throughout the entire Sekisui Chemical Group. As of We ask suppliers including subcontractors to obtain external certifications March 2011, 59 business sites in such as ISO 14001 and Eco Action 211 and support them in these efforts. Japan and 21 sites overseas had Supply Chain 1 Eco Action 21 Certification of environmental management systems, established by the Ministry obtained ISO 14001 certification. of the Environment of Japan The number of employees at these business sites represents 65% of all Sekisui Chemical Group employees. We are advancing “green office” activities that promote efforts such as energy saving and recycling, reducing use of paper, and promoting green Offices purchasing at Sekisui Chemical’s headquarters buildings and at our offices at sites across Japan. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 24 Environment Environment-Contributing Products Contributing to Minimizing the Environmental Load of Our Stakeholders Society Through Our Products and Businesses Environment-Contributing Products conceptual diagram High Criteria for Environment-Contributing Products Environmental contribution level Environment-Contributing Definitions · Products and businesses that demonstrably help our Products customers and society to reduce their environmental load Products and · Products or systems having lower environmental impact businesses that compared to similar conventional products and systems Products or demonstrably help systems having at reduce the environScope of · During customer use, reduction of environmental load least a certain degree of Application during disposal and recycling, and alleviation of possible mental load of our Conventional effect on reducing customers and environmental load resource depletion (excluding production and transporsociety environment-friendly tation within Sekisui Chemical Group) products compared to similar conventional products · Reduction of impacts on the natural environment (e.g. and systems reduction in greenhouse gases) and social environment (e.g. reduction of waste, conservation of resource, and Low water saving/recycling) Sekisui Chemical Group’s Our customers and society business activities Scope of environmental load reduction About Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR is to contribute to sustainable society through business. To contribute to minimizing the environmental load of society, it is essential that businesses create and promote widespread use of products that will make active contributions to the environment. In fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group established Environment-Contributing Product Standards calling for an even higher level of contribution to the environment than before, and since then it has managed such products through a certification system. Expansion of Environment-Contributing Products One of the targets of Sekisui Chemical Group’s Midterm Environmental Plan is that of growing Ratio of sales of the ratio of sales of Environment-Contributing Products to total consolidated net sales to 40% Environment-Contributing Products to total net sales Verified or higher in fiscal 2013. (See p. 24, and p. 7 of the “Data” supplement.) In fiscal 2010, strong sales of houses with solar energy generation systems and an increase in the lineup of Environment-Contributing Products led to growth in net sales of them to 302.6 33% billion yen. This is a ratio of 33% of total net sales, more than achieving the target of 27% for the fiscal year. These Environment-Contributing Products have resulted in a reduction in carbon-dioxide 15% emissions offsetting the amount of carbon dioxide emissions generated at production activities in Japan (according to Sekisui Chemical estimates). 2007 2010 (FY) System for Environmental Consideration in Products In addition to making contributions to society, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the Three Greening Steps intended to incorporate consideration for the environment in three stages of its value chain: development, procurement, and manufacturing. For this purpose, we are implementing systems including Product Assessments for Environmental Impact, Green Procurement, and Prior Assessment of Capital Expenditure. (See the “Data” supplement, p. 14.) Forms related to green procurement and other materials are available on the Sekisui Chemical website. http://www.sekisuichemical.com/suggestion/index.html 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Examples of Environment-Contributing Products Three Prominences Environment-Contributing Products are employed in a variety of areas, including the residential, construction, information-technology, automotive, and infrastructure fields. Numerous products are helping to minimize environmental load during use, including products such as homes with solar energy generation systems, solar control interlayer films for automotive use, and Thermal Barrier and Heat Radiation Coating, all of which help reduce carbon-dioxide emissions, products such as reusable system houses and recycle containers that help reduce resource consumption, and those such as pipe renewal system, rainwater strage systems, and water recycling systems that help improve the water environment. Examples of Environment-Contributing Products Certified in Fiscal 2010 Environment Recycling Household Plastic Waste GREEN LABEL Series GREEN LABEL is a new line of recycled plastic The GREEN LABEL Process products intended to expand the uses of recycled Recyclable plastic waste from households Recycled again after use plastic resources through a threelayer structure CS & Quality Recycled plastic Recycled plastic sandwiching recycled household plastic waste Household Municicontainer material* container material1 pality recycling vender pellets between layers of recycled industrial plastic waste, Sandwich thus securing strength, durability, and moldability. molding The first product in this series, GL Container, Factories etc. Waste plastic recycler Waste was introduced in January 2011. Plans call for plastic pellets recycling of approximately 500 tons of plastic in Human Resources Recycled again after use fiscal 2012. Waste plastics from businesses 1 Recycled plastic container materials Plastic container and packaging materials collected pursuant to the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law Reducing Carbon-Dioxide Emissions Through Improving Window Thermal Insulation Effect Air Sandwich Thermal Insulation Attachments for Windows Bases of CSR CO2 cut 19% This window insulation material uses layers of air formed between transparent film layers. Its high thermal insulation performance contributes to reducing Single-family residence (Tokyo area) carbon-dioxide emissions through helping keep down electric power consumption from heating and cooling. Since it can be installed in existing window frames, it can be used in offices, factories, or homes. This product was developed through the Strategic Development of Energy Conservation Technology Project of New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO). Comfort Sash Single pane glass Multiple pane glass Thermal insulation improved by 13 % Utilizing Existing Sash Frames to Convert Single Pane Windows to Multiple Pane Glass This remodeling option for Sekisui Heim makes it easy to convert existing single pane windows to multiple pane glass, without damaging the home. At the same time it improves thermal insulation by 13% vs. prior to remodeling, the new sash also makes it easy to open and close windows using a large sash roller suited to the weight of multiple pane glass. It also enhances security through use of double locks. * For details, see the pamphlet “Sekisui Chemical Group Environment-Contributing Products” : http://www.sekisuichemical.com/csr/environment/products/index.html Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 26 Environment Environment-Contributing Products External Advisory Board To increase the reliability and transparFlow of Certification of Environment-Contributing Product ency of the Environment-Contributing Product certification system, in fiscal Development 2010 Sekisui Chemical Group established an External Advisory Board. This Application: Application for certification by Business Units board works to further promote and A meeting of the External Advisory Board expand Environment-Contributing ProScreening: ducts based on impartial review by Screening by internal certification screening committee outside experts. Third Party Evaluation External Advisory Board Policy In fiscal 2003, Sekisui Chemical Group established the environment-friendly product certification system, and since then it has made progress in growing its environment-friendly products and businesses. Environment-Contributing Products take this system a step further, and products that make contributions to the environment at an even higher level, aimed at minimizing the environmental load of not just the Group but customers and society as well, are certified as Environment-Contributing Products. Third-Party Evaluation Responsibilities of When the world is full of eco products, no matter how much a company the External Advisory Board promotes its products as contributing to the environment consumers will 1. Matters related to the effectiveness of see it as just singing its own praises. For this reason, in certifying operation of the Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Products Sekisui Chemical Group has established Products system an External Advisory Board as a group of outside environmental experts to 2. Matters related to the objectivity, fairness, and appropriateness of the Environmentprovide advice and recommendations on the Environment-Contributing Contributing Product certification standards Product certification system as a whole, in order to increase the reliability and 3. Other matters related to operation of the transparency of the system. Environment-Contributing Products system and the system for certification of EnvironmentContributing Products in general Board Meetings The External Advisory Board met in September 2010 and February 2011. Following a description of the standards for certification of Environment-Contributing Products and the state of such certification, the board meeting featured exchange of opinions and presentations by external advisors on recent environmental information. Attendees from Sekisui Chemical included responsible Directors and below as well as environmental personnel of each division-company and Headquarters. Advisors presented not just opinions on individual Environment-Contributing Products but also a variety of opinions and recommendations on this system and on environmental management in Sekisui Chemical Group. We plan to utilize these opinions in future environmental management. 27 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Comments from Advisors Three Prominences Mr.Masatsugu Taniguchi Director, Strategy Design Institute, resource and environment · I would like to express my respect for the way Sekisui Chemical Group truly has been a leader in advancing from environmentally friendly products to Environment-Contributing Products. In addition, its contributions to the environment through business are worthy of respect as well. It probably should promote aggressively how it contributes to the environment, society, and communities. · From the perspective of preservation of biodiversity, I would like to see a focus on protecting the traditional culture of indigenous peoples as well. Since the wisdom of them is a wonderful thing, I would like to see their Environment knowledge put to use in development new products and businesses as well. Dr. Juichi Shibusawa Vice-President, Network for Coexistence with Nature · There is a need for alignment of vectors on courses of action that should be aimed for in preservation of biodiversity. · If the company does not pay careful attention, it could see the rug pulled out from under it on certification standards for biodiversity. I believe there is a need for standards showing that unlawful resources from Africa and illegally felled timber are not used. CS & Quality · Concerning globalization of environmental contributions, since environmental load would increase if developing countries reach the same economic level as Japan I would like to see global environmental load given consideration. Mr. Takehisa Kabeya Director, Center of Product and Environmental Aspects, Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry Human Resources · Environment-Contributing Products are highly significant in that they communicate information on the degree of contribution from the company to outsiders. While the company is working hard to quantify its effects, customers demands transparency of information, backing for figures, and a sense of trust. · I think perhaps it would be a good idea to adopt a different gauge than used in the past on the conceptualization of Environment-Contributing Products, such as a focus on the idea of ecological design1. 1 Ecological design Design of products and services with consideration for the environment. Also known as environmentally friendly design. Ms. Minako Oishi Vice-chairperson, Environment Committee, Nippon Association of Consumer Specialists · I think that it is praiseworthy and wonderful that the company has high goals for Environment-Contributing Bases of CSR Products. · It is important that consumers know about the entire life cycle of a product. While they are provided with information on the stages from product use through disposal, I would like to see consumers educated about the loads of purchase of raw materials and of manufacturing as well. · While Sekisui Chemical traditionally has been familiar to consumers as a manufacturer of everyday products such as tape and buckets, recently the content of its businesses has become less visible to consumers. For this reason, I would like to see this information promoted from a CSR approach as well. Mr. Shigenori Jimbo Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. Nikkei BP Cleantech Institute · Sekisui Chemical’s promotional methods appear more subdued than those of other chemical firms. · I think it would be a good idea to publicize the figures behind the Environment-Contributing Product certification standards after first promoting the Sekisui way of thinking, since Sekisui is producing good products. · I would like to see an aim at the ultimate objective of contributing to minimizing environmental load through products and businesses, without focusing too much on the figures or logic of the certification standards. On the Advisory Board Hajime Kubo Head of CSR Department, director, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. This is our first attempt at establishing a body such as this advisory board made up of outside specialists. It has reminded us of the importance of utilizing feedback from outside the company. In advancing environmental management as one of our three themes of CSR, we consider EnvironmentContributing Products to be a symbol of Sekisui Chemical Group’s environmental management. I agree with the idea that we should promote our positive achievements more to society. In the future as well, I would like us to improve our image in society even more by advancing efforts in which we can demonstrate leadership in society. We will put the opinions received from the advisory board to use in advancing environmental management with a consciousness of the perspectives of society at all times. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 28 Environment Climate Change Efforts to Achieve Carbon Negative Throughout the Product Life Cycle Reducing Greenhouse-Gas Emissions Throughout the Product Life Cycle Conceptual Diagram of Carbon Negative Business activities Product use ProcureR&D Production Shipping Use ment Carbon emissions Development of Promotion of Environment-Contributing Environment-Contributing Products Products Product Raw R&D Production Shipping materials Reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions Exceeding greenhouse-gas emissions Carbon attributable to business activities with reduction effect offsetting reductions in greenhousegas emissions during product use Policy Achieving carbon negative (see p. 23) requires both development and promotion of Environment-Contributing Products and controlling greenhouse-gas emissions from business. Sekisui Chemical Group continues related efforts throughout the entire product life cycle. GHG Emissions Activities at the Production Stage (in Japan and Worldwide) Greenhouse-gas (Emissions from the Production Stage) Verified We have established the target for fiscal 2013 of reducing greenhouse-gas (1,000 tons-CO2) emissions generated at the production stage in Japan by 20% compared to the 600 fiscal 1990 level. In fiscal 2010 we realized a reduction of 21% compared to the 433 414 fiscal 1990 level, thanks in part to the results of measures to promote investing 400 389 365 330 350 341 in the environment1. Since Sekisui Chemical Group’s production sites overseas are subject to 200 156 160 Japan considerable changes in areas such as product lineups as the overseas business Overseas grows, the Group has established guidelines calling for achieving in fiscal 2013 a 0 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 5% reduction from fiscal 2008 in energy consumption per unit of output. Each Notes: site is setting targets based on its own circumstances. Overseas data covers carbon-dioxide emissions only. 1 Measures to promote investing in the environment Overseas figures have increased since fiscal 2009 in Measures under which Corporate Headquarters helps division companies cover the costs of connection with an increase in the number of overseas investment for the purpose of controlling greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with the sites due to acquisitions, etc. resulting reductions. Adopted in fiscal 2007, in fiscal 2009 investment in making energy use visible so Fiscal 2009 figures have been revised beginning with CSR its actual conditions could be ascertained was added to the subject of these measures as well. Report 2010 in connection with a change in rules for collection of data on overseas sites. Efforts in Stages Other Than Production Total greenhouse-gas emissions in fiscal 2010 Typical efforts Resulting reductions Verified Renovation of air-conditioning equipment, changing temperature R&D 14,000 tons-CO2 settings, installation of fans, regularly turning off lights 17% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Shipping 40,000 tons-CO2 Reduced emissions through use of joint shipping and modal shifts 23% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 Energy-conservation activities including regularly turning off Offices 16,000 tons-CO2 lights and using restraint in air-conditioner settings 15% reduction vs. fiscal 2007 29 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Activities Three Prominences Improving Heat Release, and Leaks of Air and Steam Through Energy-Conservation Inspections Production sites in Japan are conducting inspections through which personnel Environment responsible for conserving energy check volumes of heat released and look for air and steam leaks using infrared cameras and leak detectors. Results of these inspections are used to ascertain heat, air and steam loss converted to monetary amounts and to install insulation and make repairs to improve the situation. For steam, efforts include steam-trap inspection by specialists and optimization of piping. A leak detector (left) and an infrared camera (right) Visualizing Energy at CS & Quality Five Sekisui Chemical Sites Including the Musashi Plant Human Resources The High Performance Plastics Company, which accounts for roughly one-half of the entire Sekisui Chemical Group’s greenhouse-gas emissions, is advancing introduction of a system to visualize electric power and steam to help reduce emissions. A visualization system screen Already, five plants including Sekisui Chemical’s Musashi Plant are implementing systems that make it possible to identify energy waste and irregularities and to judge the extent of deterioration of equipment and assess factors such as results of switching to new equipment. Bases of CSR Three U.S. Plants Conduct Inspections on Heat Release, and Leaks of Air and Steam The inspections that have been conducted at production sites in Japan and generated steady results are now being deployed on a global scale. In fiscal 2010, an energy-conservation inspection system was developed in which infrared cameras and leak detectors are installed at one U.S. production site and made available for lending to other sites in the U.S. as requested. In fiscal 2010, the three plants of Sekisui Voltek, LLC., Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC., and Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. conducted these inspections, and in the future they will be deployed in other regions as well. For the Future Since fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group has been implementing “the Energy 50% Process” intended to cut energy costs by one-half through production innovations. Beginning in the first half of the year this process was implemented at 12 production facilities in Japan, and in the second half it started at production facilities in Europe and North America as well. The number of facilities implementing the process will undergo steady expansion. In addition, policies to promote investment in the environment will continue to accelerate. Furthermore, material flow cost accounting (see p. 31), which until now has been used as an indicator of waste and cost reductions, will be employed to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions as well. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 30 Environment Resource Efficiency Pursuing the Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle Throughout the Product Life Cycle Oil waste, acidic waste, alkaline waste 5.4% Breakdown of Plasterboard 0.5% Reduce Generated Waste Production Verified Burnt residue 0.4% Development Metal scrap 3.1% Others 1.7% Construction Recycle 3R Reuse Wood chips 3.9% Wastepaper 4.7% Plastics waste Disposal Use Sludge 11.0% 49.2% Glass and ceramics scrap 20.2% Policy Based on our recognition of the environmental impact of the wastes generated by our business and products, Sekisui Chemical Group pursues reduce, reuse, and recycle throughout the product life cycle. Material Flow Cost Accounting Since fiscal 2006, Sekisui Chemical Group has employed Material Flow Cost Accounting (MFCA)1 in pursuit 1 Material Flow Cost Accounting of both ecological and economic goals to reduce waste and costs. (MFCA) A method of assessing costs comThe midterm environmental plan (see the “Data” supplement, p. 3) includes the target of achieving a prehensively by tracing the flow total reduction of 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2008 of materials within production on a cumulative basis over the five-year processes and focusing on the losses (wastes) generated in these VOICE processes. Use of this method period from fiscal 2009 through fiscal 2013. In realizes new cost savings and fiscal 2010, we reduced costs by 1.3 billion reductions in environmental load by making hidden inefficiencies yen through efforts including increasing the Since fiscal 2009 we have worked to achieve the goal visible through treating wastes as negative products that generate thickness precision of housing exterior wall of zero waste emissions in September 2010. Although costs. panels and decreasing the volume of we were three months late in achieving this goal as a materials disposed of as defective. Total result of efforts related to selection of waste recovery waste generated by production sites also venders and screening preparations, we were decreased by 9% from the fiscal 2007 level. certified in December as a zero waste emissions plant. In addition to monthly environmental meetings and employee training, our activities also have included preparation and posting of waste segregation guides and recycling routes. We feel that at Zero Waste Emissions present we have just cleared our target. In the future we will strive to put wastes to Since 1998, Sekisui Chemical Group has promoted Zero Waste Emissions effective use and restrain waste Activities intended to reuse as resources all the waste it generates. generation as we work toward While we have achieved zero waste emissions at main production continual improvements. facilities and housing construction and remodeling sites, we also are advancing global activities toward the goal of achieving zero waste emissions at all subject facilities by fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2010, two new Takashi Saito facilities in Japan achieved it. This brings the number of facilities achieving Iwate Plant, Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. this goal, including affiliated companies, to 41 in Japan and three overseas, for achievement rates of 89% and 19%, respectively. 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Results Production Facilities in Japan Total Waste Generated and Waste per Unit of Output Production Facilities Verified Manufacturing sites are focusing in particular on (1,000 tons) (FY 2007: 100) reducing and reusing wastes. In fiscal 2010, 60 Target: Reduction of 40% 120 these sites achieved a 9% reduction in total 50 100 94.7 96.7 102.1 or more vs. fiscal 2007 100 waste generated vs. fiscal 2007 through efforts 43.6 40 39.3 39.5 80 to reduce excess and scrap materials and im36.0 Environment 30 60 60 prove the efficiency of molding by expanding Per unit of output index the sizes of housing materials, though the waste 20 40 per unit of output did increase by 2%. Total waste generated 10 20 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 (FY) (Target) New Housing Construction Sites Total Waste Generated in New Housing Construction Verified CS & Quality While Sekisui Heim modular homes, for which (Tons/home) 5 80% of the building process takes place in factories, originally have generated low volumes 4 4.02 of waste at construction sites, our goal for fiscal 3 1.95 2013 is to reduce this amount further by 45% vs. 2.30 2.18 2.20 the fiscal 2000 level. In fiscal 2010, efforts such as 2 1.99 1.32 1.29 1.20 1.07 New housing 1.04 Human Resources reducing excess material use through coopera1 construction sites tion between sales and production sections 1.03 0.65 0.59 0.75 0.66 Exterior wall plants 0 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.26 Assembly plants succeeded in reducing total waste generated by 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) 32% vs. fiscal 2000 for Sekisui Heim homes and by 51% over the same period for Two-U homes. Water Use Bases of CSR Water Intake at Production Sites Verified Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to reduce water use through means (1,000 tons) Target: 10% reduction including cyclic use of cooling water. 20,000 vs. fiscal 2007 Water intake for the entire Group in fiscal 2010 fell by 3% in 16,985 16,923 16,541 16,517 15,000 15,287 comparison with the fiscal 2007 level. 10,000 5,000 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 (FY) (Target) For the Future In Japan, Sekisui Chemical Group will strengthen its efforts aimed at achievement of a reduction of 40% or more vs. fiscal 2007 in waste generation per unit production volume, a target for fiscal 2013. Overseas, in 2010 we established a reduction of 25% of waste per unit production volume vs. fiscal 2008 as a guideline for fiscal 2013 targets and are advancing related activities. In addition, in some countries and territories waste is usually disposed of by landfill and there are no incineration facilities, and as such there is no way to reuse the heat from incineration of wastes. For this reason, we also are considering flexible use of zero waste emissions standards in accordance with the actual circumstances in each country and territory, for example by evaluating increases achieved in recycling rates. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 32 Environment Air, Water, & Soil Minimizing Environmental Impact through Proper Control of Chemical Substances System for Control of Chemical Substances throughout the Product Life Cycle Development Procurement Production Transportation Sale/Use Product Assessment Green Procurement Prior Assessment System Information Disclosure Information Disclosure System for EnvironmenSystem of Capital Expenditure · Issue of yellow cards · Issue of MSDS tal Impact · Evaluation sheet for · Check on safety and · Legal description · Check on prohibited procured products environment substances · Check on energy · Check on substances Implementation of various prescribed by law preservation activities Formulation and operaFormulation and operation of the Chemicals tion of the Chemicals Management Regulations Management Regulations Policy While chemical substances make people’s lives more convenient, they also could have 1 Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact harmful effects on the environment or on human beings. Therefore, we believe that considA system for assessment of the envieration of product safety, occupational safety and health, and environmental impact ronmental impact of a product all the way from raw material procurement through proper management of chemical substances is an important responsibility of a through manufacture, use, disposal, chemicals manufacturer. transport, and all other stages (see the Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing efforts such as the Product Assessment “Data” supplement, p. 14). System for Environmental Impact1 and the Green Procurement System2 as well as setting 2 Green Procurement System our own targets for reducing discharge and transfer of chemicals and eliminating our use of A system of giving priority to choosing raw materials, parts, etc. with lower the most critical substances. We also review periodically chemical substances that are levels of environmental impact when candidates for control or regulation of use, in accordance with the establishment and procuring them. amendment of relevant laws. VOC & HCFCs Soil Since fiscal 1999, Sekisui Chemical Group has been working to reduce discharge of pollutants into the environment. In fiscal 2010, we conducted surveys compliant with relevant Since fiscal 2006, we have aimed for the target of a 60% reduclaws at six sites and completed two of these facilities. Results of tion in discharge of VOCs into the atmosphere in fiscal 2013 these surveys showed no values standards exceed for soil compared to fiscal 2000. In fiscal 2010 we achieved a 49% reduction pollution at Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant and excess compared to fiscal 2000. values on a part of the site of Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., In fiscal 2008 we ended all use of HCFCs. Ltd. Plans call for addressing the areas with excess values in accordance with the law. PCBs Air & Water Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which Sekisui Chemical Group complies with the regulatory values under acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. laws and ordinances for the various types of equipment it uses in Machines and equipment in storage that contain PCBs are connection with exhaust gases and drain water. We also strive to managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including control discharge of pollutants through appropriate maintenance locked storage and periodic inspection. and management including periodic inspections. 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Environment Biodiversity Striving to Preserve Biodiversity Three Prominences through Both Business and Nature Conservation Approach Environmentally conscious business Guidelines for Environmental Environment Preservation of Management Policy Biodiversity (revised April 2008) Nature conservation (established March 2011) activities around the world Declaration of Biodiversity and Action Policy by Nippon Keidanren CS & Quality (March 2009) Policy Human Resources In April 2008, Sekisui Chemical Group incorporated items on biodiversity to its Environmental Management Policy. Since then it has strived to preserve biodiversity through both environmentally conscious business and deploying nature conservation activities around the world. In March 2011, we established guidelines for efforts to preserve biodiversity. In addition, we are expanding the scope of these efforts to the entire supply chain through steps including the addition of biodiversity-related items to procurement policies. (See p. 14 of the “Data” supplement.) Bases of CSR “KODOMO Biodiversity” KODOMO Biodiversity is an environmental education activity for children wetlands registered under the Ramsar Convention1. KODOMO Biodiversity has been held at 10 wetland locations in Japan and around the world over the two-year period beginning in 2009, with about 400 children participating. Sekisui Chemical has provided support for this activity from the planning stage through implementation. In August 2010 it was held at Lake Biwa, with about 80 children taking part including children from nine foreign countries. Through observing nature at Lake Biwa, the children learned about the abundant biodiversity still remaining in the lake and experienced the traditional culture of the local community, among other activities. In the end, they summarized what they had learned in the form of a declaration. A presentation on results from this activity was given at the Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10). 1 Ramsar Convention A scene from KODOMO Biodiversity A global convention on protection of wetland ecosystems, adopted in Ramsar, Iran in 1971 at Lake Biwa Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 34 CS & Quality Pursuing quality always specified by customers, through maximizing Customers & Society the quality of human resources, Quality always products, and systems Use of specified by customers Use of Customer’s Feedback Customer’s Feedback Our Philosophy Creating Attractive Qualities As a manufacturer, contributing to customers through the quality of the products and services and letting them appreEnhancing Basic Qualities ciate their value are of utmost importance. Sekisui Chemical Group has employed CS management focused on customer satisfaction (CS). CS comes first of all from the quality of Research and Product planning Product design Collecting development products and services, and our goal is to embody CS in information ProductionResolving complaints Maximizing the quality of method design products and services themselves through the pursuit of and claims human resources, products, and systems Mass production their quality. Construction, sales, service Procurement, Based on this concept, in 2004 we began CS & Quality Storage, shipping Production outsourcing Management focusing on products and services quality innovations in all of our business. The aim is to progress and grow together with customers over the long term, by constantly delivering values that surpass their expectations so that they will choose our products and services repeatedly. For this purpose, based on the motto “We consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing,” we are improving the “Basic Qualities”1 and “Attractive Qualities2 through improving” the “Quality of Products and Services” and the “Quality of People” and the “Quality of Systems” that support it, utilizing a variety of feedback and other information received from customers. Sekisui Chemical Group is working together to pursue quality that will be always specified by customers. 1 Basic Qualities 2 Attractive Qualities The CS & Quality Delivering products and services with Continuing to create new value in anticipation of Management Policy See ”Data” P19, 21 the quality promissed to customers. the needs of customers and the other stakeholders. and System KPIs External failure costs (Indicator) Verified 100 100 We have identified two key performance indicators. One of these is 80 external failure costs3, which arise in connection with complaints and 63 claims concerning products. The other is the number of major quality 60 57 3 External failure costs 43 Costs arising from responding issues4 related to products and services. 40 to product-related complaints and claims. In fiscal 2010, we were able to decrease external failure costs by 4.2 20 4 Major quality issues billion yen from fiscal 2004. Two major quality issues arose during the year. 0 Problems related to product We will further cut external failure costs through revising group-wide 2004 2008 2009 2010 (FY) and service quality that could cause significant damage to quality-assurance systems and purchased/outsourced products systems. customers, society, or Sekisui Major quality issues Verified Chemical Group if not We also will establish standards for design review to prevent major quality (Incidents) thoroughly resolved on an issues so they will not occur in the future. 4 urgent basis. 3 2 2* 2 1 1 0 2008 2009 2010 (FY) Note: CSR Report 2010 incorrectly indicated one incident for fiscal 2008. The actual number was two incidents. 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Midterm Plan Environment To achieve the goals for fiscal 2013 of eliminating major quality issues and cutting external failure costs by 5 billion yen vs. fiscal 2004, in fiscal 2011 we will implement new training intended to train leaders in production sites, as a means of improving the Basic Qualities, and continue holding seminars on prevention of product quality-related problems. Furthermore, to strengthen qualityassurance abilities overseas we will begin with a survey of actual conditions in that area. Also, to help create Attractive Qualities we will continue releasing “The Story of Attractive Qualities,” on the CS & Quality company intranet (see p. 38) and continue “the Creation School” public training sessions for employees (see p. 41). Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2010 Theme Main Efforts Future efforts Human Resources · Improving Customer Information · Responding to qualityBasic CS & Consulting Services related risks Qualities · Visiting all residents · Strengthening preventive Development/ · Quality management system abilities Quality · Improving quality procurement · Global deployment of QC efforts · S-QC activities assurance overseas Attractive Human Qualities resources · ”The Story of Attractive Qualities” · HR development · Public training sessions · Internal/external promotion Bases of CSR Fiscal 2010 fire in an MJS telephone exchange system On January 13, 2011, a fire arose that appears to have started in fires. These cases were responded to by replacing the compothe power-supply circuit board of an MJS III telephone nents on the damaged power-supply circuit boards. exchange manufactured by Sekisui Chemical co, ltd. We apoloTogether with reflecting deeply on these circumstances, gies to customers and the other stakeholders concerned. we have taken new steps such as the following. While the cause of the fire remains under investigation by the National Institute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE), we Changes to Complaint/Claim Resolution Regulations and are replacing, free of charge, customers’ products using the Reporting/Disclosure Flows same power-supply circuit board (the MJS II and MJS III We have established criteria for noncritical product failures1 so exchange systems) installed in Sekisui Heim and Two-U Homes that in the event of a situation such as this a preliminary report residences. While replacement work continues, it is expected will be sent immediately to the quality assurance section of the that nearly all eligible products will be completely replaced for relevant division company. The division company then will customers by the end of June 2011. Putting customer safety first, report the matter to the President and Corporate Headquarters, we try to complete replacement of all eligible products as consult with them on responses, and quickly report the matter quickly as possible. to NITE. It is our understanding that this incident was a major 1 Noncritical product failure problem involving insufficiently strict evaluation at the product Ignition, burning, smoking, or scorching not resulting in a fire, unusual odors, design stage and, furthermore, insufficient examination of unusual heating, deformation caused by heat, toppling, dropping, minor injuries, minor burns, skin irritation, etc. previous explosions of condensers used in the same product, resulting in a conclusion that such explosions would not lead to Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 36 CS & Quality Customer Satisfaction (CS) Increasing the Attractiveness of Products and Services Based on Customer Feedback Systems of putting Customer’s feedback to the fields of Development Reflecting Fields of Manufacturing Development Collection Hayamimi Customer’s Senior executives Planning Contact point Network feedback and related sections Development and design Customer’s Opinions Analysis Utilization Production and construction feedback Surveys and wishes Needs Categorization Customers Receiving InvestiFactor Interviews Complaints complaints gation Response analysis Reflecting Others Preventative Actions Resolving dissatisfactions In addition to Customer Information & Consulting Services in the CSR Department within Sekisui Chemical co, ltd., Sekisui Chemical Group has established contact points for inquiries in each division company and in each sales company. In this way, we are working to respond swiftly to inquiries, guidance, and wishes from customers. The Housing Company has established a Customer Center at each sales company across Japan and has completed the following steps: (i) assignment of full-time personnel responsible for customer service, (ii) accepting feedback from customers 24 hours/day, 365 days/year, (iii) making a toll-free number available for telephone inquiries, (iv) consolidating the contact points for after-sales service and Fami-S (renovation business), and (v) consolidating area telephone numbers. Customer Information & Consulting Services Customer Information & Consulting Services analyses the customer feedback received day after day and puts it to use in improving products and services. In fiscal 2010, based on results of analysis we proposed a variety of improvements in areas including products, the descriptions in catalogs and on websites, and the handling at contact points for customers as well. In response to these proposals, division companies made 73 improvements. Furthermore, to raise the level of service at contact points for VOICE inquiries in each division company and sales company and put customer feedback to even greater use, in fiscal 2008 we began Since this training took place around the time telephone service training taught by Customer Information & I had been accustomed to telephone service, Consulting Services staff. In fiscal 2010, this training was conducted in it reminded me the difficulty of identifying 17 sessions at 14 business sites, for a total of 187 trainees. customer needs in telephone conversation. The training focused mainly on getting trust from customers. It was very meaningful and led to future improvements in my skills as well. Yuki Kurokawa Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. Telephone service training 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences “The Story of Attractive Qualities” To increase motivation among product-planning and development personnel, in fiscal 2008 content providing an introduction to relevant products, entitled “The Story of Attractive Qualities,” was released on the company intranet. This content introduces, through dialogue between development personnel and others, the cases of products with Attractive Qualities that have provided customers with new value and contributed to our stakeholders. It has been accessed by a very high number of users. Environment In fiscal 2010, a piece on Eslo Hyper, a new line of high-performance polyethylene pipes for waterworks use that is intended to open up a new stage in the history of the water infrastructure, was added to the site, incorporating interviews with customers and contractors as well as development personnel. The site content on the social significance of long-selling products has had a strong impact on young employees. CS & Quality “The Story of Attractive Qualities” (on the company intranet) Case Studies of Attractive Qualities Eslo Hyper high-performance polyethylene pipes Human Resources support lifeline Water is an essential resource to everyday living and industry. While Adoption of Polyethylene Water Pipes waterworks in Japan boast a high penetration rate of 97%, the nation’s (km) total of approximately 618,000 kilometers of water pipes about 43,000 3,000 kilometers have surpassed their usable lives of 40 years (as of April 2,430 2,000 2,024 2010). In addition, the metal pipes installed initially are weak in terms of 1,799 bending, so that in the Great Hanshin-Awaji Earthquake water-supply 1,233 1,418 Bases of CSR 1,000 stoppage due to pipe damage inconvenienced large numbers 734 781 887 806 415 of people. 182 213 0 Sekisui Chemical took on the challenge of developing polyethylene 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 (FY) water pipes utilizing the technological capabilities it has accumulated in Source: Polyethylene Pipe for Water Distribution, Inspection Results of Water the gas-pipe business, with the goal of developing water pipes that Supply Equipment from Suido Kyokai Zasshi, the Journal of the Japan Water Works Association were not only superior in terms of durability and earthquake resistance Note: Estimates assume each pipe is five meters in length. but also would make it easier to carry out pipe rehabilitation, which is likely to see increased use in the future. In 1995 these pipes were Strengths of Eslo Hyper installed on a trial basis in the city of Hofu in Yamaguchi Prefecture, and in 1996 Eslo Hyper high-performance polyethylene pipes were on sale. The Eslo Hyper line satisfies the quality level needed by water pipes, which require higher pressure than gas pipes, through use of the raw Electric fusion material of high-density polyethylene. It also realizes high levels of durability and earthquake resistance through joining pipes using a proprietary fusion joining method. Furthermore, it also gives Pipes united using proprietary consideration to safety and ease of handling from the contractor’s fusion joining method perspective, and since its introduction it has earned a high level of Lightweight and easy to transport support and grown to be the standard in water pipes. and construct Rust-free material means pipe interiors are like new even nine years after installation Superior earthquake and climate resistance enables installation even in locations with severe conditions Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 38 CS & Quality Quality Pursuing the “three zeros” of Complaints, Accidents, and Wastes Recognizing that it is the fields of manufacturing develBasic Qualities opment that supports quality, since fiscal 2006 Sekisui Chemical Group has focused its efforts on innovation in production. Based on its belief that quality defects lead to costs, or losses and waste arising from handling Decreasing lossed costs, or losses and wastes arising from quality defects complaints and increased wastes, we are trying to reduce costs by targeting the “three zeros” of complaints, accidents, and wastes. Zero Zero Zero complaints accidents wastes Results of “three zeros” activities Verified Field of Manufacturing Development Number Costs Claim analyzed by handling costs of occupational injuries MFCA1 Decreased by 32 reduction % 5 % reduction 1.3 billion yen (vs. FY 2008) (vs. FY 2008) (vs. FY 2008) 1 MFCA Material Flow Cost Accounting (see p. 31, 40) Quality Management Sekisui Chemical Group has developed quality-control systems covering every process from production through product use by customers. Each section has developed a quality-assurance system, and in each process we promote controls on a daily basis following the PDCA2 management cycle. In developing 2 PDCA Plan (planning), D = Do (improducts and making improvements to quality, we conduct screening from a variety of perspectives, such plementation, operation), as those of quality assurance and safety. C = Check (checkup, corrective action), A = Action (imIn fiscal 2010, we will develop screening standards and check sheets. Our business sites also made provement, review) progress on becoming certified under the ISO 90013 standard, as the total number of Sekisui Chemical 3 ISO9001 Group business sites and departments certified under this standard rose to 87. The number of employees An international standard on quality assurance and quality at these ISO 9001-certified business sites and departments represents 58% of all Sekisui Chemical Group management systems employees. In fiscal 2011, we will focus on development of quality-assurance systems suited to the globalization of business. VOICE S-QC site dialogues Since fiscal 2008 we have held “the S-QC4 site dialogues” on the In August 2010 I took part in a site dialogue on the theme of subject of everyday management at production sites. These are quality. I believe discussing the theme of quality was an excellent events in which manufacturing, quality, and safety personnel from opportunity to review myself. Also, activities at other sites such as issuing armbands to a variety of people and having them the site-leader level visit production sites and then, following a site patrol the site were very instructive, as they seemed likely to gentour, discuss the themes of safety and quality. Through observing erate positive results in both safety and the sites, products, and equipment of other business facilities and quality by keeping people on the site alert speaking with participants who work in other sites, attendees can to prevent safety and quality activities gain insights and knowledge on practical operations. In fiscal 2010, from becoming mere formalities. I think eight sessions were held focusing on “Naze Naze Analysis”5, with 119 learning such things was something that personnel from 48 sites taking part. could be done only in this meeting. 4 S-QC Safety Quality Control Masayoshi Abe 5 “Naze Naze Analysis” Jobu Sekisui Co., Ltd. A method of thoroughly locating the cause of a problem and making use of it in order to help prevent any recurrence , by identifying why problems occurred, and why these causes were present in the occurrence of such a problem. 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences KAIZEN Activities Group KAIZEN activities,1 which began more than 40 years ago, are an initiative in which employees in 1 Group KAIZEN activities Activities that began in 1966 as each workplace form small groups to promote improvements in production and operational Quality Control (QC) groups and later evolved into small group efficiency and product quality improvements. These activities are underway in Japan and around the activities before taking the form world, centered on production companies. Once each year presentations are held in each region to they have today. share information on results in each workplace. For fiscal 2010, in October, the 18th All-Sekisui Americas KAIZEN Activities Presentation Environment was held at Allen Extruders, LLC., and in November the second All-China KAIZEN Activities Presentation was held at Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Furthermore, the 45th Sekisui Chemical Group KAIZEN Activities Presentation, a groupwide event in which teams announce exceptional results to each other, was held in January 2011. This event welcomed participants from 21 groups (19 from Japan and two from overseas) chosen from regional blocks. Sekisui Chemical’s Musashi Plant won the gold prize, while among overseas sites Sekisui Medical Technology took the bronze prize. CS & Quality The gold-prize-winning team Providing Products Information Human Resources As a means of preventing the reoccurrence of the serious incident that occurred in January 2011 (see p. 36), we have revised the internal complaint resolution regulations as well as reporting and disclosure flows in case of the occurrence of serious incidents. To achieve understanding of these countermeasures, an explanatory guide to the revised regulations has been released on the company intranet. In the future, understanding will be achieved through e-learning and other means. Also, each division company will take steps such as holding meetings between related sections and personnel, and holding training sessions. Future Issues and Countermeasures Bases of CSR Problems with Internal Regulations Countermeasures (content of revisions to internal regulations) · Changed titles of flows in complaint and claim Unclear judgment criteria for situations resolution rules and serious-incident reporting that could develop into serious incidents and disclosure flows, and made noncritical 1 such as fires (recognizing 103 related product failures subject to flows similar to those incidents as failures) for serious incidents · Clearly defined noncritical product failures Unclear flow for determining the need to Added to serious-incident reporting and disclo2 provide information to the National Instisure flows a clear flow for providing information tute of Technology and Evaluation (NITE) to NITE (See p. 36) and other parties concerning noncritical product failures as well MFCA and ECO-JIT Program As we seek to balance ecological and economic interests, in addition to utilizing material flow cost accounting (see p. 31) we are advancing the ECO-JIT Program as well. The ECO-JIT Program is an initiative intended to cut energy costs through identifying energy loss within production processes and carrying out production improvements (reforms). Formed from both a valueengineering approach that aims to reduce energy consumption in individual pieces of equipment and a just-intime (JIT) approach seeking to improve energy efficiency in production processes, this program adapts both of these approaches as appropriate through ascertaining information on and analyzing subject processes. To promote these ECO-JIT activities throughout the entire group, in July 2010 we prepared an ECO-JIT Handbook. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 40 CS & Quality Education and Training Advancing development of an organization in which each individual has a high level of CS awareness Theme-Specific Efforts “STAR 55” Section-specific efforts CS awareness program Creating attractive qualities (Incorporated into training programs “the Creation School” for specific employee ranks) CS communication Dialogue with customers After-sales service “CAT Meetings” skills Collecting and communicating positive CS case studies “STAR 55 Reports” To ensure a customer-oriented culture (CS culture) takes root throughout the entire group, Sekisui Chemical Group has been rolling out its own CS awareness program called STAR 55 since fiscal 2002. Through efforts including individual programs developed from STAR 55 and various training programs conducted for individual sections and themes, the goal is that each individual can take an action for customers. STAR 55 Sekisui Chemical Group developed the CS awareness program called STAR 551 in fiscal 2002, 1 STAR 55 An effort intended to foster a and since then it has been implementing the program as part of the training programs for customer-oriented culture (CS culture) by getting employees in specific employee ranks, while expanding the program as well. In fiscal 2010, the scope of the each workplace to think about CS CS Communication Skills Program intended to improve interpersonal skills was expanded from and work it into their individual action goals. including just sales sections to include after-sales service sections as well. Public Training Programs for Employees In fiscal 2008 Sekisui Chemical Group began holding Creation School public training sessions for employees to develop human resources who can generate products and services with Attractive Qualities. Focused on young and mid-level employees with development and planning responsibiliA discussion in the Creation School ties, this program has produced a cumulative total of 34 trainees who engage in developing the products with Attractive Qualities. In fiscal 2010, the program welcomed as a lecturer on the theme of product planning capabilities Prof. Noriaki Kanda of the Department of Business Administration in the Faculty of Economics at Seijo University, famous as an author of “Seven Tools of Product Planning”. He lectured trainees in the program over an eight month period. Under his guidance, teams organized by division company created concepts for “Prominent Products” and reported their results to management in December. Dialogues with Customers Since fiscal 2005, top management of the Housing Company and housing sales companies have 2 CAT The term comes from the been holding the CAT2 Meetings in which they meet customers directly to receive feedback first letter of the words directly. In fiscal 2010, these meetings were held 1,609 times, gathering feedback from a total of “Customer And Top management.” 4,955 customers (3,057 households). These feedbacks are used for purposes such as improvements to equipment and machinery, improvements to the tools used in explaining products, and enhancement of periodic inspections. 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 R&D, Intellectual Property, Purchasing Three Prominences Increasing the Value of Products and Services Through Various Aspects of Manufacturing Providing customers with products and services involves a variety of aspects, such as R&D, intellectual Environment property, and procurement. Sekisui Chemical Group strives to raise the value of products and services through these aspects. R&D CS & Quality To Sekisui Chemical Group, as a group that pursues to provide unique products and services, R&D is a foundation for revenues and growth, and an important management strategy. Each division company, Corporate Headquarters, and each key affiliate has an R&D section that handles a broad range of R&D from basic research through products development and technologies for production and management. Together with increasing the speed of technological development in growth areas and creating technologies, we also are advancing R&D concentrated on the three fields of advanced infrastructure Human Resources solutions, energy-solution chemicals, and life sciences, which are expected to contribute to solutions for social issues as next-generation businesses. Intellectual Property The intellectual property is an important management resource to Sekisui Chemical Group, whose policy on intellectual property is one of securing Bases of CSR business competitive strength through obtaining strong patents. To improve quality and raise awareness in development, employees who have obtained a certain number of patents are awarded “P Badges” and training is conducted on intellectual property. Future plans call for strengthening global-oriented efforts in addition to measuring the degree of contri“P Badge” bution of intellectual property to business. Procurement Sekisui Chemical Group purchases materials based on the fundamental concepts of openness, fairness and equity, legal compliance, mutual trust, and consideration for the environment. In addition to quality and delivery times, suppliers are requested to give consideration to the environment, comply with laws, regulations, and societal norms, and ensure supplier’s own health and safety. Lumber Procurement For structural lumber materials, which account for the bulk of lumber used in homes, we use certified lumber (for example, lumber certified by the Forest Stewardship Council, or FSC). Such certified lumber is procured lawfully from properly managed forests. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 42 Human Resources Aiming to raise corporate value through supporting Raise corporate value by stimulating diverse human resources our employees’ growth Prominence in Business and CSR Prominent Self-realization Human Resources Productivity at Business leaders manufacturing sites Specialized human resources Development, designing, production, construction, Our Philosophy Global human resources sales, technical services, after-sales service “Professional human resources” Based on our concept of enabling human reEach with his or her own unique skills sources to perform and grow, Sekisui Chemical Corporate Opportunities culture fostering Group strives to develop human resources. In individual to take on Growth and challenges on Commitment 2005, human resources was incorporated as learning and one’s own growth one of the three prominences of CSR, based on Workplaces where diverse human resources can thrive our belief that “human resources are an Rewarding workplaces important motive force driving advancement Employees are “precious assets bestowed on us by society” of CSR management.” In addition, based on the idea that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” Sekisui Chemical Group strives to create environments where employees can do their jobs with a sense of safety and security, and that help them aim for self-fulfillment through developing their own skills and growing as professionals utilizing their own individual characteristics. We believe that such efforts will lead to the continual development of our organization and business, and for this purpose we provide our employees with opportunities to take on challenges on their own and support individuals who can act on their own, with their own ideas. Furthermore, as the globalization of its businesses accelerates, the employees who work at Sekisui Chemical Group are growing more diverse as well. We are advancing efforts to increase opportunities for more people to thrive on the global stage and to promote creation of various working styles and safe and secure work environments, respecting the diversity, personalities, and individuality of our employees in each region. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical Group will aim to achieve growth for both the organization and its employees, with a firm awareness of the individual learning and growth of our employees. The Human Resources and Human Rights Policy and System See ”Data” P20, 21 Labor Practice Sekisui Chemical Group respects basic labor rights and strives to build positive labor-management relations. Our working conditions comply with the legal and regulatory systems of each country, and we strive to ensure compliance with relevant international labor standards as well. At the same time, together with assuring occupational health and safety in the workplace we also provide appropriate training and educational programs to employees (see p. 54 – 56). Respect for Human Rights With the recognition that it is its social responsibility to protect the human rights of each employee, Sekisui Chemical Group respects the diversity, personality, and individuality of each individual. In addition, in 2009 we formulated the “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” (see “Data” supplement, p. 20) and established under the Compliance Manual a provision stipulating that there should be no intentional infringement of human rights, whether directly or indirectly, and no participation in such infringement. 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Midterm Plan Environment At the same time it aims to achieve business growth, Sekisui Chemical Group also is developing environments in which employees, who are important assets can thrive in business using their own skills and creating various human-resources development systems and opportunities that help employees learn and grow on their own. Efforts to develop human resources who can thrive on a global stage began with the midterm plan established in fiscal 2009. CS & Quality In fiscal 2010, we implemented a variety of efforts on the key themes of global talents, career development & evaluation, and decent work & diversity. Results of Main Efforts in Fiscal 2010 Human Resources Key theme Main measures in fisical 2010 Efforts · Developed a global employee program Training of domestic employees · Increased “Global Talents” employees to 224 people for globalization · Enhanced welfare programs for employees stationed overseas Global talents International recruiting · Recruited people at the Boston Career Forum (one of America's largest job fairs for international students) · Held Bases of CSR a management training program for core personnel of Chinese subsidiaries Training of local managers · Deployed activities toward establishment of HR function in North America · Held career advisor brainstorming sessions to lay the groundwork for career training Career training Career development & · Established the Sekisui Support Center (to provide career and mental-health support) evaluation Internal job posting · 22System cases of using an Intra-group Job Posting for post-hiring transfers Work-life balance · Conducted normalization of working hours and activities to raise awareness at affiliate companies Decent work & · Held career planning seminars for sales women diversity Women’s empowerment · 119 women were hired as new graduates (25% of the total) Global employee surveys · Surveyed approximately 25,000 people Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 44 Human Resources Global Talents Advancing Development of Human Resources Who Can Thrive on the Global Stage Globalization of business Overseas business development Overseas advancement of through mergers and acquisitions production facilities and other means Developing global talents to support and grow businesses overseas Training of domestic International recruiting Training of local managers employees for globalization Necessity for “Global Talents” 1 ”Global Talents” employees Since 2000, Sekisui Chemical Group has been expanding its businesses overseas, mainly opening facilities, This is defined as employees capable of thriving on a global and through mergers and acquisitions. The midterm management plan includes the target of roughly stage with not only language and communication skills and doubling the percentage of sales overseas to 30%. specialization but also the In fiscal 2011, the number of overseas employees in the group as a whole exceeded 5,000 roughly abilities to adapt to different cultures and to support and double the figure in fiscal 2005 and more than 20% of all employees. Sekisui Chemical Group needs to secure grow business overseas. and train “Global Talents” employees1 to ensure the group’s sustained growth. Based on this concept, we are advancing the following HR strategies for “Global Talents” employees: · Training of domestic employees for globalization · International recruiting · Training of local managers Activities Training of domestic employees for globalization Training of local managers (China) The subjects of the Global Employee System intended to train “Global Talents” employees actively have been expanded to include all group employees in Japan, and employees aiming to work overseas actively undergo training on different cultures and specialized training in accordance with their own proficiency levels. In addition, the Global Trainee Program, which enables participants to build up real-world experience overseas, provides employees with experience in doing business in different cultures, by sending applicants with sufficient levels of experience from sales, accounting, and development positions to positions at overseas affiliates. Through these activities, we aim to increase the number of Japanese employees immediately ready to serve overseas to 300 by fiscal 2013 (from a number of 224 in fiscal 2010). 45 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 International recruiting An effort underway in addition to global training of Japanese employees is aggressive hiring of human resources with experience living overseas, such as foreign exchange students and non-Japanese candidates. In particular, we continue to hire candidates at the Boston Career Forum1, the largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair in the Three Prominences United States, where we have had a booth since fiscal 2008 and where we speak directly with large numbers of international students from Japan. In hiring of new university graduates in Japan as well, we are providing introductions to the globalization of our businesses and clearly identifying “Global Talents” employees as one of the ideal types of human resources we seek to hire. As a result, the percentage of new graduates joining the company in fiscal 2011 with the ability to play roles overseas was 27%, and we plan to increase this percentage to 40% in the future. Environment 1 Boston Career Forum The largest Japanese-English bilingual job fair, begun in 1987. More than 5,000 people take part in this event each year. Training of local managers In fiscal 2010, a management training program to train management at production Sekisui Chemical’s booth at the Boston Career Forum sites was held in China. Nineteen individuals from eight companies took part in this training held in Qingdao, which featured lively discussions. CS & Quality In the future, we will focus efforts on training of staff hired in each area around the world. Overseas workplaces activities In fiscal 2010, we conducted a survey of the living environments of employees stationed overseas in North America, Europe, China, and elsewhere in Asia. We also revised welfare programs, including enhancement of health management and information provision Human Resources and support for employees in regions with tough conditions in terms of public safety, climate, or other factors (hardship regions), referring to feedback collected overseas. Coordination with Each Area Once a year, Sekisui Chemical Group holds policy briefings in which all presidents of overseas affiliate companies meet together in one place as well as brainstorming sessions for them. These serve as Bases of CSR venues for sharing of vision and management policies as well as discussion toward solving the issues faced in each area. Furthermore, in fiscal 2010 meetings of company presidents began in individual areas, such as North America, Europe, China, and Asia. These are advancing the development of training and educational programs along with the sharing of effective and efficient methods at each company, to generate a sense of unity as group member companies. In the North American area, we plan to strengthen shared functions such as human resources, legal, and IT in addition to the traditional coordination and financial functions at the area headquarters company. VOICE I was assigned under the Global Trainee Program to a sales company in the housing business in Thailand, which had only recently been established. While my assignment only lasted for a short period of five months, it was a valuable experience starting up a new business from a clean slate together with Thai employees. I felt both nervous and proud to be treated as a representative of Sekisui Chemical or Japan in whatever I did or said. This experience also taught me the importance of persevering with dialogue on group principles, outlooks, and products again. Nariko Shiroma Housing Company, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 46 Human Resources Career Development and Evaluation Fostering a Culture in which Employees Learn and Grow on Their Own, through Support for Individual Career Plans Developing training programs for individual job levels New employees Third year with Managers Core the company management Building goal-oriented training systems Acquisition of skills and knowledge Support for career CSR training development Midterm priority themes · human Frontier-oriented · Business leaders · Global Talents · Specialized talents resources employees Education and Training System Sekisui Chemical Group provides a variety of support options suited to the positions and skill levels of employees, to make it easy for each employee to develop his or her own career. Based on the four themes of (i) acquisition of skills and knowledge, (ii) support for career development, (iii) midterm priority themes (frontier-oriented human resources, business leaders, Global Talents employees, and specialized talents), and (iv) CSR training, training is provided in accordance with the level of each employee’s job level. Activities At present, Sekisui Chemical Group is implementing a variety of efforts to provide each individual employee 1 Age-wise Career Plan Training Training in which employees think with opportunities to think about his or her own mediumto long-term career plan. about factors such as what they would like to do and what capabiliFor example, the education and training program Age-wise Career Plan Training by age1 is provided ties they have that they can put to for employees at or near critical ages or turning points as a member of society (such as up to three years use, to enable them to choose careers acceptable to themselves. after joining the company and the ages of 30, 40, and 50 years). In addition to thinking about their own careers, this training also serves as a valuable opportunity for employees of similar ages to interact with each 2 Career advisors Key career-support personnel withother across the boundaries separating sections and workplaces. The program also is meaningful as an in the Group. Internal training to develop career advisors began in opportunity for trainees to become aware of the diversity of ways of working and ways of viewing work. fiscal 2007. Career advisors come In addition, since 2010 we have been able to provide employees with more flexible support through mainly from the ranks of HR and training personnel as well as assignment of approximately 100 career advisors2 to support career planning at a variety of business sites members of management in each organization. within Sekisui Chemical Group. In fiscal 2011 and later, we plan to deploy these career-support efforts as well as other efforts including human skills training and training on the CSR mindset more broadly within the group. Our policy also calls for strengthening of efforts targeting employees overseas in addition to those at affiliate companies in Japan. 47 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Internal job posting Three Prominences Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing the building of a culture in which employees take on challenges on their own and their superior supports their challenges, through developing an HR system in which employees can apply on their own for postings at various stages of their careers from when they join the company through training, transfer, promotion, and change of profession. For example, in fiscal 2010 nineteen individuals had the opportunity to thrive on new stages through the Intra-group Job Posting System for post-hiring transfers. In the future as well, we will actively promote exchange of human resources Performance of the Intra-group across company, division company, and business boundaries, providing numerous Job Posting System Verified Environment employees with places where they can thrive. 40 30 23 22 VOICE 20 24 15 Postings Transferred 19 employees 11 10 I had been working in housing sales, but I used the Job Posting System to 0 CS & Quality transfer to my current position in accounting for Sekisui Chemical Group 2007 2008 2009 2010 (FY) settlement of accounts. Accounting is a job in which I had been interested before and that I wanted to experience someday. While I was a bit bewildered at first after the transfer, as my surrounding environment had changed completely, I also found it stimulating every day to work in a field completely different from what I had done before. I really enjoy my work. When asked what I would like to do in the future, my Human Resources answer is that if given the chance I would like to work overseas. I want to continue taking on challenges in a variety of things in the future as well by building my own career myself. Takayuki Yamamoto Corporate Finance and Accounting Department, Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Bases of CSR Evaluation The performance-based evaluation concept mediumto long-range career plan. Performance-based evaluation is not intended to create distincIn the future as well, this Sekisui Chemical Group tions among employees. Rather, each employee works with a performance-based evaluation system will continue providing sense of individual growth and job satisfaction and translates this support from the sidelines for strong growth on the part of into concrete results. The company impartially evaluates these individual employees. results and treats employees appropriately with benefits and remuneration. This system encourages the setting of higher, more Coordination with superiors, key persons in performancechallenging targets, which in turn leads to further personal growth based evaluation and the growth of the company. These are the objectives of Sekisui The performance-based evaluation system that Sekisui Chemical Chemical Group’s performance-based evaluation. Group aims to achieve cannot be realized without superiors thinking about their subordinates. Performance evaluation based on the “absolute evaluation” For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group provides support of each individual suited to each workplace and position through coordination with Sekisui Chemical Group evaluates the performance of individuals superiors, through teams centered on members such as HR based on “absolute evaluation,” to enable each individual to get a personnel and qualified career advisors in each facility. Specifically, true feel for job satisfaction and individual growth. numerous sessions of workshop-based training are being A characteristic of this system is the way it incorporates conducted in individual business sites, using the absolute evaluaexplicitly as bases for evaluation the process of working toward tion system. As a result, the number of superiors with the goals of goals and growth in job-performance capabilities realized through seeing their subordinates grow in a particular way or providing that process, demonstrating the company’s approach of supportsupport in accordance with the stages of subordinates’ careers ing and encouraging achievement of each individual’s own is growing. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 48 Human Resources Decent Work and Diversity Advancing a variety of initiatives to build workplaces where employees can thrive with vitality Self-realization Business growth Growth Motivation in work and life Work life Creating new value ·· True Prominence in work feelings of growth Creating new value Improving skills and motivation · Teamwork Improving skills and motivation Efficiency Efficiency Diverse Energy for values Social life Personal life tomorrow ·· Community activities Voluntary activities ·· Self-development Home life, health Growth · PTA activities, etc. · Leisure time, etc. Growth Diverse values Individual Realizing a sound work-life balance Respect for Diversity As globalization and diversification of values continue, Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing a variety of efforts aimed at building workplaces where diverse human resources can work. This is intended to respond to changes in business environment and to achieve the further growth of the group itself. In addition, we have established “respect for diversity” as the clear motto of our “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy,” aiming to build workplaces where everybody can do his or her job, regardless of factors such as gender, nationality, age, or type of employment. Today we are striving proactively to build such a culture by ensuring a understanding of these values among employees, through the intranet, various seminars, and other activities. Work-Life Balance Sekisui Chemical Group believes that in addition to fulfilling work, self-improvement outside working hours also leads to personal growth, and that employees who have grown in such ways can utilize their new knowledge, experiences, and values inside the workplace to effect the further growth and development of the company. Based on this concept, we promote a sound work-life balance. In fiscal 2010, we spread this concept of work-life balance broadly through means such as seminars and training for new members of management, as well as implementing a variety of efforts such as reviewing ways of working and further encouraging employees to take paid leave in order to make time for employees to improve themselves. 49 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Women’s Empowerment Three Prominences It is essential to recruit and develop talents regardless of gender, to respond to diversifying market needs, and to support the smooth realization of both work and child-rearing goals. As such, we are advancing opportunities for women to thrive throughout the group. Seeing the creation of workplaces where women can thrive to be important for the purposes of corporate growth as well, we are carrying out proactive initiatives based on the fundamental concepts of building workplaces where highly motivated women can thrive in business and supporting ways of working that are adaptable to life events such as childbirth, childrearing, and long-term care for family members. Environment Activities For women’s empowerment, Sekisui Chemical Group currently is carrying out the following activities: CS & Quality (i) Proactive hiring of women (ii) Holding seminars to foster expectations that women will do well in the workplace (for superiors) (iii) Support for women’s career development (holding seminars) (iv) Supports for balancing work and family life Human Resources In fiscal 2010, we proactively placed women in sales sections and technical sections such as plants and research laboratories, where the numbers of women employees have been low. As a result, the number of women in sales and technical positions has grown by 7% in comparison with the number in 2006, before activities to encourage women to thrive in the workplace began. In housing sales in particular, the number of women contributing to the business is growing, with numerous women now holding branch manager positions or generating high performance in sales positions. In addition, to broaden opportunities for women to thrive it is essential to increase the number of women Bases of CSR hired. Through efforts such as assignment of personnel responsible for hiring women and having women employees conduct job interviews, women as a percentage of new university graduate hires reached 25% in fiscal 2010. Furthermore, as means of supporting the career development of women in sales and technical positions, we have held career design seminars for women in sales positions and satellite meetings to think about women’s ways of working for women in technical positions. Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd., Sekisui Heim Real Estate Co., Ltd. Held career planning seminars for sales women In February 2011, career planning seminars for sales women was held at Sekisui Chemical’s Tokyo Headquarters for 20 women in sales positions at Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. and Sekisui Heim Real Estate Co., Ltd. The goal of this seminar was to learn about career planning adaptable to life events such as childbirth, childrearing, and long-term care for family members. On the day of the seminar, the women participating took part in activities including reviewing their life stages and careers, development of career visions, and workshops. Comments from participants included, “through carefully developing a life plan, I saw that it is possible to balance sales and childrearing” and “through this During the seminar seminar I was able to envision myself balancing both work and childrearing.” Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 50 Human Resources Decent Work and Diversity Supporting Raising Next-Generation Children To support employees in balancing work and raising children more smoothly, Sekisui Chemical is backing the raising next-generation children through both providing a wide range of support programs and building a culture in which it is easy to employ these programs. Such programs include economic assistance for employees on childcare leave and support for diverse ways of working after returning from leave, as well as family leave that is available for raising grandchildren. Main systems (Sekisui Chemical) Until age three Until the child starts elementary school * Fathers can take this leave twice * 240,000 yen/year provided as day-care subsidy Childcare leave * The first five working days of leave Cafeteria Plan * 60,000 yen/year provided after the child starts are paid elementary school Three days/year of special paid leave provided until the Childcare 30% of wage paid during childcare leave child or grandchild starts high school Family leave allowance until child reaches 18 months of age * May be used for childbirth-related events, school visits or social gatherings, athletic festivals, PTA events, etc. Shortened Until child reaches fourth grade in school working hours * May be used twice per child Until the child starts elementary school for childcare Child healthcare * Five days/year provided for one child, Working hours may be shifted forward or leave 10 days/year for two or more children Changes in backward until the child starts junior * Paid (accumulated annual leave may be used) working hours high school * Maximum shift: 60 minutes Re-employment of Retirees In fiscal 1993, Sekisui Chemical established and began use of a Re-employment System for employees through age 65, and this system was expanded to group member companies as well beginning in April 2006. In addition, to expand this system further to create an environment in which employees can continue to work with vitality through age 65 by continually improving their own specialties, in fiscal 2007 Sekisui Chemical established the Senior Partner System of continued employment beyond age 60 reflecting specialization and achievements in compensation. As of April 2011, a cumulative total of 87 employees had used this system. Healthcare of Employees Employee health management is an important theme to any company for the purpose of ensuring employees can work with vitality and peace of mind. Sekisui Chemical Group provides regular health checkups for employees. In fiscal 2010, the percentage of employees undergoing these checkups was 99.6%. In addition, the group’s health insurance society contributes to health management through providing free dental checkups, consultation for employees who wish to quit smoking, and programs to counter lifestyle-related diseases. At the same time, mental-health measures are being deployed across the entire group to provide support for employees’ mental health as well. For example, in addition to setting up a special site on the intranet where employees can apply for counseling services and undergo simple stress diagnosis, in fiscal 2010 a survey was conducted of actual workplace conditions at business sites in Japan and Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. formed a mental-health support team. Other efforts included establishment of relevant rules and training by employee job level. In April 2011, a support center staffed by full-time personnel was established. Efforts will be made in the future to enhance mental health throughout the entire group, through communication training conducted by means such as e-learning and introduction of new stress diagnosis services. 51 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Seminar on Human-Rights Issues In February 2011, Sekisui Chemical held a seminar with the Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN) on the subject of thinking about human rights from the perspective of employment of Three Prominences mentally challenged people, as a subcommittee for signatory firms to the United Nations Global Compact1. Approximately 40 people took part on the day of this seminar, including employees from GC-JN member firms and from Sekisui Chemical Group. The seminar began with an introduction to efforts by Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. to employ The seminar held jointly with the Global mild mentally challenged people on a full-time basis and accept students from a local school Compact Japan Network for mild mentally challenged people on a work training program. This company’s presentation 1 United Nations Global Compact included the remarks that through accepting people with disabilities as equal members of the A voluntary program in which top firms around the world pledge to comply with 10 principles on workforce with the goal of creating a society in which it is considered commonsense that Environment subjects such as human rights, labor standards, the environment, and anti-corruption efforts anybody can work, “a new concept arose of placing the right people in the right positions” and within the scopes of influence of their firms and “these efforts led to improvements in the workplace environment as a whole, for example participate in building a global framework for realizing sustainable growth. through speed improvements in the area of operational efficiency.” Next, a specialist on human-rights issues, Osamu Shiraishi, former Human Rights Officer of the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, analyzed the efforts of Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. from human-rights and international perspectives. This event served as an opportunity to think about human rights not only for participatCS & Quality ing firms but for the entire Sekisui Chemical Group as well. Harassments Human Resources In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group developed Guidelines on Preventing Harassment as guidelines on 2 Harassment The word originally refers to harassment2 behavior that will not be tolerated. It also is strengthening efforts to prevent harassment, such annoying behavior or bullying. It refers to making others feel as conducting regular e-learning programs to confirm employees’ understanding of these guidelines. uncomfortable, harming their Furthermore, Sekisui Chemical has established an in-house consultation desk and the S.C.A.N. (Sekisui dignity, or intimidating them through words or behavior, Compliance Assist Network) whistleblowing system (see p. 58) and is striving to build a culture free from whether intentional or not. harassment through efforts including incorporating prevention of harassment into the themes of training sessions for members of management as well as responding to individual requests for consultation. In addition, training sessions for employees on the subject of harassment are being held at overseas affiliate companies as well. Bases of CSR Employee Survey Conducted, Including Employees of Overseas Affiliate Companies Sekisui Chemical Group began conducting employee surveys in 1984, and in 2004 it expanded the scope of the organizations from Sekisui Chemical Comparison of Employee Attitude Surveys 2010 alone to affiliate companies in Japan as well. The surveys were conducted 2008 in this way every few years through 2008. In 2010, their scope was (Points) 4.0 broadened to include affiliate companies overseas too, and a survey was conducted of approximately 25,000 subjects including part-time and temporary employees, with a response rate of roughly 80%. Results of the survey shows that employees feel high levels of satisfaction with their jobs and with their workplaces. These scores had increased from the 2008 survey results. There was a particularly marked 3.5 increase in subjects’ views of their companies’ future business success, with the score rising from 3.41 points in the previous survey to 3.62 points in this one. Also, somewhat of an improvement was seen from the previous survey in employees’ senses of the qualitative and quantitative burdens of their work. Furthermore, subjects’ understanding of company measures and the degree of penetration of such measures showed improved understanding of policies related to topics such as compliance and 3.0 (Item) Overall satisfaction Satisfaction with job Adaptation to job Satisfaction with Satisfaction with Loyalty to Future business environmental management since the previous survey. On the other hand, since this survey was the first to include employworkplace superiors the organization success ees of overseas affiliate companies among its subjects, there were some differences apparent between overseas subjects and those in Japan concerning how they looked at matters such as satisfaction with their organization and penetration of company measures. This information will be put to use in future measures. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 52 Human Resources Safety Aiming to build a culture of zero workplace accidents both in Japan and overseas Five Pillars of Occupational Health, Safety, and Accident-prevention Activities Midterm Plan (FY 2009 – 2013) Midterm goal: Building a structure of zero occupational accidents Management · OHSMS · Sites in Japan: by the end of fiscal 2012 · Overseas sites: by the end of fiscal 2013 Equipment Education and training · Intrinsic safety of equipment · Education/training/ enlightening activities Constructing a work environment in which emRisk prevention ployees can work with safety and security is one of · Risk assessment · Risk detection (KY) activities the most important subjects. Sekisui Chemical · Prevention of risky acts (HH) activities Group is implementing total safety (i.e., zero · 5S activities occupational injuries, zero equipment-related accidents, zero commuting-related accidents, and zero extended sick leave) activities based on five themes1. Auditing ·Health, safety and accident-prevention auditing The Safety Policies See ”Data” P20 Midterm Plan Japan Safety Audits In fiscal 2010, in addition to applying personal safety declaration At sites in Japan, second-party certification of OHSMS2 is being activities, in which employees describe their own safety-related conducted, with 41 sites having been certified as of the end of weak points and safety actions they will take in response to March 2011. them, to all business sites, self-auditing and assessment efforts Also, together with conducting self-auditing at all business also were conducted, in which each site audited its own health sites the items “awareness of the site manager” and “communicaand safety activities. tion” have been added to the previous items subject to auditing. The goal of building a structure for zero work-related Results of self-auditing showed that some sites had not reached the accidents has been revised, setting the end of fiscal 2012 as the base level. Efforts aimed at further improvements will be conducted new target. Plans call for aiming to achieve further improvein fiscal 2011. ments to resolve issues remained in this area. At the same time, related efforts are underway at overseas sites as well, with a safety audit having been conducted at YoungBo Overseas Chemical Co., Ltd. (South Korea) and site patrols conducted in Asia, The number of occupational accidents on a per-employee basis is the Americas, and Europe. higher at overseas sites (38 sites) than at domestic Japanese sites. In light of these circumstances, efforts were made to raise 1 Five themes awareness of safety among senior management and managers Intrinsic safety of equipment, management using OHSMS, safety education of employees, risk prevention through KY activities and other initiatives, and auditing through activities such as site tours (see p. 56) and brainstorming of health, safety, and accident prevention. sessions for personnel from the Asia region (see p. 56). 2 OHSMS (Occupational Health and Safety Management System) Activities to manage occupational health and safety and reduce risks through implementing risk assessment for the workplace as a whole and running through the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) management cycle, based on occupational health and safety policies. 53 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Activities Japan Three Prominences Safety Conference In July 2010, the Sekisui Chemical Group Safety Conference was held at the Kyoto Research & Development Laboratories. On the day of the conference, a total of 196 participants including the President and related Directors, Environment top management from all 59 production sites in Japan and members of top management and safety personnel from 27 construction companies in Japan and business sites in East Asia (from Thailand, China, and South Korea) gathered together in one place for activities including the annual safety awards and introductions to examples of safety activities by sites with superior safety performance, resolving as a group to advance development of a culture focused on safety. Housing Company CS & Quality VOICE Safety Skills Competition The winner of the Safety Skills Competition In November 2010, representatives selected from each assembly plant in In the interior-wall assembly process in which I work, we are striving to the housing business took part in a increase our sensitivity to safety quickly through activities such as Human Resources video risk-detection (KY) competition, sharing of information on places where risky acts have taken place by in which they competed to see who mapping instances observed by each individual and preparing a could identify the most risks within video risk-detection (KY) system called “Hiyoko Man” for training new employees to be able to detect risks better. the allotted time period, and group In the future as well, we will strive to raise awareness of safety discussion through identification of further through continuing accident-free work and creating an safety issues. accident-free workplace, as well as risk-detection (KY) activities. Kazutaka Nishiyama Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Bases of CSR Site Leaders Training Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Site Leaders Training is provided for personnel in leadership positions on the Group KAIZEN activities front lines of work sites, to discuss problems and concerns noticed by Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. has advanced group KAIZEN trainees during their everyday duties and think about countermeasures for (improvement) activities by all employees at its six them, through case studies on legal and regulatory matters as well as business sites on the theme of safety, created training on key points of identifying risks during patrols and other matters. In time for individual employees to think about 2010, Site Leaders Training was conducted at 17 sites, with 456 people safety, worked to improve safety awareness and taking part. skills, and advanced initiatives such as efforts to achieve intrinsic safety in equipment and reviewing work standards. This training was a very positive experience in that we were able to share everyday thoughts and concerns on safety, through frank and honest exchange of opinion across the boundaries separating employees and partner companies. In the future as well we will make the most of the results of this training through group meetings. Kazumichi Yamanaka Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. group KAIZEN activities on the theme of safety Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 54 Human Resources Safety System for the New System for the new Equipment Safety Design Standard Equipment Safety Design Standard Standards establishing the To prevent occupational injuries and equipment-related Established July 2005 most fundamental concepts, Standard A (Basic Safety Standards) approaches, etc. that should accidents, it is essential to realize intrinsic safety of equipment apply to all equipment which incorporates safety requirements from the equipment design stage. Based on this concept, since fiscal 2005 Sekisui Standards establishing common Established April 2006 safety properties not highly deChemical Group has developed a system of equipment safety Standard B (Common Safety Standards) pendent on factors such as design standards. process or equipment type In fiscal 2010, new standards were established for protection from electric shock on charging components on Established April 2007 Standards establishing individual Standard C (Individual Equipment safety properties caused by or control panels and other devices, based on matters pointed related to factors such as process Safety Standards) out during safety auditing. or equipment type Housing Company Site Leaders Training for Construction Sections The Safety Communication Program deployed at housing sales companies and Sekisui Fami-S (which handles the renovation business) to promote safety dialogue between supervisors and craftspersons began in fiscal 2008. In May 2010, it made a new start Winning the Eighth Quality as Site Leaders Training for Construction Sections1. As of the end of March 2011, approximately 900 construction Management Award supervisors and leaders from partner companies were undergoing A Sekisui Chemical employee has won the Eighth Quality this program. Management Award (sponsored by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers, or JUSE), for fostering an organiza1 Site Leaders Training for Construction Sections Conducted to encourage construction-site leaders to rediscover their roles and tional culture aiming at zero injuries through a thorough promote safety among employee consciousness of safety first and promoting unique activities to prevent human error. VOICE Winner of the Award Since there are numerous narrow lots in the Tokyo area, people in the neighborhood tend to be very interested in construction I devised my own safety system through practicing sites. This gives us a sense of the importance of maintaining the safety activities on my own at all times, for example by site environment better. taking part proactively in safety educational activities For this reason, in addition to taking the neighborhood outside the company based on the philosophy of into consideration in activities including safety checks at the learning by mimicking what others do. start of construction and design of the panels on temporary In the future, I will deploy “site sensitivity (the enclosures, we also carry out activities to enable us to be a ability to notice possible dancompany beloved by all, while focusing on strengthening gers)” at business sites overseas construction quality and on communication with customers as well as in Japan. and also taking into account the views of partner companies. Yoshinobu Iwata We also set up risk-detection (KY) activity sheets on the Safety Meister site, being certain to check the content of the day’s work during Shiga Ritto Plant, Urban Infrastructure & Environmental patrols and providing instruction through our work on site in the Products Company, event that there are any deficiencies in countermeasures. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. We believe that deploying these activities horizontally across the organization will enable the entire Tokyo branches to achieve a level of zero occupational injuries. Kazutaka Sawamura Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. 55 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Activities Overseas Three Prominences Global Safety Enhancement Program With the growth of its businesses, the number of overseas business sites and employes will increase. For these 1 The “5S” process A slogan used in maintenance reasons, in fiscal 2009 the “Monozukuri (manufacturing) Handbook” was produced and put into use, summaand improvement of the workplace environment. The five “S’s” rizing the fundamental policies of production activities in Sekisui Chemical (for example, safety, the “5S” are organization (seiri), orderliEnvironment process1, and quality control). ness (seiton), cleaning (seiso), cleanliness (seiketsu), and Furthermore, in 2010 the Global Safety Enhancement Program was established, and with its implemendiscipline (shitsuke) tation beginning in January 2011 the ability to prevent accidents is being strengthened on a global basis. CS & Quality Asia Brainstorming Sessions In July 2010, an Asia region safety personnel training session was held at Sekisui Chemical’s Shiga Ritto Plant for safety personnel from 10 sites in China, Thailand, and South Korea. Human Resources On the day of the session, in addition to activities including sharing case studies of practical safety activities, learning by experience with simulated dangers such as getting caught in a roller, and group discussion of cases of actual workplace accidents, every participant announced his or her own personal safety declaration describing the actions he or she The group discussion of workplace accidents would take in his or her workplace in the future. Bases of CSR Site Patrols In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group conducted site patrols of 19 sites (in China, South Korea, Thailand, the United States, Mexico, Germany, the Netherlands, and Spain), supporting safety activities through ascertaining the actual conditions at production sites and providing guidance. In fiscal 2011, plans call for conducting safety investigations of 36 sites. U.S. and China VOICE Manufacturing Assemblies The most important thing we should do to build a safe Manufacturing Assemblies were held in the United States and China workplace is to ensure that all employees at all levels have a in fiscal 2010. At the assembly held in the state of Michigan in safety awareness. This is because we believe that safety is October, 70 people from 12 U.S. sites took part. Activities included something that everybody must pursue. presentations on examples of safety, “5S” programs, and other In the future as well, we will strive to activities. In addition, in November an assembly was held in Beijing carry out health and safety activities with 71 persons from seven Chinese sites in attendance, for aiming to make the workplace one in safety-related presentations on examples of activities and which people can work with a group discussions. greater sense of security. Abraham Tamayo Sekisui S-lec Mexico S. A. de C. V. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 56 Bases of CSR Compliance Aiming to be a company trusted by society Policy Fair business practices Sekisui Chemical Group addresses compliance based on the To ensure we employ fair business activities, Sekisui Chemical belief that we need to aim to be a company trusted by society, Group explicitly calls for legal compliance, prevention of corrupwith each employee following the motto of our Attitudes of tion, fair competition, and appropriate transactions with Sincerity. We ensure compliance with laws, regulations, social business partners in its domestic and international compliance norms, morals, and ethics, on a global basis. manuals. Furthermore, we strive to ensure understanding of See ”Data” P21 these requirements among employees through training and Compliance Management System other opportunities. Activities Japan Overseas In fiscal 2010, we held seminars on the Antimonopoly Law, In fiscal 2010, based on the U.S. Antitrust Law Compliance which was amended in 2009, and individual training sessions Manual revised in fiscal 2009, we carried out interviews and suited to the needs of affiliate companies and business sections, employee training for affiliate companies in the United States in addition to periodic compliance training for new employees, regarding the compliance status of the U.S. Antitrust Law. We new managers, and other personnel. also called for ascertaining the actual states of understanding of In addition, the e-learning program conducted each year and compliance with the law and continual strengthening of continued on the theme of preventing power harassment. related systems. Efforts including extending the period during which such content was available and sending email messages informing VOICE employees of the program resulted in rates of more than 80% of employees taking this training in both its first and second session in 2010. Through training and question-and-answer sessions on U.S. Antitrust Law, we have been able to learn the fundamentals Percentage of Employees Undergoing e-Learning Verified such as the impact these laws and regulations have on our (%) business and related points to note. We also were reminded 100 of how Sekisui Chemical Group places importance on ethical behavior and compliance in the workplace. 80 I think that efforts such as Surpassed 80% these by Sekisui Chemical Group 60 are very positive. We too intend to practice compliance in the future. 40 20 0 Sekisui Voltek, LLC. 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 (FY) Laurel Burrill Session 4 Session 5 Session 6 Session 1 Session 2 57 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Employee Surveys Showed Improved Awareness of Compliance Sekisui Chemical Group surveys compliance-related matters as Results of Surveys (Sample Question) part of its employee surveys (see p. 52). As a result of efforts Q. Do you think you are acting based on a correct understanding such as compliance training, employee awareness is increasing of laws and rules required in performing your duties? from year to year. One example of the overall increase in (%) compliance awareness is the fact that in 2010 75.0% of survey 100 Environment respondents answered affirmatively to a question on whether 75 56.0 67.5 50 75.0 Yes they were acting based on a correct understanding of laws 25 42.4 Not sure and rules. 30.8 22.4 0 1.5 1.8 1.6 No 2004 2008 2010 (Year) Main training implemented in fiscal 2010 CS & Quality Japan Overseas Training Trainees Training Trainees Training for new managers Managers Human Resources Compliance training New employees, members of management of affiliates Employees of overseas Seminar on antirust law Managers U.S. antitrust law training affiliates e-Learning training (four times/year) All employees Personnel planned for overseas Training prior to overseas assignment assignment Bases of CSR The S.C.A.N. Whistle-blowing Program Legal Violations, etc. In 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group developed S.C.A.N. (Sekisui In February 2009 the Fair Trade Commission found Sekisui Compliance Assist Network), an intra-company whistle-blowing Chemical to have colluded with other firms in determination of system, available for use by all Sekisui Chemical Group employsale prices of polyvinyl chloride pipes and fittings over the ees (including employees of subsidiaries of subsidiaries and period 2004–2006 and ordered it to take measures to eliminate temporary staffs from placement agencies). In addition to such collusion and to pay surcharges (hereinafter referred to as distributing Compliance Cards with information on whistlethe “order”). Since Sekisui Chemical’s determination of facts of blowing contact points, introductions to this system are this case differs from that on which the order was based, in April provided in the Group’s in-house magazine, e-learning, and 2009 the company asked the Fair Trade Commission to cancel compliance training, as continual efforts to ensure awareness of the order. Appeal procedures are still underway. the system among all personnel. In the future as well, Sekisui Chemical will continue its In fiscal 2010, there were 19 cases of whistle-blowing efforts to raise awareness of compliance, always keeping in reports and consultation, and swift responses were implemented mind the fact that compliance is an important foundation of giving consideration to the whistle-blowers and related sections. CSR management. Since fiscal 2008 no new cases of violations of laws or Content of whistle-blowing reports and consultation Verified regulations or similar incidents having significant impact on society have been discovered. Working conditions 5 Sexual/power harassments 8 Improper use of business expenses 4 Other 2 Total 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 58 Bases of CSR Risk Management Aiming to manage risk prevention and emergency responses uniformly and to further increase sensitivity to risks Policy Global Crisis Management Sekisui Chemical Group is advancing development of a risk After preparing its Global Crisis Management Guidelines in fiscal management system to manage risk prevention and emer2009, Sekisui Chemical Group in fiscal 2010 advanced preparagency responses uniformly. tion of individual crisis management manuals at overseas At the same time, since risks comprise events that could affiliate companies, with more than 90% of such companies occur in the future it is impossible to ascertain the facts of such having prepared these manuals. occurrences accurately in advance, especially amid today’s In the future, efforts will continue through enhancement increasingly complex business activities. of the content of the crisis management manuals and making For this reason, Sekisui Chemical Group continues to run environmental improvements toward developing appropriate through the plan-do-check-action (PDCA) cycle of risk managerisk management systems, together with aiming to complete ment, considering increasing all employees’ sensitivity to risks individual crisis management manuals at all affiliates including to be essential to preparing for appropriate risk prevention and new members of the Group by the end of fiscal 2011. emergency responses. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. Risk Management Program Activities Aimed at Increasing Sensitivity to Risks Begin In fiscal 2010, Sekisui Chemical Group implemented risk assessSekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. has been working since July 2010 ments for business sections in division companies and for some to build its risk-management system. operating companies. Countermeasures were employed for These activities have begun in 46 sections as each risk, and the results were summarized in reports. Then, instructed by management. After identifying individual risks these were reviewed to identify problem points. in each section, particularly serious risks were identified and Future plans call for expansion of related activity organizaefforts were completed through the stage of proposal tions groupwide, together with strengthening the plan-doof countermeasures. check-action (PDCA) cycle framework while rectifying the In the future, Sekisui Heim Kinki will aim to carry out problem points identified through this assessment. effective activities in coordination with the risk-management sections within its division company. Crisis Management to the Great East Japan Earthquake Immediately following the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, Sekisui Chemical set up an emergency response headquarters led by the President as its chief and began checking on employee safety and ascertaining the state of damage. In addition, based on the concept of delivering necessary goods as much as needed, we implemented swift and continuous shipment of relief supplies focused on those needed for daily living, to emergency response centers in affected areas. For details, see “Recovering from the Great East Japan Earthquake” on p. 13. 59 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Disclosure & Bases of CSR Communication Advancing CSR Management Three Prominences through Dialogue with Stakeholders facilitated lively dialogue by having employees at the sites where they were held take part in planning the themes of Policy discussion as well. Environment Sekisui Chemical Group recognizes the importance of adequate and proactive disclosure, and two-way communication based on such disclosure, for promoting mutual understanding and developing relationships built on trust with our stakeholders. Sekisui Chemical Group is working to advance communication with all stakeholders and to reflect as appropriate in our CS & Quality business the evaluations and comments we receive. Examples of such efforts include the establishment in 2005 of clear Disclosure Principles to make clear this disclosure philosophy and activities to raise awareness among employees, as well as CAT Meetings between members of management and customA scene from “Let’s Talk with Top Management” ers in the Housing Company and housing sales companies Human Resources (see p. 41) and the External Advisory Board on EnvironmentContributing Products (see p. 27). Dialogues with Overseas Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Communication between Rating Agencies management and employees In Europe and North America, there is considerable interest in Since 2002, Sekisui Chemical Group has provided opportunities socially responsible investment (SRI), in which companies for employees to communicate with management proactively, addressing CSR issues are chosen proactively as targets of Bases of CSR based on its belief that direct communication between investment, and many researches have been conducted by management and employees to resolve problems faced by the rating agencies. In light of this fact, in December 2010 Sekisui company as well as work-related issues is important to sustainChemical visited SRI ratings agencies in Europe in order able growth. proactively to communicate accurate information on its CSR In fiscal 2010, the President of Sekisui Chemical visited six efforts and deepen their understanding of its efforts. Such business sites across Japan, including those of affiliate compameetings involved dialogue on subjects such as nies, for a series of dialogues in which a total of 57 persons took Environment-Contributing Products and disclosure of part, entitled “Let’s Talk with Top Management.” These CSR information. Outside Evaluation Environmental-Themed Advertising Series Wins Environmental Advertisement Prize and Minister of the Environment Prize In the 59th Nikkei Advertising Awards, a series of Sekisui Chemical advertisements won the Environmental Advertisement Prize and the Minister of the Environment Prize. These advertisements were regarded highly for the way they depicted Sekisui Chemical’s approach of activities aimed at coexistence between people, society, and nature through homes, based on environmental efforts already taken. Sekisui Chemical Group wins Merit Award in the Toyo Keizai Sustainability Reporting Awards Sekisui Chemical Group’s CSR Report 2010 won the Merit Award in the 14th Toyo Keizai A Sekisui Heim advertising series Sustainability Reporting Awards, following up on its performance last year in winning the Award for Excellence in the same awards. This award reflected high evaluations of efforts such as incorporating CSR smoothly into corporate strategy. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 60 Natural Conservation and Social Contribution Advancing Activities in the Key Fields of the Environment, the Next Generation, and Local Communities Policy Sekisui Chemical Group advances social-contribution activities mainly in the fields of the environment, the next generation, and Environment local communities. In addition to positioning such activities as initiatives made as a corporate citizen living together with society, we also provide support for activities to enable Group employees to play active roles in society. The Group’s Social Contribution Policy See ”Data” P20 Next Local Generation Communities Holding the Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum in Nagoya, the Host City of the COP 10 For years, Sekisui Chemical Group has supported research on technologies that put the functions of nature and living creatures to use in manufacturing. As part of these efforts, since fiscal 2002 it has held a forum each year intended to announce the results of new programs receiving financial support and existing programs and to exchange technologies among researchers. In fiscal 2010, among the projects chosen from 334 applicants, we provided financial support to the total of 16 research projects including the following eight projects and eight other projects that received encouragement awards. In addition, in October 2010 we held the eighth Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum in Nagoya, in the city of Nagoya, Aichi Prefecture, which was host city to the Tenth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 10). This forum, which welcomed approximately 800 participants, featured an opening message from Mr. Ahmed Djoghlaf, Executive Secretary of the Convention on Biological Diversity, followed by a keynote lecture by Prof. Hideki Ishida of the A scene from the eighth Manufacturing Based on graduate school of Tohoku University on the subject of the forms of new types of Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum manufacturing and ways of living learned from nature and other activities including a panel discussion of university professors. Researcher University Supported research theme Shin’ichi Ohkoshi University of Tokyo Graduate School Development of electromagnetic wave absorbers using substances related to iron rust Tottori University Graduate School Efficient energy production from unutilized resources: Learning from mushrooms, the Kenji Okamoto decomposers of the forest Dong Sheng Cai University of Tsukuba In the natural state: Learning manufacturing from the spirit of Zen Takahiro Seki Nagoya University Graduate School Creating organic and inorganic nano-hybrid materials demonstrating acute phototaxis Osaka University Graduate School Abnormal concentration of counter anions through self-grouping of chiral metal supermoTakumi Konno lecular cations Michito Yoshizawa Tokyo Institute of Technology Development of luminescent nanocapsule materials using self-assembly Learning plant growth regulation mechanism from fungi: An experiment in increasing crop Hirokazu Kawagishi Shizuoka University yields using fungus-producing substances Learning construction principle of hybrid systems of animal and plant from photosynthesJun’ichi Obokata Kyoto Prefectural University ing sea slug Note: University affiliations shown are current as of the time grant was provided. 61 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Nature Conservation Environment Activities Japan nonprofits and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and holding community activities at each business site. Based on its belief that nature conservation activities CS & Quality conducted as a member of the local community constitute an important initiative, Sekisui Chemical Group is striving to raise employee awareness and strengthen coordination with local A scene from the 51st Sekisui Nature communities, with the goals of conducting nature conservation Study Course activities at all business sites and getting a cumulative percentage of 80% or more of employees to take part in nature conserHuman Resources vation activities in fiscal 2013. Since they began in fiscal 1997, the Sekisui Nature Study Activities Overseas Course we carry out on a continual basis as opportunities to train leaders in nature conservation activities and to implement To deploy nature conservation activities both in Japan and activities to contribute to the local community have been held worldwide, future plans call for advancing such activities at five 51 times, with a total of more than 800 people taking part. overseas sites as well, for example through planting mangrove We also carry out activities in cooperation with stakeholdtrees in Thailand in July 2011, together with strengthening ers in each community, such as supporting the activities of forestry conservation activities in seven blocs across Japan. Bases of CSR Examples of Main Nature Conservation Activities Conducted in Fiscal 2010 Activity Site Program Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Nature Study Course Training leaders for nature conservation activities 51st Sekisui Nature Study Course to train leaders Joint activity by Kansai-area sites Kyoto Prefecture Sen Forest preservation activities Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Development of Sekisui Forest Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters Family Nature Study Course Gunma Sekisui Four Seasons Forest preservation Joint activity by Gunma-area sites activities Business site activities Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Building birdhouses with children Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Observing water insects and surveying water quality with elementary-school students Wakayama Prefecture Sekisui Chemical Forest Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. planting activities Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Planting seedlings in cooperation with the community Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kurohama Marsh nature tours Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Lake Shinji cleanup Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Making tree species labels and measuring carbon-dioxide absorption Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 62 Natural Conservation and Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities Colaboration with Local Communities Activities Intended to Improve Public Safety The Houses and the Environment Learning Program in the Community Since fiscal 2007, the Housing Company has provided the Crimes such as burglaries of homes whose residents are away, Houses and the Environment Learning Program to junior high fraudulent requests to the elderly for remittance of funds, and schools, as a program putting employees’ knowledge of crimes targeting children are becoming a major concern housing and the environment to use in the classroom. in Japan. This program offers a new type of class, full of unique In addition to building homes that are highly crime contents in which Sekisui Chemical Group employees and resistant, since fiscal 2009 the Sekisui Chemical Group has teachers lead the class together to help students learn about utilized the nature of the housing business, with its sales the roles of homes and the environmental impact of living, facilities located nationwide, to carry out social-contribution think about home plans through group discussions, and activities through cooperation between its housing sales experience building environmentally conscious homes using companies and prefectural police departments. model homes. In fiscal 2010, we distributed leaflets on prevention of In fiscal 2010, this program was conducted at a total of 15 crimes such as fraudulent remittance requests and informed junior and senior high schools in the Kanto, Kansai, and Kyushu prospective home buyers of the need for crime prevention, regions of Japan. As a hands-on program, students participatwith such activities based on the four themes of activities to ing in the program show high levels of motivation and participrevent fraudulent remittance requests and other criminal acts, pating employees also have been inspired by the ideas of the activities to raise awareness of building homes that are highly highly imaginative students. resistant to crime, activities to protect the elderly and children, In light of its content that has proven to be meaningful to and traffic-safety activities. We also are developing crimethe schools, students, and the company, plans call for continuaprevention homes under police-department supervision. tion of this program in fiscal 2011, to further enhance contributions to the local community. VOICE We have jointly planned security apartments intended to provide residents with safety and security, through sharing the expertise of the public and private sectors. The police analyzed the psychology and methods of criminals to make proposals such as those for exteriors that would not be attractive to criminals and ways of ensuring the security of residents. We are very grateful for this opportunity to free young women from a daily sense of insecurity, thanks to this encounter with Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. What Japan requires today is An employee giving advice in a class the bonds that unite individual wishes with those of the entire community. We hope this initiative will spread throughout all of society. Mr. Eiji Oba Community Safety Administration Division, Fukuoka Prefectural Police Headquarters A student presentation 63 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 Three Prominences Activities to solve local social problems Environment Sekisui Chemical Group carries out a variety of activities at vicinity of its business site in particular, nearby development has individual business sites in Japan and around the world, to aid in led to an increase in the percentage of residents in poverty, and resolution of social issues in each community as a member of weakness of the financial infrastructure for school education local society. has become an issue of concern in society. In response, For example, experience in an actual workplace is a very YoungBo Chemical provides financial support for developing important opportunity for young people thinking about their the next generation through activities such as prizes for future careers to learn about industries and occupations and to exemplar graduates. Also, its employees pay regular visits to CS & Quality ready themselves for job-hunting activities. For this reason, in elderly people who live alone and hold birthday parties fiscal 2010 Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd., Kinki Sekisui Heim together with groups of volunteers, to address the isolation and Industry Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. accepted loneliness resulting from an increase in people living alone due interns. Furthermore, other business sites carried out activities to urbanization. such as accepting trainees for work experience and practical Activities in support of people considered the weakest in training in plants. society continue, including support for the materials needed In addition, YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. in South Korea each month by facilities aiding people with disabilities. Human Resources proactively takes part in solving issues in the community, as a member of a local government committee. In the area in the Developing A Variety of Social Contribution Activities Making It Easy for Individual Employees to Participate Bases of CSR Since fiscal 2009, Sekisui Chemical Group has continued the Book plans call for further expansion of the activity in the future as well. Magic program, in which participants sell unneeded books and In addition, since fiscal 2009 Sekisui Chemical Group has CDs and contribute the proceeds to a nonprofit organization to implemented Table for Two, a program in which 20 yen is added to assist programs supporting education in developing countries. the cost an employee pays for a meal in an employee cafeteria and This activity helps support education in developing countries such then this amount is donated to support providing lunches to as Afghanistan, Pakistan, and the Sudan. children in developing countries. Implementation of this program In fiscal 2010, the activity was conducted 10 times at eight has spread to five facilities at present, and a total of more than 1 business sites. It is expanding thanks to its nature as a socialmillion yen has been donated through the program. contribution activity that is easy for facilities to implement, and An Opportunity to Take a Step Forward in Contributing to Society I took part in the Book Magic program because I thought it sounded like a social-contribution activity in which any individual employee could participate easily. While at first people inside the company thought that it would be a chore to bring books and CDs to work, now there is an apparent movement toward people taking part in the program proactively, and the activity is broadening a little at a time. In the future, I would like this activity to continue periodically and to expand so that customers too can take part together with us. Yuko Hayakawa Sekisui Exterior Co., Ltd. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 64 Independent Review Report Summary of Independent Review Procedures Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Check of Formulation of Performance Quality assurance Submittal of Review report final edition of review plan of review procedures review report CSR Report • Confirmation of re• Review at Sekisui view scope, subject Chemical Headitems, information quarters • Review at visited • Obtaining managecollection methods, • Check of appropribusiness sites (perfor• Reporting results of ment confirmation etc. • Follow-up on items ateness of the review mance of procedures completed review, letter • Decision on review matters for comsuch as matters by professionals including field obserpointed out in Step 3 other than the review • Submittal of Indeprocedures, review ment, etc. vation, analytical team pendent Review schedule (Headprocedures, docuReport quarters, business sites to be visited for mentary verification, review), etc. inspection of materials, and inquiries) Sites visited: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters, Tokyo Headquarters, and Taga Plant 65 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011 History of Sekisui Chemical Group 1947 Establishment of Sekisui Sangyo Co., Ltd. Started first injection C O N T 1998 Instituted Corporate Activity Guidelines. E N T S About Our Report molding business in Japan. Initiated zero emission activities. 1948 Change of company name to Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. TopMidterm 1999 Message Management Vision: GS21 takes effect. 3 • 1950The 1952the pages Began Sekisui Started selling this reporttape. of cellophane Chemical full-scale Group’s production are structured in line with of PVCconcept pipe (Eslon of its CorpoPipe). OurInstituted Company Corporate Philosophy. 5 Concentrated business into three domains: Housing, Urban Infra1953rate Social Listed on OsakaResponsibility Stock Exchange. (CSR) in terms of Three Strategies Ourstructure & Environmental Products, and High Performance Plastics. 6 1956Prominences Developed Japan’s — infirstthe Environment, plastic rain gutter (Eslon CS &Rain Quality, Gutters). Midterm Environmental Sekisui Chemical Group Worldwide Plan: STEP-21 takes effect. 7 1959 Established Sekisui Sponge Industries Co., Ltd. (nowThree and Human Resources — along with Sekisui Plastics Began publishing Environmental Reports. Attitudes Co., Ltd.) withof Sincerity: co-financing in Compliance, from Shin-Nippon ManageRiskChisso Hiryo Co., Ltd., Our CSR 2001 Launched the division company system, establishing the three 9 ment, Asahiand KaseiDisclosure Corporation&and Communication. others, to commercialize plastic foam. division Governance companies &the Corporate CSR Housing management Company, the 10 Urban • 1960 Established Sekisui House Sangyo Co., Ltd. (now Sekisui House Co., have WeLtd.) decided on the information that should be and started the housing business. covered in this report through consideration of its Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company, and the High CSRPerformance Activities Plastics Company. 11 1962 Launched Movement for Cleaner Towns featuring our plastic Achieved zero emissions in all house production plants and all plants importance garbage bins (Poly-pail), as a campaign to mark the company’s 15th Group, based both to society and to Sekisui Chemical includingspread inputs subsequently on revolution surveys Recovering from the Great of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. 13 Anniversary. Cleaning conducted within and outside the Group and 1963 Started producing plastic bathtubs (first in Japan). Modular toilet nationwide. East Japan Earthquake 2003 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Premium 600 takes effect. Established the Environmental Management Promotion Departindependent tank commercialized, review. paving the way for production of modularment (now CSR Department Environmental Management Group). • 1970ensure style equipment. A separate Data section has been established to Exhibited thatmodular the report both Heim) houseis(Sekisui at the International comprehensive and Good Midterm Environmental Plan: STEP-2005 takes effect. Special AchievedFeatures zero emissions at all house construction sites. 1 Toward a Sustainable Society Living Show in Tokyo. easy to read. 2004 Established the CS & Quality Management Department. 1971 Started producing and selling Japan’s first modular house, Heim M1. • 1972Continuing Establishedefforts room Launched in the which there was originalforEnvironmental report arecommitment company-wide covered to not enough Management onpollution the Sekisui Department. control. Developed the CS & Quality Management Midterm Plan. Housing Achieved zeroBusinesses emissions in all construction by 15 house 1979Chemical Awarded Group Demingwebsite. Prize for quality management in recognition of renovation companies. Urban Infrastructure & 17 Environmental 2005 Established Products Businesses the CSR Committee. • results of aggressive TQC activities. 1981Information Adopted twin-headquarters business about Sekisuisystem Chemical (Osaka and Group’sTokyo), and Published the Environmental and Social Report. High-Performance Plastics Businesses 19 established Tokyo Headquarters at Toranomon,report is disclosed publicly through this Tokyo. Began 2006 Midterm Management Vision: GS21-Go! Frontier takes effect. and the Annual producing information and selling concerning Report, which modular timber-framed the 1991 Established Basic Policies on environmental issues. Group. reportshouse,financial Two-U Home. 2 Global Presidents’ Meeting Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan21 takes effect. Part 1 • 1993ToIntroduced ensure the mental divisional system, reliability of shifting this report, Related Products, Building Materials, Chemicals, Techno-products, and social reporting have been subjected to to the itsseven divisions Pipe & environ2007 60th anniversary of Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. founding. Global Children’s Eco Summit and Manufacturing Based on Learning from Molded Products, Medical Products, and Housing. Three Prominences Nature—Junior Forum held. independent review. Conducted reviews of the CSR Committee and Corporate 1994 Began activities to earn ISO 9000-series quality-management system certification. Environment Headquarters organization. 23 Guidelines Complied with or Referenced • 1996 Paid-in capital surpassed 100 billion yen. This report complies with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Adopted new Sustainability headquarters Reporting logo. ver.3.1 (G3.1), at the B+ Guidelines Published Our Philosophy / Environment-Contributing Products / 2008 Climate CSR policies the Change CSR Report. established and revised. / Resource Efficiency / Announced application level defined in Policy TopasManagement Environment thoseforguidelines. A andGRI Safety. 2009 Air, Midterm Management Vision: Water & Soil / Biodiversity GS21-SHINKA! takes effect. Began activities Guidelines comparison earn ISO to table 14001 on is available environmental-management the Sekisui ChemiMidterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan cal system certification. Group website. SHINKA! takes effect. • 1997In preparing 50th Anniversarythis report, of company have referred to the Ministry we alsofounding. 2010 Manufacturing Based on Innovations Inspired by Nature Forum held of Launched the Environment’s Environmental Sekisui Chemical Group nature Reporting protectionGuidelines activities. & Quality CSin Nagoya. 35 (2007 Edition). Created Women’s Athletic Club. Our Philosophy / Customer Satisfaction / Quality / Scope of This Report Education and Training / R&D, Intellectual Property, Entities Encompassed by this Report: The basic function of and Procurement this report is to comment on the activities of Sekisui Chemical Group, focusing chiefly on the business facilities that play key roles in those activities. Editor’s Notes Timeframe Encompassed by this Report: April 2010 March Human Resources 43 2011 (including examples of activities through May 2011) WeScope wouldoflike opportunity once again to express our best to take this Review Our and our Philosophy corporate approach/ Global disaster. / Career Development to theTalents Independent The to wishes the people affected environmental and socialby the Great East Japan information report hasand our in thisEarthquake / The opening pages of the Report and Decent Evaluation and Work a content/ Safety adoptDiversity structure that heartfelt prayers fortoa swift been subjected recovery. review for the appropriatean independent describes Sekisui Chemical Group’s concepts and CSR philosophy for nessTheof earthquake calculation struckmethods right and themiddle in the accuracy of the of the resultsprocess editorial of for ordinary readers. The Special Features describe typical businesses and CSRcalculation. Report 2011. TheAs “Verified” such, thislogo is used report wasto edited that each indicateunder item unprecedented products of each division company from the perspective of how they of such subject conditions, as forinformation example CSR has been reviewed. sections were active in collecting have progressed. The chapters on the Three Prominences and the Three donations to assist affected areas and took part in activities as part of Verified Bases Attitudes of CSR of Sincerity in the latter half of the Report cover such matters in disaster response headquarters efforts, since a number of Sekisui Disclaimer a manner that gives consideration to making it easier to understand the Compliance 57 Chemical Readers Group business are requested sitesthe to note were damaged following: by the quake The information in thisas well. concepts behind such measures and the initiatives taken, without However, this alsonot report includes provided only pasttheand opportunity present facts to think about CSR concerning from the Sekisui Risk Management decreasing the quantity and quality of information that have been 59 so extraordinary Chemical Co.,perspective Ltd, and its of responding affiliates but alsotofuture a natural disaster. forecasts based addition, Inon highly regarded in previous reports. Disclosure & Communication 60 structure thecurrent plans ofandthis projections report andand its content management revised wereplans andnumerous managetimes The separate Data volume includes detailed information on efforts ment policies as of the as earthquake-related time of publication. information changedChangesby the in various factors minute. asNature well as performance Conservation data.& Social Contribution 61 couldAscause the results a result, and inof light business of theactivities call in in the future Sekisui and otherGroup’s Chemical In addition to disclosing as much information as possible on our circumstances Mission Statement to differ from these to contribute to forecasts. Also, since society through the figures business in activities, we CSR efforts through this Report and accepting opinions from both inside the tables and graphs contained in this report have been adjusted were reminded anew that Sekisui Chemical Group’s approach of and outside the Group, efforts such as undergoing an independent through rounding off and other means, in some cases total figures may continuing to conduct business activities unchanged and providing a not be equal to the sums of their parts. In addition, for some items data to ensure the accuracy reviewIndependent Reviewand objectivity of the information disclosed Report 65 stable supply for past products fiscalofyears has beenand services revised is its responsibility in connection to society. with expansions in We are intended to advance CSR management efforts and improve the alsoscope, determined revision ofto producemethods, calculation this CSR changesleaving andReport unchanged its to environmental History content of this Report. We would very much appreciate hearing the frank 66 editorial policy of reporting honestly on the efforts of the previous year load coefficients. opinions of our readers Editors’ notes (csr@sekisui.jp). Such opinions will serve as valuable 66 without being affected by conditions in society, while also presenting references for Sekisui Chemical Group’s future CSR efforts and in the information on the conditions that resulted from facing the earthquake preparation of future reports as well. Corporate Corporate Social Social Responsibility Responsibility Report Report 20112 2011 66 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL: http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.jp This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film CSR Report 2011 (including the separate data that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the volume) has been reviewed by an independent plate-making process. third party and as a result has been granted the sustainability report review and registration logo. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) This demonstrates that this report satisfies the and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in necessary criteria established by the Japanese the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no Association of Assurance Organizations for hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. Sustainability Information (J-SUS; http://www.j-sus.org/) for the use of this logo, (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding intended to assure the reliability of sustainability process. information. Published in English: August 2011 Annual Publication. Previous Publication: August 2010. Next Publication: August 2012 CSR Report 2011 Data Table of Contents Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) .................................................... 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data (in Japan) .. 2 Material Balance (in Japan) ............................................................................................... 2 Midterm Environmental Plan ......................................................................................... 3 Environmental Accounting .............................................................................................. 5 Sekisui Eco Value Index ......................................................................................................... 7 Environment-Contributing Products .................................................................... 7 Global Warming Prevention ............................................................................................ 8 Resource Recycling and Saving .................................................................................. 9 Environmental Performance of Domestic Offices ................................. 10 Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions ..................................... 11 Environmental Incidents, Complaints, ................................................................. 11 and Emergency Responses Chemical Substances ............................................................................................................. 12 Environmental Management ......................................................................................... 13 Overview of the Product Assessment System ........................................... 14 for Environmental Impact Biodiversity .......................................................................................................................................... 14 CS & Quality Data ......................................................................................................................... 15 Human Resources Data ......................................................................................................... 16 Safety Data ........................................................................................................................................... 17 Social Contribution .................................................................................................................... 18 CSR Management Policies ................................................................................................. 19 CSR Management System .................................................................................................. 21 Scope of Independent Review Verified The environmental and social information in this report has been subjected to an independent review for the appropriateness of calculation methods and the accuracy of the results of calculation. The “Verified” logo is used to indicate that each item of such subject information has been reviewed. Management Benchmarks (Consolidated) Sales (by Each Division Company) Operating Income (by Each Division Company) ROE (100 million yen) (100 million yen) （％） 10,000 500 493 8 9,586 9,261 9,342 9,154 451 430 6.9 8,585 400 6.5 6.4 8,000 143 141 360 243 335 Housing 6 4,199 Company 4,304 4,244 4,186 300 3,982 Housing 6,000 61 194 Company 112 171 15 Urban Infrastructure & 200 Environmental 4 Urban Infrastructure & Products 4,000 2,337 16 Company 3.5 1,955 Environmental Products 2,264 2,252 1,946 100 244 243 Company 206 192 High 157 2 Performance 2,000 High Plastics Performance 0 Company 2,804 2,626 2,477 2,816 Plastics −9 −24 −9 2,454 −10 −16 Others Company −3 0 237 246 218 179 196 Others −100 0 0.3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Interest-bearing Debt and Interest-bearing Debt as a Percentage Overseas Sales and Sales Ratio Total Assets of Equity Capital (100 million yen) (%) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) （％） 2,000 19.7 20 10,000 1,500 50 1,800 8,792 1,294 1,330 16.4 16.2 16.2 40.2 38.9 1,245 8,000 7,829 7,873 7,902 1,200 40 1,500 528 15 7,565 1,113 36.6 Interest-bearing 1,551 1,516 1,410 debt as a 12.6 U.S. percentage of 386 390 921 equity capital 6,000 900 27.5 30 376 1,169 1,000 507 10 285 450 Europe 25.7 476 415 4,000 600 20 342 Asia Interest-bearing 500 5 debt 668 2,000 300 10 590 550 676 503 Others 0 39 48 60 68 90 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Free Cash Flows Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization (100 million yen) (100 million yen) (100 million yen) 500 500 400 365 400 440 345 345 372 400 300 300 305 363 345 200 313 260 300 151 126 100 253 200 0 200 −100 100 −78 100 −200 −300 −238 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 R&D Expenditures Dividends Per Share Number of Employees (100 million yen) (Yen) (persons) 300 20 20,000 19,742 19,761 19,770 18,905 18,907 257 254 245 240 247 15 15 15,000 8,520 8,478 8,637 200 14 9,137 8,557 Housing 13 Company 10 10 10 10,000 Urban Infrastructure & 4,765 4,634 4,447 Environmental 3,616 4,025 Products Company 100 5 5,000 High Performance Plastics 5,114 5,265 5,408 5,620 5,655 Company 0 0 0 1,038 1,060 1,049 1,029 1,031 Headquarters 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1 Coverage of the Environmental Performance Data (in Japan) Housing Company High Performance Plastics Company 1 company and 2 companies and R&D institutes 1 business site R&D institutes 2 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Tsukuba R&D Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Minase Site 11 companies and Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., ADME & Tox. Research Institute Production plants 10 business sites 13 companies and Production plants 17 business sites Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Amagasaki Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd., etc. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Musashi Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Sales and construction 28 companies and Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Taga Plant companies, etc. 95 business sites Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Sales Companies Sekisui Film Co., Ltd./Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., etc. Construction and Service Companies 40 companies and 106 business sites in total 14 companies and 19 business sites in total Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company Headquarters 1 company and 1 company and R&D institutes 1 business site R&D institutes 1 business site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Kyoto Site Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Development Center 20 companies and 8 companies and Production plants 11 business sites Production Plants and Headquarters 10 business sites Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd./Kyushu Sekisui Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Osaka Headquarters and Industry Co., Ltd. Tokyo Headquarters, etc. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd./Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. 20 companies and 12 business sites in total 8 companies and 11 business sites in total Total: 79 companies and 148 business sites * The total number of companies and business sites do not match, since some companies have two or more business sites, and some business sites are shared by two or more companies. Material Balance (in Japan) Verified Main Raw Materials To the atmosphere • Metals 77,000 tons • CO2 from energy • Wood, wooden consumption 332 thousand tons-CO2 building materials 38,000 tons • Cement for •NOx 223 tons exterior walls 109,000 tons •SOx 6 tons • Concrete for foundations 235,000 tons •Soot particles 4 tons • PVC 138,000 tons •PRTR-designated • Polyethylene 74,000 tons substances 810 tons • Polypropylene 29,000 tons Input Sekisui Output • Kraft paper 14,000 tons Chemical To water • PRTR-designated substances 118,000 tons Group • Water discharged 15,635 thousand tons • COD 69 tons Energy 5,956TJ • PRTR-designated • Purchased electricity 363,713 MWh substances 0.6 tons • Heavy oil A 4,830 kL • City gas 48,672 thousand m3 Wastes •Total generated water 16,517 thousand tons waste 39 thousand tons Note: Certain main raw materials are undisclosed for business strategy reasons. 2 Midterm Environmental Plan P24 Environmental Midterm Plan Environment Top Runner Plan SHINKA! Progress Action Items Targets for FY2013 Improving overall environmental management efficiency Achieving a Sekisui Eco Value Index at least three times the FY2007 value Improving Increase sales of Environment-Contributing Products At least 40% sales ratio of Environment-Contributing Products of consolidated net sales EnvironmentNumber of products certified (anticipated annual sales of 1 billion yen) as Contributing Promoting development of Environment-Contributing Products Environment-Contributing Products: 20 or more (FY2009-2013) Products *Revised target:30 or more Expanding products' Setting targets in FY2009 *Revised target:Covering emissions from Contribution to reduction in CO2 emissions production with contributions from products contributions to Contribution to waste reduction, reuse, Setting targets in FY2009 the environment and recycling *Revised target:Setting targers in FY2011 Setting target for usage ratio in FY2009 for reduction of greenhouse-gas Overall Business Activities emissions *Revised target:Covering emissions from production with contributions from products Raw Materials and procurement Setting target for usage ratio in FY2009 for reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions *Revised target:Setting target in FY2011 Reduction in emissions of Reducing Domestic production sites Reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% vs FY1990 (at least 10% vs FY2007) greenhouse-gas (GHG) Laboratories Reduction of greenhouse-gas emissions by at least 20% vs FY2007 Further reducing the environmental impacts of business activity greenhouse gases emissions by each activity Domestic offices (including sales vehicles) Reduction of CO2 emissions by at least 10% vs FY2007 Overseas production sites Reduction of energy usage per production unit by at least 5% vs FY2008 Overseas offices Reduction of energy usage per person by at least 10% vs FY2008 Promoting Domestic production sites Reduction of energy usage (converted to thermal units) per production unit by at least 7% vs FY2007 energy conservation Domestic shipments Reduction of energy per production unit by at least 5% vs FY2007 Domestic production sites Reduction of waste generated per production unit by at least 40% vs FY2007 Efficient utilization of resources Overseas production sites Reduction of waste generated per production unit by at least 25% vs FY2008 Domestic offices Reduction of copier-paper use by at least 20% vs FY2007 Reducing Reduction of copier-paper use by at least 20% vs FY2008 wastes Overseas offices (set target guidelines for individual sites) Housing construction sites vs FY2000: Sekisui Heim: -45% Two-U Home: -62% Reduction of loss costs derived from waste materials by at least 5 billion yen vs Cost reduction derived from waste FY2008 (FY2009-2013 accumulation) Domestic production sites/laboratories Achievement ratio of target sites: 100% Expanding Overseas production sites Achievement ratio of target sites: 100% Zero Waste Recycling of waste materials produced Implementing zero-emissions (i.e., recycling at least 98% of wastes) efforts Emission during dismantlement and expansion / renovation of houses in at least 50% of demolition projects Recycling of wastes produced from Recycling at least 90% of construction waste non-residential construction Reducing Reduction of water intake at domestic production sites by at least 10% vs other enviEfficient water usage FY2007 ronmental Reduction in VOC emissions Reduction of VOC released into atmosphere at domestic production sites and impacts (Legal and voluntary controlled substances) laboratories by at least 60% vs FY2000 (at least 25% vs FY2007) Efforts to conserve biodiversity Formulating guidelines in FY2009 Consideration for Activities to Support of nature conservation activities As Sekisui Chemical, providing aid to at least 10 NGO's per year related to improve by NGOs nature conservation activities environment biodiversity (conservation of Promoting nature conservation activities in at least five locations overseas biodiversity) Nature conservation activities in collaboration with local communities Implementing nature conservation activities in partnership with local communities at 50 sites or more *Revised target: at all business sites. At least 80% of employees(cumulative) participation over the three-year period2011-2013 External EMS certification at domestic production sites and laboratories Certification ratio for target sites: 100% External EMS certification at domestic External EMS certification at consolidated construction companies construction companies Enhancing External EMS certification at overseas All existing production sites: by FY2011 environmental production sites Enhancing the environmental management Expanding EMS development in Achieving EMS development at 100% of suppliers of residential building systems supply chains materials supplying 1 million yen/month or more Expanding green procurement Achieving a green procurement rate of 98% or higher Soil and groundwater surveys Completion of surveys of target 9 sites management infrastructure Reaching a total of at least 1,000 certified Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) Improvement of Acquiring at least a certain degree of environmental knowledge Conducting environmental education for employees and management education and overseas as well enlightenment Developing leaders for nature Holding the Sekisui Nature Study Courses at main sites (34 plants, 4 laboratories) conservation activities Communication Continuing publication at ISO certified production sites, laboratories, and Publishing site reports housing Fami S (remodeling) companies with external organizations Communication with local communities to Continued implementation at eight domestic production sites improve environment 3 “Evaluation” Column Key: Outperformed target Performed close to target (achievement rate of about 90% to 110%) Failed to reach target Note: The midterm targets were revised in March 2011 based on fiscal 2010 performance. Targets for FY2010 Results of FY2010 Verified EvaluPage ation 2 times vs FY2007 2.19 times vs FY2007 24, Data7 Sales estimate: 248 billion yen, Sales ratio 27% Sales estimate: 302.6 billion yen, Sales ratio 33% 25, Data7 5 new products certified 14 new products certified, cumulative total:17 Setting target for 2013 Target set as planed Studying 2030 vision implement plan ongoing Setting target for 2013 Target set as planed Studying 2030 vision implement plan ongoing -14% vs FY1990 (-4% vs FY2007) -21% vs FY1990 (-12% vs FY2007) 29, Data8 -8% vs FY2007 -17% vs FY2007 29, Data8 -8.5% (vs FY2007) -14.6% (vs FY2007) 29, Data8 Energy usage vs FY2008: -2% Energy usage vs FY2008: +11% Selection of target sites Seleced target sites as planed -3.5% vs FY2007 +1.6% vs FY2007 Data8 -2% vs FY2007 No change vs FY2007 Data8 -20% per production unit vs FY2007 +2.1% per production unit vs FY2007 32, Data9 -10% per production unit vs FY2008 +41% per production unit vs FY2008 -10% vs FY2007 -5.9% vs FY2007 Data10 Selection of target sites Seleced target sites as planed Sekisui Heim: -31% vs FY2000 Sekisui Heim: -32% vs FY2000 32, Data9 Sekisui Two-U Home: -53% vs FY2000 Sekisui Two-U Home: -51% vs FY2000 2 billion yen vs FY2008(accumulation) 1.3 billion yen in FY2010, 2.0 billion yen vs FY2008(accumulation) 31, Data10 Achievement ratio: 90% Achievement ratio: 89% Zero waste emissions achieved at Sekisui Seikei Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant and Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Achievement ratio: 40% Achievement ratio: 19% Recycling rate of dismantled materials: 95% Recycling rate of dismantled materials: 94% (99% for designated construction materials) Beginning recycling activities at model sites Activities begun at Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Himeji Plant -4% vs FY2007 -2.8% vs FY2007 32, Data10 -53% vs FY2000 (-11% vs FY2007) -49% vs FY2000 (-3% vs FY2007) 33, Data12 Formulating guidelines in July 2010 Formulated guidelines in March 2011 Aid provided as planed to seven organizations: Ramsar Center Japan, NPO Providing aid to seven organizations School of Killifish, Nature Film Network, Nanko Wetlands Conservation Group, Research Association for Global Mangrove, Environmental NPO Shu, Fujisan Club Implementing reforestation and conservation activities in Suzhou, China Implemented 2 times as planed Implemented at 2 new sites in FY2010, for a cultimative total of Nature conservation activities organized in 42 business sites 44sites. Japan:74% of production sites and 17% of sales companies or more Overseas:27% of production sites Attained at 90% of target sites Attained at 88% of target sites Attained at 96% of target sites Attained at 96% of target sites Attained at 65% of target sites, including one site newly certified Attained at 75% of target sites in FY2010 95% 90.1%(59.9% of external certified, 30.2% of independents EMS) 95% or higher 93.8% 6 sites surveyed 6 sites surveyed as planed, 9sites(cumulative), 5sites completed 33, Data11 At least 200 persons 22 persons newly certified, for a cumulative total of 52 persons Data13 Implement CSR training Holiding CSR training(for new employees and new managers) Books on diodiversity distributed to executives Holding at 2 sites Holding at 2 sites (27 participants total) 62 Holding at a cumulative total of 27 sites Issued at production sites and laboratories (ISO14001 certified business sites) Issued at 38 production sites and laboratories Implemented at one site more Holding a meeting with nearby residents at Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. 4 Environmental Accounting Verified To promote efficient environmental management and achieve accountability, largely unchanged from the previous year due to an increase in nature Sekisui Chemical Group employs environmental accounting that makes it restoration costs and other costs. possible to ascertain the costs and effects of environmental conservation On the other hand, investments decreased due to the lack of large-scale activities. Calculation is conducted by referring to the Environmental environmental investments such as the adoption in fiscal 2008 of biomass Accounting Guidelines 2005 issued by the Japanese Ministry of the boilers. The amount of cost savings from energyconservation activities, Environment, with the addition of Sekisui Chemical Group’s own concepts such which constitutes one of the economic results of environmental efforts, as external economic benefits. decreased, while the amount of cost savings from waste-reduction activities In fiscal 2010, although R&D expenditures decreased in connection with a and similar activities increased. In addition, external economic benefits such decrease in the number of environmental themes addressed, costs remained as those from photovoltaic power generation systems also increased steadily. Scope of environmental accounting (1) Summation period: April 1, 2010 through March 31, 2011 (2) Scope of summation: 38 target production sites (as listed on Data p. 2) + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 14 housing sales companies • Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, data could not be collected from the following sites: Production sites: Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. and the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Housing sales company: Sekisui Heim Tohoku Co., Ltd. (3) Principles of summation • Depreciation amounts are the same as those for financial accounting. • Investment amounts are based on budget approvals during the summation period. • Expenditures and investments that contain other than environmental conservation activities are distributed pro-rata in 10% increments. (4) Note • The scope of summation in fiscal 2009 consisted of 40 target production sites + 4 Laboratories + each department of Headquarters + back offices of division companies + 15 housing sales companies Environmental Conservation Costs (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Items FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Category Key activity and the outcome Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 1,700 774 1,675 182 1,800 118 1) Business area costs Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc 222 642 252 704 333 387 Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 4,164 335 3,956 55 4,296 102 2) Upstream/downstream costs Cost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 379 0 493 0 376 0 Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green 2,342 29 2,187 45 2,189 64 3) Administration costs action organization, information disclosure, etc. 4) Research & Development costs Research and development on environmental conservation 1,982 60 2,561 14 1,506 16 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 65 0 70 8 77 0 6) Environmental remediation costs Nature restoration, etc. 89 207 23 354 391 1 Total 10,944 2,047 11,217 1,363 10,967 688 Items FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Category Costs Investments Costs Investments Costs Investments Total amount of R&D expenditures1 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 25,420 15,740 24,010 24,119 24,695 18,559 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 7.8 13.0 10.7 5.7 6.1 3.7 1 R&D expenditure is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Benefits (Sekisui Chemical Group) Environmental Conservation Benefits Environmental performance criteria: per unit of output; Total SelfevaluDescription of effects Item Unit FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Effect (10-09) See page Item Unit FY2009 FY2010 ation 3,626 3,345 3,522 177 Data 8 (1) Energy usage Effects on inAmount of energy (1) Electricity TJ 1.85 1.84 ○ vested resources usage1 per unit of output GJ/ton (2) Fuel TJ 2,461 2,312 2,434 122 Data 8 (electricity + fuel)1 1,ooo (3) CO2 emissions2 tons 340.2 315.6 331.6 16.0 Data 8 × Effects (4) Volume of environmental polTons 729.8 659.3 810.8 151.6 within busiData 11 × lutants discharged 3 ness areas Effects on environmental impact 1,ooo (2) Waste generated and wastes (5) Wastes generated4 tons 39.3 36.0 39.5 3.5 Data 9 kg/ton 40.5 42.7 × per unit of output 1,ooo (3) Outsourced disposal (6) Outsourced disposal5 tons 0.44 0.35 0.24 -0.12 Data 9 kg/ton 0.40 0.26 ○ per unit of output Upstream/ Effects related to CO2 reduction by photovoltaic power 1,ooo 143 162 196 34 ◎ downstream effects products/services generation, etc. (cumulative) tons ISO 14001 New acquisitions Numbers 2 3 2 Number of business sites acquirTotal number Other benefits of business 79 80 ○ Certification Renewals Numbers 14 14 16 ing ISO 14001 Certification7 sites to environmenOthers6 tal conservation Number of business sites achievNumber of business sites Total number ing zero emissions8 Numbers 2 1 2 of business 139 141 ○ achieving zero emissions8 sites 1 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data p. 8). 3 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 4 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. 5 Simple incineration + Landfill. 6 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. 7 A cumulative total number of sites reviewed for factors such as consolidation and return of certifications for housing sales companies. 8 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economical Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (Sekisui Chemical Group) (million yen) Description of effects FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Remarks Revenue (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources 316 204 206 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 20 32 44 Cost 336 725 274 savings (3) Cost savings through energy-saving activities (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction activities, etc. 1,041 387 696 Including resource-saving activities Sub-total (actual effects) 1,712 1,347 1,220 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation activities1 5,938 6,228 7,603 Contribution of environmental conservation activities to added value at business sites2 (6) External Economic Effect 10,577 12,598 12,957 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic generation systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 16,515 18,827 20,560 Total 18,227 20,174 21,779 1 Excluding housing sales companies. 2 (Added value from business sites) × {(Business area costs + Administration costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 5 Environmental Conservation Cost (by Each Division Company) (million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Items Housing Company1 Environmental Products Plastics Company Group2 Company Category Key activity and the outcome Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Prevention of air, water, and noise pollution, etc. 999 1 63 7 661 97 1,800 118 1) Business area Countermeasures against global warming (energy saving), etc. 99 91 107 35 102 185 333 387 costs Waste reduction, recycling, disposal, etc. 3,432 35 390 49 440 1 4,296 102 2) Upstream/downCost increases due to URU, switching to packaging/packing methods stream costs involving reduced environmental impact, greener purchasing, etc. 304 0 35 0 7 0 376 0 3) Administration costs Environmental education, EMS maintenance, running costs for green action organization, information disclosure, etc. 527 1 240 9 280 48 2,189 64 4) R&D costs Research and development on environmental conservation 111 0 323 16 907 0 1,506 16 5) Social activities costs Social contributions, etc. 30 0 6 0 11 0 77 0 6) Environmental remediation costs Nature restoration, etc. 0 0 368 0 23 1 391 1 Total 5,502 127 1,531 116 2,432 332 10,967 688 Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Housing Company1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Group2 Items Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Total amount of R&D expenditures3 and investment in the fiscal period (million yen) 3,985 9,802 5,502 2,504 11,211 5,017 24,695 18,559 Ratio of amount related to environmental conservation activities to total (%) 2.8 1.3 5.9 4.6 8.1 6.6 6.1 3.7 1 Including 34 business sites of housing sales companies. 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Corporate Headquarters. 3 R&D expenditure is the total for all consolidated companies. Environmental Conservation Cost (by Environmental Conservation Measures) (Million yen) Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Items Housing Company1 Environmental Products Company Plastics Company Group2 Category Key activity and the outcome Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens Costs Investmens 1. Prevention of global warming Reduction of CO2 emissions, etc. 95 91 143 34 101 183 363 385 2. Ozone layer protection Reduction of Chlorofluorocarbon emissions, etc. 4 0 0 0 4 0 8 0 3. Conservation of air quality Prevention of air pollution by reducing pollutant emissions 267 1 35 1 306 48 654 62 4. Prevention of noise and vibration Prevention of noise and vibration disturbance 5 0 3 2 9 4 19 6 5. Conservation of water environment, Preservation of water quality, prevention of soil environment, ground quality subsidence 196 0 385 0 324 37 932 38 6. Waste reduction and recycling Reduction and treatment of waste, recycling, etc. 3,777 35 430 49 450 1 4,695 102 7. Reduction of chemical substances Risk management of chemical substances, etc. 482 0 2 4 55 3 539 6 8. Conservation of natural environment Nature protection, etc. 56 1 44 0 25 0 154 1 9. Others Others 621 0 490 26 1,158 57 3,604 89 Total 5,502 127 1,531 116 2,432 332 10,967 688 1 Including 34 business sites of housing sales companies. 2 Total of three division companies and departments of Corporate Headquarters. Environmental Conservation Benefits (by Each Division Company) Environmental Conservation Benefits Urban Infrastructure & High Performance Housing Company Environmental Products Company Sekisui Chemical Group See Plastics Company Description of effects Items Unit FY2009 FY2010 Effect FY2009 FY2010 Effect FY2009 FY2010 Effect FY2009 FY2010 Effect page (10-09) (10-09) (10-09) (10-09) Effects on (1) Electricity TJ 416 435 19 1,280 1,332 51 1,059 1,137 79 3,345 3,522 177 Data 8 invested Energy resources consumption4 (2) Fuel TJ 124 118 −6 112 112 1 1,851 1,968 117 2,312 2,434 122 Data 8 Effects within 1,000 Data 8 (3) CO2 emissions5 tons 31.4 32.0 0.5 79.9 82.8 2.9 156.9 167.2 10.3 315.6 331.6 16.0 business areas Effects on (4) Volume of environmental Tons environmen pollutants discharged6 1.0 4.0 3.0 74.5 67.4 −7.1 580.3 735.8 155.4 659.3 810.8 151.6 Data 11 tal impact 1,000 and wastes (5) Wastes generated7 tons 10.1 11.3 1.1 7.1 6.4 −0.8 16.6 19.5 3.0 36.0 39.5 3.5 Data 9 1,000 (6) Outsourced disposal8 tons 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.27 0.12 −0.15 0.35 0.24 −0.12 Data 9 Upstream/ Other benefits to Effects related CO2 reduction by photovoltaic 1,000 to products power generation, etc. tons 162 196 34 162 196 34 /services downstrea environmental ISO 14001 New Numacquisitions bers 0 0 2 2 1 0 3 2 Certification m effects preservation Others9 Renewals Numbers 5 6 1 4 7 1 14 16 Number of business sites Numachieving zero emissions10 bers 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 2 4 Conversion into thermal units uses the coefficient published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 5 Emissions at the time of manufacturing and conversion to CO2 amounts use the coefficients used in the Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! (see Data, p. 8). 6 Applicable to Class I Designated Chemical Substances specified by PRTR Law. 7 Amount discharged + Amount disposed of at price + Amount incinerated within own premises. 8 Simple incineration + landfill. 9 Including business sites not subject to environmental accounting summation, such as overseas business sites. 10 A business site affiliated to multiple companies is counted as one. Economic Effects Related to Environmental Conservation Measures (by Each Division Company) (Million yen) Urban InfraDescription of effects Housing structure & High Performance Sekisui Chemical Remarks Company*1 Environmental Plastics Company Group*2 Products Company Rev13 12 160 206 Profit on sales of valuable resources from promotion of enue (1) Profit on sales of valuable resources waste segregation and recycling (2) Savings from simplified packaging 0 23 21 44 Cost (3) Cost savings through energy-saving savings activities 11 12 241 274 (4) Cost savings through waste-reduction 19 170 482 696 Including resource-saving activities activities, etc. Subtotal (actual effects) 43 216 905 1,220 (5) Contribution to environmental conservation Contribution of environmental conservation activities to activities11 1,716 2,211 3,392 7,603 added value at business sites12 Monetary conversion of impact from photovoltaic gene(6) External Economic Effect 9,279 3,678 12,957 ration systems and “No-Dig” pipe rehabilitation method Sub-total (estimated effects) 10,994 5,888 3,392 20,560 Total 11,037 6,105 4.297 21,779 11 Excluding housing sales companies. 12 (Added value from business sites) x {(Business area costs + Administration costs)/(Total production costs excluding materials costs)} 6 Sekisui Eco Value Index P24 Verified The Sekisui Eco Value Index is an independent index utilized by Sekisui Chemical Group for m measuring the efficiency of our environmental management activities. Sekisui Eco Value Index Trends (Target) Environmental Added Value 3.0 (converted to monetary amount) 3 (= sales revenue from EnvironmentSekisui Contributing Products + external economic benefits) 2.2 Eco Value ＝ 2 Index Group’s overall 1.4 1.2 environmental impact 1 1.0 (converted to coe cien t) 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Environmental Added Value (converted to monetary amount) Environmental Added Value (numerator): Sekisui Chemical Group calculates Environmental Environmental added value Added Value by totaling the sales of our Environment-Contributing Products and the external Waste 3,156 reduction by economic benefits provided to society through our products and businesses. External economic (100 million yen) the SPR 37 benefits are calculated by converting to monetary amounts the effects of reducing environmen3,000 93 Method tal impacts when Sekisui Chemical Group products are used by customers or society. Photovoltaic generation Conventional Energy and resources consumed, waste generated 2,000 1,912 Products 1,728 52 1,552 46 74 Sales of 59 EnvironmentEnvironmentReducing 37 3,026 Contributing 49 Contributing Environmental Impact Products Products 1,000 1,786 1,623 1,466 External Economic Benefits = Reduction Amount × Cost of Reducing Environmental Impact 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Group’s overall environmental impact (converted to coefficient) Group’s overall environmental impact (denominator): The total sum of the Group’s environOverall environmental impact (Eco Points) mental impact is calculated by addition of converted values of raw materials and energy used as well as related landfill and incineration of waste and emissions into the atmosphere and water, 2007 2008 2009 2010 which represent environmental impacts of differing units and effects on the environment, to the 0 Energy Eco Point coefficient using the JEPIX integration method. 46 43 45 49 Input Output Sekisui Chemical 50 Raw materials Major raw materials Products Metals, lumbers, wood-based Group building materials, cement, 99 99 polyvinyl chloride, polyethylWastes 100 113 ene, polypropylene, etc. Landfill and incineration 118 Emissions to atmosEmissions to phere and water area atmosphere Energy 150 21 26 and water Electricity, heavy oil A, diesel PRTR-designated 16 0.6 substances (Methylene 16 163 0.6 oil, heating oil, gasoline, city 0.7 171 Landfill and chloride, Xylene, Toluene, 1 176 gas, etc. 184 incineration etc.), COD 200 Integration of environmental impacts ➡ Eco Points (EIP) (100 million yen) Coverage of Overseas Data Environment-Contributing P25 Verified For purposes such as globalization of environmental management and making continual Products improvements in the environmental impact of production overseas, since 2003 Sekisui Chemical Group has been periodically monitoring actual conditions of environmental activities at production companies overseas and their performance data. In fiscal 2010, Environment-Contributing Products Sales overseas data in this report covered the 30 business sites below1. and Sales-Ratio Trends 1 Data collected from: KYDEX, LLC., Allen Extruders, LLC., Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd., (Target) Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd., Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd., Eslon B.V., (100 million yen) (%) 40.0% Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd., Sekisui Voltek, LLC. (Lawrence Plant), 4,000 33.1% 35 (Coldwater Plant), Sekisui Alveo B.V., Sekisui Alveo Ltd., Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd., Sekisui Sales Ratio Pilon Pty. Ltd., YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejon Plant, YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. 3, Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. (Brea Plant, Tennessee Plant), Sekisui High Performance 3,000 3,026 25 Packaging (Langfang) Co ., Ltd., Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC., Sekisui S-Lec Mexico S.A. de 20.8% 17.4% C.V., Sekisui S-Lec B.V. (Resin Plant, Film Plant), Sekisui S-Lec Thailand Co., Ltd., Sekisui Housing Company S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd, Sekisui Specialty Chemicals America, LLC. (Pasadena Plant, 15.3% 2,000 15 Calvert City Plant), Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L., Sekisui Medical Technology 1,786 2,078 1,623 Urban Infrastructure & (China) Ltd., American Diagnostica, Inc 3, XenoTech, LLC. 1,466 Environmental Products Company 2 CO2 emissions have been calculated using the emissions coefficients of the 1,053 1,000 841 5 greenhouse-gas protocol for electric power and the emissions coefficients of the 758 High Performance Plastics Company Environmental Top Runner Plan SHINKA! for fuel. 663 731 677 719 Headquarters 3 Data was collected only for wastes and CO2 emissions. 0 45 50 56 7 221 4 Calculation period: January 1 December 31, 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 7 Global Warming Prevention P29 Verified Greenhouse-gas (GHG) Emissions During Manufacturing CO2 Emissions Coefficient (1,000 tons-CO2) (Environmental Top Runner Plan: SHINKA!) 500 Under the New Midterm Environmental Plan: Environmental Top Runner Plan 433 SHINKA!, progress is being made in reducing emissions of all greenhouse 400 44 gases. The conversion coefficients for CO2 emissions have been changed to 389 24 365 Greenhouse gases (Target) the default values (as of March 2009) under the greenhouse-gas emissions 37 341 from non-energy346 37 24 330 9 consumption sources calculation, reporting, and disclosure system established by Japanese law, 300 36 15 32 with uniform figures used for each fiscal year. 108 31 Housing Company 95 88 83 Urban Infrastructure & Purchased electricity 0.555 tons CO2/MWh 80 Environmental Products 200 Company Heavy oil A 2.71 tons CO2/kL High Performance City gas 2.08 tons CO2/thousand m3N 203 178 Plastics Company Heating oil 2.49 tons CO2/kL 167 167 100 157 Diesel oil 2.62 tons CO2/kL Gasoline 2.32 tons CO2/kL Headquarters LPG 3.00 tons CO2/ton 0 41 54 49 47 50 Purchased steam 0.179 tons CO2/ton 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 S ource: Calculation and Repor ting Manual for Greenhouse Gas Emissions (published in March 2009 by Japanese Ministr y of the Environm ent and Ministr y of Economy, Trade and Industr y) Energy Consumption and per unit output During Manufacturing per unit Breakdown of Greenhouseoutput index index consumption (TJ) 102.2 performance (FY 2007: 100) Breakdown of Energy Used Gas (GHG) Emissions 100 100.3 101.6 CO2 from 10,000 100 93 non-energyCO2 from other consumption energy consumption sources 2% 8,000 (target) 80 Heavy oil A 6% 3% Others 6% Other Heavy oil A gases 0% 6,519 4% 6,000 627 6,087 5,956 60 613 5,657 553 Housing Company 1,661 540 1,542 Urban Infrastructure & 1,392 1,444 Environmental Products 4,000 40 Fiscal 2010 Company Fiscal 2010 City gas 341,000 tons High Performance 32% 5,956 TJ Electricity Plastics Company 59% City gas -CO2 2,000 3,293 3,083 2,909 3,105 20 29% Electricity 59% 938 849 Headquarters 0 815 854 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Amount Transported and per unit output per unit Amount transported output index index CO2 Emissions in performance (fiscal 2007: 100) (10,000 ton-km) 100.8 102.6 100.2 the Transportation Stage CO2 Emissions (Overseas) 50,000 95 100 100 (target) Headquarters Housing Company 40,000 80 16% 16% Fuel usage Electricity 36,136 usage 33,051 62% 38% 30,000 8,027 60 Fiscal 2010 8,032 28,103 27,926 Fiscal 2010 Housing Company 40,000 tons 414,000 tons 6,746 7,082 -CO2 20,000 13,273 40 12,024 Urban Infrastructure & 10,731 10,507 Environmental Products Urban Infrastructure & Company Environmental Products Company 10,000 6,761 5,889 20 48% 5,071 4,946 High Performance Plastics Company High Performance Plastics Company 8,075 7,107 Headquarters 20% 0 5,555 5,391 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 • Amount transported in fiscal 2010: 280 million tonSee Data, p. 7 for scope of summation kilometers • Calculation method: Either the improved ton-kilometer method, fuel consumption method, or fuel cost method, depending on the product and transportation method Greenhouse-gas Emissions from Laboratories (1,000 tons-CO2) 20 16.8 16.6 16.4 0.5 1.5 15 (Target) 2.9 14.0 13.5 1.0 Other greenhouse gases 10 15.1 16.3 13.5 CO2 from 13.1 energy 5 consumption 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 8 Resource Recycling and Saving P31 Verified Fiscal 2010 Annual Production-Site Waste Generation and Disposal Conditions Change over the previous year is in ( ) and proportion of the total generation is in [ ]. Reuse within the facilities 7,928 tons On-site incineration (reduction) 0 tons (increased by 1.5%) [0%] Total amount of Valuable materials sold 17,206 tons (increased by 15.9%) [43.6%] materials recycling 33,069 tons Total amount of (increased by generated wastes 11.5%) [83.8%] 39,454 tons Amount of Outsourcing of Materials recycling (increased by 9.7%) discharged wastes recycling resources 15,863 tons [100%] 22,248 tons 22,012 tons (increased by 7.1%) Use of incin(increased by 5.4%) (increased by 5.9%) [40.2%] eration heat [56.4%] [55.8%] 6,149 tons Simple incineration (decreased by Outsourced disposal 236 tons 46 tons 3.0%) [15.6%] (decreased by 27.1%) [0.6%] (decreased by 71.8%) [0.1%] Landfill 190 tons (increased by 18.2%) [0.5%] Zero Emissions Achievement Criteria and Accreditation System of Sekisui Chemical Group Status of Zero Emissions Achievement Achieved at 37 plants in Japan and three overseas plants, (1) Not engaging in any outside incineration without thermal utilization Production sites including those of affiliates. (Includes two plants in Japan (thermal recycling), or landfill outside or inside of facilities (recycling ratio: that achieved zero emissions in fiscal 2010) 100%) Laboratories Achieved at four domestic laboratories as of fiscal 2005 (2) If the waste quantity is small and it is a type of waste that has never been recycled before, recycling methods and relevant contractors must be New house Achieved at all locations as of September 2003 identified and a service agreement must be executed. construction sites We also have established uniform evaluation criteria known as the Zero House remodeling sites Achieved at all locations as of fiscal 2004 Emissions Achievement Evaluation List. We have established a system designed to conduct internal checks and issue approvals for the status of Osaka and Tokyo Headquarters buildings Achieved as of fiscal 2005 observance of the evaluation criteria as well as legal compliance, rules and signage for waste segregation and storage, management of related facilities, As of end of fiscal 2010, 99% recycling rate for Designated Home demolition sites Construction Materials (scrap concrete and wood) and waste reduction planning and management. The list obliges us to conduct inspection of outside contractors and to clarify treatment routes in order to enhance the management system through these activities. Total Wastes Generated Wastes Generated and in New Housing Construction (tons/home) per Unit of Output at Production Facilities index (tons) Waste generated (1,000 tons) (fiscal 2007: 100) 5 60 120 100 102.1 50 94.7 96.7 Per unit of output index 100 4 4.02 43.6 40 39.3 39.5 80 3 1.95 11.2 36.0 House 10.4 11.3 60 30 10.1 Housing Company 60 2.30 2.20 erecting 2.18 1.99 site 9.6 2 8.6 6.4 Urban Infratarget 20 7.1 structure & 40 1.04 1.32 1.20 1.07 1.29 Environmental 1 19.5 Products Company 10 20.8 18.4 16.6 20 Exterior wall 1.03 0.65 0.59 0.75 0.66 plants High Performance Plastics Company 0 0.33 0.29 0.25 0.26 0 2.1 1.9 2.1 2.3 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 Assembly 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 plants Headquarters Breakdown of Generated Wastes Wastes Treatment Methods (Overseas) Plasterboard 0.5% Burnt residue 0.4% Oil waste, acidic waste, Others 1.7% alkaline waste 5.4% Metal scrap 3.1% Incineration 1% Unknown Wood chips 3.9% 17％ Wastepaper 4.7% Landfill Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2010 12% Approx. Sludge 11.0% 39,000 tons 21,000 Plastics waste tons 49.2% Recycling Glass and ceramics scrap 70% 20.2% See Data, p. 7 for scope of summation 9 Subjects of Material Flow Cost Accounting Quantity of Wastes and at Sekisui Chemical Group per Unit of Output Generated Economic Loss at Business Sites Reviewed (Loss Costs) • Material-cost factors Waste generated (1,000 tons) index Index Cost factors: Primary raw materials, secondary raw materials, ancillary raw 50 100 100 120 materials, and all other material costs 94 87 88 Per unit • System-cost factors of output index 80 100 100 Labor costs, equipment depreciation, other administrative costs 40 12 92 Waste 87 processing • Energy costs 80 11 9 costs Electricity, water, gas, heavy oil, and other fuel and energy costs 30 60 23 System costs 20 • Waste-processing costs Waste 60 4 20 Energy costs amount 3 Actual costs of waste processing 45.2 4 20 40 Data on the above costs is collected as positive and negative costs. Raw-material 36.3 40 costs 33.1 36.7 61 10 20 57 54 20 0 0 0 2005 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Water Intake for Use at Production Site Water Intake for Use (Overseas) (1,000 tons) 20,000 Water usage Approx. 3,049,000 tons 16,985 16,923 16,541 16,517 (Target) See Data, p. 7 for scope of summation 249 287 285 288 Housing Company 15,287 15,000 2,344 2,204 1,962 1,842 Urban Infrastructure & Environmental Products Company 10,000 11,924 12,310 11,632 11,984 High Performance 5,000 Plastics Company Headquarters 2,082 2,507 2,663 2,403 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Environmental Performance in Domestic Offices Verified CO2 Emissions at Offices Fiscal 2010 Green Purchases Performance (1,000 tons CO2) Sekisui Chemical Group is committed to green purchasing of office 20 19.0 (Target) supplies for all its departments and branches. 17.9 16.7 17.1 16.2 (10,000 yen) 15 Amount purchased Photocopying paper 9,609 10 Other pamphlets, catalogs, office supplies, etc. 12,453 Office automation equipment 20,231 Total 42,293 5 0 Green Purchase Guidelines 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Any of those listed under (1)-(4) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning 1) OA paper (photocopier pathe Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly Copier-paper Use at Offices per), stationery, office supGoods and Services by the State and Other (10,000 sheets) plies, office automation Entities 6,000 equipment (3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing Network’s database 5,341 5,077 5,025 (4) Those covered in catalogs as environment4,866 friendly products (Target) 4,273 Any of those listed under (1)-(5) below: (1) Those satisfying Eco Mark certification standards 2) Paper and paper products (2) Those in compliance with the Law Concerning 3,000 other than OA paper and the Promotion of Procurement of Eco-Friendly toilet paper (forms, inkjetGoods and Services by the State and Other printer paper, color-printer Entities paper, coated paper, note(3) Those covered in the Green Purchasing Netbooks, vouchers, business work’s database cards, paper used for pub(4) Those covered in catalogs as environmentlications such as pamphlets friendly products and catalogs, etc.) (5) Non-pulp paper or paper consisting of 70% or 0 more recycled paper, or paper with the highest 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 recycled content for the relevant type The scope of data collection has been revised retroactively to fiscal 2007. 3) Toilet paper 100% recycled toilet paper 10 Atmospheric, Water, and Soil Related Emissions Note: The Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant data for fiscal 2010 is not included in the data below due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Soot and Dust NOx Emissions Volume Verified SOx Emissions Volume Verified Emission Volume Verified (tons) (tons) (tons) 600 25 25 Housing 23 Company 500 483 489 1 20 20 20 Urban Infrastructure & 13 11 Housing 3 Environmental 11 7 398 400 Company 16 Products Company 11 6 Housing 15 12 15 Company 15 High Performance Urban Infra5 1 Plastics Company 300 13 13 13 1 structure & 4 11 2 Environmental 10 Urban Infra10 10 198 3 4 10 structure & 19 460 470 189 223 Products 5 3 1 200 374 12 175 6 43 Company 2 Environmental 1 12 9 7 3 6 Products 3 9 7 5 11 3 3 3 5 13 4 100 High Performance 2 Company 10 4 9 1 2 174 156 176 173 Plastics Company 6 5 High Performance 2 5 5 2 5 2 1 0 0 2 Plastics Company 0 1 0 1 1 1 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 COD Discharge Volume Verified Business Site Soil Surveys Verified (tons) Business Site Surveyed Substance Excess of the standards 80 70 68 Housing Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Cyanide compounds, fluorine, boron, Soil: No 67 66 Company 1 64 62 1 Iwate Plant Groundwater: No 1 1 61 1,2-dichloroethane, dioxins 60 7 1 1 7 8 8 1 7 7 Soil: Yes (lead) 6 Urban InfraSekisui Chemical structure & Lead, cadmium, PCBs, dioxins Environmental Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Groundwater: No 40 Products 51 39 45 Company In fiscal 2010, we conducted surveys compliant with the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Law at six business sites 49 46 45 44 High Performance and completed two of these. Results of these surveys show no values in excess of standards for soil pollution at the 20 Plastics Company Iwate Plant of Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd., while there were values in excess of soil-pollution standards in part of the Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. site (see p. 33). Plans call for conducting countermeasures in accordance with the Law at 18 15 Headquarters the site with values in excess of soil-pollution standards. 0 9 11 10 9 10 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Preventing Pollution • Preventing Water Pollution Each Sekisui Chemical Group site conducts periodic emergency drills in Sekisui Chemical Group is working to meet the targets of legal and preparation for the possibility of leaks of wastewater off the site and is regulatory restrictions and to reduce discharge of pollutants through implementing a system of thorough preventive and responsive measures for appropriate maintenance and control and periodic inspection of the wide any accidents. Each site also implements integrated wastewater controls range of equipment it uses. such as enhancing wastewater processing capacity and carrying out measures to eliminate piping problems. • Preventing Air Pollution The biomass boiler fueled by wood chips intended to replace the heavy-oil Disposal and Storage of Machines and boiler at the Gunma Plant of Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. (installed August 2009) Equipment that Contain PCBs has begun full operation. As a result, discharge of NOx has increased from the previous fiscal year. Stored transformers and condensers that contain PCBs are being disposed of steadily, beginning with sites for which acceptance at PCB treatment facilities is available. In addition, at sites with machines and equipment that contain PCBs in storage, such devices are managed strictly and thoroughly, through means including locked storage and periodic inspection. Environmental Incidents, Complaints, and Emergency Responses Environmental Incidents, Complaints, etc. Verified Emergency Response In fiscal 2010, there were no incidents with off-site consequences. We In order to prevent the occurrence and spread of environmental contaminareceived five complaints regarding environmental concerns and are steadily tion in the event of an emergency, at least once every year each of our implementing preventive measures in response. business sites carries out emergency response and reporting drills, assuming a variety of hypothetical cases relevant to the nature of each business site. Environmental Complaints Emergency Response and Reporting Drills Details of complaints Countermeasures Simulated emergency situation Drills performed Noise Complaint about vibration noise • Change to part of the equipment to restrict Leakage and outflow of oils 51 from dust collector noise generation Atmospheric discharge of solvents 4 • Inspecting source of emissions, s trengthening Compliant about odor of raw emissions management, and increasing exhaust Fire 52 materials used in a plant Odors capacity Earthquake 3 • Inspecting source of emissions, strengthening Complaint about plant odors emissions management, and improving odorEmergency communication training 2 removal equipment Complaint regarding concerns Comprehensive disaster preparedness drills 27 that trees could fall over on land •Thinning of trees on land near the plant Responding to other equipment-related emergencies 5 Others near the plant and damage (approx. 20 trees felled) residents’ homes Complaint about brightness of nighttime lighting •Turning off lights at night 11 Chemical Substances P33 Verified Summation Results Based on the PRTR Law (Calculations have been made for substances with handling volume of one ton or more at the individual business sites surveyed.) (tons) Government Emission volume Transfer volume Substance ordinance Transaction Transfer in Transfer Detoxification Sewage notificatio volume Atmospheric Public water In house soil areas system waste in waste no. disposal recycling Acrylic acid and its water-soluble salts [4] 46.7 0 0 0 0 0 4.7 42 n-Butyl acrylate [7] 294.1 0.11 0 0 0 0 0.36 294 Acrylonitrile [9] 295.3 1.4 0 0 0 0 0.009 294 Acetaldehyde [12] 283.1 0.20 0 0 0 0 0 283 Acetonitrile [13] 27.1 2.0 0.42 0 0 0.35 23 0.83 2-Aminoethanol [20] 10.2 1.7 0 0 0 0 0 7.0 Antimony and its compounds [31] 25.1 0 0 0 0 0 2.5 0 Isobutyraldehyde [35] 53.4 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 52 Ethylbenzene [53] 1.3 1.3 0 0 0 0 0 0 Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid [60] 1.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.4 ε-Caprolactam [76] 44.2 0 0.014 0 0 0 0 44 Xylene [80] 38.2 5.2 0 0 0 0 0.42 32 Vinyl chloride [Special94] 110,950.0 3.7 0.12 0 0 0 0 110,946 Chloroform [127] 5.9 0.29 0 0 0 0 1.7 3.9 Vinyl acetate [134] 1.1 0.013 0 0 0 0 0 1.1 Inorganic cyanide compounds (except [144] 15.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 16 complex salts and cyanates) Cyclohexylamine [154] 7.2 0.40 0 0 0 0 0 6.8 Dichloromethane [186] 347.5 4.5 0 0 0 0 0.54 342 N,N-dimethylacetamide [213] 1.9 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.9 N,N-dimenthylformamide [232] 1.9 0.0001 0 0 0 0 0.0000 1.9 Organic tin compounds [239] 57.0 0 0 0 0 0.068 0.32 0 Styrene [240] 1,537.4 34 0 0 0 0 0.72 619 Decabromodiphenyl ether [255] 5.8 0 0 0 0 0 0.69 0 Terephthalic acid [270] 57.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 58 Triethylamine [277] 3.4 0.28 0 0 0 0 0 3.2 Toluene [300] 1,479.2 587 0 0 0 0 57 802 Lead compounds [Special305] 528.2 0.0004 0.0036 0 0.0040 0 3.0 0 Nickel compounds [Special309] 2.7 0 0.021 0 0 0 0.031 0.73 Phenol [349] 75.2 3.8 0 0 0 0 0 71 Bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate [355] 149.2 1.0 0 0 0 0.10 2.0 0 n-Hexane [392] 203.8 154 0 0 0 0 5.3 44 Benzaldehyde [399] 22.4 0 0 0 0 0 0 22 Boron compounds [405] 1.6 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Poly (oxyethylene) alkyl ether (alkyl [407] 3.2 C=12-15) 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Formaldehyde [Special411] 59.3 2.9 0 0 0 0 0 56 Manganese and its compounds [412] 5.4 0 0 0 0 0 5.4 0 Methyl methacrylate [420] 82.9 0.65 0 0 0 0 0.012 82 4-Methylideneoxetan-2-one [421] 1.5 0 0 0 0 0 0 1.5 Methylenebis (4,1-phenylene) = [448] 970.9 4.0 0 0 0 0 0.13 0 diisocyanate 117,698.0 810 0.58 0 0.0040 0.52 108 114,129 Note: Due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, estimates were collected for some data for the Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant. Emission and Transfer Volumes Discharge of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) by Substance (PRTR Law) into the Atmosphere (tons) (tons) 800 26 811 Others 3,000 2,936 5 Dichloromethane 55 730 34 5 Xylene 677 63 467 34 7 20 659 154 Styrene 600 8 10 53 5 n-Hexane 49 44 12 5 2,000 Housing Company 1,539 1,560 1,585 6 1,498 Urban Infra400 46 27 4 structure & 149 119 153 108 Environmental (Target) 596 2,401 Products 1,175 574 584 587 Company Toluene 1,000 High 200 1,380 1,336 1,457 1,382 Performance Plastics Company Headquarters 0 0 14 4 4 4 4 2007 2008 2009 2010 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 Note: n-Hexane has been added to subject substances beginning with 2010 figures, due to amendment of the PRTR Law. 12 Environmental Management P24 ISO14001 Certified Business Sites Urban Infrastructure & Housing Company Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Tsukuba R&D Site1 Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Kyoto Research & [Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant] Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Development Laboratories Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Minase Site Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Ota Plant Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant [Sekisui Roof System Co., Ltd. Manufacturing Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Division] Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant [Hokkaido Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Gunma Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Ryuseki Jyubi Co., Ltd. Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Iwate Plant Ibaraki Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Techno Shoji Higashi Nihon Co., Ltd. [Ibaraki Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Tochigi Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Brea Plant General Affairs Department KYDEX, LLC. Sekisui TA Industries, LLC. Sekisui Heim Shinetsu Co., Ltd. Allen Extruders, LLC. Tennessee Plant [Sekisui Fami S Shinetsu Co., Ltd.] ESLON B.V. Sekisui S-Lec B.V. Film Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Sekisui SPR Europe G.m.b.H. Sekisui Alveo B.V. [not including Yamanashi Sales Branch] Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Tokyo Sekisui Heim Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-Lec America, LLC. Yamanashi Sales Branch Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. Sekisui Specialty Chemicals Europe, S.L. [Tokyo Sekisui Fami S Co., Ltd. Yamanashi Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-lec Mexico S.A. de C.V. Sales Branch] Sekisui S-lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Chubu Co., Ltd. Headquarters Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kinki Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Daejeon Plant Sekisui Heim Sanyo Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd., Development Center1 Sekisui High Performance Packaging Sekisui Heim Chushikoku Co., Ltd. Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. (Langfang) Co., Ltd. [Sekisui Fami S Chushikoku Co., Ltd.] Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Tosu Plant Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Sekisui Heim Kyushu Co., Ltd. Hinomaru Co., Ltd. Kanto Plant [ ] : Organizations in parentheses are included in the [Sekisui Fami S Kyushu Co., Ltd.] Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Chiba Plant scope of certification. Some sites not shown above may include related sections that have attained ISO Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Kanto Plant 14001 certification. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo Plant 1 The Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba R&D Site and DeSekisui Seikei, Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant velopment Center share a single certification. Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. Izumo Plant Number of Issues of Concern in Environmental Auditing for Fiscal 2010 Numbers of Persons with Qualifications Verified (for Production sites and Laboratories, as of End of March 2011) Verified (Issues) (persons) Those who Number Correction Undergoing acquired qualifi cations Aggregate of cases completed correction during fiscal total 2010 Issues of concern 81 29 52 Number of participants Number of internal training course participants 66 652 Headquarters Issues to work on 222 63 159 in EMS*1 internal 8 187 Number of external training course participants environmental auditing auditor development/ (16 business sites) Proposals 2 0 2 training courses Total 74 839 Total 305 92 213 Number of participants Number of internal training course participants 13 472 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 in OHSMS*2 internal Number of external training course participants 1 181 Auditing by certification body auditor development/ Renewal Nonconformity (minor) 14 5 9 training courses Total 14 653 (16 business sites) Observations 60 23 37 Lead Auditor 0 1 Qualifications Registered Total 74 28 46 examiner of Auditor 0 1 Nonconformity (major) 0 0 0 the CEAR*3 Provisional Auditor 0 2 Surveillance Nonconformity (minor) 15 5 10 Air Classes 1-4 6 45 Qualifications (28 business sites) Observations 108 47 61 Number of persons Pollution Water Classes 1-4 2 86 with major control Total 123 52 71 manager Noise/Vibration 0 46 qualifications Nonconformity (major) 4 1 3 Dioxins 0 3 Internal auditing of Nonconformity (minor) 114 68 46 Certified Environmental Measurers business sites 0 2 (37 business sites; Observations 336 187 149 Energy managers 2 48 39 audits) Total 454 256 198 Olfactory Measurement Operators 0 1 * Categories of instructions for Headquarters environmental auditing: Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) 22 52 Issues of concern: Matters recommended for swift improvement *1 EMS: Environmental Management Systems Issues to work on: Matters recommended for planned improvement *2 OHSMS: Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Proposals: Matters to be considered for improvement, advice *3 CEAR: Center of Environmental Auditor Registration 13 Overview of the Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact P25 Targets: products and processes Scope: all stages of the product lifecycle Compliance Evaluation Chemical Substance Assessment • Laws and • Self regulation • Requirements of • Laws and • Prohibited • Restricted regulations industries etc. regulations substances substances Product Assessment System for Environmental Impact Environment-friendly design Raw material procurement Manufacture Transportation Construction and assembly Use Disposal • Invested resources • Environmental impact • Capital Investments • Environmental impact • Invested resources, energy • Invested resources, energy • Composition and structure • Raw materials, Means of transportation • Invested resources, energy Means of transportation • Secondary resources used • Secondary resources used • Recyclability composition, and structure Packaging materials Load-efficient design • Secondary resources used • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Environmental impact • Information disclosure • Green procurement • Information Disclosure Atmosphere, water, wastes, Atmosphere, water, wastes, Transportation, disposal, (Suppliers, raw materials) • Environmental impact • Environment-Contributing Atmosphere, water, wastes, chemical substances, etc. chemical substances, etc. soil/groundwater Products standards chemical substances, etc. contamination • LCCO2 evaluation Biodiversity P34 Initiatives Envisioned Under the Biodiversity Guidelines • Developing assessment methods and conducting assessment, reducting impacts 1. Assessment and reduction of the impact of • Promoting biodiversity-friendly procurement business activities on biodiversity • Greening of business sites (promoting landscaping and biotope development) 2. Development and promotion of • Incorporating biodiversity assessment in the product development stage technologies and products • Conducting nature-conservation activities at all business sites 3. Employee awareness • Expanding the Sekisui Nature Study Course and nature-conservation activities • Supporting the Innovations Inspired by Nature, and holding periodic forums on the subject 4. Dialogue and cooperation with external stakeholders • Supporting nonprofit and other organizations through the Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) • Exhibiting at the Eco-Products exhibition and other events 5. Communication • Providing information in the CSR Report, Site Reports, and websites • Educating the next generation (Children’s Nature Study Course, giving classes at schools) 14 CS & Quality Data Business sites acquiring ISO 9000-series Certification Urban Infrastructure & Housing Company Environmental Products Company High Performance Plastics Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Housing Company Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Ritto Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Shiga-Minakuchi Plant (integrated certification) Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Tokyo Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Musashi Plant Research & Development Department: Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Amagasaki Plant Product Development Okayama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd. Taga Plant Housing Technology Institute Sekisui Roof System Co., Ltd. Sekisui Fuller Co., Ltd. (integrated certification) CS Promotion & Quality Assurance Department Shikoku Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant Technology Department Kyushu Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu Plant Technology Department: Production & Sekisui Aqua Systems Co., Ltd. Osaka Office Purchasing Mechanical Plant Division, Tokyo Office Sekisui Global Trading Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Plant Sekisui Medical Co., Ltd. Tsukuba Plant Hokkaido Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Chiba Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Nara Plant Tohoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Aichi Plant Kanto Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Chemical Hokkaido Co., Ltd. Sekisui Techno Molding Co., Ltd. Mie Plant Tokyo Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Toto Sekisui Co., Ltd. Headquarters, Ota Plant Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Nagoya Plant Chubu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Sendai Plant Kinki Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Wuxi SSS-Diamond Plastics Co., Ltd. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Shinshu-Takato Plant Chushikoku Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Eslon B.V. Sekisui Film Co., Ltd. Kyushu-Izumi Plant Kyushu Sekisui Heim Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui NordiTube Technologies SE Hiroseki Kako Co., Ltd. Hoppou Jyubunka Institute Co., Ltd. KMG Pipe Technologies G.m.b.H. Sekisui Polymatech Co., Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Gunma Plant KMG LinerTec G.m.b.H. Sekisui Medical Technology (China) Ltd. Sekisui Board Co., Ltd. Minakuchi Plant KMG Pipe Rehabilitation Emirates, LLC. Sekisui S-lec Mexico S.A. de CV. Sekisui Rib Loc Australia Pty. Ltd. Sekisui S-lec B.V. KYDEX, LLC. Sekisui S-lec Thailand Co., Ltd. Allen Extruders, LLC. Sekisui S-LEC (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Headquarters Sekisui (Qingdao) Plastic Co., Ltd. Sekisui S-lec America, LLC. Sekisui Industrial Piping Co., Ltd. Sekisui-Alveo A.G. (six sites: G.m.b.H., A.G., S.a.r.L., Sekisui Seikei, Ltd. (integrated certification) Yongchang Sekisui Composites Co., Ltd. SpA, S.A., [Benelux] B.V.) Chiba Plant (Xinjiang) Sekisui Alveo Ltd. Kanto Plant Sekisui Refresh Co., Ltd. Sekisui Alveo B.V. Hyogo Plant Thai Sekisui Foam Co., Ltd. Hyogo-Takino Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Lawrence Plant Izumo Plant Sekisui Voltek, LLC. Coldwater Plant Tokuyama Sekisui Industry Co., Ltd. Sekisui Pilon Pty. Ltd. Sekisui Engineering Co., Ltd. YoungBo Chemical Co., Ltd. Sekisui Insurance Service Co., Ltd. YoungBo HPP (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Changzhou Zhongji Precision Molding Plastic Sekisui High Performance Packaging (Langfang) Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators Verified Performance(improvements vs. fiscal 2005 performance) (100 million yen) 300 276 Environmental costs Safety loss costs 213 200 Production costs 124 100 87 Internal failure costs External failure costs 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 Manufacturing Development Innovation Indicators: External failure costs : Costs of responding to product-related complaints and claims Internal failure costs : Costs associated with disposal of defective products generated during manufacturing processes Production costs : Costs necessary for manufacturing, such as raw-material and labor costs (decreased through productivity improvements such as saving of energy and other resources in manufacturing processes) Safety loss costs : Costs arising from equipment-related or labor accidents etc. Environmental costs : Costs for disposal of wastes generated at business sites, and energy costs 15 Human Resources Data Verified Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Group) (persons) Number of Employees (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (persons) Number of employees 19,770 Number of employees 2,164 By region Male 1,928 Japan 15,476 Female 236 North America 1,086 Central and South America 73 Employees’ Years of Service (Sekisui Chemical Co., Ltd.) (Years) Europe 1,203 Average years of service 18.5 Asia/Pacific 691 Male 18.7 China 1,241 Female 16.7 Number of New Graduates Hired and Their Separation Rate in the First Three Years of Employment (Sekisui Chemical) Main Public and Selective Training Programs Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Number of Training Details participants Number of new graduates in fiscal 2010 hired (persons) 66 59 30 This program combines intensive courses led Separation rate within the by visiting university professors with practical first 3 years (%) 10.6 3.4 0.0 themes so that participants can improve their The Saijuku Note: Separation rate within the first 3 years: Calculated as the total of separation rates School skills and knowledge to become globally 30 oriented leaders. This program is intended to for the first, second, and third years for employees hired in the relevant fiscal year, in acdevelop the next generation of leaders from cordance with the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s calculation methods Public among younger employees. Training Sending Results of Intra-group Job Posting P 4 8 Employees Under this program, employees take courses for training business professionals at business Cumulative to Business schools outside of the company. The aim is to 17 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 total since 2000 Schools Outside work together with human resources outside the Company the company and to polish up business skills. Recruitments 15 23 22 194 (cases) These intra-group seminars aim to improve Selective employees’ business skills. Employees can Employees recruited 29 43 44 422 Open Seminars select freely seminars on skills that meet their 195 (persons) Training (gross total) needs, to acquire skills that can be applied Applicants 92 102 58 954 immediately to their daily work. (persons) Employees transferred (persons) 11 10 19 212 Percentage of Women Among New-graduate Hires P50 Career Plan Training by Age P 4 7 （%） Total 30s 40s 50s Number of 40 Participants 35 Continuing to Themes by Age SelfMarket value work even after 30 Groups establishment retirement 25 R e c o g n i t i o n Af firmation of A i m i n g t o 20 21 of abilities and specialization, keep working Percentage of Women Training Contents interviews Among New-graduate with values, Hires and the at age 65 and s u p e r i o r s o n m e a n i n g o f thinking about （%） career-related work succession 10 matters 40 Number of 35 0 Participants in 62 126 67 255 Fiscal 2010 (persons) 30 2008 2009 2010 (Entering FY 2009) (Entering FY 2010) (Entering FY 2011) Total Number of 25 Participants as of 20 1,609 211,375 733 3,717 Fiscal 2010 (persons) Use of Main Systems Raising 10 Next-Generation Children (at Sekisui Chemical) P51 Overview of 3-Year Training Program for Young Employees System Main content Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Programs available 0 Summary 2008 2009 2010 Annual career 2008 Career planning and 2009interviews with superiors 2010 on careerDuring After returning Leave which previously extended related matters, both held at the end of each fiscal year (third Percentage of Challenged Persons training (Entering FY 2009) (Entering FY 2010) (Entering FY 2011) Childcare only until the child was a yearEmployed and 30 year: interviews with HR career advisors) (Sekisui leaveChemical) a half old now extends to the end 30 42 (including Learning from a choice of business English, administrative of the month of the child’s third 11 males) Business skills technologies, accounting, logical thinking, communication, （%） birthday. training 2.40 etc. childcare leave to work 2.4 2.17 2.17 2.18 2.10 2.06 1.97 period that previously Payment 2.12 Training for Checking up on the basics of development of subordinates Shortened extended until the child was three superiors and on career interview methods 1.8 working years old now extends until the 12 18 17 rate Legally stipulated hours child starts fourth grade. 1.2 Percentage of Challenged Persons Employed Three days of special paid leave (Sekisui Chemical) Other support per year granted until the child or grandchild starts high school (this （%） 0.6 2.40 Family leave leave can be taken for reasons 132 130 96 2.4 such as childbirth-related events, 2.17 2.17 2.18 2.10 2.06 2.12 parents day, athletic meets, and 1.97 0 PTA meetings) 1.8 Legally stipulated rate 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total number of persons using these systems ＊数値は毎年6月1日現在 174 190 143 1.2 0.6 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ＊数値は毎年6月1日現在 16 Safety Data P53 Verified Health, Safety and Accident-prevention Costs (Million yen) Item Sekisui Chemical Group* Classification Details Expense amount Investment amount Health and safety measures, rescue and protective equipment, measurement of work 1) Costs within business-site areas 842 1,204 environment, health management, workers’ accident compensation insurance, etc. 2) Administrative costs Establishment and implementation of OHSMS, s afety education, personnel costs, etc. 1,407 3) Other Safety awards etc. 3 Total 2,252 1,204 Note: Data above include 46 production sites/4 laboratories + all departments of Corporate Headquarters +back offices of division companies. Expenses and Investments Loss Costs Investment and expense amounts (100 million yen) Rate (%) (million yen) 25 10 400 371 22.0 22.5 326 20.7 20.8 20 19.8 8 18.8 Expense amount 300 274 6.9 7.0 6.5 250 Proportion of 15 5.7 6.0 health, safety 6 and accident201 200 11.9 prevention 4.1 12.0 investments to 10 9.8 9.8 the total 4 9.2 9.8 investment amount Investment 100 5 amount 2 0 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Loss costs: Expenses, including man-hours, required to respond to occupational accidents, equipment accidents, commuting accidents, and long-term illness absences Number of Equipment-related Accidents Number of Cases of Number of Commuting Accidents (Calendar Year) Extended Sick Leave (Calendar Year) (Calendar Year) (Cases) (Cases) (Cases) 3 60 61 100 95 92 87 86 50 80 47 45 43 75 2 40 38 60 30 40 1 1 20 10 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Equipment-related accidents: Extended sick leave: Number of Cases: Any accidents that meets one or more of the following This refers to a new absence of 30 calendar days or longer Total number of cases with damages incurred and inflicted conditions (1) – (3) (Sekisui Chemical Group standards): due to illness or injury. Reoccurrences within six months of (including self-injury and property damage) (1) Personnel-related damage: business interruption with 30 returning to work are not included in the above count. lost working days or more Absences due to occupational injury are not considered extended sick leave. (2) Property damage: 10 million yen or more (3) Loss of opportunity: 20 million yen or more 17 Frequency Rate1 (Calendar Year) Severity Rate2 (Calendar Year) 1.5 0.3 1.09 1.12 1.02 0.99 0.98 1.0 0.2 0.184 Average of domestic 0.77 manufacturing industry*4 0.56 0.11 0.48 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.5 0.43 0.1 0.08 0.33 Average of domestic Sekisui Chemical Group*3 manufacturing industry4 0.021 0.021 0.016 0.020 Sekisui Chemical 0 0 Group3 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1 Frequency rate = (number of workdays lost/work-hours in the aggregate) × 1,000,000 2 Severity rate = (number of deaths and injuries in occupational accidents/work-hours in the aggregate) × 1,000 3 Sekisui Chemical Group data: 46 production sites and four R&D laboratories 4 Source of information for Japanese manufacturing industry: Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare “Survey on Industrial Accidents” Safety Performance at Urban Infrastructure & Safety Performance at Housing Company Construction Sites Environmental Products Company Construction Sites (Calendar Year) (Calendar Year) (Accidents) (Accidents) 30 30 30 23 21 20 20 20 19 22 13 16 9 16 14 13 11 13 8 15 11 10 9 10 8 8 12 8 6 6 6 5 12 1 non-lost time 10 3 3 1 accidents 8 8 8 5 5 7 5 5 4 lost time 0 2 0 3 3 3 accidents 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Number of non-lost time accidents in the New Construction sector Number of non-lost time accidents in the Fami-S sector Note: The number of accidents represents the total for the following four Number of lost time accidents in the New Construction sector companies: Sekisui Home Techno Co., Ltd., Nippon No-Dig Technology Co., Ltd., Number of lost time accidents in the Fami-S sector Sekisui Aqua Tec Co., Ltd., and Kyushu Sekisui Kenzai Co., Ltd. Status of Occupational Accidents at Overseas Production Sites (Calendar Year) (Accidents) 80 2007 65 66 2008 60 2009 58 2010 46 45 40 33 31 27 20 15 15 11 13 6 8 3 2 0 Europe U.S./Mexico Asia/Pacific China Social Contribution Verified Breakdown of Donations Others 2% International exchange and cooperation 3% Environment 7% Local communities and social welfare 10% Donations: Disaster relief 204 million yen 50% Academia, research, and education 28% 18 CSR Management Policies Sekisui Chemical Group “Environmental Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, aim to be a Global Environmental Top Runner that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by enabling the continuous growth and co-existence of ecology and the economy. Basic Policy Each company in the Sekisui Chemical Group advances approaches that contribute to the prevention of global warming, the preservation of biological diversity and the construction of a sound material-cycle society in all countries and regions where they have operations, in order to leave this beautiful earth for our children in the future. 1. We contribute to the environment through our products and services, with consideration given to the environment in all stages of the product life cycle from research to procurement, production, sales, use, and disposal as waste. 2. We carry out environmentally conscious business activities in all our workplaces and offices, and promote our approach to the environment through cooperation with our customers and business partners. 3. We make efforts to reduce the environmental impact of greenhouse gas emissions and hazardous chemicals, etc., and to prevent pollution by promoting the effective use of limited resources and energy. 4. We observe the related laws, regulations, international rules, etc. 5. We make efforts to improve environmental consciousness through education, and advance continual improvements by setting our own objective and targets. 6. We enhance confidence through close communications with society. 7. We aggressively work on social contribution activities such as nature conservation activities in each region. Sekisui Chemical Group “CS & Quality Management Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “CS & Quality” as our central concept of management and will consistently innovate to maintain the quality of products throughout all our activities, continuously provide values (products and services) that meet customer expectations, strive for selection by our customers on an ongoing basis, and develop and grow with the customer over the long time . Basic Policy We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, consider “Customer’s Feedback” as precious resources for management and strive to innovate about “Quality of Products,” “Quality of People” and “Quality of Systems” based on the motto “We consider customer’s feedback as the beginning of our manufacturing.” Furthermore, we contribute to the realization of a safe and affluent society by continuously providing our customers and their communities with new value. 1. Ensuring Basic Qualities To ensure the reliability and safety of our manufactured products, which form the basis of “Product Quality,” we effectively leverage customer’s feedback and dedicate ourselves with a strong belief in forestalling any potential trouble and preventing any future recurrence throughout our entire value chain. 2. Creating Attractive Qualities We aim to share the emotional values of our customers by thoroughly pursuing “what the customers value” and constantly creating attractive products and services that should realize such customer values. 3. Upgrading Technological Capabilities For the sake of ensuring Basic Qualities and for creating Attractive Qualities, we are upgrading our technological capabilities in all fields in order to achieve superb manufacturing development. 4. Enhancing Communications We value communication with our customers and the community and make sincere efforts when dealing with them as well as complying with the relevant laws and regulations in each country and region. We place special emphasis on resolving customer complaints or claims at an early stage by responding promptly and empathetically. 5. Providing Thorough Employee Education To gain and maintain the full trust and impression of our customers, we provide employees with continuous CS & Quality education as well as motivating our employees to achieve self-realization through customer satisfaction. 19 Sekisui Chemical Group “Human Resources and Human Rights Policy” Mission Based on our belief that “employees are precious assets bestowed on us by society,” we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, are committed to developing an environment where employees can work enthusiastically. We also offer various opportunities through which we help individual employees enhance their “specialties” and grow personally. With the recognition that it is our social responsibility to protect individual human rights, we respect the diversity, personality and individuality of each person, and promote various working styles as well as creating safe and secure work environments in response to conditions in each country and region. Basic Policy on Human Resources Basic Policy on Human Rights 1. Creating opportunities to take on challenges 1. Respect for human rights and the prohibition of discrimination We encourage employees to “positively set their own goals and Being aware of our position as a global corporate citizen, we respect aggressively to take on challenges.” individual human rights and never become involved in any conduct 2. Culture where employees learn and grow on their own that might lead to discrimination. We strive to enrich our education/training programs and develop a 1) We never discriminate on the grounds of race, color, gender, language, culture where employees learn and grow on their own. religion, nationality or social origin, property, or other status or any similar 3. Enhancement of the performance-based remuneration system irrational basis. We emphasize our employees’ personal commitment and strive to 2) We do not commit human rights abuses such as resorting to violence, constantly improve the fairness and acceptance of our assessment profane outbursts, slander, defamation, intimidation, bullying or similar system regarding performance and processes. conduct. 4. Acceptance of various working styles 2. Prohibition of harassment We respect various values; develop workplaces where every employee We never commit sexual harassment or other actions that stain can work with enthusiasm; and help employees achieve a balance personal character. between life and work. 1) We do not commit sexual harassment or any conduct that might be 5. Creating safe and secure work environments misunderstood as sexual harassment. We promote employees’ health enhancement and mental health care. 2) We do not misuse the power of a superior position nor use any language or conduct that could sexually annoy any person. In addition, we prevent other employees from using such offensive language or conduct. 3. Prohibition of forced labor and child labor We shall never accept forced labor or child labor in any country or region. 1) We comply with the laws for the minimum working age and other relevant regulations in each country and region and do not use child labor. 2) We do not carry out any form of forced labor in any of our corporate activities. 4. Respect for basic labor rights We respect basic labor rights, including the right of workers to organize and to bargain, in accordance with the laws and customs of each country or region, and do not infringe on these rights. Sekisui Chemical Group “Safety Policy” Mission We, the Sekisui Chemical Group, recognize that employee safety is essential to achieving sustainable growth. We aim to be a “Safe and Secure” enterprise that establishes safe and secure work environments and has the full trust of its customers and the community as well as its employees. Basic Policy Based on the concept of human dignity that “everyone is invaluable,” we “prioritize safety over anything else” as a basic rule in all of our business activities from development, production, construction to servicing. We are committed to promoting comprehensive safety activities with the aim of achieving zero industrial accidents, facility accidents, commuting accidents or long-term sick leave. 1. We strive to develop a safe and comfortable workplace where everyone is taken care of both mentally and physically, which should lead to good health for each of our employees whom we highly value. 2. We thoroughly disseminate the legal requirements concerning health and safety/disaster prevention to our employees to ensure compliance. 3. We carry out risk assessment and promote risk reduction measures in a systematic way to eliminate hazardous factors that compromise health and safety/disaster prevention. 4. We strive to raise awareness regarding health and safety/disaster prevention through employee education/training and promote continuous improvements by setting voluntary objectives/goals. 5. We proactively disclose any necessary information as well as gain a higher level of trust by having close communication with public administrations and local communities. Sekisui Chemical Group “Social Contribution Policy” As a good corporate citizen, we, the Sekisui Chemical Group, engage in activities that focus on the “Environment,” the “Next Generation,” and “Local Communities,” and contribute not only to business activities but also to society. All employees working for the Sekisui Chemical Group are proactively involved in the society and act so that they can serve as prominent human resources in society as well. In addition, their activities are supported by each company of the Group in order to generate synergistic effects. Established/revised March 2009 20 CSR Management System CSR Committee/Subcommittee Structure Board of Directors Reporting/Discussion Chairperson: President CSR Committee Members: Division Company Presidents, Headquarters Directors, and Employee Representatives Environmental (three Employee Representatives: Subcommittee the chairperson of the Labor Union, a Representative of Female CS & Quality Employees, and a representative of Subcommittee employees of affiliate companies) Human Resources Subcommittee Compliance Subcommittee Environmental Management System CS & Quality Management System President President CSR Committee CSR Committee Environmental Subcommittee CS & Quality Subcommittee Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Members: Directors in charge of environmental matters at each division company, Members: Directors in charge of CS & Quality at each division company; General General Managers of environmental sections; Head of R&D Center Managers of CS & Quality sections, Head of Productivity Innovation Center Division companies Division companies Environmental sections at each division company CS & Quality sections at each division company Production sites Environmental sections Production sites Quality management sections Sales companies Environmental sections Sales companies Technology Department Customer Information & Environment Safety and environment Energy Environment Consulting Services After-sales Customer Information & brainstorming management service sections Consulting Services officers’ meeting managers’ meeting sessions officers’ meeting Headquarters Headquarters CS & Quality Group, CSR Department Environmental Management Group, CSR Department Customer Information & Consulting Services HR System Compliance Management System President President CSR Committee Development of countermeasures for individual Discussion of Sekisui Chemical Group’s basic policies on compliance issues, compliance and formulation of measures to be consideration of measures to CSR Committee implemented in areas such as education and training prevent their reoccurrence, etc. Compliance Subcommittee Chairperson: Compliance HR Subcommittee Head of CSR Department Reporting Advisory Board Members: Chairperson: Head of CSR Department Directors in charge of compliance at each (to address Members: Directors in charge of HR at each division company; division company, Headquarters Directors; problems that have Head of R&D Center General Manager, Corporate Audit actually occurred) Department Promotion of policies and measures discussed in the Subcommittee and other matters Reporting Instruction and communication Division Company/Headquarters HR sections at each division company Headquarters Each /Division companies labor-management Promotion and HR sections at production sites, development Compliance laboratories, sales facilities, committee Compliance of measures affiliates, etc. Promotion Promotion Manager Committee (person responsible Reporting for promotion) 21 22 4-4 Nishitenma 2-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8565, Japan (Dojima Kanden Bldg.) URL http://www.sekisuichemical.com For further information contact: CSR Planning Group, CSR Department 2-3-17 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8450, Japan (Toranomon 2-chome Tower) Email: csr@sekisui.jp This report has been printed and bound with consideration for the environment in the following ways: (1) This report uses Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper produced from carefully managed forests. (2) The computer-to-plate (CTP) method of direct printing, which uses no film that later must be disposed of as waste, has been adopted in the plate-making process. (3) Vegetable-oil ink, which generates few volatile organic compounds (VOC) and has excellent biodegradability and de-inking performance, is used in the printing process. In addition, waterless printing, which generates no hazardous waste fluids, has been used as well. (4) Glue that does not hinder the recyclability of paper is used in the binding process. Published: June 29, 2011. Published annually. Previous edition published: June 29, 2010. Next edition planned for publication: June 2012
