our responsibility Arla Foods’ corporate social responsibility report 2010 contents A bo ut arla 4 Bus iness principl es 6 O p erat ion al p rincipl es 8 Case study 10 Foo d safet y 12 Foo d a nd h ealth 14 Envi ronment and cli mate 16 Case study 18 Ag ricu lture 20 Proc ureme nt 22 Wor kpl ac e 24 Case study 26 Mar k et con du c t 28 Co mmunity relat ion s 30 Case study 32 Human r ights 34 Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2010. Some examples from fully owned subsidiaries and joint venture dairy companies are also included. The structure of the report follows Arla Foods̕ Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008. More information is available at www.arla.com ©Arla Foods amba, 2011 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Waldton Design Translations: Amesto Translations Photography: Johnér Bildbyrå (cover), foodstudio (page 2, 6, 8, 12, 14, 16, 20, 22, 24, 28, 30, 34), Brian Rasmussen (page 3) and Arla’s archive. Printing: Scanprint A/S, 2011 Email: csr@arlafoods.com 2 Arla grows with more responsibility It is with great pride that I look back on the progress we have made towards our sustainability and corporate responsibility ambitions during the past year. For example, we have further reduced the frequency of workplace accidents and introduced a work environment strategy that takes a more holistic approach to colleagues’ well-being. We had no product recalls in 2010, and our all encompassing commitment to the environment resulted in us increasing our knowledge in this area allowing us to put in place the foundations to make improvements across our entire supply chain. Furthermore, during the year we reached important decisions concerning our use of certified cocoa, soya and palm oil, which enhance the sustainability of our supply chain. Our owners’ decision to increase their investment in the company demonstrates, not only their trust in Arla, but also that they believe that there is a prosperous future in continuing to run their farms in a sustainable way. This is, of course, very pleasing. We work in line with Global Compact Three years ago Arla joined the United Nations’ Global Compact, a global initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to integrating the 10 basic principles of Global Compact within our strategy and culture, and to communicate this commitment to our colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners and the world around us. Our report forms part of this work. Each year we engage an increasing number of Arla colleagues in our sustainability agenda through a wide range of initiatives and a selection of those that were implemented in 2010 are covered in this report. Continued responsibility Arla has now established a more mature process for working with sustainability but we acknowledge that we still have a long way to go. During the year we will continue to improve the processes by which we evaluate and follow up our suppliers, both globally and locally. We will also continue to work towards our climate targets and intend to include our entire supply chain – from cow to consumer. Linked to the Arla mission to provide modern consumers with natural milk-based products that create inspiration, confidence and well-being, we will also increase our focus on health issues. Through our product range we can inspire consumers to lead a healthier lifestyle that in turn increases their well-being. It is our ambition to deliver significant growth in the coming years and we recognise that with growth comes increased responsibility. In this report and the accompanying web pages Arla shares its journey to becoming a more sustainable company and I invite you to join us. Viby, March 2011 Peder Tuborgh, CEO ab o ut ar l a about arla Arla Foods is a global dairy group and cooperative A r l a i n b r i e f 2010 owned by Danish and Swedish dairy farmers. Our Owners products are sold under well-known brands in more Arla Foods is an agricultural cooperative owned by 7,178 dairy farmers – 3,649 in than 100 countries. We have production facilities in Denmark and 3,529 in Sweden. 13 countries and sales offices in another 20. Arla is also Number o f coll eag ues the world’s largest supplier of organic dairy products. Denmark 7,557 Sweden 3,286 UK 2,770 Owners contribute to Arla’s expansion Finland 455 Arla’s objective is to ensure that its owners receive the highest possible payment Poland 399 for their raw milk. At the beginning of 2010, milk prices were very low, however, Netherlands 363 during the last 12 months Arla’s performance price (payment to owners plus Germany 65 Other countries 1,320 consolidation) has been raised by DKK 0.38 to DKK 2.52 per kilo of milk. Total 16,215 During the year our owners decided to increase their investment in Arla, demonstrating their trust in the company. In doing so, it will create a solid T urnov er platform from which Arla can pursue its growth strategy. The injection of new capital means, for example, that it will be possible to make more loan-financed DKK 49.0 billion, of which 77.5 per cent comes from our core markets of Denmark, acquisitions. Sweden, UK, Finland, Netherlands and Germany. Arla committed to Strategy 2015 Arla’s activities have developed positively during the past year. We have Net results continued to work in accordance with our growth strategy, which is built DKK 1.3 billion. on three cornerstones: development, growth and efficiency. Among other initiatives, we have announced that we are to build the world’s largest fresh milk dairy outside London, in the UK, which is our largest market. Our raw milk in millions of kilos investment in the new dairy will amount to DKK 1.4 billion. The new facility is Denmark 4,345 planned for completion in 2012. In Sweden too, there are good opportunities Sweden 1,829 UK 1,828 for development and we have launched a national strategy describing how we Finland 287 will achieve the ambitious growth rates outlined in Strategy 2015. Netherlands 209 The decision to gather the company’s brands under the Arla®, Lurpak® and Other countries 215 Castello® brands came to fruition during the first quarter of 2010. Growth in Total 8,713 Lurpak® and Castello® has been particularly good. Foreign currency fluctuations have been to our advantage. Management We increased production during the year while successfully maintaining Chairman: Ove Møberg low production costs. Rationalisation within the company is continuing and we Vice-chairman: Åke Hantoft will be, for example, concentrating production of retail pack butter for the UK CEO: Peder Tuborgh market at Westbury Dairies in the UK, of which Arla became a co-owner during Vice CEOs: Povl Krogsgaard and the year. We have also consolidated sliced cheese processing activities into Andreas Lundby three facilities. Despite tough competition, we have increased sales in our growth markets milk price per kilo and our markets in the UK, Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, where the DKK market share of our brands has increased. Sales in Denmark and Finland have 3.0 not reached the anticipated level, nor have we succeeded in initiating as many 2.5 new innovative projects as we would have liked. 2.0 1.5 Owners to decide on merger 1.0 In December 2010, the board presented proposals for a merger with 0.5 the German cooperative dairy association, Hansa-Milch. If the merger is 0.0 approved, growth in the German market will be further strengthened. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Owners of both companies will reach a decision on the proposed merger The diagram shows the average price per in March 2011. The merger will be conditional on approval from the EU kilo of milk paid to owners during the year, competition authorities. including supplementary payments. 4 ab o ut ar l a Org a nisat i o n o f t h e A r l a Grou p net turnover by market Value markets 11.9% UK 25.3% Executive Board Growth markets 10.6% Corporate Centre and GBS Netherlands Global matters that extend across the Arla 4.0% organisation are handled by five corporate Finland 4.4% functions that are responsible for both Corporate Affairs Germany 6.2% long-term development and operational Sweden 20.8% support. Denmark 16.8% Corporate Supply Chain Corporate Commerce Arla’s total net turnover has increased by six per cent since 2009, while sales in our growth markets (Russia, Poland, USA, China and Middle East/North Africa) have increased Corporate Human Resources Corporate Finance & IT by 19 per cent. Business Groups Arla has four business groups for production, innovation and sales. net turnover by product group Other products 9.0% Fresh Global products Consumer Consumer Consumer Categories & Arla Foods 40.2% Nordic UK International Operations Ingredients* Powder products 12.8% * Subsidiary Butter and spreads 13.5% Corporate Centre and global business services (GBS) Corporate Affairs – comprises communication and group development under the management Cheese 24.5% of Peder Tuborgh. Corporate Supply Chain – handles member service, technical issues, quality, environment, global During 2010, we increased our focus and procurement and investment under the management of Povl Krogsgaard. marketing activities on our Arla®, Lurpak® Corporate Commerce – responsible for group marketing and trade-related policies under the and Castello® brands. management of Andreas Lundby. Corporate Human Resources – handles colleague training and organisational development issues for the whole group under the management of Ola Arvidsson. Corporate Finance & IT – handles finance, IT and legal affairs under the management of Frederik Lotz. arla colleagues Other countries 8% Denmark 47% business groups Other Europe 3% Consumer Nordic – fresh products, cheese and butter for the Nordic market, including the Netherlands 2% subsidiaries Cocio, Dairy Fruit and Rynkeby Foods, under the management of Hans-Åke Finland 3% Hammarström. UK 17% Consumer UK – fresh products, cheese and butter for the UK market under the management of Peter Lauritzen. Consumer International – fresh products, cheese, milk powder, butter and spreads for all Sweden 20% markets outside the Nordic and UK markets under the management of Tim Ørting Jørgensen. Global Categories & Operations – development and production of butter and spreads, cheese The total number of colleagues, and milk powder and multi-disciplinary research and development under the management of approximately 16,200, is almost unchanged Jais Valeur. compared to last year. Arla Foods Ingredients (subsidiary) – milk and whey protein for all markets under the management of Henrik Andersen. Member and owner democracy members in Denmark and Sweden 5,000 Denmark 7,178 cooperative members in 50 districts Sweden 4,000 50 district councils (26 in Denmark and 24 in Sweden) 3,000 7 regions 2,000 (4 in Denmark and 3 in Sweden) 1,000 The Board of Representatives: 140 members and 10 employee representatives 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The Board of Directors: 14 members and 4 employee representatives During 2010, the number of cooperative members fell by six per cent. While the The Board of Representatives is Arla’s top decision-making body. Arla’s Board of Directors volume of milk from members in Denmark is elected by the regions and the Board of Representatives. All elections and polls are held has increased, the volume from Swedish according to the ‘one member, one vote’ principle. producers has fallen. 5 bus i n ess p r i n c i p l es business principles We act credibly and with integrity in all of our Arla is an international business as well as a dairy operations. From: Our responsibility cooperative owned by Danish and Swedish farmers. – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct We comply with local legislation in all the countries in which we operate and we are also committed to the principles contained within our Code of Conduct. This enables us to act credibly and with integrity and sets a good example of responsible business conduct. →→ Competition Law Compliance. The management of Arla is continually and strongly committed to the Group’s compliance with the competition laws in force at any time. →→ Competition in Sweden. Changed market structures and competition in Sweden resulted in the examination of market conditions by the Swedish Competition Authority. →→ Global Compact. For the last three years Arla has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative and since 2009 Arla has participated in the organisation’s Nordic Network. 6 bus i n ess p r i n c i p l es Training in competition law compliance Examination of the state of competition in Sweden During 2010 Arla conducted training seminars throughout The Swedish government has assigned the Swedish the organisation to ensure that managers and colleagues Competition Authority to examine the state of competition are fully informed of the requirements of competition law and other market conditions in the Swedish food sector. In and to assist them in complying with those rules. ordering the study, the government has noted that a report from the European Commission has found that during 2007– Competition investigations in Sweden 2008 food prices increased more than prices for primary In April 2009 the Swedish Competition Authority conducted produce. Thereafter, primary produce prices declined, but an unannounced inspection of Arla’s offices in Sweden and consumer prices did not to the same extent. The Swedish in Denmark, following a complaint from a third party. The Competition Authority is to present its report by May 1, complaint included allegations of abuse of dominance in 2011 at the latest, which is expected to include an account the Swedish dairy market. of the regulatory rules which the Swedish Competition Investigations have focused on whether Arla’s Authority considers to be in need of a revision with a view to agreement with a retailer excluded other competing improving competition in the food sector. dairies from delivering fresh dairy products. Following In June 2010, the Swedish Competition Authority in-depth investigations, the Swedish Competition Authority gave Arla the opportunity to describe which regulatory announced in July 2010 that it did not find that the changes may be required if competition in the food sector agreement would foreclose an equally efficient competitor is to improve. Arla made a submission to the Competition from the market. Commenting on its decision, the Swedish Authority in August 2010, giving its view on the state of Competition Authority stated: “The investigation has not competition in Sweden. shown that the agreement between Arla and Coop or its implementation was designed in a way to exclude an Competition analysis by the Danish Competition Authority equally efficient competitor. Our assessment, therefore, is The Danish Competition Authority has announced that that there are no grounds for further investigations.” As a its report on the state of competition and other market result, the Swedish Competition Authority decided to close conditions in the Danish retail sector, which was expected the case. During the investigations Arla has cooperated fully to be published in December 2010, will instead be with the authority. published in spring 2011. Bribery and Facilitation Payments In August, Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh it decided to develop and implement a global In 2009 Arla decided to adopt a policy on signed the CEO Statement of Support for the policy in 2011. facilitation payments, to be implemented Women’s Empowerment Principles, produced The purpose is to support the internal worldwide throughout the group. The policy and disseminated by the United Nations processes in place to ensure compliance will give Arla the necessary insights, through Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM) with legislation, Arla’s Code of Conduct and reporting requirements and managerial and the United Nations Global Compact. For internal policies. The whistleblowing policy will review, to take active steps to eliminate all more information see page 35. Furthermore, provide an additional opportunity to receive such payments. since the beginning of 2009, Arla has been information about possible irregularities in During 2010 Arla implemented the policy involved in Global Compact’s Nordic Network addition to the existing ways of reporting. throughout its organisation and instructed that organises two conferences every year colleagues on issues in respect of bribery, to discuss topical subjects and enables participants to exchange experiences. Legal Struc ture Co mmi ttee facilitation payments and gifts. Implementing the policy is yet another step to ensure that In order to strengthen focus on compliance Arla addresses ethical matters in a responsible with local country legislation and local Prudenc e w i th gi fts corporate governance principles, a Legal manner. As with bribery and facilitation payments, gifts, Structure Committee has been formed to services and other courtesies can, when being monitor legal entities in the Arla group of Arla’s support for Global Compact exchanged as a part of a business relationship, companies. The committee’s work also aims to Arla’s Code of Conduct complements the from an outsider’s point of view, indicate strengthen the management and control of the 10 basic principles of Global Compact. As a that business is not being conducted in a legal entities and to prepare for Arla’s growth participant of Global Compact, Arla undertakes transparent and responsible manner. In Arla, strategy, which will involve the incorporation of to incorporate this initiative and its principles colleagues do not receive or give large gifts, further legal entities in the group. in the Arla strategy and company culture services or donations. – and to communicate this commitment reg ulato ry training to colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners, W h ist leb low ing Policy In 2010 Arla undertook to train relevant customers and the world around us. The commitment to Global Compact also In 1999, Arla implemented a whistleblowing colleagues at UK sites on how to work with a means that every year Arla has to report, policy in the UK. To this date, no incident has number of UK authorities. The objective is to in an open and honest way, on how the been reported under the policy. In 2009 Arla ensure that Arla is complying at all times with company is adhering to its Code of Conduct. decided to look into the potential benefits regulatory obligations which relate to the This report describes the progress Arla of implementing a whistleblowing policy environment, food safety, health and safety has made over the year and where it sees throughout the group. In 2010 the issue has and vehicles. opportunities for improvement. been debated within the CSR Committee and 7 o p erat i o n a l p r i n c i p l es operational principles We manage our business in a good Arla is a democratically governed farmer cooperative cooperative spirit that promotes the financial interests of our owners. that aims to create value for its cooperative members From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct – Danish and Swedish dairy farmers. All cooperative members have an opportunity to influence significant decisions. Cooperative members elect representatives to the company’s governing body. The Board of Directors is responsible for making decisions about the company’s general strategies and for ensuring that the company is managed with the cooperative members’ best interests in mind. →→ Cooperative members contribute to Arla’s expansion. Arla’s cooperative members have decided to increase their investment in the company. The additional money will be used to finance Arla’s growth strategy, which in turn will deliver a higher milk price to the cooperative members. →→ Improved communication. The new intranet, Owners’ Net, makes it easier for Danish and Swedish cooperative members to receive information and to have a dialogue about Arla. →→ Higher milk price. During the year Arla’s performance price (payment to owners plus consolidation) has been raised by DKK 0.38 to DKK 2.52 per kilo of milk. 8 o p erat i o n a l p r i n c i p l es Cooperative members invest more in Arla representative. During 2010 a Danish-Swedish mentor At the October meeting of the Board of Representatives, scheme was developed to support new members elected Arla’s cooperative members decided to increase their to the Board of Representatives. investment in Arla. This will be made via an agreement During 2009/2010, 87 per cent of the 370 elected where the farmers leave a part of their payment for the representatives attended at least one training session. milk in the company (4.5 per cent of what is called Arla More than 419 training days were held, which is the same performance price). This is double the previous amount. level as the average for the last six years, but above the The investment means that Arla’s equity is increased by level of the previous year, when the number of training DKK 4–4.5 billion. The extra funding will be used to finance days was reduced as part of cost reductions. Arla’s ambitious growth strategy. The fact that the Board of Representatives has made this decision should be Easier dialogue and dissemination of information considered an expression of the cooperative owners great The Owners’ Net, which is a dedicated website for Arla’s trust in Arla and therefore in the company’s ability to deliver Danish and Swedish cooperative members, has been in a better milk price for members. Read more on page 10. place for a year, and approximately one third of members By means of a joint venture company with Arla, British have logged on. The website is a fast and easy-to-use milk suppliers who are members of Arla Foods Milk channel of information which all cooperative members Partnership (AFMP) now own 3.2 per cent of Arla Foods can access. It provides details of milk sample analyses UK, and therefore of Arla’s UK operations. During autumn taken after each milk collection and milk statements for 2010, further investment has been discussed but a final each farm. There is also a diary of events and latest news decision has yet to be reached. The aim is for the British from Arla. Members can comment on the news and on suppliers’ share of Arla’s UK operations to increase as Arla one anothers’ comments, although this facility is not increases its investment in the British market. yet being utilised to its full potential. Members can also receive news and information via SMS or email. Every Training elected representatives second week all members receive a newsletter which is It is important to the cooperative philosophy and the distributed via the milk tankers. concept of membership democracy that the organisation Members of AFMP in the UK also have a dedicated has well-informed cooperative members and knowledgeable website which provides them with news and high-quality data elected representatives. For many years Arla has worked for example. A forecasting tool was launched in 2010 in the hard to ensure that the elected representatives are well UK to help farmers calculate their annual milk production. The educated on Arla and membership matters. Arla prioritises tool helps Arla plan production and procure supplementary training to increase members’ awareness of the conditions milk volumes more effectively. The British farmers also receive under which the organisation operates, introducing a monthly newsletter and a quarterly magazine with articles the business to newly elected representatives and and reports on current topics of interest and which add value making them feel comfortable in their role as an elected to their business. ow ner an d sup p l ier fac ts milk p ric e fac to rs 2008 2009 2010 Several factors contributed to the milk price Owners in Denmark and Sweden 7,996 7,625 7,178 increasing during 2010, including the positive based in Denmark 3,906 3,838 3,649 develop­ment in currency exchange rates. based in Sweden 4,090 3,787 3,529 An increase in sales of industrial food products Members of AFMP in the UK 1,404 1,400 1,362 was another factor and increased stability on Suppliers in Finland 1,100 1,113 1,060 several important markets also made it possible of which are contracted 301 283 260 to raise the milk price. Motions to the Board of Representatives meeting 8 14 5 Participants in owner seminars 900 927 380 Appeals for the appeals group in Denmark and Sweden 66 41 43 Wo rking g ro ups Within the Arla Board there are special At the end of 2010 the number of members Sweden due to many requesting to join working groups whose task is to develop totalled 7,178, which is a fall of six per and many to leave, a situation we expect to the company and prepare issues ahead of cent compared with last year. However, continue. A total of 61 members in Sweden Board-level decisions. For example, there during the year, the volume of milk from left Arla to join another dairy organisation, are working groups focusing on membership members increased by 0.4 per cent. The while we have gained 36 new members, the issues, training and organic milk production. decreasing number of members is primarily majority from the Hälsingland area. Total milk During 2010, we have set up a new reference due to members choosing to leave the volumes in Sweden have been reduced by group for consumer-related issues. Working cooperative or to cease production. This three per cent, compared to the previous year. groups within AFMP have also been has however been offset by the fact that The number of participants in owner developed to address communication, more, predominantly Danish, farmers have seminars has decreased substantially during milk balancing, technical standards and expanded their farm operations. 2010 due to many meetings being held environmental issues. During 2010 there was a notable amount regarding the new capital model proposal. of changes to the number of members in Read more on the following pages. 9 o p erat i o n a l p r i n c i p l es Financing the farmers’ way In October, the Arla Board of Representatives passed an important resolution which will see 7,200 cooperative members increase their investment in the company. The motivation behind the move is because Arla needs to financially support the delivery of its growth strategy. The overall objective is to pay a higher milk price to the company’s owners. I t was a difficult decision for cooperative members and money at home on their farm, but they believe in Arla and one which was reached after many long discussions, have shown their support for our strategy.” because many farmers are under considerable Instead of receiving remuneration for all of their milk, financial pressure. a proportion will be invested in Arla’s development as a consolidated total. This means that Arla will receive Cooperative members contribute to Arla’s expansion additional investment of DKK 4–4.5 billion over the next six Discussions about the financing of Arla have been taking years. The company needs this in order to fund its ambitious place for several years. The financial model that was finally growth strategy, which targets a 50 per cent increase in agreed involves each cooperative member making an turnover, to approximately DKK 75 billion by 2015. additional contribution of DKK 0.05–0.07 extra per kilo of The expansion that Arla requires to achieve this target milk they deliver. Over the next six years, the farmers will requires debt financing. To receive this the company contribute a total of DKK 0.10–0.11 per kilo of milk, twice needs more capital, which the farmers will provide, and it the amount of their previous contributions. must also deliver a result corresponding to 2.5 per cent of “For the cooperative owners, who are already turnover. financially stretched, to have passed a resolution of this kind must be seen as a strong declaration of their trust in Grow or cut back Arla,” explains Arla’s Chairman Ove Møberg. “I am sure Arla presented its ambitious strategy for growth in 2008. In that every single cooperative member needs to spend addition to the turnover target, it also included increasing production of highly processed whey protein for use in the food industry, a reduction in the number of brands and development of the company in markets where Arla is already a major player. When the global recession struck in 2009, several of these targets, including the turnover ambition, were postponed. “We have known for a long time that we have to grow,” Ove Møberg continues. “With the competitive situation in the global dairy industry today, we have no choice. Growth is a precondition for continued profitability. However, the question of how we should finance growth was difficult Ove Møberg is a dairy farmer and has been Chairman of the Board at as we are a farmer cooperative and it was important to Arla since 2006. us that we maintained the farmers’ influence. A public 10 o p erat i o n a l p r i n c i p l es limited company in the same position would have either to receive annual interest on the capital they loan the issued new stock and offered this to existing shareholders, company. If a cooperative member chooses to leave the or approached a new company owner. Our company cooperative, the investment capital will be repaid within structure and decision-making processes are entirely three years. Different forms of investment capital have yet different. We have chosen to remain a cooperative, which to be defined and, in all circumstances, will be subject to means that the farmers will retain their influence and their approval by the public authorities. share of the profits will not be reduced.” The long road to a resolution Model for a higher milk price To pass the resolution for the new capital model, a Arla aims to deliver the highest milk price possible. To do 75 per cent majority vote of the Board of Representatives so, however, the company has to be profitable. The new was required. It was passed with a 85 per cent majority. consolidation, amounting At the meeting of the to DKK 0.10–0.11 per Board of Representatives, kilo, corresponds to “To have passed a resolution several alternatives were 4.5 per cent of what is called performance price. of this kind must be seen as proposed. The other proposals included a lower Performance price is the a strong declaration of their consolidation (3–3.5 per sum of Arla’s payments cent) and an alternative to the farmers for the trust in Arla.” distribution of individual milk they produce, plus and collective consolidation. the company’s net result. The connection between At the beginning of the process several different consolidation and performance price means that a proposals and compromises were presented and discussed higher milk price to the farmers will in turn lead to higher by the Board. These were then presented to the district consolidation, which is beneficial to the company. The councils and members. During the six months before the aim of the growth strategy is to increase the milk price by meeting of the Board of Representatives the proposals about DKK 0.10 per kilo above current levels. were presented and discussed at member meetings and in Two-thirds of total consolidation will be retained in all seven regional boards. the company as ‘collective consolidation’. The remaining “Within Arla there are almost as many opinions as third is ‘individual consolidation’ which is available to there are farmers so it is not surprising that such a major the farmers as repayment if he or she leaves Arla. To change took time to discuss and pass, and not least accommodate this Arla is introducing a new mechanism: because the farmers’ finances are under considerable investment capital. This allows cooperative members pressure,” Ove Møberg concludes. The capital model in brief parallel process in the UK The resolution involves Arla’s cooperative Just as Danish and Swedish dairy farmers members investing 4.5 per cent of the have decided to increase their investment money they earn from the milk they supply in Arla, negotiations have taken place to Arla back in the company. One third will between the Arla Board and Arla Foods Milk be deposited in an individual cooperative Partnership (AFMP) farmers in the UK. In members’ account which will earn annual August 2010 AFMP announced that it is in interest and will be paid out over a talks with the board of Arla Foods amba to three-year period if the farmer leaves Arla. increase its shareholding in Arla Foods UK plc The remaining two thirds, called ‘collective and a decision is expected in the first half of consolidation’ will be retained by Arla. 2011. Arla is performing strongly in the UK A resolution to introduce the new cooperative and the company is keen to secure not only members’ investment tools will require a sustainable supply of raw milk but also the approval from the public authorities. future of the British milk producers. f o o d safet y food safety We meet consumer demand for safe dairy As a responsible food manufacturer we are dedicated to products. From: Our responsibility ensure that eating and drinking our products does not – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct cause illness or injury. We make every effort to ensure that our processes are safe and that high quality standards are maintained throughout the entire supply chain, from the raw material to the finished product. In the event of an issue we have full traceability of our raw materials, ingredients and end products enabling us to take immediate action. →→ Training and knowledge sharing. We are committed to training our colleagues in food safety issues and also to sharing knowledge with others in the industry. →→ Reduced volume of discarded raw milk. The measures we have taken to reduce the amount of milk discarded due to residual antibiotics is beginning to show results. →→ Focus on packaging. During the year, we have looked into the risks associated with the packaging we use, as have our customers and the authorities. 12 f o o d safet y Education improves food safety processes), the monitoring of listeria, salmonella and Arla has well-developed procedures and safety methods to other pathogen bacteria, and the presence of metal guarantee the quality of our products. We are very aware detectors and other equipment which is used to prevent of the importance of our colleagues being well-trained contamination of our products. in food safety and having access to the latest working Arla has important overall knowledge and experience methods and research results. This is why we prioritise of food safety, from which others in the industry can continual training and knowledge sharing between the benefit. In the UK we have participated in supplier different units within the company. meetings and, in Denmark and Sweden, in seminars In the UK more than 50 colleagues at different levels and industry meetings, at which we have shared our have been trained in handling a serious incident at a dairy. knowledge, for example, our experience in managing The lessons learned included the importance of clear listeria. We are also asking our ingredient suppliers for communication and that managing an incident correctly more information about allergens and the risks inherent can mean the difference between it being a minor incident in their production, for example. During the year all or a product recall. our UK ingredient suppliers have been subject to a risk At our subsidiary Rynkeby Foods, all juice production assessment. When developing new products in Denmark and technical colleagues have received training in both and Sweden, we have placed special emphasis on risk hygiene and food safety. All production colleagues at our assessment. Dairy Fruit subsidiary have received hygiene training. Other training that has been delivered at Arla dairies Monitoring packaging materials includes subjects such as foreign substances, allergens, We make certain that the packaging we use meets our pasteurisation safety and sensory testing. own requirements and does not pose any kind of risk to our products by adhering to analysis requirements Knowledge sharing with stakeholders and certification. During the year, the Danish, Swedish Generally, our customers are expressing a growing and Finnish authorities have significantly increased the interest in issues related to food safety. Their increased monitoring of packaging materials with a view to ensuring awareness encourages us to further improve our methods that this does not have an adverse effect and that no and risk assessments. Areas to which customers have substances are transferred to products. Our customers are paid particular attention during the year have been how also aware of the risks involved and have not found any we manage allergens, traceability, documentation of cause to comment on our systems and documentation. the HACCP system (the hazards involved in production New fo o d safet y c ert if i cat i o ns D isc arded milk w i th anti biotic s being penalised for supplying milk containing Including its joint venture companies, Arla Tonnes/year antibiotics, the farmer must also pay the 3,000 Denmark and Sweden has 65 sites, 51 are currently certified in cost of the tests. In addition, we have made accordance with the ISO 22000 food safety 2,500 further improvements to our advisory service, standard. Sites that are still to be certified especially in Denmark and also in Sweden. 2,000 after 2010, already meet national food safety These measures have halved the number standards. In addition, Arla has a total of 1,500 of tests from farms found to contain traces 42 BRC (British Retail Consortium) and IFS 1,000 of antibiotic substances in Sweden, while (International Food Standard) certifications, the effect has been smaller in Denmark. We which are requested by our customers. We 500 expect to continue to work actively to reduce are looking into the possibility to achieve a 0 the volume of discarded milk in 2011. 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 more uniform certification by converting both these certifications to the new FSSC 22000 Sick animals are sometimes treated with certification. We hope that our customers will antibiotics. Milk from the cow is discarded pro duc t rec all s support us in our intention to achieve a more during the period of treatment and for a If we have to recall a product from consumers uniform approach. period of time afterwards. To ensure that no or withdraw a product that has been delivered antibiotics remain in the milk, we carry out to our customers, we have procedures in checks and any milk containing antibiotics is place to ensure that we can act immediately. New a na lys i s met h o d discarded. The volume of discarded milk has During the year, there have been no Arla has entered into cooperation with declined in 2010. During the year, we have incidences in which we have had to recall a Fonterra, a major dairy company, and a leading discarded milk in 27 cases, compared to 32 product. supplier of analysis equipment with a view cases in 2009. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 to developing a method to test whether raw During 2010, as part of our efforts to Recalls 4 7 2 4 0 milk has been deliberately contaminated. The minimise the quantity of milk discarded, we aim of this work is to detect substances, such have increased monitoring at farm level. If as melamine, in milk to a defined level. Our milk from a farm tests positive for antibiotics, collective vision is for the method we develop for the following 12 weeks each delivery to be applied by the global dairy industry. from that farm will be tested. In addition to 13 f o o d a n d h ea lt h food and health We meet consumer demands for healthy Arla is committed to meeting consumer demand for products and nutritional information about products. healthy products and reliable nutritional information. From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct We inform our consumers about the ingredients in all our products so they can choose those that best suit their tastes and fulfil their needs. Through research, we aim to increase our understanding of the role of dairy products in a balanced diet. →→ Improved nutritional declaration. We are striving to extend the product choices available to consumers by improving the quality of the information we provide about the nutritional content of our products. →→ Research into probiotics. New research has shown that probiotics have a broad positive effect on health and we will invest further in this area. →→ Demand for lactose-free products. We are now offering lactose free milk in Denmark and a large range of lactose-free products in Finland and Sweden. Sales of lactose-free products are also increasing in the UK. 14 f o o d a n d h ea lt h Reliable nutritional declaration on our products Positive effects of probiotics We have big ambitions for improving how we inform A number of Arla’s products which are available on the consumers about the nutritional content of our products. Scandinavian markets contain probiotics, bacteria which During the year, we have set up an internal project which has a positive effect on the intestine. Probiotics are a is looking specifically at this area in order to make it easier priority area and we are investing significantly in research for consumers to understand the nutritional content and in clinical documentation regarding the effects of our of our products. Our aim is to develop labelling that is products which contain these. New research indicates that simple and easy-to-understand, and can be used on all probiotics may positively effect the immune system and products in all our markets. We face many challenges with facilitate weight control. this project, for example, identifying space on packaging, accommodating different languages in different markets New EC health claims regulations and meeting future EC labelling requirements. In the EC, new regulations for how to make health claims Arla has decided not to use GDA (Guideline Daily on food products has been introduced. In line with many Amount) labelling as we believe it is misleading. GDA other food producers, Arla has applied for claims on labelling is based on several factors, including portion size a number of links between nutrients and health. The and recommended nutritional daily intake for an average process has been hampered by a lack of clarity in the female. We believe this leads to too many uncertain and regulations and evaluations of the applied claims have unspecific variables. taken a long time to come through. Due to difficulties While we await a new EC standard in this area, we in interpreting the rules, several applications have been have, in Denmark and Sweden, chosen to use the keyhole considered inadequate and only very few claims in the label, which signals to consumers that a product is probiotic area have been approved. This led to the media particularly healthy. The keyhole label was introduced in questioning our scientific documentation. The regulations Denmark in 2009 but has existed in Sweden for more than have now been clarified and we are more confident that two decades. We hope that this symbol will function as a future applications will meet the demands from the model for a future EC standard. European Food Safety Authority. Lac tose -free pro duc ts i nc rease R esearch in to h ealth l abe lling k e yhol e l abe lling Arla is committed to making dairy products The University of Aarhus, Denmark and the Number of keyhole labelled products available to everyone, including those with Max Planck Institute in Berlin, Germany, 2009 2010 lactose intolerance. Lactose-free milk was have set up a cooperative research project Denmark 21 45 launched in Denmark in September. In with support from Arla. The project aims to Sweden 72* 68 Finland, Sweden and the UK, the demand for study how nutritional and health-related lactose-free products continues to grow. As information can be communicated most * In the 2009 CSR report, the figure stated was for the number of product types (45), and didn’t include products in an alternative to conventional products, there effectively on product packaging. Arla’s different pack sizes. are now 92 different lactose-free products primary aim is to learn how we can best sold in Finland and 19 in Sweden. In addition, communicate with consumers about the topic The number has increased in Denmark. all Swedish and Finnish yellow cheeses are of health so we can inspire consumers to During the year, we have changed the considered naturally lactose-free. choose healthy food products. ingredients of some Swedish products, which means they no longer carry the keyhole label. It has proved difficult to reduce pro duc ts and c l i mate i m pac t V itam in D research the salt content of some Danish cheeses, A study published in 2010 compared the In many countries there is a public debate on without losing their characteristic tastes and climate impact of a variety of drink products vitamin D. The main issue is that many people consistencies, which is why some do not need during their lifecycle according to their get too little vitamin D compared to the level to conform to the keyhole’s low salt level content of 21 important nutrients. A high recommended by health authorities. The criteria in 2011. rating calculated on the NDCI (Nutrient reasons are too little exposure to the sun, due Density to Climate Impact) index indicates to spending a lot of time indoors, clothing that a product has a high nutrient content covering the whole body and extended use of Support fo r research relative to its impact on the climate. The sun protection, but consumption of oily fish, Arla supports several research projects which study is the first of its kind and was carried which is the main dietary source of vitamin are associated with our present and future out as a cooperative project between the D, is also too low. In Denmark a research business activities. Here is a summary of Swedish Dairy Association and the University project is underway to investigate the health some of our current research: of Washington (USA) together with the implications of enriching milk and bread with • Basic research into nutrition. For example, universities in Lund and Uppsala (Sweden). vitamin D. Arla contributes both enriched and we are concentrating on milk components regular milk to the project. The project will be that can help prevent obesity. NDCI index concluded in April 2011 and the results are • Product-related research. For example, Milk enriched with vitamin D 0.54 expected to be available by autumn 2011. In health products for children, products Milk 0.46 Sweden and many other countries, low fat enriched with vitamin D and the healthy Orange juice 0.28 milk is already fortified with vitamin D. effects of probiotics. Soya-based drinks 0.25 • Communication. How health messages can Beer and soft drinks 0 be conveyed through brands and packaging. 15 e n v i r o n me n t a n d c l i mate environment and climate We continually improve our environmental Food production and transportation of products performance by applying sound and sustainable principles – from cow to invariably affect the environment by discharging consumer. From: Our responsibility substances into the air, the fields and the water. Our – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct ambition is therefore to minimise this discharge and continually reduce our environmental impact within the entire supply chain in order to contribute to sustainable development. →→ Continued energy savings. Investing in new, more efficient technologies is not only positive for the environment, it also makes good business sense. →→ setting a new environmental standard. Arla’s new one-billion litre dairy just outside London will be the most modern, largest and most eco-friendly fresh milk processing facility in the world. →→ Targets met for water and energy savings. During 2010 we have met and exceeded our target for a five per cent reduction in energy and water consumption, compared to our 2005 baseline. We are continuing to work to achieve our 2020 climate targets. 16 e n v i r o n me n t a n d c l i mate Investments bring new energy savings level possible. In the UK Arla is one of 12 companies Arla’s climate target is to reduce our direct and indirect taking part in a cooperative project being run by the emissions of greenhouse gases by 25 per cent in Freight Transport Association (FTA). Its aim is to reduce production, transport and packaging by 2020, compared emissions during the transportation of goods. Arla in the to our 2005 levels. During 2010 emissions decreased by UK has a total of 300 vehicles and the many initiatives 0.9 per cent. The challenge now is to increase the rate of that Arla has already introduced in order to improve improvement to be able to reach the climate target, efficiencies and reduce emissions from these vehicles was especially with increasing production. an important factor in the FTA’s decision to involve Arla, We are continuing our efforts to reduce energy currently the only dairy company, in the project. consumption at all our sites. The processes involved in producing milk powder require large amounts of energy New packaging reduces carbon footprint which is why further investments have been made in We endeavour to reduce the amount of packaging we use energy-saving initiatives at our milk powder plants in and increase the amount that can be recycled. In the UK the Denmark and Sweden. For example, we have installed new use of recycled plastic in packaging has increased to 15 per fans and drying air heat recovery units which recover heat cent and a project to light-weight plastic bottles continues. from the hot air leaving the spray dryer, this is generating In Denmark and Sweden, the quantity of plastic material efficiencies and reducing energy consumption. Total energy used in plastic containers for catering products has been savings at the milk powder plants Hoco, Akafa, Visby, Arinco, reduced by 10 per cent. The Swedish Yoggi® cup now has a Danmark Protein and Vimmerby amounted to 53,900 MWh cardboard outer case which has resulted in less plastic being per year, which corresponds to a reduction in greenhouse used and its carbon footprint being reduced by 40 per cent. gas emissions of 10,600 tonnes CO2-equivalents from these This successful combination of plastic and cardboard may plants and an energy reduction of six per cent. be used more in the future. On the contrary, the new plastic screw cap, which has been introduced to our milk cartons Improved transport efficiency in Sweden, has increased our carbon footprint. This is due We are working in many different ways to optimise our to the screw cap itself and the extra transport costs that are transport operations and ensure that fuel consumption being incurred because the new packaging takes up more and emissions of greenhouse gases are kept to the lowest space than its predecessor. e nergy co n sumpti o n c arbon footpr int water purification improvements TWh Million tonnes CO2-e For the past three years, Arla’s sites at 3.0 Oil 1.5 Packaging Gas Transport Videbæk, Danmark Protein, Nr. Vium and 2.5 Renewable 1.2 Operations Arinco, in Denmark have shared a new water sources 2.0 purification plant which purifies water before District heating 0.9 it is released into a nearby river. Biological 1.5 Electricity tests are already showing significantly 0.6 1.0 improved water quality and enhanced ecology 0.3 in the river. The purification plant is also 0.5 benefitting Arla financially as it is more 0 0 cost-effective to purify water in our own plant 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 than to use the municipal system. Total energy consumption has fallen by Arla’s total carbon footprint in 2010 was 7.8 per cent since 2005 but has slightly 1.28 million tonnes of CO2-equivalents, increased compared to the previous year. This compared with 1.40 million tonnes in 2005. Imp rov ed trans port eff ici e ncy is mainly due to increased production of whey The decrease in 2010 is due to improvements We are continuing to investigate and proteins and other highly-processed products. in transport and packaging. The calculation implement initiatives to decrease emissions Energy-effective initiatives are not always is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol from our transport operations. Examples visible in total energy consumption figures, International standard. include: because we are constantly developing new • Due to the reduction of water content in and more highly-processed products, the whey, we are now able to increase the production of which often requires more Su c cess w i t h LED ligh t ing amount transported per vehicle and therefore energy. Examples include long-life milk At our warehouse at Esbjerg dairy in reduce the number of miles travelled. products including UHT and extended shelf Denmark, new LED lighting has been installed. • All distribution colleagues in Sweden and life milk and lactose-free products. This type of lighting uses less energy than the UK and half of those in Denmark have the light bulbs previously used, plus it can be been trained in eco-friendly driving. switched on and off as required. The initial • All distribution vehicles in Denmark are new dai ry outsi de Lo n d o n results are very good and the dairy forecasts fitted with a speed limiter which allows a Work on the new Arla dairy at Aylesbury, an annual energy saving of at least 95 per maximum speed limit of 80 km/hour and northwest of London, has now begun. On cent for warehouse lighting. which saves fuel. announcing its new one-billion litre dairy, Arla • Delivery routes in Denmark, Sweden and stated its intention that it will be the world’s the UK are continuously revised so that the largest, most advanced and eco-friendly fresh distances travelled can be reduced. milk processing facility. 17 e n v i r o n me n t a n d c l i mate Focus on farms will help to reduce footprint Arla is committed to driving down its carbon impact through­out its supply chain. In 2008, Arla set itself an ambitious target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from production, transport and packaging by 25 per cent before 2020. However, as 80 to 90 per cent of emissions are generated at farm level, Arla recognises that it is on farm where the greatest potential for reducing the carbon footprint of milk exists, through increased efficiency. A s one of Europe’s biggest purchasers of raw “It was not new news to us that the largest milk, Arla accepts the responsibility it must take contribution to the carbon footprint of our milk supply for sustainable agriculture and, during the last chain comes from primary production,” acknowledges Jan few years, the business has significantly D. Johannesen, director for environment and climate. increased its focus on this area. But when it comes to “But what we didn’t have was detailed knowledge supporting farmers to reduce the amount of carbon about what, on farm, was the biggest source of emissions produced at farm level and addressing the issue of or what activities could be undertaken to enable farmers accurate calculation where did Arla begin? to reduce them. Most importantly, we also did not know by how much we can realistically decrease emissions.” The need for knowledge Arla’s starting point was a knowledge gaining mission in order that, armed with information and having developed its expertise, the company could best set about making positive gains in this complex area. One of the first steps was the employment of a PhD student whose first project was the analysis of greenhouse gas emissions from contrasting milk production systems. As well as focusing resource internally, Arla began working in partnership with the University of Aarhus’ Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, the Danish Cattle Federation and Agrotech, a technology provider, to map emissions of greenhouse gases from the farm to the dairy. As a result of this work Arla has been able to actively contribute to an international project which has developed guidelines on how Jan D. Johannesen, director for to calculate the carbon footprint of milk and dairy products. environment and climate. “Based on the knowledge we have gained through our research activities, we have now embarked on an initiative Chris Hawkins, member of Arla Foods Milk Partnership’s to investigate the carbon footprint of farms and how we environment working group. can calculate these,” says Jan D. Johannesen. 18 e n v i r o n me n t a n d c l i mate “We recognise that to be able to reduce emissions, we need which it launched in December 2010. to be able to calculate them in order to evaluate whether To support members of AFMP to take action on improvements have been made. It always comes back to their farms to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, Arla the old saying: We can’t manage what we can’t follow up.” is investing in a long-term environmental programme. The initiative consists of two parts, first is the Working with leaders in this field, Arla will offer all 1,400 establishment of a baseline for 2005 for Arla’s total carbon members the opportunity to have a voluntary carbon and footprint because, until now, Arla has only been able to energy assessment leading to a personalised farm report provide an approximation. which identifies its strengths and weaknesses. The next step is to develop a model which farmers Members are also invited to attend practical on farm can use to calculate the carbon footprint of their own workshops and over 250 are planned to be held over three operations as well as identify years. The main focus of ways to reduce it. the workshops are animal “Many different models “To be able to reduce health and welfare with exist today,” explains Jan D. Johannesen, “and different emissions, we need to be topics including improving fertility and reducing countries have different able to calculate them.” lameness and mastitis. This requirements. However, it is in recognition of the fact is important that within the that addressing these areas Arla group, we adopt a consistent method of calculation. can lead to increased efficiency and improvements in herd Without this, we cannot aggregate totals for the company management, with consequent benefits to environmental in a credible way.” performance and to profitability. Jan D. Johannesen adds that an important The programme has been developed in collaboration consideration in the model’s development is the with AFMP’s environment working group and an external recognition of guidelines that exist in different countries, farming consultancy and Arla UK believes that it has the such as in the UK where organisations like The Carbon potential to reduce carbon emissions at farm level by up to Trust require that such models adhere to certain 20 per cent over time. standards. “The focus will be on what we, as farmers, are “For this reason we have adopted a flexible approach doing everyday and trying to fine tune it,” explains in order that the model can be adapted to the different Chris Hawkins, who is a member of the Partnership’s conditions within each of our markets.” environment working group. “The meetings will look at a wide range of issues, all Sharing best practice with a view to helping members improve on what they In parallel to this work in Denmark, Arla is the first dairy have already been doing. They will be of relevance to all processor in the UK to include not only its own operations members and provide the knowledge that will lead to but also those of its supplying members of Arla Foods Milk a reduction in carbon output from AFMP farms and for Partnership (AFMP) in its new environmental strategy, efficiency gains to be made.” reducing on farm emissions • utilise residue products such as straw and gases associated with the storage of cow As well as increasing animal health and energy crops, such as willow, as an energy manure welfare, the research also has identified source. • improve the quality of fertiliser (easily the following ways which can help reduce convertible nitrogen in degassed manure) on-farm emissions: Fertiliser • replace fossil energy sources. • optimise consumption relative to need Feed • use commercial fertiliser • increase feed efficiency by optimising the produced with energy and protein content in feed best available • ensure a diverse crop rotation with grass/ techniques and clover with a low carbon • use more locally produced feed footprint • store more carbon in the soil – by means of • spread fertiliser at the perennial crops and permanent pasture. optimum time and with the best technology. Energy use • reduce energy use, eg. electricity and diesel Biogas • increase the use of sustainable energy, eg. By using cow manure in biogas wind energy and biofuel to replace fossil systems it is possible to: energy sources • reduce emissions of greenhouse a g r i c u lture agriculture We support sustainable agriculture. We want to ensure that farms supplying milk to Arla From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct operate in a way that shows respect for milk quality, animal welfare and the environment. Our milk suppliers must therefore adhere to our high standards when it comes to milk production, animal health and feed quality. In Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Finland, milk producers are inspected to ensure that they follow the applicable quality programmes. We also ensure compliance with national regulations for milk quality in the other countries where we purchase milk. →→ Milk quality is essential. Our quality programmes which govern milk supply are of the highest standard and are underpinned by a number of long-term activities. →→ Focus on farming’s carbon footprint. Arla is taking part in a number of collaborative projects that aim to reduce the carbon footprint of farms. →→ Popular farm visits. Arla provides many different kinds of activities to increase public awareness of life on the farm, for example, school visits and online farmer blogs. 20 a g r i c u lture Arlagården guarantees high quality milk 33 Arla members received a gold medal from the King of The Arlagården quality programme includes requirements Sweden for 23 years’ consistent supply of high quality milk. for both raw milk and milk production in Denmark and Sweden. There is a corresponding programme in the UK, Arla supports responsible soya cultivation called Red Tractor Farm Assurance which applies to all Arla became a member of RTRS (Round Table of farmers who supply milk to Arla. There are similar quality Responsible Soy) in 2010. The RTRS focuses on responsible programmes in Finland and the Netherlands. Today, being soya production, including compliance with legal able to show that we meet high quality requirements requirements, conserving the environment and social is a prerequisite for supplying dairy products to major responsibility. It is our aim that all soya used in feed for retail customers. Our customers also visit farms to see for cows that produce milk for Arla, is farmed in accordance themselves how our quality programmes work in practice. with the RTRS criteria by 2020. Arla has long-term targets for milk quality and the better the quality of milk farmers supply, the better Increased supply of organic milk price they receive. Beyond this incentive, we also An important element of the Arla strategy concerns the improve milk quality by providing a training package for production of organic products, and during recent years, farm consultants, investing in research via third party we have worked hard to recruit more Danish and Swedish organisations and by means of dialogue with suppliers organic milk suppliers. There is now sufficient organic milk of milking and milk storage equipment. During 2010 to satisfy the demand for organic products in both the we specifically prioritised work on preventing residual Danish and Swedish markets. Arla also exports organic antibiotics and heat-resistant (thermoduric) bacteria in milk to other countries. milk. Read more about antibiotics on page 13. In many of our core markets, we operate a system that Farm visits encourage awareness rewards farms that have supplied high quality milk for a long Many Arla farmers help raise awareness of farming and time. For example, in Finland farmers who have supplied the work of the farmer. Read more in the section on high quality milk for 25 years receive a medal Community Relations on page 31. from the Agricultural Minister. In Sweden, during 2010, T h e farm as a n en ergy p rodu cer qual ity p rog rammes Arl a’ s milk in tak e Milk production on farms impacts on the The UK Red Tractor Farm Assurance scheme Other countries 2% environment, not least in the form of is a third-party certified quality programme. Netherlands 2% Denmark 50% Finland 3% greenhouse gas emissions. Some of these However, where Arlagården is concerned, impacts can be reduced and Arla is working we have choosen to perform inspections with universities, colleges and external and follow-up work ourselves. We continue UK 21% organisations to increase its knowledge of to work to ensure the quality of our how to reduce the carbon footprints of farms. inspection work and that the programme In the UK, significant progress has already meets international standards. We have Sweden 21% been made towards delivering a climate received a conformity statement from the strategy at farm level to reduce the emission independent Bureau Veritas Certification of greenhouse gases per litre of milk. Read organisation, which also serves as a certificate Approximately 9,600 farms supply milk to more about this on the previous page. in our dialogue with customers. During 2010 Arla in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Finland, In Denmark and Sweden, several biogas increased effort has been made to further which accounts for about 95 per cent of the producers use farm manure and other improve inspections and ensure we are group’s total volume. In these and other by-products, including some from Arla’s prepared for handling unforeseen events. markets we also buy milk from local suppliers dairies, to produce climate neutral biogas. In Arlagården is now subject to continual who meet our quality standards. The total Denmark, we are currently investigating the revision. During 2010, we have added, for amount of milk received increased by less feasibility of supplying the Danmark Protein example, a new recommendation that than one per cent during the year. plant at Nr. Vium with biogas. In order to farmers use detergents that are free from maintain a 24-hour supply of biogas to the chlorine, phosphorus and nitrates. dairy, manure and sweetcorn will be required The most common divergences from Average number of cows per farm from about 400 farms as well as dairy Arlagården and the British quality programme The number of cows per farm is a calculated by-products. are requirements for documentation, hygiene average, which includes all milk producers in There are currently very few biogas plants and building maintenance, and for the use each country. installed on farms. In Denmark and Sweden it and storage of medicines. 2008 2009 2010 is, in some cases, possible to get investment Denmark 126 141 151 grants but it continues to be difficult to make Sweden 55 58 62 such plants profitable. In the UK, farmers UK 112 114 115 regard the complexity of obtaining official Finland 22 24 26 permission as the greatest hindrance to the Source: National industry organisations. building of biogas plants. 21 p r o c ureme n t procurement We challenge and encourage our suppliers to Arla sources goods and services across the world. Our support us in our commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. ambition is for our suppliers to meet our code of From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct conduct for suppliers, which governs ethical, social and environ­mental responsibilities. We encourage them to help us meet our aim of procuring goods and services in a sustainable way. →→ Global procurement practices. A lot of work has been put into improving our global systems for purchasing concerning supplier responsibility, but we have not come as far as planned. This is mainly due to our desire to take a broader social perspective. →→ Fewer audits. Due to the prioritisation of the development of a new supplier evaluation system, we have conducted fewer audits in 2010 than the previous year. →→ Certified ingredients. Cocoa, tuna and palm oil are examples of ingredients that we are focusing on in terms of sustainable production. We have a system which we use to assess the risk of these product categories, and where possible we select certified ingredients. 22 p r o c ureme n t Better data quality about suppliers project has been delayed due to limitations in resources During the year, we have changed our definitions and and a need for a cross-organisational and global approach. procedures for the maintenance of our supplier data, A lot of tasks have been accomplished, and the next step is improving the quality of information we have available. to test and implement the different tools and procedures Our definition of a supplier includes, since 2009, those for supplier evaluation. suppliers from whom we make annual purchases of DKK 100,000 or more. Based on this definition we work with Supplier audits in 2010 around 2,500 approved suppliers throughout the world, We carry out a number of detailed audits every year, compared to 4,200 in 2009. Our Global Procurement during which we visit suppliers and carry out a thorough department has entered agreements which cover 58 per inspection. In 2010 we conducted 40 audits globally, which cent of our total spend in 2010, compared to 59 per cent is less than in 2009 when we conducted 69. The formal in 2009. supplier evaluations in Global Procurement have been put on hold in order to prioritise the development of the new New procurement process under way supplier evaluation system. However, supplier audits have Since 2009, we have strived to improve and create a been performed based on a risk assessment. common procurement procedure for the organisation. This work has taken longer than expected and we are still Target for signing the code of conduct for suppliers working on improving tools and processes. An example of Our target is for 100 per cent of our approved suppliers what we want to include going forward is a broader scope to have signed our code of conduct for suppliers. Progress for the assessment of risk with particular focus on product towards this target is reviewed both at category and quality and social and ethical accountability. Global Procurement level. Of all the suppliers handled The new evaluation system that we began to develop globally, a total of 65 per cent have signed the code. Our last year has progressed within the areas of specifications logistics function has the best compliance with 80 per cent for ingredients and supplier evaluation. However, the and energy the lowest with 27 per cent. G lo bal co n trac ts U T Z cert i fi ed cocoa Palm oil – progress and follow up Energy 13% Packaging 34% Following last year’s audit, we planned a The use of palm oil has been strongly criticised follow up visit to our cocoa supplier in the because it can contribute to the destruction of Business Ivory Coast in December 2010. The purpose the rainforests and endangered habitats. Arla services 18% of the visit was primarily to establish contacts only purchases palm oil from companies that with NGOs and to learn more about the UTZ are members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Maintenance certification. UTZ is an organisation which Palm Oil (RSPO) which has produced guidelines repair, operations 7% provides certification for cocoa production for the certification of sustainable palm oil. Ingredients according to criteria including production, Arla is working towards the target that all Logistics 15% 14% environment and social standards. Due to products in our European core markets will The diagram shows the external spend political unrest in the Ivory Coast the visit has only contain certified palm oil by the end of handled by Arla’s Global Procurement been postponed to 2011. 2012 at the latest, and that the target date department distributed across different From July 2010, about 97 per cent of for all other markets is the end of 2015. product and service categories. Compared Cocio branded products were made from During 2011 Arla intends to buy palm oil with to 2009, there were major changes in the UTZ certified cocoa and during 2011 we GreenPalm certificate corresponding to more share for Packaging, Business services and will increase the share to 100 per cent. The than 90 per cent of the entire use within the Energy. The reason for this is mainly due to cocoa used in these products represents company. more categories being handled by Global approximately 25 per cent of the group’s During the year a Danish newspaper article Procurement and volatile supply market total purchase of cocoa. In 2011, more of questioned the work environment for palm prices. Arla’s cocoa products will be produced with oil plantation workers at one of our supplier’s Our 10 largest suppliers account for 20 per certified cocoa. sub-suppliers. Arla contacted the supplier cent (compared to 21 per cent in 2009) of our immediately and demanded an independent total external spend. In 2010, the following audit. The audit report concluded that, at the companies were our five largest suppliers in Arla’s decision on certified tuna time of the audit, the workers had sufficient order of size: Tetra Pak (packaging materials Arla has decided to only purchase tuna from protective clothing and safety education, and and processing and packaging machinery), suppliers that are approved by the Earth that there were clear safety procedures at the IBM (IT services), Elopak (packaging materials Island Institute. Tuna is used in a cream plantation. Arla found this satisfactory and and machinery), Carat (media) and Logoplaste cheese product for the German market. will not take the matter further. (packaging materials). The use of only dolphin-friendly tuna is now clearly stated in the ingredients specification. 23 workplace workplace We have competent and committed Arla has 16,200 colleagues in 30 countries throughout employees, and provide safe and healthy working conditions. the world. We strive to continually improve our work From: Our responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct environment and organisation. We also work to strengthen our corporate culture, Our Character, which describes what Arla is and what we stand for in our efforts to achieve common targets, uniting us across differences in historical and cultural backgrounds. If all colleagues enjoy good working conditions and are committed to their work, together we can do the best job possible. →→ Lean shows results. Continuous improvement work using Lean methodology has resulted not only in more job satisfaction but also in major efficiency gains without the need for investment. →→ New work environment strategy. As part of the new strategy, Arla is taking a holistic approach to colleagues’ well-being, health and safety. →→ POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT. This year’s colleague survey shows a continued positive development in overall colleague satisfaction. 24 workplace Lean improves efficiency and job satisfaction scale. We anticipate that about 200 managers a year will Since 2009 Arla has used Lean as a method by which to undergo ALP in the next few years. Almost 50 managers, develop the business and make long-term decisions. Lean one fifth of the target group, in the UK have taken part in is mainly about change management and the purpose is a similar programme and the results have been equally to facilitate continual improvements through the active positive. A further 40 managers are taking part in the UK involvement of colleagues. The Lean method includes programme during 2010 and 2011. studying production processes in stages so that it is easier to see where and how improvements to efficiency, production New colleague survey capacity and utilisation of raw materials can be achieved. A new version of Arla’s global colleague survey, Barometer, During the past year Lean has been introduced to was carried out in November and completed by colleagues at several large Danish dairies and in the UK. 12,650 colleagues in 26 countries in 16 languages. The Results in the form of increased productivity, better job annual survey measures colleague engagement and their satisfaction and fewer work accidents were soon evident. views on the company’s objectives, vision and leadership. Our positive experiences mean that we are increasing our In 2009, no survey was conducted due to cost reductions. investment in Lean. During 2011, we will employ more The results for 2010 show a continued positive development Lean coordinators and will begin to introduce this way of in overall colleague satisfaction and that they have a good working at more of our dairies. understanding of what the company aims to achieve. The score for colleagues’ overall commitment to Arla Leadership training for middle managers was 77 out of 100, which is a high score and, according to Some years ago, Arla introduced management training the provider of the survey, 10 per cent above the average for top-level managers in the group. Training is now being scored by similar global companies. Colleagues’ commitment offered to middle and first line managers in Denmark, is also reflected in the high response rate which was 86 per Sweden and the UK. The purpose of the new leadership cent. Compared to the results of the 2008 survey there is development programme is to help managers make the a clear improvement in the sharing of knowledge between connection between the group’s ambitious strategy for the different functions within the company and Arla’s ability growth and their responsibilities. In Denmark and Sweden to prevent errors. Furthermore, colleagues rate Arla as a 80 managers have completed and an additional 170 have good place to work with 75 per cent saying that they would begun ALP (Arla Leadership Programme) training, which recommend Arla to friends and acquaintances. Prevention is one third of the target group. Participants’ evaluation of stress and bullying are two areas that Arla will continue to scores for the course are excellent, 4.7 on a five-point work to improve. New wo rk e nv i ro nmen t strategy its efforts to offer work experience placements dai ry K now l ed ge for future During 2010, a new and ambitious work to young people and to the long-term Arla needs well-qualified colleagues which is environment strategy for Arla was launched. unemployed. The main safety representative why we offer many different kinds of training Briefly, the purpose of the ‘Our Future at Linköping dairy, Sweden, won the Swedish courses. Specialist dairy training continues Workplace’ strategy is for colleagues to Grand Safety Delegates Award 2010. to be our focus and in the UK a new dairy always feel committed and thrive when training centre has been built to support the they are at work. The workplace must be a industry’s new dairy training programme Wor kpl ac e acci de nts healthy and safe place, where bullying and called EDEN. We also offer training in basic work related accidents never happen. Our Number of work accidents involving more than one skills, such as reading, writing and arithmetic day’s absence per one million working hours focus is holistic – we are looking at well-being 30 and web-based training in English. and health and safety issues together, rather 25 than just looking at the risks of accidents, on which we concentrated on in the past. 20 Future ma nag ers in A rla In October we carried out a survey among 15 In 2008, Arla launched the Future Fifteen six per cent of Arla colleagues in Denmark, Graduate Programme® (F15). The purpose of 10 Sweden and the UK, in order to get a the two-year F15 programme is to strengthen ‘snapshot’ of the current situation. 5 Arla’s long-term leadership potential by 0 developing competent and diverse future 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 leaders with a holistic mindset, Wo rkp l ac e award Awareness and preventative work at Arla has cross-functional business understanding Projects are underway at several individual resulted in a further reduction in the frequency and high performance. The first participants dairies with a view to improving the work of workplace accidents, especially at Holstebro have now completed the programme and environment in many ways, all associated with Smør, Arinco and Esbjerg dairies in Denmark. during autumn 2010 the third intake of 11 safety, well-being and health. This year our Due to high safety principles in China no work participants from seven different countries Birkum dairy received an award as Denmark’s accidents were reported during the year. began their training. A total of 29 graduates best workplace in the internal cooperation We will continue to make targeted efforts to have now either completed or are participating category. Arla’s Yellow Cheese business unit improve workplace safety. Senior managers in the F15 programme. won the Danish workplace environment actively support this work and the work prize and Rødkærsbro dairy, in Denmark, was environment is now a dedicated agenda item nominated for a social responsibility prize, for at many workplace meetings. 25 workplace Improved safety benefits everyone For several years, managers and colleagues in Arla’s Yellow Cheese business unit have focused on reducing the number of accidents in their workplace. Thanks to the initiatives they have implemented, they have succeeded in reducing the accident rate by more than 40 per cent, delivered improved financial results and increased product quality. S ix Danish dairies and four in Sweden make up the all managers and colleagues have attended a course Yellow Cheese business unit. At these dairies on Behaviour Based Safety (BBS). The focus on BBS has the average accident rate, calculated as the resulted in significant changes, including at Taulov dairy’s number of accidents per million working hours, packaging department. has decreased from 34 in 2008 to 19 in 2010, representing “If you think a manager, or colleague, hasn’t a reduction of 44 per cent. Colleagues welcome the thoroughly considered the safety aspects of an activity greater emphasis that is being put on safety in the or procedure and you identify an opportunity to reduce workplace. any safety risks, managers welcome and respect your “In the packaging department we are very pleased that feedback, because we have created an environment colleague safety is taken so seriously. It is good to know that where speaking out about potential safety risks is actively Arla is concerned about our health. It also means a lot to us encouraged,” Jette Sørensen says. that we have a say in the improvements we would like to see being put in place,” says Jette Sørensen, work environment Accidents are often related to behaviour representative in the packaging department at Taulov dairy. Behaviour Based Safety focuses on how taking greater care At review meetings, during which the team gathers and changing inappropriate behaviour can prevent many together to discuss problems and improvements, safety at workplace accidents. This is one of the reasons why it is the workplace is now one of the top agenda items. Near delivering results. misses – situations where an accident could have taken “Many accidents happen as a result of behaviour,” says place, but didn’t – are recorded and discussed. In addition, Lotte Bay Rasmussen, quality and environmental manager Jette Sørensen, work environment representative at Taulov dairy. Lotte Bay Rasmussen, quality and environmental manager at Taulov dairy. Göran Bengtsson, director of Kalmar dairy. 26 workplace at Taulov dairy. “Using the BBS model, we can highlight to benefits from the new focus on BBS. Some of them were colleagues how important it is that they think about what expected, while others came as a surprise. they are doing before they act. For example, if something “Firstly, the number of accidents fell dramatically, and is about to fall on the floor, many will react by running absence due to illness also decreased. This was as we over to grab it. However, the safer reaction is to let it fall expected, but we are rather surprised that our financial and in doing so avoid the risk of twisting an ankle or being results improved and the quality of our products also injured in some other way. increased. We believe this is partly because our skilled “Cost has always been and competent permanent a key focus at the dairies colleagues now spend less but managers now prioritise colleague welfare too. “Many accidents happen time off work sick and more time at the dairy,” says Göran This is a major change in as a result of behaviour.” Bengtsson. attitude for both managers and colleagues. As this new Convincing sceptics mindset is increasingly embedded, we are seeing that it The successful introduction of BBS requires a change in isn’t impacting on costs,” says Lotte Bay Rasmussen. workplace culture. Colleagues must be willing to make an active contribution to improving safety and the working Many benefits environment. Even though BBS focuses on colleague The philosophy behind Arla’s strong focus on workplace health and safety, not everyone is enthusiastic about this accidents is that colleagues must enjoy a good quality of new way of working when it is introduced. life, both in work and in their personal lives. “There are probably still a few sceptics in the “We do not want colleagues to be healthy when departments where BBS is still a relatively new concept. they come to work, only to go home injured,” says Göran They may wonder whether it is worth the effort, but we Bengtsson, director of the Kalmar dairy. “They must be in work hard to convince them that this initiative makes good just as good health when they clock off as when they enter sense,” says Lotte Bay Rasmussen. the workplace, no matter whether they are going home Over time, however, even the strongest critics usually after their first week at work, or retiring after a long working become BBS enthusiasts, as was the experience of the life. Our colleagues must be able to enjoy their personal packaging department at Taulov dairy. Here not all lives and not be worn down by working at Arla,” he says. packaging colleagues were enthusiastic about the new As a result of BBS being embedded and becoming part idea when it was first presented. of everyday life within the Yellow Cheese business unit, the “At the beginning, there was a lot of scepticism. A lot function was awarded the 2010 Working Environment Prize of people thought ‘why do we have to accept this new in Denmark in December. This recognition was extremely idea?’ Many also considered it a waste of money, as they positive for all the Yellow Cheese dairies concerned, and did not think it was here for the long term. But it was, especially for Kalmar dairy, which together with Taulov and now they are really embracing it,” Jette Sørensen dairy, pioneered BBS. Both dairies have reaped many concludes. Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) BBS at Arla • The basic principle of Behaviour Based The Yellow Cheese business unit has set up clear, documented ways of working for both Safety is that most accidents are a result managers and their teams to adhere to, as far as possible: of unsafe behaviour, not due to technical faults and non-conformities. Managers • BBS focuses on what people do, why they • have clear goals do it, and how behaviour can be changed. • communicate clearly • By observing and communicating both safe • take a consistent approach to safety infringements and unsafe behaviour the workplace safety • set a good example culture is improved, and the number of • engage in dialogue workplace accidents is reduced. • observe • communicate actions and results. Colleagues • take responsibility • work in a safe and responsible way • draw attention to safety risks • take and record corrective action • engage in BBS dialogue on safe and unsafe behaviour. Managers and their teams • join forces to find solutions • eliminate unsafe behaviour and other safety risks. mar k et c o n du c t market conduct We have good, honest relationships with all of It is essential that consumers trust us if we are to sell our our stakeholders. From: Our responsibility products. By acting responsibly, communicating openly – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with customers and consumers, we create the right conditions for trust. At the same time we must constantly adapt to the increasingly competitive, fast-moving and international market. In the markets in which we are a major player, we have the added responsibility of not abusing our position. →→ Satisfied consumers. This year’s consumer survey shows that consumers in Denmark are now more positive about Arla than in recent years. In Sweden and Finland we achieve generally higher scores than in Denmark but in those two countries consumers’ perception of Arla has fallen compared to 2009. →→ Progressive product development. Our new application centre for whey proteins in Denmark is already delivering results, creating the opportunity for closer cooperation with customers and enabling a clearer framework for developing innovative products. →→ Consumer contact shows results. The information shared with us by consumers via Arla Forum and the dialogue on blogs is leading to new initiatives, including improved packaging and new products. 28 mar k et c o n du c t Closer to Nature™ step by step Competition on the dairy market continues to be tough During the year we have continued to work on and changes internationally are affecting all players in the communicating our Closer to Nature™ commitment to industry. During the year, we have attempted to focus both customers and consumers. We are continuing to discussions on conditions for the future of the global ensure that our products are as natural as possible and dairy industry with politicians, opinion leaders, industry that work on the farm and throughout our operations is organisations and the general public. In Sweden we have undertaken with respect for nature, see pages 16 and 20. taken steps to contribute to the public debate through a Consumer surveys and dialogue with consumers public White Paper and open seminars. indicate that there is generally a lot of interest in products which have as few additives as possible. During the year, Cooperation with customers on product development the recipes for several products in Denmark and Sweden At the end of 2009, we opened a whey protein application have been revised and additives eliminated or replaced centre in Denmark. Here customers are welcome to with more natural alternatives. In Sweden, for example, join us in developing and testing new products, for we have launched a new range of fruit yogurts – Arla example, functional milk proteins and baking ingredients. Yoggi® Fri – which is completely free of additives and The premise of working with a clear programme for flavourings and, during 2011, we will be producing solving problems and developing products jointly with preservative-free cheeses in Denmark at selected sites. our customers works very well. Arla has also received At the end of 2010, two Danish organisations complained an award as best customer service supplier, which is to the local region of the Danish Food Authorities about the presented by an international research institute and Closer to Nature™ television advertisements, stating that recognises businesses that create added value. they mislead consumers. We are addressing the allegation In the UK, we work collaboratively with retailers to with the utmost seriousness and are cooperating with the help deliver profitable and sustained growth of products. Food Authorities on the case. As a recent new entrant into the UK cottage cheese market, our customers challenged us to develop a range Changes in the dairy industry which would re-invent the category in order to meet ever Arla is a major player on several markets and we are changing consumer needs. We have worked closely with committed to acting in accordance with prevailing customers utilising our category management expertise, competition laws. Read more about this on page 6. and launched several new flavours in August 2010. d ia lo g ue wi t h co nsumers A R l a and new med i a ch anne ls Con sumers’ perc e ption o f Ar la Arla Forum, our consumer contact service, Arla keeps abreast of the latest developments In Denmark, Sweden and Finland we measure answers questions from consumers by in the media and we are experimenting with consumer perceptions of Arla annually. In phone, email and letter. Consumer opinions new channels of communication, such as general, our products are our strongest and suggestions are gathered each month Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. As with the point, while consumers’ perception of our and passed on to the relevant departments more traditional channels, Arla aims to be conduct on the market lowers our overall within the group. This information provides attentive and committed to communicating score. In Denmark our reputation continues to useful knowledge that quickly can lead to with consumers on their terms, and to taking improve. Meanwhile, in Sweden and Finland, improvements to packaging, clearer product part in dialogue about the company and our consumer perceptions aren’t as favourable as declarations and new products, for example. products. In Denmark, during the autumn, last year, although they are still relatively high. In the UK the number of enquiries received we opened a chat service, where consumers 2008 2009 2010 about product content, animal welfare and can enter into dialogue with an Arla colleague Denmark 57.6 58.6 61.0 the carbon footprint of products particularly via Arla Forum, and in December 2010 we Sweden 75.5 74.3 71.3 increased in 2010. In Denmark, more opened a similar service in Sweden via Finland 73.0 71.7 69.5 consumers requested information about the Facebook. Our aim is to provide a fast and origins of exotic ingredients, such as fruit, personal response to consumers’ questions. The table shows the total score from 0 to 100, palm oil and cocoa. In Sweden we received which consumers gave Arla compared with many enquiries about recycling the new screw many other companies, in a survey carried cap milk packaging. In one of Arla Forum’s customers’ perc e pt ion o f Ar la out by the Reputation Institute. Danish blog discussions, many consumers Within our core markets, Arla and our contributed valuable opinions in connection subsidiary Rynkeby Foods utilise annual surveys with the launch of lactose-free milk. to investigate how our customers rate us as a A rla bra nd i s l aunch ed in t he uk supplier. In Finland, we have received higher In accordance with Arla’s brand strategy, the No of enquiries 2008 2009 2010 scores than in the previous year and this is also Arla logo now appears on products such as Denmark 23,000 22,000 20,000 the case in the UK where we have regained our Arla Apetina® and Lactofree® in the UK and Sweden 30,000 26,000 28,000 position as the best dairy supplier, after coming in Cravendale® milk advertisements. This Sweden (web) 50,000 46,000 40,000 in second place in 2009. In Sweden, the survey and future activities are intended to increase UK 16,000 26,000 24,000 was carried out at retail chain level and Arla consumer awareness of Arla in the UK. Finland 14,000 13,000 16,000 came out as the best supplier in the survey. China – 5,000 31,000 Among Danish retailers in chilled and frozen Vietnam 1,000 1,000 1,000 products, Arla dropped to fourth place this year USA 250 250 1,400 from third place in 2009, while Rynkeby Foods, as in 2009, was rated first. 29 c o mmu n i t y re l at i o n s community relations We maintain good, respectful and We accept extensive responsibility for community relations constructive community relations. From: Our responsibility within the framework of our core business. In addition, – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct we endeavour to involve ourselves in wider social issues which are relevant to our business activities. We want to contribute to the development of communities and do so by building long-term relationships with people, businesses and organisations. →→ Local commitment. At the majority of places in which we operate, we, along with our colleagues, contribute to local social initiatives. →→ Arla offers knowledge. Arla is committed to organising a large number of activities, including farm visits, to increase knowledge about life on a farm. →→ Arla supports charities. We support charitable organisations by, for example, supplying high-quality dairy products which have too short a shelf-life to be sold in stores. 30 c o mmu n i t y re l at i o n s Social commitment at a local level and adults to join in nature festivals and visit our farmers. Arla makes its primary contribution to social development Activities of this kind attracted more than 170,000 visitors. through the creation of jobs and economic growth in Another public event in Denmark and Sweden involves places where we have business operations. In addition, we watching the cows being turned out to pasture in the encourage our local business groups to contribute to their spring. We had a record number of visitors in 2010. local communities in a way that best suits their operation Also in Sweden and Denmark, we offer an extensive and that also allows them to gain the commitment and programme for school children to visit farms to learn support of colleagues. One example is in Poland where about cows and the everyday lives of farmers. In Denmark our dairy is located in a poor region of the country. Here, we have developed and improved educational materials we contribute money and materials to support activities and made it easier for visitors to book farm visits. More for young and old people. Another example is in the UK, than 8,000 Danish school children took up the opportunity where Arla colleagues are actively involved in a number to visit a working dairy and several UK dairies also hosted of charitable projects, including providing schools with school visits. equipment and taking part in litter collection events. In Sweden, and occasionally in Denmark, we use the Arla’s long-term charity project, Children for Life, is back of milk cartons as a channel for sharing knowledge now running in the Dominican Republic, Vietnam and and information. The Swedish milk cartons often describe Bangladesh. Read more on the following pages. how farmers work, the farm operation and information about the environment, and consumers can find both Knowledge about nature amusing and useful pieces of information. In Denmark, We are working in different ways to increase knowledge during the last year, we have used the pack to inform of natural ingredients and the links between people, consumers of the new keyhole labelling of food products animals and nature. During 2010, we increased our focus (see page 15) and, in cooperation with an outdoor on nature. In Denmark, for example, we invited children activities association, information about safe swimming. P o pu l ar farm v i s its The competition is nicknamed ‘The Food No. of visitors 2008 2009 2010 Industry’s Oscars’ with winners in five Cows out to pasture, Denmark 24,000 35,000 40,000 categories: Best Environmental Work, The Cows out to pasture, Sweden 45,000 68,000 80,000 School Showing Most Interest in Food, Best School visits, Denmark 11,000 7,500 20,000 Senior Catering Company, Best Convenience School visits, Sweden 44,000 45,000 42,000 Store and Most Inspirational Food Store. Interest in the competition increases every year, among competitors and in the media. Fo o d p ro duc ts for c har i ty Charitable work around the globe Sometimes we have high quality dairy products We contribute to charitable work in many where the shelf-life is too short for them to countries. Below are some examples: coll eagues’ ch ari t y ini ti at iv es be sold in stores. For the past 20 years, in • Denmark. The Team Rynkeby cycling event In the UK we have been running a project Finland, we have had a well-organised system contributes to the Danish Children’s Cancer called Community Challenge since 1998, by which we donate products to charitable Foundation. which has made a significant contribution organisations. In agreement with these • Sweden. We contribute financially to to the local communities in which we have organisations, we demand that these products Sachsska Children’s Hospital in Stockholm. operations. Colleagues who raise funds for are kept refrigerated during transportation. In • UK. We participate in a breast cancer charitable causes can request match funding Germany, we have a similar cooperation with campaign in conjunction with one of our from the company and colleagues can also the Tafel organisation which distributes food retailers. We also support Caravan, a apply for financial support for causes at which to the needy. Several times a year, we deliver charity providing aid to people who work they volunteer for at least 10 hours a month. food, mostly cheese, through Tafel to people in or have worked in the grocery industry. During 2010 we donated approximately GBP Düsseldorf and the surrounding area. • Saudi Arabia. In cooperation with the 12,300 (2009: 17,800) to 32 different projects SANAD charity, we help provide support to (2009: 44). parents with children suffering from cancer Co o kery C h am p i o nsh i ps and have helped provide emergency aid Knowledge of cookery, nutrition and after flooding. W e e nco urag e sport and health ingredients is a prerequisite for healthy living. • USA. Through a charity project, we Examples of sports activities to which Arla has To spread knowledge of cookery, in Sweden contribute to a children’s hospital in contributed during the last year: we run the Swedish Chef of the Year Cookery Seattle. • Polish Run. Arla is the primary sponsor of a Championships. In 2010 the competition was running and training event at Kolobrzeg. held for the 27th consecutive year. As well as • Football schools in Denmark. Around supporting Arla’s new product developments, i nsp i rat ion al foo d co mp et i t ion 30,000 children and teenagers took part in marketing activities and public events, the In order to encourage and stimulate the a week-long football day camp during the competition winners are role models in the availability of more inspiring food at schools, school summer holiday. industry and also take part in international old people’s homes and in the retail trade, • Active children in Denmark. More than cookery competitions. Arla in Sweden organised the Arla Golden 100,000 children took part in a project Cow competition for the eleventh time. aimed at encouraging children to be physically active. 31 c o mmu n i t y re l at i o n s Does one glass of milk a day make a difference? In 2008, Arla set up the Children for Life project to help children in the Dominican Republic. Its primary purpose is to give children a better start in life by providing food and supporting education. Children for Life projects are now supporting children in Vietnam and Bangladesh too. A rla’s Code of Conduct clearly states that the company most important factors that need to be addressed in poor will cooperate with the local communities countries,” states Frede Juulsen, who is head of Arla’s milk in which it operates and contribute to their powder activities. “We wanted to provide long term aid for development. This applies not only in Arla’s core the countries in which we sell our products, by supporting markets where, for example, the company actively funds activities associated with our particular products and which health and exercise related activities for children and would make a real difference. teenagers, but anywhere the company has operations. “We cannot save the world but we can do our bit to make it a better place in which to live. It was natural for us Long-term aid project to focus on children, primarily through the contribution of For many years, Arla has contributed to a variety of serious nutritional products.” emergency aid projects in the Third World, for example, Arla chose to run the Children for Life project in in the wake of flooding and earthquakes. However, the collaboration with established, professional charities company did not have a long-term, structured approach with an efficient structure supporting everything from to activities of this kind. The Children for Life project logistics to financing. The company has also established was conceived, in response to this, by the department collaborative relationships with local suppliers and responsible for sales of milk powder across the world. distributors because it wants to support and empower “There are many children who suffer and many who local players to act as good corporate citizens. seriously need help. Nutrition and education are two of the Today, Arla runs Children for Life in the Dominican Republic and in Vietnam, in collaboration with the international aid organisation SOS Children’s Villages International and Arla’s local partner. In Bangladesh, a school run by a domestic aid organisation receives support from the project. Here, too, the aid work is undertaken in partnership with a local distributor. Local network and strength through cooperations A great deal of comprehensive planning and meticulous care went into devising the Children for Life project. Arla has been especially careful to ensure that the project Frede Juulsen, head of Arla’s milk underpins the company’s core values and strategy because powder activities. it is an opportunity to bring the Arla values to life, both for 32 c o mmu n i t y re l at i o n s colleagues and the local community. Initially the company As a dairy company, providing nutritional products is a was uncertain as to how best ensure that the funding natural first step. Milk is the best source of nutrition for provided for the project was utilised in the right way any child. However, as the latest initiative in Bangladesh and did not end up in the wrong hands. Other concerns has shown, we are also keen to support children’s needs included how to ensure support for the project internally generally. Here, we contribute to both the nutritional and and achieving sign off of the budget. educational needs of the children through our support of “We developed a project programme including the a local school.” mission, strategy, guidelines and follow up,” explains Frede Within the last year, Arla has invested DKK 1 million in its Juulsen. “We made the decision to spend the first years of Children for Life project. But how can the company be certain the project learning how to deal with the issues we faced that the money and the milk is being put to good use? and we decided that, initially, we would maintain a low “We visit the projects at least once every three profile both internally and externally so that the project months, ‘we’ being both locally based colleagues and did not come across as a marketing stunt.” Arla management representatives when they are in the Gaining internal support and management’s blessing country. During these visits we ask questions and conduct for the project turned out to be far easier than the team interviews. In addition, regular inspections are also had imagined. The important to us. As with local organisation any other business venture, in the Dominican “As a dairy company, what matters is signing Republic conducted all the preparatory providing nutritional products the contract and then subsequently making sure work, finding partners, is a natural first step.” that it is adhered to.” taking care of contacts, Each month Arla reporting and feeding back progress. Children for Life soon receives a list of the number of children enrolled in each became the entire company’s project and the initiative project. During 2010, almost 800 children benefitted in helps to strengthen Arla’s positive reputation, not only Vietnam, the Dominican Republic and Bangladesh. among colleagues and partners but also among public servants and politicians, in the countries concerned. Arla seeking to provide more aid “Our local colleagues and partners often visit the The contract between Arla and the aid organisations is children’s villages and are committed to the project. We renewed every year. Apart from the three countries in also host visits for local dignitaries and decision-makers which the Children for Life project is currently running, which helps build an important network within the local Nigeria and China are also important markets for Arla’s community.” milk powder. For this reason, there are plans to set up similar projects here, but Arla must first investigate where One glass of milk a day the aid will add most value. The company’s aim is to enhance the conditions under “It is important to stress that this project would which very underprivileged children live in order that they never have come to fruition were it not for passionate can have a better start in life. Arla has primarily chosen to individuals within Arla who were dedicated to putting in donate milk powder. the extra effort to make a difference in the Third World. “Children for Life has to be a relevant project for Arla, Our collective efforts can amount to something significant in terms of where we choose to launch it but also of the that we hope will make the world look a little better products we donate and the nature of the project itself. tomorrow,” concludes Frede Juulsen. The Dominican Republic Project details: Arla supports two children’s Project details: Arla’s cooperative partners Project started in: 2008 homes in Ho Chi Minh City, one of which is run run schools in extremely deprived areas Cooperative partner: SOS Children’s Villages by SOS Children’s Villages International. The on the outskirts of Dhaka. Parents are International. other home, Dieu Giac Orphanage, is run by a encouraged to allow their children to attend Project details: Under the Milex trademark, local charity. A total of about 70 children live school in exchange for each Arla provides support for three SOS children’s at these homes. Arla supplies milk powder so child receiving one meal a villages that are home to about 475 children. that every child gets one glass of milk per day. day at the school. If they Arla supplies Milex milk powder so that every didn’t attend, these children child has one glass of milk per day. would probably be forced Bangladesh to work to contribute to the Project started in: 2010 family’s income, despite the Vietnam Cooperative partner: Glory Bandhuprotim fact that basic education is a Project started in: 2009 Samaj Kalyan Sangstha (Glory Friendly Social legal requirement in Bangladesh. Cooperative partner: SOS Children’s Villages Welfare Organisation) and German Doctors Arla’s aid provides teaching, International and a local charity. for Developing Countries. food and milk for 235 pupils at a school in the Korail slum area. 33 h uma n r i g h ts human rights We respect and support internationally recognised human rights. We have production facilities in many countries and our From: Our responsibility products are sold throughout the world. We also operate – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct in countries that do not yet have fully recognised human rights or that do not yet live up to them. Regardless of the country in which we have operations, we maintain a firm conviction that the human rights of every individual should be respected and upheld. →→ Focus on diversity. Several different initiatives have been undertaken to increase diversity within Arla. →→ A tolerant work environment. Harassment is never acceptable. During 2010 Arla communicated its vision for a work environment where there is no bullying. →→ Dialogue in the Third World. Our aim is to ensure that respect for human rights is embedded throughout our entire organisation. In our dialogue with suppliers in the Third World, we will increase our focus on human rights issues in order to encourage positive change. 34 h uma n r i g h ts Initiative to improve equality and diversity role is to create new opportunities for colleagues and to In August, Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh signed a CEO prevent discrimination. The latest version of the Arla Code Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment of Conduct, which was printed in December, includes a Principles, an initiative from the UN Global Compact clearer definition of diversity. and UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Women). Thanks to this initiative, large numbers of companies are Harassment is never acceptable expected to publicly announce their support for making Arla has launched a new targeted initiative which aims to improvements to equality between genders. make Arla an even better place to work in the future. As In Arla, in December 2009, it was decided that part of this initiative, we are aiming for zero harassment when recruiting for senior positions within the Top in the workplace, which is a clear signal of the company’s 300, there should always be at least one male and one objection to such behaviour. As part of this initiative female candidate, and that candidates shortlisted for key 1,000 colleagues in several different roles in Denmark, positions should represent both different nationalities and Sweden and the UK were asked to respond to a number of genders. A thorough investigation into the obstacles to questions about their work environment. These questions reach the goal has been carried out. formed part of a larger workplace environment survey at Almost 70 per cent of Arla colleagues are located in Arla. For more details, see page 25. Denmark and Sweden. As part of our attempts to increase The statement “At my workplace no one is, to my the number of colleagues with different nationalities knowledge, exposed to bullying, harassment or being at Arla, from 2011 all jobs for which fluency in the local ignored” received a score in the high satisfaction category language is not a requirement, will be advertised in index 75, although individual responses varied greatly. English. Managers believe that the statement is most accurate During the year, we have allocated more resources (index 83), while office workers scored index 77 and to exploit the benefits of diversity within the company. operatives only 66. Harassment is not acceptable and the Among other initiatives, we have set up a new Diversity result serves only to emphasise the importance of Arla’s Consultant position at group level. The purpose of this zero tolerance ambition. Co nt i nued csr d ia lo gue Co l l eag ues by g ender Coll eag ues by ag e When we visit and audit suppliers in the Third % 2009 2010 % World, we especially focus on human rights, 100 ■ Women 30 ■ Men child labour and work environment issues. 25 80 We believe it is important that our suppliers 20 understand our position and respect our 60 Code of Conduct, which also covers many 15 other topics. 40 10 In Bangladesh, for example, our packaging supplier receives a visit from our Danish 20 5 internal auditor every six months. In the 0 0 interim period, Arla colleagues based in the All Top 300 All Top 300 <20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60area conduct visits. We consider that the working conditions and respect shown for The ratio of men and women employed by Currently the age range of colleagues is human rights by this supplier are satisfactory, Arla varies across the organisation. Among satisfactory. Age should not be, and is not, as is the dialogue with Arla. our senior leaders there are considerably decisive when we recruit people. Arla values Among our Nigerian suppliers, adherence fewer women than men, although the ratio the fact that its workforce comprises a to the Arla Code of Conduct varies. Therefore, of women managers is higher at lower levels. balanced mix of age groups. in 2011, we will make a special effort to An area for development therefore is to prioritise improvements to the dialogue we support more women to progress into senior have with some of these suppliers. positions. As the recruitment base is large, in Coop erat ion wi th trade u nion s the long term, we believe we can achieve a In all our core markets we have Work Councils more balanced ratio of males and females in on which colleagues are represented. We also M i no r i nc rease i n bul ly i ng our senior manager group. aim to set up Work Councils in our growth The overall conclusions of the colleague markets and in countries where we have survey, Barometer, where finalised in January workplaces where there are more than 2011. The result for the question “In my unit A r l a see king n ew di alog ue 25 colleagues. To date, this has taken longer no one is exposed to bullying, harassment Amnesty International has decided to than we envisaged and we now consider or being ignored” unfortunately decreased discontinue the Amnesty Business Forum, this to be a long-term challenge. We seek slightly in the total index from 75 (2008) to of which Arla has been a member. In the to strengthen our cooperation with existing 73 (2010). Responses to this question varied past we have valued the exchange of ideas work councils and are also committed to across the organisation. The same question and the dialogue facilitated by this forum. ensuring that structured dialogue takes place was used in the workplace environment We are now seeking a similar international between managers and colleagues outside of survey mentioned above, which also gave a forum, in which companies can meet human work council meetings. similar result regarding bullying. rights organisations to discuss solutions and methods for coping with different dilemmas. 35 Arla Foods amba Sønderhøj 14 DK-8260 Viby J. Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Email arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com
