UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 About Holcim Holcim is one of the world’s leading suppliers of cement and aggregates (crushed stone, gravel and sand), as well as further activities such as ready-mix concrete and asphalt including services. The Group has majority and minority holdings in around 70 countries across all continents. Holcim has been a member of the UN Global Compact since 2003 and reports yearly on progress made in implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. This Communication on Progress refers to 2010 data and performance information which has been updated on Holcim’s website in June 2011. With the publication of its next sustainable development report in spring 2012, Holcim aims to submit a COP that meets the Advanced Level. This COP can be seen as a hybrid between the Global Compact Active and Advanced Level. Statement of Support from Markus Akermann: “Holcim continues to participate in the UN Global Compact and remains committed to its philosophy, intent and principles. In 2010, Holcim actively contributed to the Environmental Stewardship Working Group and the Business and Peace Initiative. As part of its on-going commitment, Holcim attended the UNGC Leaders Summit in 2010 and applauds the Global Compact for the wide range of new resources and thinking launched at this event. At local level, Holcim has been elected in 2011 to the board of the Swiss Global Compact network and remains involved in the local networks in many other countries where Holcim operates.” Criteria Holcim commitment Links Strategy, Governance and Engagement Description of Holcim’s commitment 1. C-suite and Board level discussions of strategic aspects of Global Compact implementation • Impact of broader sustainability Holcim is committed to creating value for all its • CEO and chairman statement in the trends on the long-term prospects stakeholders and has placed sustainable Annual Report. (See page 10) and financial performance of the development at the heart of its business strategy. • Business Risk Management section organization in the Annual Report. (See page 144) • SD materiality review in the CSDR and online 1 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Major sustainability risks and Holcim has a well-embedded business risk SD materiality review in the CSDR and opportunities in the near to medium management process for identifying risks at both online term (3-5 years) corporate and Group company level. Since 2007, a materiality review has been implemented to ensure the identification of sustainability risks and opportunities. • Social and environmental impact of The most important contribution to sustainable CEO and chairman statement in the the organization’s activities development is through products and services. The Annual Report. (See page 10) current SD priorities of Holcim are: SD materiality review in the CSDR and • sustainable products and sustainable online construction • energy and climate • resources conservation • social engagement • Overall strategy to manage Holcim has a well-embedded business risk Vision and strategy sustainability impacts, risks and management process for identifying risks at both Business Risk Management section in opportunities in the near to medium corporate and Group company level. Sustainability the Annual Report. (See page 144) term impacts, risks and opportunities are included in the remit of the risk management process. SD materiality review in the CSDR and online • Key performance indicators to Sustainable development data and performance SD performance data 2010 (Download measure progress information is updated on a yearly basis on Holcim’s pdf from right hand column) website. • Major successes and failures during See link. Sustainable Development section in the the reporting period Annual Report. (See page 40) 2 Criteria Holcim commitment Links 2. Effective decision-making process and systems of governance for corporate sustainability • Involvement and accountability of A steering group for SD operates as a sub-committee Managing sustainable development, (SD management (C-suite) in corporate of the Executive Committee and includes the CEO, website) sustainability strategy two other Exco member and the head of sustainable CSDR, p.7 development and implementation in line with Organisation and Management section in Global Compact principles the Annual Report. (See page 27) • Corporate governance structure (Board of Directors or equivalent) and its role in oversight of corporate sustainability implementation in line with Global Compact principles • Evaluation and executive incentive For the most senior executives a standard variable Human resources section in the Annual structures promoting sustainability compensation system is in place. SD indicators form Report. (See page 45) strategy in line with Global Compact an integral part. principles 3. Engagement with all important stakeholders • List of stakeholder groups engaged Each chapter of the Corporate Sustainable CSDR, External Report Review panel by the organization Development report and the website contains a (p.7) section on stakeholder engagement where details of In the CSDR see also: engagement with key stakeholders are detailed. Sustainable products and sustainable construction –page 9; Energy and climate – Pgs 13 & 14; Resources conservation – Pgs 14, 15 & 17; Social commitment – Pgs 17–19 & 22. 3 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Process for stakeholder At Holcim, developing and maintaining strong In the CSDR see: identification and engagement relationships with its stakeholders is vital to the Sustainable products and sustainable success of its business. Holcim is committed to a construction –page 9; continuous process of listening to, and learning from, people and organizations engaged with its operations Energy and climate – Pgs 13 & 14; around the world. Resources conservation – Pgs 14, 15 & 17; Social commitment – Pgs 17–19 & 22. On our website; see the “stakeholder engagement “ section • Outcome of stakeholder Holcim remains committed to ongoing consultation On our website; see the “stakeholder involvement with a broad range of stakeholders, as demonstrated engagement “ section by the fact that 41% of Group companies have a community advisory panel in place and 86% conducted a stakeholder dialog in 2010. • Process of incorporating For example an External Report Review Panel has SD materiality review in the CSDR and stakeholder input into corporate been asked to give feedback to Holcim’s SD online strategy and business decisionmateriality review. On our website; see the “stakeholder making engagement “ section UN Goals and Issues 4. Actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues • Adoption or modification of Holcim is committed to creating value for all its Vision and strategy page on the website business strategy and operating stakeholders. Sustainable development has been CSDR – see pages 6 9 procedures to maximize placed at the heart of the business strategy for many contribution to UN goals and issues years, as it contributes to adding value and ensuring Innovation section in the Annual Report. continued success. (See page 32) 4 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Development of products, services As a major player in the industry, Holcim has a role to Sustainable products and construction and business models that contribute to sustainable products and building section on the website contribute to UN goals and issues techniques through product and process innovation. Innovation section in the Annual Report. (See page 32) Affordable housing Foundation for Sustainable Construction • Social investments and Holcim aims to link its CSR engagement with its Community involvement pages on website philanthropic contributions that tie in business activities. Group companies focus on with the organization’s core projects in collaboration with stakeholders where the competencies, operating context expertise can contribute to achieving greater impacts. and strategy Engagement areas include education provision, infrastructure building and sustainable community development. • Public advocacy on the importance Holcim constructively contributes to the climate More information on Holcim’s position on of one or more UN goals and issues change policy debate to develop effective regulatory climate change. incentives to improve energy efficiency and CO2 intensity. • Partnership projects and collective Holcim has a number of corporate strategic Links: actions in support of UN goals and partnerships with GIZ; ICRC; IUCN; WBCSD and • GIZ; issues UNGC. Furthermore operating companies engage in many local partnerships • ICRC; • IUCN; • WBCSD & CSI; • UNGC • List of local partnerships Human Rights Implementation 5. Robust commitments, strategies and 5 Criteria Holcim commitment Links policies in the area of human rights • Reference to relevant international Holcim's commitment to human rights is part of our Link to Holcim CSR Policy (refers to the conventions and other international CSR policy and reflected in our participation in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights) instruments UN Global Compact. • Written company policy (e.g. in the code of conduct) on human rights • Reflection on the relevance of Human rights have been identified as an important SD materiality review in the CSDR and human rights for the company issue in the SD materiality review. online • Allocation of responsibilities and Human rights management is coordinated by the Managing sustainable development, (SD accountabilities within the social responsibility department in collaboration with website) organization the risk management unit and other relevant functions such as Human Resources and Procurement. 6. Effective management systems to integrate human rights principles • Risk and impact assessments in the Human Rights are part of Holcim’s risk management area of human rights system: In addition, specific assessments are conducted in countries where HR issues arise. A specific group of companies has been identified as operating in a high risk environment and are therefore required to conduct a complete Human Rights Impact Assessment. Such assessments have been conducted in Sudan, Madagascar and the Philippines. • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has SD materiality review in the CSDR and in the area of human rights identified human rights as an issue of high online importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. In 6 Criteria Holcim commitment Links addition, 16% of Group companies report conducting specific stakeholder dialogue on human rights related issues. • Internal awareness-raising and 41% of Group companies report including equal Link to human rights section on website training on human rights for opportunity issues in training programs, while 34% of management and employees Group companies report covering human rights in employee training. • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to Link to employment practices section on the communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and website procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 76% report having arrangements for mechansims) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice anonymously. Furthermore, 27% report having specific committees in place to deal with human rights disputes. 7 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Inclusion of minimum human rights Holcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim standards in contracts with Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website suppliers and other relevant amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct business partners and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal • Audits or other steps to monitor and workshops and interviews with selected external improve the human rights stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled performance of companies in the out in 2012. supply chain 7. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration • System to track and measure At corporate level, Holcim is currently developing a performance based on Group-wide human rights management system in line standardized performance metrics with John Ruggie’s Guiding Principles that includes comprehensive issue monitoring. Holcim conducted a human rights risk mapping at Group level as well as in-depth human rights impact assessments in selected countries in 2011. Tracking and monitoring performance is part of this system. Holcim monitors its impact through continuous stakeholder engagement that includes Community Advisory Panels and regular needs assessments. • Leadership review of monitoring Group company leadership monitors performance and improvement results and improvement results as part of the annual business planning and risk management cycle. In addition, results if Human Rights Impact assessments are reviewed by top management and actions defined. • Process to deal with incidents All Holcim Group companies are required to have Community Engagement Plans that includes the 8 Criteria Holcim commitment Links establishment of Community Advisory Panels where appropriate. The Sustainable Development function at corporate level supports Group companies in addressing potential challenges with site visits, stakeholder engagement activities, cooperation with global and local expert organizations, workshops and training. 8. Standardized performance indicators (including GRI) on human rights • Outcomes of risk and impact Holcim is currently developing a Group-wide human assessments rights management system that includes human rights impact assessments in selected countries of operation. Progress is monitored and reported at local and corporate levels. • Outcomes of internal awareness 41% of Group companies report including equal raising and training efforts opportunity issues in training programs, while 34% of Group companies report covering human rights in employee trainings. • Outcomes of mechanisms for The share of Group companies reporting having reporting concerns or seeking anonymous procedures for submitting complaints or advice grievances increased in the reporting period (2010: 76%; 2009: 63%). Additionally, 27% of Group companies report having special committees responsible for hearing, processing and settling disputes related to human rights issues in place. • Percentage of contracts with 20% of Group companies report screening all major business partners guaranteeing investments for human rights-related risks and 47% minimum human rights standards of Group companies report specifically screening investments where a risk has been identified. A Supplier Code of Conduct will be implemented in the 9 Criteria Holcim commitment Links context of Holcim’s Sustainable Procurement Initiative. • Outcome of audits or other steps to Holcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim monitor and improve performance Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website in the supply chain amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled out in 2012. Labour Principles Implementation 9. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour • Reference to relevant international Holcim's commitment to employment practices is part Link to CSR policy on Holcim website conventions and other international of its CSR policy and reflected in its participation in instruments (eg. ILO Core the UN Global Compact. Conventions) & written company policy on labour • Reflection on the relevance of the Employment practices have been identified as an SD materiality review in the CSDR and labour principles in the company important issue in the SD materiality review. online • Allocation of responsibilities and Responsibility and accountability for labor rights lies accountability within the with the human resources department of Holcim and organization the operating companies, in coordination with the Social Responsibility department of the SD function. 10. Effective management systems to integrate the labour principles • Risk and impact assessments in the Employment practices have been identified as an SD materiality review in the CSDR and area of labour important issue in the SD materiality review. online • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has SD materiality review in the CSDR and 10 Criteria Holcim commitment Links in the area of labour identified employment practices as an issue of high online importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. • Internal awareness-raising and Holcim is committed to providing equal opportunities Link to employment practices section on the training on the labour principles for for all its employees and works on strengthening a website management and employees culture of mutual respect, trust and openness. • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to Link to employment practices section on the communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and website procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 76% report having arrangements for mechanisms) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice anonymously. Five Group companies reported incidents of discrimination in 2010, which were dealt with in accordance with the Holcim Code of Conduct. • Inclusion of minimum labour Holcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim standards in contracts with Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website suppliers and other relevant amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct business partners and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal • Audits or other steps to monitor and workshops and interviews with selected external improve the labour performance of stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled companies in the supply chain out in 2012. Environmental Stewardship Implementation 11. Robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship • Reference to relevant international Holcim’s commitment to sustainable development is Link to environment policy on Holcim website conventions and other international part of its mission statement and is further instruments (e.g. Rio Declaration on demonstrated by its membership in the World Environment and Development) Business Council for Sustainable Development and its participation in the UN Global Compact 11 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Holcim is committed to continuously improve its • Reflection on relevance of Link to environment policy on Holcim website environmental performance and provide positive environmental stewardship for the SD materiality review in the CSDR and contributions to its business and to society. company online • Written company policy on environmental policy • Allocation of responsibilities and Environmental stewardship is part of the climate Link to website page “managing sustainable accountability within the change, environment, alternative resources and development” organization environmental relations functions with the Holcim SD department • Specific commitments and goals for All environmental commitments and targets are listed Progress towards targets CSDR – see specified years in the progress towards targets. page 9 12. Effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles • Environmental risk and impact CO2 and energy, eco-efficient products, atmospheric SD materiality review in the CSDR and assessments emissions, resources management and biodiversity online have been identified of high importance and waste and transport as well as water as of medium importance in the SD materiality review. • Regular stakeholder consultations Holcim is committed to a continuous process of In our CSDR please see: on environmental impact listening to, and learning from, people and Responsible relationships and partnerships organizations on its environmental impact around the in the sections: world. This is done through the WBCSD or IUCN’s independent expert panel etc. Sustainable products and sustainable construction – page 10 Energy and climate – page 14 Resources conservation – page 18 12 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • Internal awareness-raising and Internal awareness-raising and training on Holcim US conservation days – CSDR page training on environmental environmental stewardship for management is part of 20 stewardship for management and internal communication and Holcim’s training Developing our people (Holcim website) employees activities. • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies have systems to collect Link to employment practices section on the communication channels and other and handle employee grievances and complaints, website procedures (e.g. whistleblower and 76% have arrangements for submitting mechanisms) for reporting concerns complaints and/or grievances anonymously. or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts • Inclusion of minimum environmental 78% of Holcim Group companies screen local Supplier screening data on the Holcim standards in contracts with suppliers ensuring that they have an environmental website suppliers and other relevant management system in place. business partners • Audits or other steps to monitor and Holcim is working on developing and implementing a improve the environmental Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include performance of companies in the amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct supply chain and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled out in 2012. 13. Effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship • System to track and measure The Plant Environmental Profile self-assessment CSDR Methodology section – page 32 performance based on questionnaire is the source of performance standardized performance metrics information and data to all other environmental impacts of the cement, aggregates and ready-mix concrete business segments. 13 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Consolidation of CO2 and energy data is consistent with the WBCSD/WRI cement CO2 protocol. • Leadership review of monitoring SD committees supports the overall decision-making Managing sustainable development, (SD and improvement results process and propose key issues to the Executive website) Committee 14. Standardized performance indicators A comprehensive list of environmental indicators and SD performance data 2010 (Download pdf (including GRI) on environmental Holcims performance against those indicators is from right hand column) stewardship available on our website. See link opposite. See also link to the Carbon Disclosure Project where Holcims submission may be downloaded. Link to Carbon Disclosure Project • Outcome of audits or other steps to Holcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim monitor and improve performance Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website in the supply chain amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled out in 2012. Anti-Corruption Implementation 15. Robust commitment, strategies and policies in the area of anti-corruption • Reference to relevant international Holcim applies the highest standards of business Holcim Code of Conduct conventions and other international conduct. The Holcim Code of Conduct provides the instruments (e.g. UN Convention guiding principles against which to make decisions. Against Corruption) This commitment is further demonstrated by its membership in the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and its participation in the UN Global Compact. • Reflection on relevance of antiHolcim applies high standards to corporate Holcim Code of Conduct 14 Criteria Holcim commitment Links corruption for the company governance. Since 2004, binding for the entire group, See comment on VCCE – page 7 the Code of Conduct defines Group-wide standards • Written company policy on antiof business behavior expected of all staff. corruption (e.g. in code of conduct) • Allocation of responsibilities and For information regarding the organization see: Holcim website accountability regarding corruption organization and management within the organization 16. Effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle • Risk and impact assessments in the Corporate governance has been identified as an SD materiality review in the CSDR and area of anti-corruption issue of high importance in business risk online management and in the SD materiality review • Regular stakeholder consultations The Holcim External Report Review Panel has SD materiality review in the CSDR and in the area of anti-corruption identified employment practices as an issue of high online importance in Holcim’s SD materiality review. • Internal awareness-raising and Holcim has introduced a centrally coordinate training See comment on VCCE – page 7 training on anti-corruption efforts for program in this area. management and employees • Grievance mechanisms, 88% of Group companies report having systems to communication channels and other collect and handle employee grievances and procedures (e.g. whistleblower complaints, and 76% report having arrangements for mechanisms) for reporting concerns submitting complaints and/or grievances or seeking advice on corruption anonymously. • Inclusion of minimum antiHolcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim corruption standards in contracts Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website with suppliers and other relevant amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct business partners and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal • Audits or other steps to monitor workshops and interviews with selected external corruption and improve the stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled performance of companies in the 15 Criteria Holcim commitment Links supply chain out in 2012. 17. Effective monitoring and evaluation The Holcim Code of Conduct covers all aspects of Holcim Code of Conduct mechanisms for the integration of antiour operations, including specific provisions on corruption bribery and corruption. Group companies are responsible for ensuring that their managers and employees are aware of their responsibilities under the code and for implementing appropriate measures. These include training and information sessions, integration of the code provision into contracts and a requirement for employees to sign the code. • Process to deal with incidents The code is very clear – violations will not be tolerated. Non compliance with the code may be subject to disciplinary sanctions including termination of employment; and this is explicitly stated within the code. 18. Standardized performance indicators See link to GRI content index opposite which GRI content index. (including GRI) on anti-corruption contains a comprehensive list of GRI indicators. Value Chain Implementation 19. Implementation of the Global Compact Holcim is working on developing and implementing a Supplier screening data on the Holcim principles in the value chain Sustainable Procurement Initiative, which will include website amongst other things a Supplier Code of Conduct and a methodology for identifying and assessing critical suppliers. The process involved internal workshops and interviews with selected external stakeholders. The Initiative is expected to be rolled out in 2012. • Audits/screening for compliance in See link opposite Supplier screening data on the Holcim the value chain website 16 Criteria Holcim commitment Links Transparency and Verification 20. Information on the company’s profile and context of operation • Legal structure, including any group See link Corporate Governance section in the structure or ownership Annual Report. (See page 87) • Countries where the organization See link Link to Annual Report. (See page197) operates, with either major operations or operations that are specifically relevant to sustainability • Markets served (including See link Link to Annual Report. (See page 7 and also geographic breakdown, sectors business reviews pages 53 -86) served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) • Primary brands, products, and/or See link Link to Annual Report. (See page197) services • Direct and indirect economic value See link Link to Economic impact along the value generated for various stakeholders chain graphic on the Holcim website (employees, owners, government, lenders, etc.) 21. High standards of transparency and disclosure • COP uses the Global Reporting Yes – See link GRI content index. Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines • COP qualifies for Level A+ of the CSDR 2009 CSDR GRI application levels 17 Criteria Holcim commitment Links • COP includes comparison of key Yes – See link SD performance data 2010 (Download pdf performance indicators for the from right hand column) previous 2-3 years 22. Independently verified by a credible third party • Independently verified against Yes – See link CSDR (see assurance statements, page 33 assurance standard (e.g. AA1000 and 34) Assurance Standard, ISAE 3000) • Verified by independent auditors Yes – See link CSDR (see assurance statements, page 33 and 34) • Reviewed by a multi-stakeholder Yes – See link Information on the panel – Holcim website panel 18
