Global Compact Asia Lotus Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Nepal Company phone: Exemplary practice from Nepal 977-1-5000071 977-1-5000273 e-mail: info@lotusholdings.com URL: www.lotusholdings.com From the CEO’s Desk I, on behalf of our company, was invited by the UN Global Compact (GC) to attend the 4th UN Least Developed Countries (LDC) Summit in Istanbul in May of 2011. After attending the week long summit, I have come back to my office completely rejuvenated to take on all the challenges that I face as an individual, my company faces as an institution, my country faces as a nation, and the world faces at large. Lotus Holdings is based out of Nepal – a country that is labeled as one of the LDCs in the world today. It always seemed like an astounding task for one company to do its bit in making this country a better place. The resonating commitment at the LDC summit I saw from the governments, the private and the public sector to address critical issues around the world – nationally and internationally proved to me that we are not alone, and we are actually getting somewhere. Lotus Holdings was the first company in Nepal at the UN GC. Even before the inception of the GC, the founders of Lotus Holdings believed that business can earn capital profits as well as social profits. It is the social profits that sustain the capital profits, resulting in more of the two. With global challenges increasing day by day, we realize that it is important to take this responsibility even more seriously. It is immensely important for good businesses to continue doing their bit if not do more, and at the same time, advocate more businesses to join the bandwagon, as in the days to come, we will need much more than just a few of us to take on the crisis of the world. Lotus Holdings pledges that it will continue to adhere to the principles of the UN Global contact today, and the years to come. Ajit Bikram Shah CEO Company Name Lotus Holdings Pvt. Ltd. Reporting Period FY 2006/2007 FY 2007/2008 FY 2008/2009 FY 2009/2010 FY 2010/2011 FY 2011/2012 About the Company Lotus Holdings is a venture capital enterprise looking toward business growth through mobilization of both domestic and foreign investments. It has investments in 13 companies and always adheres to the principle of social justice. Lotus Holdings started in 1998 as an investment company identifying entrepreneurs having difficulty and providing them support services in the form of finances, marketing, R&D and administration. This it does by providing or facilitating access to funds for the purpose of business start-up, growth or expansion. Vision Creation of successful business enterprises which would generate employment. It will work toward overall development of individuals directly or indirectly working with associated companies. Mission 1. Identification of new business ventures. 2. Promotion of entrepreneurial ventures and aim for success, stressing on quality and business ethics. 3. Help LH associated companies achieve self-sustainability and growth. 4. Foster the spirit of corporate social responsibility (CSR) among LH associated companies and the business community at large and set up institutions working for welfare and overall development in social, educational and health. 5. Provide better employment opportunities and environment to semi-skilled and skilled manpower and work toward upgrading their skill. 6. Integration of underprivileged, particularly women and children, with new venture and to ensure economic benefits reaches all participants in a just manner. Participating Companies (A) Manufacturing within Lotus Holdings 1. Lotus Paper Crafts-Handmade paper products 2. Lotus Arts and Crafts-Handicraft Products 3. Formation Carpets-Quality Carpets 4. Lotus Knots-Quality Carpets 5. Weavers Art-Quality Carpets (B) Trading 6. Top Ten CarpetsQuality Carpets 7. Trading for DevelopmentExport/Import (C) Service 8. Everest NetInternet Service Provider 9. Lotus Real EstateReal estate transactions 10. Jawalakhel Cable NetworkCable television distributor (D) Health Care 11. Blue Cross – Healthcare service provider 12. CTLPharmaceutical manufacturer (E) Social 13. Hoste HainseCompany Philosophy Corporate Social Human Rights Responsibility Principles The organization upholds human rights. Company policy adheres to the universal principle of human rights, the Constitution and Civil code of Nepal and the Labor Act. Labor Standards • Zero tolerance policy against child labor. Minimum age for recruitment is 18. • Employees are compelled to send their children to school. • Wages as per the law and based on qualification. • Eight hours work day. • Bonus facility to employees (10% of net profit). • Day care center for younger children of employees. • Company policy is communicated to employees through quarterly meetings and interactions with employees. • Transparency in company finances and net profit information is periodically provided to employees. Environment • Ergonomic office space, comfortable seating arrangement and well ventilated workplace. • Access to potable water. • Clean toilets with running water. • Periodic health, sanitation and safety training. • Environmental consideration foremost in company policy. • Saving paper and use of recycled paper. Anticorruption Corruption free, non-discriminatory working environment • Equal opportunity Project Duration From 1996 Background / Abstract Lotus Holdings (LH) was founded in 1996 by Mrs. Sulo Shrestha Shah, a Nepali woman entrepreneur. At inception, LH’s aim was to provide incubation and support to its sister companies to promote responsible and ethical business practices. LH ensures outstanding quality of the products and services of its sister companies while ensuring sound working environment for all its employees. Realizing the immense opportunity in the fast growing sector, LH has brought forward venture investment. LH believes this form of investment in small scale industries would be beneficial for entrepreneurial development. The basic modality is to create an investment fund from interested shareholders. LH will ensure proper management of the investments through well defined reporting and consultative meeting structures. Core Values 1. Capacity Building 2. Institutionalization of companies 3. Professionalism 4. Transparency 5. Social accountability 6. Information dissemination Initiative Lotus Holdings (LH) with a diversified investment portfolio, is also an incubation specialist. LH is involved with entrepreneurs / producers who have difficulty in their area of business and has inclination towards the concept of CSR. It is the philosophy of LH to be the backstopping instrument to such people/organisations by helping them in their revival and restructuring, or opening new companies if necessary, and also providing investment where required. Lotus Holdings looks forward to maintain its growth strategy to accelerate its current development rate. Reporting system: A quarterly monitoring involves inspection of workplace inspection and interaction with employees. Health Insurance: All LH staff are insured with up to Rs. 50,000 per year for Out Patient Services, Rs. 10,000.00 per year for medicine services and Rs. 100,000 per year for hospitalization service. Hygienic Canteen: A subsidized canteen at company premises provides healthy food and drinks. • Provident Fund for permanent employees. • 10% of company's net profit goes to employees as bonus. • Allowance for Dashain, Nepal's biggest festival. • Flexible leave facility on par with Nepal's Labour Act. • Maintained salary structure as per staffs qualification and dedication. • Provided consultancy service to Hoste Hainse, NGO working to eliminate child labor through education. Challenges The instability of the government and the failure to draft the new constitution after the end of the monarchy has been causing a general slowdown in Nepal's economy. The challenge is increased by the ever growing double digit inflation and the global economic crisis that has significantly decreased export sales throughout the country. With such problems, increase in CSR activities have been limited, but Lotus Holdings has not decreased its ongoing CSR activities to cut costs. Impacts and Benefits Due to the initiatives undertaken by the organization, it is now a more responsible organization geared towards not only raising its productivity but also contributing to the society through local Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Staff morale has heightened and the company's productivity has increased. The image of the company, a leader in adopting CSR in the country, has improved noticeably. Future Plan The organization will continue to raise awareness, enhance skills and knowledge of its employees. Our previous strategy to establish an investment fund has been realized. Lotus Holdings is now even aggressively looking for opportunities into new sectors to invest. Pursuing a dream of a self-reliant, socially and economically developed society, Lotus Holdings believes in business with ethics. This has been the driving force behind the company and as it continues to grow into this millennium, it will remain in the business of helping people achieve these dreams.
