Our strategy delivers Sustainability Report 2010 BHP Billiton locations Petroleum Aluminium Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 1 Algeria Ohanet Joint operator with Sonatrach of 45% 13 Australia Worsley Integrated alumina refinery and 86% wet gas development bauxite mine in Western Australia 2 Algeria ROD Integrated Onshore oil development (non-operated) 38% 14 Brazil Alumar Integrated alumina refinery and 36–40% Development aluminium smelter 3 Australia Bass Producer of oil, condensate, LPG, 50% 15 Brazil MRN Bauxite mine 14.8% Strait natural gas and ethane (non-operated) 16 Mozambique Mozal Aluminium smelter near Maputo 47.1% 4 Australia Minerva Operator of Minerva gas field development 90% 17 South Aluminium Two aluminium smelters at Richards Bay 100% in the Otway Basin of Victoria Africa South Africa 5 Australia North West One of Australia’s largest resource 8.33–16.67% Shelf projects, producing liquids, LNG and domestic gas (non-operated) Base Metals 6 Australia Pyrenees Operator of Pyrenees floating, production, 71.43% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership storage and offloading vessel, which 18 Australia Cannington Silver, lead and zinc mine in northwest 100% produces oil in Western Australia Queensland 7 Australia Stybarrow Operator of Stybarrow floating, production, 50% 19 Chile Pampa Integration of Cerro Colorado and Spence 100% storage and offloading vessel, which Norte open-cut mines producing copper cathode produces oil in Western Australia in Atacama Desert, northern Chile 8 Pakistan Zamzama Operator of onshore gas development 38.5% 20 Chile Escondida The world’s largest copper mine, located 57.5% in Sindh province in northern Chile 9 Trinidad Angostura Operator of oil field located offshore 45% 21 Peru Antamina Copper and zinc mine located in the 33.75% and Tobago east Trinidad Andes, north-central Peru 10 UK Bruce/Keith Oil and gas production in the UK Bruce – 16% 22 US Pinto Valley Copper mine located in State of Arizona 100% North Sea Keith – 31.83% 11 UK Liverpool Operator of oil and gas developments 46.1% Bay in the Irish Sea Uranium (a) 12 US Gulf of Interests in several producing assets, including 4.95–100% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Mexico deepwater oil and gas production at: 23 Australia Olympic Dam The largest poly-metallic orebody in the world 100% • Atlantis (44%) • Mad Dog (23.9%) and Australia’s biggest underground mine, • Shenzi (44%) • Neptune (35%) producing uranium, copper and gold Additional other interests in producing assets and a significant exploration (a) Uranium forms part of the Base Metals Customer Sector Group. acreage position (4.95–100%) 24 65 BHP Billiton office locations 48 Ref Country Office Location Business Area 40 Australia Adelaide Shared Services Centre Uranium Head Office Marketing 63 41 Australia Brisbane Metallurgical Coal Head Office Project Hub Marketing 39 42 Australia Melbourne Global Headquarters 22 62 43 Australia Newcastle Marketing 44 Australia Perth Iron Ore Head Office 12 Project Hub Stainless Steel Materials Head Office Marketing 45 Australia Sydney Energy Coal Head Office 46 Belgium Antwerp Marketing 9 47 Brazil Rio de Janeiro Marketing 37 48 Canada Vancouver Diamonds and Specialty Products Head Office 27 Project Hub 49 Chile Santiago Base Metals Head Office Marketing Project Hub 15 14 Shared Services Centre Offices 21 50 China Shanghai Marketing Petroleum 51 India New Delhi Marketing Aluminium 52 Japan Tokyo Marketing Base Metals 19 29 53 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Shared Services Centre 54 Netherlands The Hague Marketing Diamonds and Specialty Products 47 55 Pakistan Islamabad Marketing Stainless Steel Materials 20 56 Singapore Singapore Corporate Centre Iron Ore Marketing Manganese Minerals Exploration 57 South Africa Johannesburg Manganese Head Office Metallurgical Coal 49 Marketing Energy Coal 58 South Africa Richards Bay Marketing Uranium 59 South Korea Seoul Marketing 60 Switzerland Baar Marketing 61 UK London Aluminium Head Office Controlled Corporate Centre Monitored 62 US Houston Petroleum Head Office Project Hub Not controlled Shared Services Centre Marketing 63 US Pittsburgh Marketing Diamonds and Specialty Products Metallurgical Coal Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 24 Canada EKATI Diamond mines in the Northwest Territories 80% 33 Australia Illawarra Coal Underground coal mines (West Cliff, Dendrobium, 100% of Canada Appin) in southern NSW, with access to rail and 25 South Richards Bay Integrated titanium smelter and mineral sands mine 37% port facilities Africa Minerals 34 Australia BHP Billiton Integrated mine, rail and port operations, 50% Mitsubishi including a loading terminal at Hay Point, in the Alliance Bowen Basin, Central Queensland Stainless Steel Materials 35 Australia BHP Mitsui Two open-cut coal mines in the Bowen Basin, 80% Ref Country Asset Description Ownership Coal Central Queensland 26 Australia Nickel Sulphide nickel assets including Mt Keith and 100% West Leinster nickel operations, Kalgoorlie nickel smelter Energy Coal and Kambalda nickel concentrator and the Kwinana nickel refinery Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 27 Colombia Cerro Integrated laterite ferronickel mining and smelting 99.94% 36 Australia NSW Energy Open-cut coal mine that supplies thermal 100% Matoso complex in northern Colombia Coal coal to export markets and for domestic electricity generation 37 Colombia Cerrejón Largest thermal coal exporter in Colombia, 33.3% Iron Ore with integrated rail and port facilities Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 38 South BHP Billiton One of the largest producers and exporters 50–100% 28 Australia Western Integrated iron ore mines, rail and port operations 85–100% Africa Energy Coal of thermal coal in South Africa Australia in the Pilbara South Africa Iron Ore 39 US New Mexico Two mines in New Mexico supplying energy 100% 29 Brazil Samarco An efficient low-cost producer of iron ore pellets 50% Coal coal to adjacent power stations in southeast Brazil Manganese Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 30 Australia GEMCO Producer of manganese ore in the Northern Territory 60% 31 Australia TEMCO Producer of manganese alloys in Tasmania 60% 32 South Samancor Integrated producer of manganese ore 60% Africa Manganese (Hotazel Manganese Mines) and alloy (Metalloys) 10 11 61 54 46 60 59 55 52 2 50 1 8 51 64 53 66 56 30 5 6 18 7 28 34 35 57 38 16 41 32 17 25 23 36 26 58 44 43 13 40 45 42 33 4 3 Projects 31 Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 64 Guinea Guinea Integrated bauxite mine and alumina refinery 33.3% Alumina Project (currently undertaking feasibility study) 65 Canada Potash Greenfield potash projects near Saskatoon, 100% Saskatchewan 66 Borneo IndoMet Coal A large, high-quality metallurgical coal 75% Project deposit in East and Central Kalimantan, Indonesia We are BHP Billiton, a leading global natural resources company. We continue to be committed to a long-term strategy of investing in low-cost, world-class, expandable and export-oriented operations, diversified across markets, commodities and geographic regions. BHP Billiton has a long-term view that includes continued investment through the cycles and a focus on the fundamentals. The result is a significant capability and a portfolio that balances risk and provides flexibility. In this Report About this Report This Sustainability Report forms part of our sustainability reporting and is designed for general readership only. KPMG has conducted BHP Billiton locations limited assurance over a selection of disclosures. A Sustainability Chief Executive Officer’s Review 2 Supplementary Information document, including copies of the limited assurance report prepared by KPMG, is available online Sustainability and Governance at BHP Billiton 4 at www.bhpbilliton.com under Sustainable Development. Also available online is Our Sustainability Framework, upon which this People 6 Report is based. Safety 8 Our reporting has been prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines and the International Council on Mining Health 11 and Metals Sustainable Development Framework requirements. Environment 14 Anyone seeking to use information contained in this Report, or in the Sustainability Supplementary Information or Our Sustainability Community 19 Framework documents, or seeking to draw conclusions from the data presented should contact us for verification and assistance. Report scope and data BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their respective subsidiaries operate as BHP Billiton. Throughout this Sustainability Report, unless otherwise noted, ‘BHP Billiton’, the ‘Company’ and the ‘Group’ refer to the combined group. The text and statistics in this Report cover assets owned and operated wholly by BHP Billiton or operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation during the period 1 July 2009 to 30 June 2010. Data are reported on a 100 per cent basis for facilities operated by BHP Billiton, irrespective of our equity share. Employee data includes our share of Cover photograph: Potash exploration is advancing in Canada’s Jansen area – the world’s proportionally consolidated entities and operations. Joint ventures, largest fully defined potash resource. where we are not the operator, are excluded; some of our case studies, however, feature initiatives from non-operated joint venture operations Opposite page: illustrating issues they have faced this year. The only exceptions to the BHP Billiton has significant oil and gas operations in Australia, the UK, the Gulf above are our community investment expenditure and payments to of Mexico and Trinidad and Tobago. The complexity of these operations presents governments, which are reported on an equity share basis for both critical health, safety, environment and community responsibilities, which we operated and non-operated joint venture operations. All monetary take very seriously. Pictured is the Pyrenees project in Western Australia. amounts in this Report are US dollars, unless otherwise indicated. In acknowledging the complexity and challenges of operating a global company responsibly, our Charter describes clearly the things we value. In particular, we value an overriding commitment to the safety of our people and to respecting our environment and the communities in which we work. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 1 Chief Executive Officer’s Review The effectiveness of our control of potential exposures that can cause long-term harm is important to addressing potential health issues. We continue to focus on reducing potential exposures through elimination and control of the sources of exposure. We also examine alternative ways of working to reduce the numbers of people potentially exposed and, where still necessary, provide personal protective equipment and the training required to use it effectively. Following the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen in November 2009, it is evident that there are significant challenges in the quest to gain consensus on a global approach to this issue. While views differ across the sector about climate change, BHP Billiton accepts the science. Our climate is changing and humans are contributing to this change. BHP Billiton is a globally significant producer, exporter and consumer of energy and we want to make a thoughtful and considered contribution to the debate. Throughout the world, national and regional policymakers are considering a variety of legislative and regulatory options to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. In our view, assessing As the world’s leading diversified natural resources company, these options requires an understanding of their likely BHP Billiton has a significant opportunity to make a positive effectiveness, scale and cost, as well as their implications contribution to sustainability. We recognise the importance for economic growth and quality of life. Within BHP Billiton, of ensuring our efforts go beyond legislative obligations, we analyse and compare the various policy options by to include genuine input from stakeholders about their evaluating the degree to which they meet a defined set of requirements and concerns through the full life cycle principles, outlined in the Environment section of this Report. of our operations. As a company, we are actively preparing for a carbon-constrained This Sustainability Report provides an overview of our Group’s operating environment, including improving global greenhouse sustainability activities and our performance against our emissions measurements, identifying and implementing targets. More detail is provided as Sustainability Supplementary cost-effective abatement opportunities and working with Information on our website www.bhpbilliton.com, where our others to foster a global solution. results are aligned to indicators set by the Global Reporting We continue to track progress against our $300 million Initiative (GRI), the International Council on Mining and Metals commitment to support the implementation of energy and the UN Global Compact. Our public commitments also efficiency and low greenhouse gas emission technologies. To include the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, date, we are on track to exceed our commitment with projects the International Finance Corporation Performance Standard valued at approximately $340 million in implementation stages on Land Acquisition and Involuntary Resettlement and and a further $125 million in project value under investigation. the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. In addition to the focus on reducing energy consumption and We have made good progress against the majority of greenhouse gas emissions, our environmental improvement our targets, however some significant challenges remain. programs incorporate biodiversity and land management, We are taking action to address our performance where water reuse and recycling to reduce consumption of our targets are not being met. high-quality water, waste management and mitigating the Effective health and safety performance is critical to the risk of environmental incidents. We are constantly looking wellbeing of our people and to the success of our business. for ways to enhance our environmental improvement programs Like many large multinational companies with complex and initiatives that are beyond standard practice. operations, we face the challenge of achieving the high Gaining a thorough understanding of the risks and standard of health and safety performance we set for opportunities associated with the impact of our operations ourselves. The loss of five colleagues at BHP Billiton on the local community is important for BHP Billiton. All our operations during the year sadly reminds us of the projects are required to produce a social baseline study. These leadership required to manage our risks. We extend studies include identifying and assessing health, education our sympathy to their families, friends and colleagues. and environment quality-of-life indicators, with progress We will only be truly successful when we can guarantee every measured every three years. employee and contractor will go home safely to their families This year, consistent with our commitment to the Extractive at the end of every day. Reducing the risks in our business Industries Transparency Initiative, we have presented a requires strong, accountable leadership with a focus on breakdown of the taxes and royalties we have paid to our host identifying hazards and putting in place controls that limit governments. In FY2010, we paid $7.1 billion in company taxes the risk to an individual’s health and safety. and $0.85 billion in taxes collected on behalf of employees. Our highest payments are made in Australia where we have the majority of our assets. 2 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Despite the global financial crisis, we maintained our In October 2009, we celebrated the tenth anniversary of the commitment to contribute one per cent of our pre-tax profit, HSEC Awards and the award recipients, who were selected on a three-year rolling average, to community programs. from 225 high-quality entries, all delivered exceptional In FY2010 this totalled $200.5 million, including an $80 million examples of positive change in our organisation. payment to our UK charitable company, BHP Billiton I thank all our employees and contractors for their work in Sustainable Communities. FY2010 and the contribution they make towards sustainability During the year many of our employees and their on behalf of BHP Billiton. In the spirit of transparency, we are families were directly affected by the Chilean earthquake. open to dialogue and would welcome feedback on the work BHP Billiton contributed $1.5 million to the Chilean Earthquake that has been done by the people in our Group. Relief and Minera Escondida contributed a further $1.5 million. Looking ahead, we are undergoing a step change in In addition to the Company’s cash donation to the earthquake our approach to sustainability that represents a move relief effort we also provided five portable water purification beyond continuous improvement. We are analysing all plants, 200 tents, clothes, beds, food and other emergency our Group-wide data to identify improvements in how supplies and ongoing assistance through volunteer activities. we control risks, measure progress and set targets. Our Sustainability Framework provides a consistent approach We are developing new targets in FY2011 and we will to the management of HSEC issues across our business. report our progress on this process in FY2012. Underpinned by our policy on sustainable development, Our vision is long term and we work closely with our implementation of this publicly available framework is employees, business partners, host governments and supported by our Operating Model, which has been designed communities to improve the way in which we operate. to create an organisation where everyone is clear about We have a leadership opportunity to develop sensible their accountabilities. and accountable solutions to the challenges we face All our sustainability efforts are the result of the dedication as a member of the global community. We look forward and commitment of our people. We continue to recognise the to sharing our progress on this journey with you. efforts of our employees and contractors through a range of programs, including our annual Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) Awards program. The HSEC Awards recognise individuals and teams who openly embody the values expressed in our Charter and go beyond what is required in their day-to-day job to care for their fellow Marius Kloppers employees, the community and the environment. Chief Executive Officer BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 3 Sustainability and Governance at BHP Billiton BHP Billiton’s reputation as a good corporate citizen is The case studies in our sustainability reporting demonstrate important to our long-term success. The BHP Billiton Charter how we apply our strategies and approach. We endeavoured contains the corporate objective and the values that guide the to meet our stakeholders’ needs by using a materiality way in which our people are expected to work. BHP Billiton’s approach in our selection of representative case studies. corporate objective is to create long-term shareholder value Please see the Sustainability Supplementary Information through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing document at www.bhpbilliton.com under Sustainable of mineral and energy resources. The Group focuses on large, Development for more discussion of our materiality long-life, low-cost, upstream, export-oriented assets process and other material issues. diversified by commodity, geography and market. Sustainability systems We understand the priority our host communities place In addition to the wider Group corporate governance processes on sustainability issues and our commitment to deliver on described in our Annual Report, we have systems in place to these expectations is reflected in the BHP Billiton Charter. implement our policy commitment to sustainable development. The manner in which we are organised is based on the The Sustainability Committee of the Board continues to oversee Operating Model, which articulates the relationship between our sustainability policy, strategy, initiatives and activities. the component parts of the organisation – the Exploration Management holds primary responsibility for our Health, and Marketing functions, our businesses known as Customer Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) processes Sector Groups (CSGs) and the work performed by our and performance. 16 Group functions. Health, safety and environmental responsibility is one of our cornerstone values. Our HSEC standards are part of a wider suite of Group Level We can assess our sustainability performance in real terms – Documents (GLDs). They provide mandatory performance people, typically, will only want to work for an organisation requirements and performance controls, which are the basis that cares about their health and safety. Our efforts to conserve for developing and applying management systems at all the environment and improve the quality of lives in our host BHP Billiton operations. communities are directed at leaving a lasting, positive legacy. These documents highlight four key components of We can deliver on our sustainability objectives by achieving sustainable development: simplicity and accountability, where the people of BHP Billiton • Health – focusing on eliminating risks through the control are clear about their roles and responsibilities. of potential workplace exposures to noise and substances that could result in long-term harm. Stakeholders • Safety – providing a workplace where people can work We interact with a range of stakeholders – from local without being injured. community members at our operations, to host governments, employees and contractors, investors, regulators, suppliers, • Environment – delivering efficient resource use, reducing and customers, Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) and preventing pollution and enhancing biodiversity protection. opinion leaders. • Community – engaging with those affected by our operations, including employees, contractors and communities, and The diverse nature of people and stakeholder groups means a respecting and promoting fundamental human rights. variety of methods is used to effectively communicate with the relevant individuals at every level. The method of engagement During the year, we reviewed the first edition of the HSEC GLDs also depends on the nature of the situation and may involve and implemented a comprehensive change management plan. one-on-one meetings, multi-stakeholder forums, cross-sector While our HSEC internal audits indicate that we have some partnerships, industry initiatives or a combination of these. gaps, action plans are in place to address these. Continuing management review and HSEC audits will monitor progress The BHP Billiton Forum on Corporate Responsibility continues towards full compliance with performance requirements. to meet regularly. Comprising senior representatives from the global NGO sector, the Forum challenges our views on Internal audit broad sustainable development issues and provides valuable Compliance with the performance requirements of our advice to the executive team. HSEC GLDs is assessed at each of our assets through an internal audit process. The audits also assess the effectiveness of HSEC Materiality risk management and the integrity of HSEC data reported to To ensure our sustainability reporting continues to meet the the Group. Audits are led by professional audit managers and requirements of our stakeholders, we assess the materiality of staffed by personnel drawn from across the organisation based the sustainability issues we manage at our operations around on the fit of their skills, knowledge and experience to the scope the world and make decisions about the level of information of each audit. Findings are reported to senior management and to report. As part of this process, stakeholders are invited summary reports are considered by the Sustainability to comment on these material issues. Committee of the Board. Challenges that rated highly in our materiality review included: In FY2010, the HSEC Assurance role was transferred from sustainability governance, contractor safety management, the HSEC function to Group Audit Services in the Risk aviation safety, occupational health exposures, diversity, climate Assessment and Assurance function. change, access to resources such as water and land, reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and energy use, understanding During the year, 29 internal HSEC audits were conducted. our impacts on the environment and communities in which Since the program commenced in September 2001, 200 HSEC we operate, and community engagement alongside sustainable audits have been conducted, involving 145 BHP Billiton people community development. and 11 external auditors. 4 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Target* Performance Target date Management System Result Trend† Commentary All operating sites to obtain and maintain ISO 14001 t arget no change 98% of sites have environmental management Annually certification (in future we will not assess against achieved systems certified to ISO 14001 ISO 14001 as our GLD requirements supersede (≥ 95%) ISO 14001 requirements) Previously we reported our performance against our targets as a one-page scorecard. This year we have elected to present performance in the context of each section with the relevant commentary. Overall performance against target: *The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007. Divested assets (Yabulu Nickel, BMS Suriname, Ravensthorpe Nickel and Manganese Metal Company) have been removed from the baseline year up to the current year. † Trend compared with previous year. Business conduct As a leading global resources company operating in so many Our Code of Business Conduct is based on the values parts of the world, we believe that operating sustainably and contained in our Charter and has been prepared to assist responsibly underpins everything we do. We are proud of our our people, wherever they may be located, to work in a way contribution to the communities in which we operate and, at that upholds ethical business practices. It is designed to help a broader level, the societies of which we are part. We believe us make the right decisions and to do things in the right way; that consistent and proper business conduct creates loyalty in other words, to work with integrity. and trust. The values and behaviours outlined in our The Code was revised in 2009. Each of BHP Billiton’s businesses BHP Billiton Charter and in our BHP Billiton Code of is required to ensure that all employees, contractors and others Business Conduct reflect that commitment. with whom they work understand the requirements of the Code. This financial year, an internal investigation was commenced A common approach to embed the Code has been adopted into allegations of possible misconduct involving interactions within the business and includes the preparation of a business with government officials. Following requests for information conduct risk assessment and report. It also requires the from the US Securities and Exchange Commission, the Group implementation of a business conduct training plan. has disclosed to relevant authorities evidence that it has BHP Billiton recognises that at times employees may be in uncovered regarding possible violations of applicable situations where complying with the Code may appear to anti-corruption laws involving interactions with government conflict with the ability to win or retain business. The Code officials. The Group is cooperating with the relevant authorities makes it clear that all employees must not allow anything – and the internal investigation is continuing. It is not possible at meeting production, competitive instincts or even a direct this time to predict the scope or duration of the investigation order from a manager – to compromise the commitment to or its likely outcomes. working with integrity. This requires no gap between what we say and what we do. Steps have been taken to ensure we have a workplace where Business Conduct Advisory Service Business Conduct Advisory Service people ask if they are unsure about what to do. We also want Enquiries by Category FY2010 Enquiries by Region FY2010 concerns to be raised. If employees believe the Code has been breached, they have a responsibility to make a report. The Code is supported by a Business Conduct Advisory Service. This includes a multilingual, 24 hour a day call centre and online case management system. In FY2010, 305 enquiries were recorded through the Business Conduct Advisory Service. This compares with 114 in FY2009. While the number has more Inappropriate Workplace Australia 65% than doubled, we believe that this is a result of a greater focus Behaviour 21% Americas 16% on the existence and availability of this service and enhanced Harassment 16% Africa 13% accessibility rather than an underlying change in the number Conflict of Interest 10% Asia 5% of business conduct issues. Equality in Employment 8% Europe 1% Fraud, Theft, Misappropriation 7% The majority of issues raised related to harassment/ Health and Safety 7% discrimination, conflict of interest and inappropriate workplace Third Party Dealings 7% Ask a Question 6% behaviour. In cases where a breach was found, appropriate Information Systems 5% disciplinary action was taken. On occasion, that included Travel or Gifts 3% dismissal. Of the 44 cases of harassment/discrimination Unfair Dismissal 3% Bribery 2% raised, only seven still remain under investigation. Personal Information or Privacy 2% Other 3% BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 5 People Our policy We will ensure we: >> Encourage a diverse workforce and provide a work environment in which everyone is treated fairly, with respect and can realise their full potential. 6 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 At BHP Billiton, we recognise that the most important Employee relations ingredient for success is talented and motivated employees, BHP Billiton is committed to open, honest and productive with behaviours that are aligned to our BHP Billiton Charter relationships with our people. We believe that the precise values. It is our people who ensure our leadership position as nature of those relationships should be determined by local an organisation. conditions, but always be consistent with our Charter. Talent and development In line with our commitment to the United Nations Universal We have an integrated people strategy to effectively attract, Declaration of Human Rights, we prohibit the use of child retain and develop talented people. We believe that leaders labour or forced labour at our operations. should be valued and rewarded for how they develop people; Where contractors are used we work closely with contracting that people are inspired by humility and have a right to regular companies to encourage that employee relations as governed feedback about their performance. We have implemented by those companies are consistent with those of BHP Billiton practices and processes to: and that they too comply with our Charter values. • reward people for what they do and how they do it; The diverse nature of our business means we have a • ensure we have strong internal candidates for roles, mix of collective and individually regulated employment supplemented on occasion with externally recruited talent; arrangements. Whatever the nature of those arrangements, • allow for deployment decisions on the basis of the skill and we recognise the right of our employees to freely associate experience needed for a role, the behaviours of the individual and join trade unions. In FY2010, around 53 per cent of our and their potential; global workforce was covered by collective agreements. We believe that successful relations with all our employees, • ensure performance is measured on fact-based outcomes; unionised or non-unionised, must be built on values of mutual • align our leadership development to our Charter values and trust and respect. In FY2010, we had three strikes exceeding Leadership Model. one week’s duration. Two of these occurred at operations in Diversity South Africa and the third in Chile. The issues leading to all Diversity of gender, ethnicity, skill, thought, experience, style three strikes were ultimately resolved. and language are all important elements of our people strategy Employee profile and are key drivers for our success. We are a global business In FY2010, we had an average of: and our success depends on fostering a culture where globally • 39,570 employees.(4) The number of employees decreased diverse and often remotely located people behave in a manner by 3.46 per cent from the prior year;(5) that models our Charter and drives superior performance. • 58,563(6) contractors engaged at our owned and Operating in remote locations creates challenges for some of operated assets. our operations. This can include finding it difficult to access skilled labour. A variety of measures, including strategic (1) Management includes organisational levels A to D. workforce planning as well as program and policy development, (2) Local community is defined at the operational level and varies as are being used to address this issue. Each solution is developed a result of local terms and conditions, but generally relates to the to respond to the specific local requirements. employee’s place or region of birth relative to the location of operation. (3) Percentage of female employees for the previous three years: One way in which we support diversity in our culture is through FY2009 – 15%, FY2008 – 17%, FY2007 – 14%. our commitment to local employment. In FY2010, 54 per cent (4) Average employee numbers include executive Directors, 100% of our operations had local employment policies in place and an of employees of subsidiary companies and our share of proportionally consolidated entities and operations. Part-time employees are included average of 41 per cent of our workforce and 24 per cent on a full-time equivalent basis. Employees of businesses acquired or of management(1) were hired from the local community.(2) disposed of during the year are included for the period of ownership. Contractors are not included. Females currently represent an average of 15 per cent of our (5) Number of employees for the previous three years: FY2009 – 40,990, workforce(3) and the number of females in management positions FY2008 – 41,732, FY2007 – 39,947. is approximately eight per cent. The representation of females (6) Number of contractors for the previous three years: FY2009 – 58,000, FY2008 – 61,000, FY2007 – 59,000. across our workforce has remained consistent with FY2009. We have committed to a methodology to reach new diversity targets, including a series of measurable objectives commencing in FY2011. The following measurable objectives Contractors Engaged at have been established to enhance our gender diversity profile: Employees by Region our Owned and Operated FY2010 Assets by Region FY2010 1. In FY2011, each Customer Sector Group, Group Function, Marketing and Minerals Exploration will be required to develop and implement a diversity plan that meets the Group’s strategic imperative on diversity. 2. We will continue to focus on increasing female participation in the Accelerated Leadership Development Program (ALDP), moving to 40 per cent for FY2012. 3. We are identifying and implementing the necessary actions Australia 38% Australia 43% to achieve our diversity targets. This includes reviewing the Europe 1% Europe 1% means by which we recruit graduates to reach appropriate North America 8% North America 3% Rest of the world 4% Rest of the world 5% targets for female intake by end of FY2015. South America 24% South America 24% South Africa 25% South Africa 24% Opposite page: Guided by our Charter values, the cornerstones of the Groote Eylandt Mining Company (GEMCO) are continual improvement in health, safety, environment and community. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 7 Safety Our policy We will ensure we: >> Do not compromise our safety values. 8 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Target* Performance Target date Safety Result Trend† Commentary Zero fatalities t arget not improvement Five fatalities at our controlled operations Ongoing achieved 50% reduction in Total Recordable Injury on track improvement 28% reduction since FY2007 base year. 30 June 2012 Frequency (TRIF) at sites The TRIF for FY2010 was 5.3 Overall performance against target: *The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007. † Trend compared with previous year. We believe we can be a business without fatalities, serious identification, assessment and mitigation of seven fatal injuries or occupational illnesses. Our key safety focus areas are: risks: vehicles and mobile equipment, explosives and • eliminating workplace fatalities, serious injuries blasting, ground control, hazardous materials, isolation and occupational illnesses; and permit-to-work, work at height and lifting operations. • eliminating the root causes of incidents; A range of internal data is analysed to assess safety • identifying and implementing effective risk controls; performance and opportunities for improvement, including • ongoing measurement of control effectiveness. incident and investigation reports, results of Health, Safety, Environment and Community (HSEC) audits and operations Despite strong performance improvement across the feedback. We assess the implications of external incidents such organisation, sadly we experienced the loss of five colleagues as the catastrophe at the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the at BHP Billiton operations during the year. Some of these Gulf of Mexico and the disaster at the Upper Big Branch Mine operations had among the lowest Total Recordable Injury in West Virginia. Results of the analysis will be fed back into Frequency (TRIF) in our organisation. This dichotomy in the audit scoping process of HSEC audit teams and also into our performance underscores our view that a focus on reducing assessment of the effectiveness of existing controls for specific TRIF is not a guarantee of preventing fatalities. We believe risks addressed in our GLDs and implemented at our assets. the only way to achieve a step change reduction in injuries and eliminate fatalities is through strong accountable The protection of our assets encompasses security of leadership that will focus on identifying hazards, operations and response to emergencies. The BHP Billiton implementing appropriate controls and ongoing Emergency and Crisis Centre (ECC) is staffed 24 hours a day. measurement of control effectiveness. Communications equipment allows for automated call-out of incident and crisis management teams. Interactive databases Performance against targets provide ECC personnel with rapid response capabilities for Fy2010 saw a reduction in triF to 5.3 compared with incidents impacting our operations or business travellers. 5.6 in Fy2009. We had five fatalities in Fy2010 against Responses during the year included supporting personnel our target of zero, Fy2009 – 7 and Fy2008 – 11. and businesses following the Chilean earthquake, the H1N1 Our approach influenza outbreak and the impact on our business travellers In FY2010, we completed the integration of our catastrophic from the Eyjafjallajökull volcano ash cloud. risk and risk management procedures into a single process. Aviation remains one of our highest material risks. We continue This process requires that for all material risks, critical controls to improve in this area by refining our aviation GLD, our are identified, performance standards set and critical control aviation audit processes and by appointing individuals with effectiveness measured. The measuring of, and reporting single point of accountability for aviation operations at each on, control effectiveness for material risks will be a focus of our assets. area in FY2011. Leadership is the catalyst for behavioural change and starts with the appropriate actions and behaviours of our leaders to Lost Time Total Recordable create an environment where our employees and contractors Injury Frequency Injury Frequency work safely. 2.0 8 We are committed to a simplified ‘back to basics approach’ of updating existing management systems where required, validating training and competencies, developing strong safety 1.5 6 leadership and ensuring processes are effectively implemented. New and novel safety initiatives are not on the agenda; 1.0 4 our focus is on consistently getting the basics right. In keeping with this focus, our Group Level Document (GLD) for fatal risk controls was recently transformed from a complex, 0.5 2 prescriptive document to a series of concise performance standards providing greater transparency and adaptability. This GLD mandates the performance requirements for the 0.0 0 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Opposite page: Western Australia Iron Ore endorsed its Contractor Management Improvement Project in July 2009. See Sustainability Supplementary Information for a case study. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 9 Safety continued Improving safety within contracted aviation activities – worldwide Companies engaged in the mining and resources sector have Four components defined the project. The first was to establish historically used their own internal aviation standard to the BARS. This was addressed concurrently with the three other facilitate audit, pre-qualification and approval of aircraft components: develop an FSF-accredited aviation auditor operators supporting their operations. Despite utilising the course for independent auditors; design a two-day aviation same aircraft operators in similar roles, sometimes to the coordinator training course; and provide a database for same destinations, no common approach in setting clear collating audit information. A strong focus of the project and unambiguous safety expectations from the resources was introducing quality assurance and independent oversight community to the aircraft operators existed. of the auditing program of the aircraft operators. In the pursuit of industry-wide improvements to aviation safety, The FSF, through the Technical Advisory Committee, issued BHP Billiton sought a mechanism to develop one common Version 1 of the BARS in December 2009. In March 2010, industry standard to be used and supported by the resources BHP Billiton adopted the FSF BARS as its operational, sector internationally. Adopting one common standard was technical and safety standard for aviation. considered critical for achieving consistency and facilitating The FSF continues to promote and receive feedback from the continuous improvement in aviation safety. It would resources industry in general, in addition to receiving support communicate the expectations of the resources sector as from aviation regulators and aircraft operators worldwide. a whole to the aircraft operators contracted to provide the Humanitarian groups, such as the World Food Program, have services. To address this, an organisation that possessed the also expressed a keen desire to join and participate in the international credibility and independence necessary to foster program. The Minerals Council of Australia endorsed the the development of an industry standard specific to the program and it received positive feedback from members resources community had to be identified. of the International Council on Mining and Metals. BHP Billiton took a leadership role to initiate discussions Initial courses for accredited aviation auditor training centred on developing an industry standard with the Flight and aviation coordinator training were conducted in 2010. Safety Foundation (FSF), an independent not-for-profit and By December 2010, it is anticipated that BARS accredited internationally well-respected group. FSF is committed to auditing will be taking place. The audit information will be global improvements in aviation safety. After accepting made available to those companies that join the program. the proposal to foster and maintain a Basic Aviation Risk As the program develops into a mature phase of operation Standard (BARS) for the resource sector, the FSF Board of and gathers support, the use of collated audit data combined Governors established a project team to work with the with the review by the Technical Advisory Committee of resources community to develop the program. A Technical industry accidents, incidents and trends, will ensure that Advisory Committee, chaired by BHP Billiton and made up the BARS remains relevant and reflective of an industry of those companies within the resource sector choosing to best-practice standard. participate, was established to assist in the development of the standard and elements of the broader program. Opposite page: In Pakistan, where we have an onshore gas development, a BHP Billiton program provides a sustainable supply of drinking water for local communities. 10 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Health Our policy We will ensure we: >> Seek ways to improve the health of our workforce and the community. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 11 Health continued Target* Performance Target date Health Result Trend† Commentary All operating sites to finalise baseline health t arget improvement 59 of the 59 (100%) operating sites have completed 30 June 2010 exposure assessments on occupational exposure achieved the assessment hazards for physical exposures 15% reduction in potential employee exposures b  ehind deterioration Overall 3.9% reduction. 29% reduction in the 30 June 2012 (but for the use of personal protective equipment) schedule proportion of employees exposed to chemical over the Occupational Exposure Limit agents offset by 4.7% increase in proportion of employees exposed to noise 30% reduction in incidence of occupational illness on track no change 52 fewer employees reported occupational illness, a 30 June 2012 27% reduction in the rate compared with FY2007. Overall performance against target: *The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007. † Trend compared with previous year. The health and wellbeing of our people is central to our local and global basis. In southern Africa, the program business success. Our focus is on eliminating risks through is based on voluntary confidential counselling and testing and the control of workplace exposures that may result in runs across the manganese, coal and aluminium assets in the long-term harm. The main sources of potential exposure region. Testing is available for employees and contractors alike. are noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, Performance against targets fluorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist. All our operations have completed exposure risk profiles Our challenge is to control potential exposures at source to to all potentially harmful agents, which meets our target to provide a workplace free from the risk of occupational illness complete baseline assessments of occupational exposure without the need for Personal Protective Equipment. We also to physical agents, such as vibration, various forms of seek to provide conditions where people are fit for work by: radiation and thermal stress. Emphasis is placed on each • implementing programs to manage fatigue for those people operation establishing programs to control, at source, who undertake shift work at our operations; potential exposures in excess of OELs. Where exposure • providing education on drugs and alcohol use; controls are not in place, we provide appropriate Personal • providing appropriate medical surveillance programs. Protective Equipment. Our approach These efforts resulted in a 29 per cent reduction in potential The Group expectation for the management of health exposures to chemical agents in excess of OELs. However, is contained in a Group Level Document (GLD). This year it reported potential exposure to noise in excess of 85 decibels was simplified to address the health risks associated with has increased by 4.7 per cent. This increase in the reported our operations. Each operation must establish and maintain exposure to noise is due to several factors, such as improved the exposure risk profile of all personnel to harmful agents exposure data and increased production at three operations. and then implement appropriate controls. The requirements The total number of occupational illness cases continues to for employees and contractors are identical. fall. In FY2010, we recorded 164 occupational illness cases. The implementation of controls is prioritised on the potential Noise-induced hearing loss accounts for 91 per cent of cases. health consequence of the exposure and operations are Significant reductions were observed in the incidence of required to maintain and monitor the effectiveness of these musculoskeletal illness, dermatitis and occupational asthma. controls. Medical surveillance must be implemented where potential exposure exceeds 50 per cent of our Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL). Noise-induced Other Occupational Hearing Loss Cases Illness Cases Case management is specifically mandated for personnel with a work-related illness or injury. Operations are also required 200 60 to implement fatigue management programs that are consistent with established industry standards. Drug and 50 alcohol education programs and, where appropriate, testing 150 for substances of abuse must be conducted. 40 In FY2010, the frequency of reporting potential exposures was 100 30 doubled to quarterly. The occurrence of occupational illness is now reported monthly and analysed to identify potential risks, 20 which guide the scope of our internal governance programs. 50 Audits of compliance with the health and hygiene requirements 10 were conducted at 29 operations. Compliance with fitness for 0 0 work requirements of fatigue management was audited at 27 operations and for drug and alcohol programs at 24 operations. FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Significant community-based health risks, such as HIV/AIDS Respiratory Diseases and malaria, also exist in our business and we continue to Repetitive Trauma contribute to the management of these issues on both a Other Diseases 12 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Prioritising reduction of key exposures – Chile The mining operations of Compañía Minera Cerro Colorado (CMCC) are located within the Atacama Desert at an altitude of 2,600 metres in northern Chile. The operations are about 60 kilometres northeast of the town of Pozo Almonte. A major challenge for CMCC was to reduce exposure of its personnel to silica and noise in the sample area of the chemical laboratory. This area is responsible for taking specific samples in the heap leach sector, collecting the daily composites generated in the solvent extraction plant, preparing samples received from the drill holes in the mine and the daily marking of cathodes selected by a computer as production samples for analysis in the chemical laboratory. The Compañía Minera Cerro Colorado mining operations in Chile produce In the sample area workers were required to wear hearing and approximately 100,000 tonnes of copper cathode annually. respiratory protection to control their exposure to noise and silica respectively. To control the potential risk generated by this exposure, a multitask team applied a process called risk control priority to precisely identify both the agents and the mitigation activities to be implemented. A control program addressing each aspect of the hierarchy of control was implemented. The program included the purchase of new crushers and pulverisers, replacing compressed air with an industrial vacuum cleaner, sealing sampling area access doors, improvements to ventilation equipment and improved operator training. This intervention reduced the exposure to a percentage that, according to the OEL, eliminated the need to use personal protective equipment. Exposure reduction trials successful – South Africa Open-cut mining requires the removal of surface rock strata, or overburden, to expose the underlying coal seam. Holes are drilled into the overburden to prepare it for blasting prior to removal by draglines or truck and shovel operations. Dust rises during the overburden drilling process and afterwards when drill hole chippings are disturbed by worker or vehicle movement and by wind movement across the drilled area. Middelburg Mine Services is committed to implementing the controls on its overburden drill fleet by the end of FY2010. When the implementation of the controls is finalised the operation plans to conduct more extensive programs to reassess the long-term exposure of the workers. Middelburg Mine Services, in Mpumalanga, South Africa, is a large open-cut Exposure assessment of workers indicated that even with the coal mine. The operation produces approximately 20 million tonnes per annum current dust extraction and dust suppression controls in place, of coal for domestic and export power generation. some groups of workers were at risk of overexposure to dust containing silica, particularly if not wearing suitable respiratory protection. Long-term unprotected overexposure to dust containing silica may result in respiratory disease. As a priority, exposure reduction projects were initiated to reduce workers’ silica exposure. One project involved a drill cabin pressurisation system to prevent dust entering the operator’s cabin and, the other, a water spray system surrounding the drill stem to suppress dust in the drill box. Preliminary exposure assessment to determine the effectiveness of the engineering controls indicated that the project trials have been successful. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 13 Environment Our policy We will ensure we: >> Take action within our own businesses and work with governments, industry and other stakeholders to address the challenge of climate change. >> Set and achieve targets, including energy efficiency and greenhouse gas intensity, that promote efficient use of resources and include reducing and preventing pollution. >> Enhance biodiversity protection by assessing and considering ecological values and land-use aspects in investment, operational and closure activities. 14 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Target* Performance Target date Environment Result Trend† Commentary Aggregate Group target of 6% reduction in on track improvement Our greenhouse gas emissions intensity index 30 June 2012 greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production (1,2) has reduced 7% on our FY2006 baseline year Aggregate Group target of 13% reduction in on track improvement Our energy intensity index has reduced 6% 30 June 2012 carbon-based energy use per unit of production (1) on our FY2006 baseline year Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement in on track deterioration Our water use index has improved 7% 30 June 2012 the ratio of water recycled/reused to high-quality on our FY2007 baseline year water consumed Aggregate Group target of a 10% improvement behind improvement Our land rehabilitation index has improved 1% 30 June 2012 in the land rehabilitation index schedule on our FY2007 baseline year Zero significant environmental incidents not met deterioration One significant incident occurred during FY2010 Annually (i.e. rated 4 or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC at our Pinto Valley Operations (USA) involving Consequence Severity Table) a tailings release (3) Overall performance against target: *The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007, except for Energy Use and Greenhouse Gas Emissions where it is 1 July 2005 – 30 June 2006. † Trend compared with previous year. (1) The intensity indices are determined by dividing the annual greenhouse gas emissions and energy use by the annual units of production for individual assets, then aggregating the results for the Group. Units of production are outlined in BHP Billiton’s publicly available production reports. The baseline year for the indices is FY2006 and has a value of 100%. Below 100% indicates improvement. (2) Greenhouse gas intensity index calculation does not include the effect of changes in electricity generation factors for our purchased electricity. (3) The majority of the eroded tailings and cover material was recovered. Metal concentrations in surface water and sediments appear to be well below levels that could present a hazard. We own and operate a diverse range of businesses in different countries around the world that, by their nature, have the Energy Use – Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (1) potential to affect the environment. 350 60 Climate change We are working within our global operations to find lasting 300 48 solutions to the issues associated with climate change. These 250 include measures to improve our management of energy and Million tonnes CO2-e greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and to prepare for the risks of 36 Petajoules 200 climate change. Details of these risks and actions are provided at the Carbon Disclosure Project website www.cdproject.net. 150 24 We understand that effective strategies must include policies 100 that provide a path to reduce emissions, while also recognising 12 50 that addressing GHG emissions is one of several critical world priorities, such as poverty and public health. BHP Billiton 0 0 advocates the following design principles for carbon FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 emissions pricing: 1. Clear price signal – ensuring that the carbon price signal Scope 1 (2) reaches consumers such that consumption is reduced, Scope 2 (2) and investment choices made that favour low carbon alternatives (as opposed to not communicating clearly to consumers that higher costs are required to change Energy Use Sources of Greenhouse by Type Gas Emissions (1) behaviour, thus not optimising the use of market mechanisms to decrease emissions). 2. Revenue neutral – returning aggregate revenues raised to individuals and businesses impacted by the carbon price (for example by a cut in taxes and individual lump sum grants) maximally offsets the impact of increased carbon costs (as opposed to carbon as a mechanism to increase total tax take and applying the additional revenue for Electricity 40% Electricity 58% general spending and backing ‘winning’ technologies). Distillate/Gasoline 21% Fugitive Emissions 17% Coal and Coke 18% Coal and Coke 10% 3. Trade friendly – rebating emissions costs for trade exposed Natural Gas 17% Distillate and Fuel Oil 9% products during the transition to a global system prevents Other 3% Natural Gas 5% emissions simply being transplanted to other countries Fuel and Process Oil 1% Other 1% where emissions prices are lower (as opposed to penalising trade exposed products with additional costs that make (1) M  easured according to the World Resources Institute/World Business them uncompetitive). Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol. (2)  Scope 1 refers to direct GHG emissions from controlled operations. Scope 2 refers to indirect GHG emissions from the generation of purchased Opposite page: The IndoMet Coal Project is on the island of Borneo, Indonesia, electricity and steam that is consumed by controlled operations. an area of outstanding biodiversity. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 15 Environment continued 4. Broad based – covering the broadest possible range of both our operational areas to achieve broader conservation carbon emission activities and low carbon energy options in objectives. This includes investigating the establishment any plan ensures the largest base for emissions reduction of a biodiversity conservation bank representing the key (as opposed to placing the burden of carbon emission ecosystems where we operate. reduction on a subset of emission sources and solutions). Water 5. Predictable and gradual – ensuring that future carbon Access to high-quality water is a global issue and a key costs are predictable facilitates investments that reduce challenge for sustainable development. Our activities are often emissions; a gradual change in prices gives the economy located in remote, arid environments, with limited access to time to adjust (as opposed to volatile costs that create high-quality water. In recognition that water is a critical input uncertainty and stifle investment). for our mining, smelting, refining and petroleum businesses, 6. Simple and effective – a combination of a carbon tax, we continue to identify opportunities for water reuse or land use actions and limited trading system (for example for recycling, efficient use and responsible waste water disposal. stationary electricity production only) is easy to implement Working with our communities is important to better and effective (as opposed to an encompassing trading understanding and addressing common water needs. system, which is theoretically efficient, but highly complex Water management plans are required for all operations and and impractical). include requirements to implement controls to mitigate water These principles are intended to minimise overall costs to use and discharge impacts. In FY2011, our largest high-quality society of reducing GHG emissions and to allow markets, not water consuming assets will develop water use reduction regulators, to determine technologies that best meet consumer cost curves. The cost curves will provide a platform for our needs. They recognise that long-term policies must align with businesses to determine the most effective means of reducing differing national priorities and with evolving knowledge if water use across our operations. The cost curves will also they are to be sustainable. Cost minimisation is important form the basis for setting new water use reduction targets. because the scale of the challenge is large. Our water use index is the ratio of water recycled to Greenhouse gas emissions high-quality water consumed. Our water use index has In FY2011, our largest GHG-producing assets will develop GHG improved seven per cent since the baseline year (FY2007), abatement cost curves. The cost curves will help identify and largely due to lower processed ore volumes and enhanced implement the most cost-effective abatement options across water recovery at our Escondida operation in Chile. our global operations. They will provide the basis for achieving current targets and setting future reduction targets. BHP Billiton made significant reductions to energy High-Quality Water Use Rehabilitated and consumption and greenhouse gas emissions in FY2010. Disturbed Land As a result, carbon-based energy intensity was six per cent 200 180 lower than the baseline year (FY2006) and GHG intensity 160 was seven per cent lower than the base year. Absolute GHG 160 emissions were reduced more than three million tonnes from 140 FY2009 to FY2010. Contributing to these improvements was 120 Megalitres (’000) Hectares (’000) 120 the purchase of zero carbon emissions hydroelectricity to 100 power the Mozal aluminium smelter. 80 80 The results of our participation in the Australian Government’s 60 Energy Efficiency Opportunities program will be available 40 publicly on our website in December 2010. 40 20 Biodiversity and land management 0 0 Biodiversity, and the ecosystem services that it provides, is being lost at an accelerated rate due to human activities. Over FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 the years, we have made a number of leading commitments Rehabilitated Land with regard to protected areas and threatened species (see Our Disturbed Land Sustainability Framework). In addition, we require biodiversity management plans for all operations that include requirements for baseline and impact assessments, implementation of Water Use by High-Quality Water controls to mitigate biodiversity impacts and monitoring Classification Use by Source programs to ensure the plan is effective. As part of our internal audit program, 10 plans were reviewed in FY2010 with 10 issues identified as requiring further attention. The land rehabilitation index has improved one per cent since the baseline year (FY2007). This is due to the development of greenfield and brownfield projects and the divestment of a number of operations, including Optimum Colliery in 2008, which had large areas of land under rehabilitation. Recycled 47% Groundwater 68% High-Quality 39% Third Party 17% While operations continue to focus on rehabilitating areas Low-Quality 14% Surface 7% no longer required for our activities, we are looking at Storm 5% implementing land and biodiversity targets that go beyond Manufactured 3% 16 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Energy excellence at Worsley – Australia BHP Billiton Worsley Alumina is located in the southwest Energy efficiency is built into Worsley’s business and strategic corner of Western Australia. Bauxite is mined at Boddington plans, together with specific targets and commitments. and transported to the refinery near Collie for processing. Progress on reducing GHGs and improving energy efficiency is The alumina is delivered by rail to the Bunbury Port for measured and evaluated against these performance indicators. export. Worsley produced its first alumina in 1984 and Improvements are made using methods such as the Six Sigma progressive expansion has increased annual production business improvement process and capital programs. Initiatives to 3.5 million tonnes. The Efficiency and Growth Expansion being investigated for the future include low-grade waste heat Project, announced in May 2008, will take annual production recovery for water purification and longer-term strategic capacity to 4.6 million tonnes. projects, such as geothermal exploration. Worsley is BHP Billiton’s largest energy user in Australia. The approach and strategy have yielded positive results to It uses coal and gas to generate steam and electricity for date. Worsley’s initiatives to lower energy use and GHGs have the refinery process and mining operations and diesel for resulted in successful continuous improvement in line with the mining fleet. The challenge for Worsley is to reduce BHP Billiton targets. greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and energy use and to satisfy Digestion steam use has been improved significantly, rising community expectations related to environmental contributing to lower energy use and GHG emissions while impacts and climate change. The Australian Government’s also delivering cost savings. Other projects range from the Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act 2006 requires Worsley improved return of high purity hot water, to better lighting to assess energy use, and to identify effective ways to control. A number of energy reduction projects have been improve energy efficiency. identified and incorporated into the Efficiency and Growth Achieving what is called ‘Energy Excellence’ at Worsley is about Expansion Project, including altering heating methods and finding smarter ways to use energy. To tackle this challenge, introducing more energy efficient technology. Two multi-fuel project teams were set up across the refinery to assess and boilers under construction will have the capability to use map energy flows to identify and implement projects focused 30 per cent biomass as a supplement for coal-based fuel – on reducing energy use and GHG emissions. The Climate which provides the potential to reduce the greenhouse Change Working Group is a high-level management group gas emission profile. Typically, projects that save energy with overall stewardship of the Climate Change Strategy. also add business value through enhanced process stability It aims to address water and energy efficiency and waste and potential reductions in maintenance and other costs. management, and also to prepare the business for the Worsley’s employee engagement program has created introduction of a carbon-constrained environment. The an engaged, energy-aware workforce that actively strategy is underpinned by research into innovative technology pursues improvements through business excellence and the efforts of energy excellence champions who support projects. The impact has been extended to the community the introduction of initiatives to the workforce. The strategy through the Worsley Energy Challenge, a project sponsored engages employees, contractors, customers and suppliers by Worsley, which supports four local schools to cut reliance in raising awareness and developing practical solutions. on fossil fuels by 20 per cent over five years by using renewable energy and promoting behavioural change. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 17 Environment continued Acoustic monitoring of marine mammals – USA In 2008, a new technology was used to conduct a seismic survey of an 815 square kilometre area in water depths up to 2,100 metres. During a seismic survey, powerful air guns are fired into the ocean to create sound waves that penetrate deep into the earth. The images developed from this activity are used to assess the likelihood of hydrocarbon accumulations. The noise generated by these guns can cause injury to submerged marine mammals near the activity. As a result, traditional practice was to rely on visual sightings and shutting down operations to minimise the impact on marine BHP Billiton Petroleum’s Neptune deepwater oil production platform is mammals. The new technology, Passive Acoustic Monitoring approximately 200 kilometres offshore from Louisiana, USA, in the Gulf (PAM), can detect submerged and diving marine mammals. of Mexico. BHP Billiton Petroleum significantly improved its detection As the first operator in the Gulf of Mexico to use PAM, of vocalising marine mammals, reducing the likelihood of possible injury. BHP Billiton planned the implementation carefully, preparing personnel with Marine Mammal Observer training and establishing close working relationships with the seismic vessel contractor, the PAM service provider and the regulatory authority, US Minerals Management Service (MMS). PAM proved to be an environmental and operational success. It also saved more than $1 million by being able to operate the fleet in low visibility (darkness, fog, rain). BHP Billiton Petroleum is sharing the results with the MMS and other industry operators to foster learning and improvement in the use of this new technology. Biodiversity sensitivities at IndoMet Coal Project – Indonesia Since late 2007, BHP Billiton has implemented an extensive engagement process with conservation Non-Government Organisations (NGOs) aimed at protecting the biodiversity of the region. This led to the formation of a biodiversity strategy to help manage biodiversity in the project area. In 2008, following a series of workshops with leading NGOs, BHP Billiton and Fauna and Flora International (FFI) commenced a joint project. The purpose was to improve understanding of High Conservation Value (HCV) areas within Murung Raya district, the administrative region in which the project is located, and to propose options for developing a regional conservation strategy. A major outcome was the first districtBHP Billiton’s IndoMet Coal Project is a large, high-quality metallurgical coal deposit located in East and Central Kalimantan, Indonesia, on the island of wide (two million hectares) assessment of conservation values Borneo. The region is world-renowned for its biodiversity, and undertaking using the globally recognised HCV method. In addition, the project will require careful management. BHP Billiton has worked with the Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation (BOSF) to reintroduce orangutans into the forests around the project area, as well as to other parts of Borneo. BHP Billiton’s assistance to BOSF has taken the form of helicopter support, logistics and safety management to execute this demanding work in some of the remotest parts of Borneo. In February 2010, BHP Billiton signed a $1.9 million agreement with FFI for an additional program of conservation measures in addition to the $2.5 million already spent in the area. This project will build on outcomes from previous work and ensure the findings are used in developing a regional conservation strategy. Opposite page: BHP Billiton partners with the Graham (Polly) Farmer Foundation to enhance Indigenous educational opportunities in Western Australia. 18 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Community Our policy We will ensure we: >> Respect and promote fundamental human rights within our sphere of influence, respecting the rights of Indigenous peoples and valuing cultural heritage. >> Engage regularly, openly and honestly with our host governments and people affected by our operations, and take their views and concerns into account in our decision-making. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 19 Community continued Target* Performance Target date Community Result Trend† Commentary 1% of pre-tax profits to be invested in community t arget no change $200.5 million invested in community Annually programs, including cash, in-kind support and achieved programs, including $80 million deposited administration, calculated on the average of into BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities, the previous three years’ pre-tax profits (1) a UK-based charitable company. Zero significant community incidents t arget no change No significant community incidents reported Annually achieved Overall performance against target: *The baseline year for the target is 1 July 2006 – 30 June 2007. † Trend compared with previous year. (1) Includes BHP Billiton component of our voluntary contribution to community programs at joint venture operations but does not include payments to communities that form part of mandatory licensing agreements. Our operations are diverse and the scale and nature of their Forum on Corporate Responsibility social impacts vary significantly. Across our businesses, our Although the majority of our engagement activities happen goal is to minimise negative social impacts while maximising locally, near our assets, we also engage with key stakeholders the opportunities and benefits the Group’s presence brings. at a Group level. By listening to people’s aspirations and concerns, respecting The Forum on Corporate Responsibility comprises our executive their rights, implementing community projects to enhance management and leaders from eight Non-Government quality of life and strengthening the capacity of social Organisations (NGOs). The Chief Executive Officer of BHP Billiton organisations and small business, we strive to be a valued chairs the meetings. The Forum has been a vehicle through member of our host communities. which participants have been able to discuss sustainability issues since it was established in 2000. Community engagement Regular, open and honest dialogue is the key to building The Forum provides NGOs with an opportunity to influence win-win relationships. We aim to develop and nurture the Group’s approach to key sustainable development issues. relationships with people impacted by our operations, The open and frank discussion provides participants with an and to work alongside them to better understand their insight into the complexity and challenges facing the Group concerns and aspirations. and an understanding of the importance placed on our values and standards when making business decisions. It also provides We adopt a systematic approach to ensure dialogue with our executives with a window into civil society’s current stakeholders is regular, ongoing and effective. Our operations priorities, giving them an opportunity to explore, debate are required to implement stakeholder management plans, and understand issues from a different viewpoint. The Group including identifying stakeholders, describing their interests is not bound by the advice of the Forum and the Forum does and relationships and developing consultation activities that not necessarily endorse the Group’s decisions. address specific stakeholder needs. The Forum met twice during FY2010, engaging in robust Types and frequency of these activities vary, from monthly discussions on broad topics such as transparency and meetings of community consultative committees and special reporting, climate change and land management. It also interest groups, to one-off operation visits and open public focused on specific sustainability challenges associated meetings. The range of topics discussed during these with the Group’s development projects. stakeholder consultations include town amenity and housing, cultural preservation and heritage, impacts of growth and expansion projects, contractor management, security and crime, Indigenous issues and social development. All our operations are required to record stakeholder engagement activities, responses to concerns and complaints, outcomes, agreements and commitments. The commitment to investigate and respond to queries and complaints is one of the ways we demonstrate respect for each other. During FY2010, we received 232 complaints. The majority of complaints were in the areas of noise and odour. The measures to determine the effectiveness of stakeholder engagement include monitoring of community complaints and incidents and conducting community perception surveys, which are completed every three years. These surveys provide an external measure of our perceived integrity and whether our stakeholders believe we are doing what we say we will do. 20 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Community development All BHP Billiton operations are required to identify and Community development plans are designed to ensure document key potential human rights risks by completing a positive contribution is made to the livelihoods of people a human rights impact assessment and having it validated in host communities. The plans, which are required of all by a qualified specialist. In regions where material risks exist, BHP Billiton operations, are formulated using information a management plan containing actions to ensure employees gathered from an impacts and opportunities assessment and and contractors receive training is a standard requirement a baseline social study that includes education, health and of our operations. environment quality-of-life indicators. During FY2010, human rights training was delivered to 4,515, Community development projects are selected on the basis or 11 per cent, of employees (FY2009: 11,200) and 4,450, or of their capacity to impact positively on the quality-of-life eight per cent, of contractors (FY2009: 15,500). In addition, indicators. We monitor progress by tracking changes in 22 operations currently have cultural awareness programs these indicators every three years. in place. Our operations reported employing 108 security All our community projects are required to be implemented personnel and 1,549 security contractors. Of these, in accordance with the ethical requirements in our Code of 58 employees and 1,136 contractors have received Business Conduct. human rights training. Our strategy is to support longer-term national or international In instances where resettlement of people is unavoidable, this programs (three to five years) in countries where three or more must be implemented in accordance with International Finance BHP Billiton operations are supportive of the program, with Corporation Performance Standard 5: Land Acquisition and a key emphasis on programs that address the United Nations Involuntary Resettlement. Millennium Development Goals. During FY2010, our voluntary investment totalled $200.5 million comprising cash, in-kind support and Community Investment Community Investment administrative costs and included an $80 million contribution Expenditure by Geographic Expenditure by Program Region FY2010 Category FY2010 to our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities. Our expenditure on community programs during the year was similar to our expenditure in FY2009. Our community investment is driven by our desire to improve the quality of life of people in our host communities. Excluding the contribution to the charitable company, 33 per cent of our expenditure was invested in local communities, 52 per cent regionally and the remaining 15 per cent on programs on Australia 44% Community Development 47% a national level in countries where we operate. South America 36% Education 19% Africa 16% Health 12% Supporting employee community involvement North America 3% Other 9% In addition to the social programs directly supported by the Asia 1% Environment 5% Arts/Culture 4% Group, many of our employees make a valuable contribution Sport/Recreation 4% to their local community by giving their personal time and expertise to a range of activities. One of the most significant Note: Both charts exclude the $80 million contribution to our ways we support the efforts of our employees engaged in UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities. community activities is through our global Matched Giving Program. This program aims to strengthen local communities Matched Giving Community Investment Target by supporting and encouraging employees who volunteer, fund-raise or donate to not-for-profit organisations. 8 250 Employee contributions benefited more than 1,200 not-for-profit organisations, which received $5.4 million 200 from the Group as part of our Matched Giving Program. 6 Human rights 150 $ million Respecting people’s fundamental rights in our day-to-day $ million 4 business is paramount. We recognise that we have potential 100 exposure to human rights-related issues that may present us with challenges. 2 50 New operations or projects must have broad-based community support, defined as support from the majority of stakeholders, 0 0 before proceeding with development. Free prior and informed consent, which can be defined as support from 100 per cent of FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 the community, is only required where it is mandated and defined by law. Expenditure (Less UK-based charitable company) UK-based charitable company Target BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 21 Community continued Caroona community update – Australia In April 2006, BHP Billiton was granted an exploration licence to mining companies and landholders. Amendments to NSW legislation conduct exploration activities to determine the extent of a coal have since been passed to ensure that the legislative regime for resource, undertake environmental and social impact assessment accessing properties to conduct exploration is workable for all parties. studies and potentially develop a mine in the Gunnedah Basin of Calls for an independent Namoi Catchment Basin Wide Water Study New South Wales, Australia. The Caroona exploration licence is have been met and BHP Billiton has committed to partial funding located in an area that contains ridge country used for grazing of the study. The Group will also provide data from scientific and forestry, fertile cropping land and has deep alluvial irrigation water studies conducted as part of exploration activities. aquifers underneath a floodplain. In late 2009, BHP Billiton engaged an independent community Agriculture and water supply are important to the local communities. engagement specialist to conduct interviews with stakeholders, Many families have been farming in this area for generations and including community activists, to better understand their concerns. have a close affinity with the land. There are concerns in the local With permission from stakeholders, BHP Billiton published the community about the impact of any proposed coal mining on the community’s feedback in a report and openly acknowledged flood plain and, in particular, the potential impacts to the region’s community concerns, which included property rights and environmental water supply and quality as well as agricultural productivity. protection of farming land and water supply. In responding to the Last year, BHP Billiton, in conjunction with the NSW Government, report, BHP Billiton gave a commitment to work with the community, announced amendments written into the Special Conditions of including through a series of community workshops, to prioritise BHP Billiton’s exploration licence that prevent BHP Billiton from issues of concern and establish a pathway towards resolution. applying for a mining lease that includes any open-cut mining Through the interviews, community members made it clear that anywhere on the floodplain, or any longwall mining underneath they want BHP Billiton to listen to and respect their concerns. the deep alluvial irrigation aquifers or the floodplain. BHP Billiton is determined to ensure more direct community Legal proceedings challenging the validity of the Caroona exploration participation in the process. licence, and also BHP Billiton’s right to access properties to conduct In addition to the commitment to develop mutually agreeable solutions exploration activities, have continued into 2010. The challenge to to issues that have been raised, BHP Billiton has committed to a the validity of the grant of the Caroona exploration licence (reported number of new community engagement initiatives that have been last year) was unsuccessful in the Land and Environment Court, and implemented to address community concerns regarding the protection the local action group has appealed this decision to the NSW Court of the region’s water resources. This involves committing to an of Appeal. independent third party review of the water monitoring program so In contrast, two landholders seeking to prevent BHP Billiton accessing the community can be assured that BHP Billiton builds a robust model their properties to conduct exploration activities were successful. of the water systems and will have sufficient information to evaluate The NSW Supreme Court decided that access arrangements possible impacts of any mine. A forum has also been established determined by the Mining Warden and Land and Environment to share information about exploration drilling techniques and Court were invalid. The Court determined this partly on the basis data generated from water monitoring activities. Local landholders that BHP Billiton had not notified and entered into a single access will have the opportunity to share their knowledge and experience arrangement with all landholders with a relevant interest in the land, of the region’s natural resources through the forum. BHP Billiton including mortgagees. This decision has had widespread implications recognises the importance of understanding and addressing for the NSW exploration industry as the Court’s interpretation of the community concerns to ensure that mining and agriculture can legislation was contrary to that generally adopted by the government, successfully coexist to deliver a prosperous future for the region. Cerrejón community update – Colombia Cerrejón is a mining operation in Colombia jointly owned by and challenges through periodic reports available on the web and BHP Billiton, Anglo American and Xstrata and managed by a joint widely distributed to stakeholders. Detail on the actions and progress venture management team. This year, we are updating previous towards completing them can be found at www.cerrejoncoal.com. reports on progress being made by Cerrejón towards addressing One of the recommendations arising from the TPR was that Cerrejón unresolved community concerns. seek to enhance the process employed to resettle communities In 2007, Cerrejón and its shareholders asked an independent affected by the mine. As part of its response to this recommendation, international panel to review its social performance. The panel Cerrejón has agreed to support affected communities in obtaining commissioned an independent Third Party Review (TPR). independent advice and guidance. While challenges will remain, Following the TPR, the panel issued a public report, which included BHP Billiton is confident that this step will assist communities recommendations for Cerrejón to improve its social performance. in their engagement with the company on these issues. Cerrejón responded by committing to 24 action items to address Shortly after the TPR was commissioned, BHP Billiton received advice recommendations from the report. These actions were aimed from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development at updating Cerrejón’s social management systems, improving (OECD) Contact Point in Australia of a complaint about BHP Billiton’s engagement based on trust-building, and maximising opportunities involvement in the Cerrejón mine. Following the release of the public to promote sustainability in La Guajira; the region where the mine report, and subsequent actions undertaken by Cerrejón, the OECD is located. Contact Point closed out its assessment in 2009. By April 2010, Cerrejón had completed 16 of the 24 original Cerrejón has expressed its commitment towards completing the commitments made in response to the TPR. While some actions TPR commitments and continuing to build its relationship with have progressed more quickly than others, consistent with the its host communities. spirit of the TPR, Cerrejón has publicly communicated progress 22 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 Changing lives in the community – Guinea Guinea Alumina Corporation (33 per cent BHP Billiton owned) To support the resettlement, Guinea Alumina Corporation is investigating the development of a substantial bauxite facilitated the establishment of village nurseries to stimulate mining and alumina refining operation in Guinea, west Africa. socio-economic development in the resettled community A detailed Social and Environmental Impact Assessment and to reduce the dependence on non-sustainable practices was undertaken in 2007 in accordance with World Bank and and traditional subsistence farming. Related commercial BHP Billiton standards. The study identified the need to resettle enterprises include producing indigenous trees for mine more than 1,000 people from several villages and communities to rehabilitation and growing vegetables to supply food enable construction of project infrastructure and the refinery. to the project and the future mining operation, as well The resettlement involved several villages and communities as urban markets. To enhance the viability of the micro located on the concession where the mining and refinery enterprises, the project also provided training in business operations, port and roads were to be located. Relocation principles, planning and financial management to the planning needed to consider socio-economic impact and a villagers, who have established structures and committees compensation strategy, as well as provide alternative housing. for management of revenue, employment and reinvestment. A further challenge was that there was little community Guinea Alumina Corporation is setting a higher standard infrastructure developed in Guinea. Addressing community for resettlement and general community interaction in Guinea. expectations was a major consideration for the project team The approach and implementation strategy is referenced as in determining the framework for resettlement, compensation a benchmark by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), and the provision of services and infrastructure in accordance the funding arm of the World Bank and potential project with the project’s sustainable development objectives. lenders. It is highly regarded by the Government of Guinea. The methodology applied for the resettlement program The resettlement and compensation program forms an integral involved full prior and informed consultation. This required part of the project’s sustainable development philosophy and a significant investment in time and resources to understand has delivered to date: resettlement of more than 1,000 people the needs of the affected people and to ensure suitable and into new houses; construction of schools, health facilities and sustainable resettlement occurred, supported by fair and community halls; wells for potable water; animal husbandry appropriate compensation. and vaccination programs; establishment of village nurseries, vegetable gardens, fruit and palm oil plantations. In 2009, From the outset, affected communities were consulted to the community nursery projects supplied 30,000 trees for determine house design and location, to address cultural project rehabilitation, benefiting the community financially sensitivities and other requirements, as well as examine the and creating over 100 tree-planting jobs. impact on agriculture and economy. The decision-making culture in the community, which demands that trust and An audit and monitoring process has been implemented to relationships are built before results can be achieved, assess compliance to the relocation action plan as documented extended the time required to complete the community in the Social and Environmental Impact Assessment, as well engagement process, but ultimately resulted in stronger as to commitments to the United Nations Universal Declaration relationships and community goodwill. After months of of Human Rights and the IFC HSEC Performance Standard for consultation and planning, the resettlement of the villages resettlement of communities. of Touldé and Pitoun Djiga near the refinery was carried Feedback from directly affected communities has been out with assistance from local contractors. positive with no unresolved complaints or issues raised to date. The benefits of conducting the resettlement process in accordance with World Bank standards and Equator Principles are reflected in the outcomes, making the resettlement process a key contributor to Guinea Alumina Corporation’s licence to operate in Guinea. BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 | 23 Community continued Community projects at BHP Billiton FY2010 – A selection of our community programs Asset Country Project Objectives FY2010 Expenditure* $ Western Australia Hedland Blueprint Progress public infrastructure projects in Port Hedland. Infrastructure and initiatives 5,733,650 Australia include a multi-purpose recreation centre, Hedland Youth Precinct, CCTV, street Iron Ore lighting and cycle paths. Cerro Matoso Colombia Montelibano Hospital’s Improve regional health care services through provision of infrastructure, equipment, 2,000,000 modernisation training and endowment in Alto San Jorge’s hospitals. Compañía Minera Peru Ally Micuy Project Improve the health and nutrition status of pregnant women and children younger than 3,118,202 Antamina S.A. Local South and three years old in communities living in conditions of poverty and extreme poverty. North Phase III Escondida Chile Global Professionals This 19-month-long program provides young Chilean professionals with the 1,901,740 for Chile opportunity to study at the Universidad de Chile and at universities in the US, Australia and Europe, and to visit universities and companies in India and China. BHP Billiton South King Edward Hospital Improve the quality of children’s health services in South Africa by constructing a new 1,317,176 Aluminium Africa Paediatric Ward paediatric ward at King Edward Hospital in Durban. This project addresses United Nations Millennium Development Goal 4: Reduce Child Mortality. *The expenditure represents BHP Billiton’s equity share. Tax and royalties The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) is an international initiative dedicated to the enhancement of transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties derived from resource developments. In line with our commitment to the EITI, we have presented this data on a country by country basis and we have also broken the data down into the taxes and royalty payments that we make as BHP Billiton (e.g. corporate income taxes and royalties) and those that we collect on behalf of employees. As can be seen from the table, our payments to governments in the past year included $7.1 billion in company taxes and $0.85 billion in taxes collected on behalf of employees. The vast majority of our payments (>99%) are made to 12 countries. Of these, our highest payments are made in Australia, where we have the majority of our assets. The ‘other’ category includes minor payments in a further 16 countries. Taxes and royalty payments on a country by country basis (a) Country Australia Chile South Algeria Peru USA Brazil Colombia United Canada Pakistan Netherlands Other Africa Kingdom Taxes borne 4,687 949 327 267 196 92 143 132 108 97 64 29 54 by BHP Billiton $ million (b) Taxes collected 546 65 95 <1 – 59 <1 7 24 20 1 14 15 by BHP Billiton $ million (c) (a) The Group claims refunds of transaction taxes (for example GST/VAT and Fuel Tax) paid to suppliers for in-country purchases of goods, services and eligible fuel and also collects GST/VAT in respect of certain sales to customers. These amounts are not included in taxes borne or taxes collected as set out in the table. (b) Taxes borne by BHP Billiton primarily comprise income tax and royalty related taxes paid, royalties paid in kind and production based royalties accrued, which approximate cash payments. Taxes borne by BHP Billiton are measured on an equity share basis. (c) Taxes collected and paid on behalf of our employees are also measured on an equity share basis, but only for those assets that we operate. Where the payroll calendar year is different to the Group’s financial year, the most recent annual data has been used. 24 | BHP Billiton sustainability report 2010 For further information Worsley Road Safety Alliance Learn how forming an industry Road Safety Alliance has been credited by police with contributing to a significant reduction in deaths and serious injury and improvement in driver behaviour on roads within its spheres of influence. More details about BHP Billiton’s sustainable development activities and challenges can be found in the Sustainability Supplementary Information at www.bhpbilliton.com. Case studies in the Sustainability Supplementary Information include: Responsible Jewellery Council for diamonds and gold Ten years of implementing Impact Benefit Agreements Look at how this successful life cycle model is being applied Discover how formal benefit agreements with traditional land to uranium and other products. owners in Canada have successfully been operating for more than a decade. Reducing exposures through design See how tailored design and construction of a sample laboratory Progress towards achieving Broad-Based Black has reduced manual handling, noise and dust exposures. Economic Empowerment Explore our commitments to supporting and developing Achieving excellence in reclamation economic empowerment opportunities in South Africa. Learn how sustainable reclamation practices have been used to restore the landscape to natural landforms, including Reducing high-voltage explosion risk native vegetation. Learn how industry best practice for racking and switching has been developed to reduce high-voltage explosion risk. Water solutions for Olympic Dam Understand future water requirements and the rationale Contractor safety management in Western Australia for the placement of the desalination plant, which would Application of a consistent and simple contractor management be required for an expansion of the Olympic Dam mine. system, aligning Health, Safety and Environment, Supply and Human Resources processes for approximately 7,000 contractors. Designed by Amanda Roach Design, printed in Australia by Gunn and Taylor, Aristoc Road, 3150. A+ GRI Application Level Sustainability Ratings 9 10 2009 Sustainable Development Printed on 250 gsm PhoenixMotion Xenon FSC and 130 gsm Monza Satin Recycled FSC. BHP Billiton Centre PhoenixMotion is an FSC mixed source certified paper, which 180 Lonsdale Street ensures that all virgin pulp is derived from well managed forests. Melbourne VIC 3000 It contains a mix of elemental and totally chlorine free bleached pulp and has the Nordic Swan environmental label. Telephone 1300 55 47 57 (within Australia) Monza Recycled is Certified Carbon Neutral by The Carbon +61 3 9609 3333 (outside Australia) Reduction Institute in accordance with the global Green House Facsimile +61 3 9609 3015 Protocol and ISO 14040 framework. Monza Recycled contains 55% recycled fibre (25% post consumer and 30% pre consumer) Email: hsec@bhpbilliton.com and FSC Certified pulp, which ensures that all virgin pulp is Website: www.bhpbilliton.com derived from well-managed forests and controlled sources. It is manufactured by an ISO 14001 certified mill. Monza Recycled is an FSC Mixed Sources Certified paper.
