WHERE NEWS GETS IT NEWS! UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC September 2011 www.CSRwire.com OVER 1.7 MILLION PAGE VIEWS PER YEAR CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC September 2011 CSRwire is a participant in the United Nations Global Compact since 1st September 2007. This is CSRwire's second Communication on Progress and covers the overall approach and practices of the Company in alignment with the UN Global Compact principles, with specific reference to the period between September 2010 and August 2011. Contents Page United Nations Ten Principles of the Global Compact 3 Statements from the CEO and President 4 About CSRwire – company profile 6 About the news Where CSRwire gets the news 9 The CSRwire team that delivers the news 13 How CSRwire distributes the news 18 The impact of the news 20 About CSRwire Integrity 24 Workplace 28 Environment 35 Community 36 Transparency 39 Commitments 41 Contact CSRwire 42 2 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Principle Principle statement CSRwire response number Principle Business should support and respect 1 the protection of internationally Page 29 proclaimed human rights Principle Business should ensure that they are Page 29 2 not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle Business should uphold the freedom of 3 association and the effective Page 33 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle Business should support the elimination 4 of all forms of forced and compulsory Page 34 labor. Principle Business should support the effective Page 32 5 abolition of child labor. Principle Business should support the elimination 6 of discrimination in respect of Page 33 employment and occupation. Principle Business should support a 7 precautionary approach to Page 35 environmental challenges. Principle Business should undertake initiatives to 8 promote greater environmental Page 35 responsibility. Principle Business should encourage the 9 development and diffusion of Page 35 environmentally friendly technologies. Principle Business should work against corruption 10 in all its forms, including extortion and Page 25 bribery. 3 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Statement of support for the principles of the Global Compact of the United Nations As the leading shareholder and CEO of CSRwire, LLC, I reiterate my vision that CSRwire will become a “platform for innovative revenue sharing applications advancing the ‘CSR Movement’ towards a more economically just and environmentally sustainable society and away from single bottom line capitalism.” I am pleased to present our second Communication on Progress, describing the ways in which we apply our core values and commitment to social and environmental responsibility and uphold the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. On behalf of CSRwire, LLC, I commit the Company to providing an annual communication, which updates stakeholders on our progress. Joe Sibilia, CEO Message from CSRwire President The last 12 months have been an intensive period of consolidation, development and growth for CSRwire. We have refocused and restructured our membership benefits, to ensure that our members have more choices and receive both improved analytics and value-added distribution. For example, we are offering more targeted distribution to ensure our members' news gets to where it can have the greatest impact. We have continued to invest in our internal operations, building staff capabilities, involvement and ownership with a share allocation model, which will be implemented in 2011. Further, we have developed our strategic partnerships to ensure that CSRwire news has an even wider reach. Our commitment to responsible business principles remains, as ever, at the root of all we do and we accept this responsibility with great enthusiasm. Another step we have taken in 2011 is the formation of a new Advisory Board to assist us in ensuring that we live up to this aspiration and help us identify new opportunities. As the leader in CSR news distribution, and a B-Corporation, we hope our support for the UN Global Compact principles will be an encouragement to other small businesses. Janet. M. Morgan, President 4 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 WHERE NEWS GETS IT NEWS! We adopted this tag line in 2010 because, during some research CSRwire undertook with journalists and news partners, this is what they told us! This fits with our reputation as the leading source for CSR news and helps remind us of our responsibility to maintain our CSR news leadership every single day. 5 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRwire PROFILE CSRwire is the leading source of corporate social responsibility and sustainability, press releases, reports and information, providing the most effective and interactive platform distributing and archiving news. CSRwire members are companies and NGOs, agencies and organizations that are interested in communicating their corporate citizenship, sustainability, and socially responsible initiatives to a global audience through CSRwire's syndication network, web site, social media and instant News Alerts. CSRwire content covers 25 categories including issues of Diversity, Philanthropy, Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) Environment, Human Rights, Workplace Issues, Business Ethics, Community Development and Corporate Governance. Services CSRwire's core service is news distribution, supplemented by insights from CSR thoughtleaders, book reviews, event promotions, report listings and an interactive forum for exchange of views. Here are CSRwire's services in detail: Membership Membership with CSRwire offers enhanced platforms for the showcasing of an organization's CSR related news and activities, benefiting from a strong presence with the leading CSR News and information site on the internet, increased visibility through search engine results and preferential opportunities to be involved in CSRwire initiatives for greater exposure and networking. Press Release/News Distribution Our distribution network is leveraged via a variety of methods: CSRwire website, CSRwire News Alerts, Syndicated Partners and Affiliates, Blogs, Search Engines, RSS Feed, Aggregators, Send to Friend, Archive, Member Profiles and Social Bookmarking. In addition, CSRwire maintains an active presence on Twitter, Facebook and LinkedIn, promoting news and insights on these platforms. Through its affiliate partnership network, CSRwire's news is seen online at a growing number of worldwide websites, including Google News, and as one of the top three listings on the popular Alltop news aggregator website, delivering a potential readership of millions of viewers. 6 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRwire also distributes an electronic News Alerts to over 51,000 opt-in subscribers. The CSRwire News Alert provides direct delivery of news announcements to journalists at major media outlets, investment professionals, NGOs and nonprofits, sustainability and CSR organizations and corporate CSR officers worldwide. Archiving The CSRwire Corporate Social Responsibility Archive includes all CSR news issued through CSRwire, enabling browsing by date back to items published in 1999. We believe this is the largest archive of CSR news available worldwide and ensures Companies' CSR news remains available for posterity. CSRwire’s archive is a popular resource with academics and students (13% of our readership). Member profile archives provide a comprehensive look at members' CSR activities over all the years of their CSRwire membership. Event Promotion CSRwire’s event calendar offers one of the most comprehensive lists of events in the CSR space. Many Companies and organizations use CSRwire’s distribution service to ensure maximum exposure for CSR-related events. We offer a variety of promotion options including a featured event listing and three featured press releases published sequentially leading up to the event. Report Announcement This service announces CSR Reports, Sustainability Reports, Annual Reports (with CSR content) and any other form of research or industry report relating to CSR or sustainability. The announcement can be a category-specific email blast to targeted CSRwire subscribers signed up to receive news identical to the report’s category or a blast to all subscribers. Book Release Information and Book Reviews CSRwire’s book release service provides new books with highly visible targeted exposure, with a featured book on the CSRwire book page, as well as one press release to add further promotional value. In addition, CSRwire publishes exclusive reviews of new titles with insights from contributing writers as a free service to authors and to all readers. CSRwire also helps authors gain exposure through popular book-giveaways: News Alert readers submit an email and are eligible to receive a free book. 7 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRlive This section of CSRwire.com provides a free-of-charge interactive forum for CSR-related videos, audio/podcasts, and articles. It also includes news digests that put CSR issues into context, with a special focus on activists’ viewpoints and public policy initiatives. CSRwire.com invites multimedia contributions by businesses, NGOs, CSR professionals, and site users. Contributed content is approved by CSRwire editors before posting to ensure appropriate content and may include audio or video interviews, mini-documentaries, statements, maps and graphs, calls to action, and other educational, CSR-related material. CSRwire Talkback Blog This is the blogging face of CSRwire.com, inviting CSRwire readers to join the conversation. Thought-leaders, CSRwire contributing writers and new upcoming academics and practitioners share perspectives and insights, and interact with readers. During 2011, the CSRwire Talkback blog was incorporated on CSRwire's primary website after having operated from an external site. This ensures complete integration of the blog with other content and generates greater synergy for readers. 8 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 WHERE GETS THE NEWS The vast majority of CSR News comes from over 6,800 CSRwire members who submit Press Releases, Notice of report publications, events, book launches and a host of other news items that are of interest to a wide range of sustainability professionals and the wider CSRengaged public. During 2011, CSRwire significantly enhanced membership packages, offering more tailored options with an improved match for members' needs. CSRwire's total membership currently stands at 6,800 members (September 2011), which includes over 900 new members who signed up since the publication of our last COP in September 2010. The new membership options are as follows: Entry Membership enables members to submit corporate social responsibility and sustainability news items that will remain searchable via CSRwire’s search engine by member name or keyword. A Members' company name will also be included on CSRwire's Members page. Profile Membership enables members to submit corporate social responsibility and sustainability news items. The member organization will receive a listing on CSRwire's Members page that will link to the member's dedicated CSRwire profile page. This profile page includes the member company logo, contact information, a brief organization description, running archive of CSRwire news items published by the member company and allows for far greater search engine visibility. Also, each CSRwire news item the member company publishes will include a link to this dedicated profile page. Comprehensive Membership enables members to submit corporate social responsibility and sustainability news items. The member organization will receive a listing on our Members page that will link to the member's dedicated CSRwire comprehensive profile page. This web page includes the member company logo, contact information, a brief organization description, running archive of CSRwire news items published by the organization and allows for fully optimized search engine visibility. Also, each CSRwire news item the member company publishes will include a link to a dedicated comprehensive profile 9 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 page. Added benefits include branding tools and three customizable buckets, which can host multimedia items and incorporate RSS feeds. The Comprehensive Member will also receive a Featured Event listing and Member Spotlight. Enhanced Membership enables members to submit corporate social responsibility and sustainability news items. The Enhanced Member will receive a listing on CSRwire's Members page that will link to the Member company's dedicated CSRwire enhanced profile page. This web page includes the company logo which is rotated on the right hand side of the Members page, contact information, a brief organization description, running archive of CSRwire news items published by the organization, links to videos and social media and allows for fully optimized search engine visibility. Also, each CSRwire news item published by the Enhanced Member will include a link to the member's dedicated enhanced profile page. Enhanced Membership showcases even more information about a member's socially responsible commitment and activities. Added benefits include branding tools and six customizable buckets, which can host multimedia items and incorporate RSS feeds. Enhanced Membership also includes a Featured Event listing, Member Spotlight, Executive Spotlight, recognition in a CSRwire Press Release, Report Announcement package and one week of Category Sponsorship on any CSRwire category page. Profile and Enhanced Membership options offer significantly reduced fees for non-profit organizations. Reduced fee benefits to non-profits donated by CSRwire during 2010/2011 amounted to almost $4,000 per month (over $47,000 annualized) which is 10% more than in 2009/2010, thereby providing academic institutions such as The Aspen Institute and George Washington University and non-profit organizations such as American Red Cross, Bayer USA Foundation, Coca-Cola Foundation, American Cancer Society, Equal Exchange, Have it Your Way Foundation, Hyundai Hope on Wheels, VolunteerMatch, Western Union Foundation and Lipscomb University. These are just a few of the non-profit organizations to whom we offer an affordable, high-leverage platform to reach and influence a wide audience. These organizations are important bearers of sustainability news and we are happy to assist in making their news accessible to our wide readership. In addition, CSRwire offers newly Certified B Corporations a free press release to announce their Certification and all B Corporations receive a 25% discount on all individual CSRwire services and an additional 10% discount on all CSRwire packages. CSRwire is a certified B Corporation member and is happy to support other B Corporations. Read more about B Corporations here: www.bcorporation.net 10 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Similarly, since 2010, CSRwire offers United Nations Global Compact SME members a free press release to announce the publication of their first Communication on Progress. We understand the challenges of reporting for small businesses and are happy to support SME's such as ourselves in spreading the news of their responsible business achievements. Read more about the UN Global compact here: www.unglobalcompact.org CSRWire's Enhanced Memberships For links to all Member Profiles, see: www.CSRwire.com/members 11 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 ADDITIONAL SOURCES OF NEWS In addition to receiving news from members, CSRwire brings news commentaries to its wide readership. 122 bloggers provide timely, insightful and informative posts which supplement news content and enrich readers' use of CSRwire content. The average time spent on CSRwire articles and blog posts is 3 -4 minutes. SUPPORTING SUSTAINABILITY EVENTS Another way of helping the distribution of CSR news is through the support and sponsorship of a wide range of sustainability events. CSRwire supported 79 events in 2010/2011 including such important platforms as: SOCAP Europe and SOCAP ‘11, Cause Marketing Forum, Social Investment Forum, LOHAS, Bioneers, Net Impact, BSR, Sustainable Life Media, SRI in the Rockies, SVN and more. JOE SIBILIA's BOOK In 2010, Joe Sibilia, in cooperation with David Mager, published a guide to environmental sustainability for small businesses. This has been warmly received and supported with many speaking engagements which create additional awareness for CSRwire's news. Street Smart Sustainability: The Entrepreneur's Guide to Profitably Greening Your Organization's DNA (Social Venture Network) by Joe Sibilia and David Mager (Berrett-Koehler, 2010) 12 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 THE TEAM THAT DELIVERS THE NEWS The team is driven by a mission. This mission guides us daily and serves as a reminder to all our team of the important work we do and the need to go the extra mile to ensure we get the news and deliver it to the widest possible audience. Ownership CSRwire is a privately owned company with several private shareholders. Currently, a plan is in progress to allocate 20% of the company ownership to employees and other stakeholders. Advisory Board In June 2011, an Advisory Board was formed to support CSRwire's growth and direction and guide CSRwire on important sustainability trends and newsworthy directions. To date, consultations have taken place with all members of the Advisory Board and more formalized processes are under development. 13 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Members of the CSRwire Advisory Board are: Carol Atwood : Founder and President Spartacus Media Enterprises Carol Atwood is a successful entrepreneur who is actively involved in socially focused ventures for the purpose of leveraging business, finance and media to effect social change. She is a recipient of many awards, including “NYC Entrepreneur of the Year” award. Carol founded Spartacus Media Enterprises in 2001, an organization dedicated to increasing the flow of capital to media and education for social change. Carol was co-founder and COO of Generous Returns, a hedge fund which dedicated 50% of its profits to philanthropy. Carol holds several board and advisory positions with organizations that reflect social and environmentally sound business practices. Julie Beman : Business Intelligence and Data Warehousing Consultant Julie Beman is a business intelligence and data warehousing consultant with a specialty in legal, compliance, and regulatory decision support. Julie also owns a writing and editing business called Paper City Workshop. Julie is the founder and facilitator of the Corduroy Appreciation Club, a community-based group of entrepreneurs in all stages of business development. Julie has a Bachelor’s degree in Philosophy and is pursuing a Master’s degree in Theology and Ethics. She writes extensively on life in Hartford CT, and is an essayist, poet, and songwriter. Richard Landry : Founder and CEO of richmedium Richard Landry has more than twenty years of experience leading emerging organizations through periods of transformative change and is a thought leader on the convergence of media, information technology, and social values. Richard has held positions as editor-in-chief of Computer Magazine, Publishing Director at PCW Communications, Chairman and CEO of HyperMedia Communications and Executive Director of the non-profit Independent Press Association. Richard is a frequent speaker at digital technology and media business conferences. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Social Venture Network. 14 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Aman Singh : CSR journalist and communications strategist Aman Singh is a prominent CSR journalist and communications strategist and author of a blog: In Good Company: Singh on CSR. Most recently, Aman served as the Senior Corporate Responsibility Editor with Vault, creating the recruitment and hiring industry's first multimedia CSR portal. Aman's work has appeared on CNBC, Bloomberg Businessweek, Ethical Performance, the ABA's CSR Journal and The Corporate Citizen, among others. Formerly with The Wall Street Journal, Aman is a New York University alumnus and was named among 2010’s Top 100 Thought Leaders in Trustworthy Business Behavior by Trust Across America and ranked No. 4 in HRExaminer’s Top 25 HR Digital Influencers for 2011. Will Trienens : Director of Web Services at Fuzz Productions LLC Will Trienens co-founded Fuzz Productions in 2001 at age 19 with business partner and cousin Nathanial Trienens. Since then, he has functioned as Lead Digital Strategist and Creative Director for the web division. Will has a proven record of providing clients such as Capital One, Computer Associates and Sotheby's with compelling solutions for an array of online challenges. Will's leadership at Fuzz is defined by balancing cutting edge technological progress with carefully cultivated brand development and creative strategies. 15 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Leadership CEO Joe Sibilia Joe Sibilia is founder and CEO of Meadowbrook Lane Capital (MBLC), described by the Wall Street Journal as a “socially responsible investment bank” specializing in turning values into valuation. Joe founded the Gasoline Alley Foundation, a 501(c)3 corporation that has incubated 43 small businesses since 1985 and teaches underprivileged persons to be successful entrepreneurs using socially responsible business practices while revitalizing inner city neighborhoods. Through MLBC, Joe has worked with many Socially Responsible Companies and has been widely recognized for his work in attempting to take Ben & Jerry’s Homemade Ice Cream private, while creating a private stock exchange for CSR companies. Joe is a frequent speaker on CSR and Sustainability at many meetings and conferences. News from Joe Sibilia, CEO : Gasoline Alley gives value to that which has been abandoned. President Janet M Morgan Janet M. Morgan has more than 25 years of strategic business planning, management, development, branding, marketing, public relations and consulting experience and is committed to creating sustainable, progressive change. Prior to joining CSRwire in 2009, Jan was President of Morgan Amadeo LLC, an international consulting group focusing on strategic planning and project implementation for NGO’s, nonprofit organizations, governments, start-up companies and social venture enterprises. Previous experience includes: Director of Not-for-Profit Consulting Services at RSM McGladrey in New York; Director of American Express Tax and Business Services, Not-for-Profit Consulting Services, Managing Director of Media Minds Group in Greenwich CT., Founding Partner of Zink Communications; later acquired and known as The Zink Group. Jan serves as a member of the Board of Trustees at Rural Education and Development (READ) Global, and a member of the Board of Governors at Antioch University. News from Jan Morgan, President : I am terribly ambitious where the world is concerned and feel a personal responsibility to contribute to the welfare of all. I try to take responsibility for my own actions and I believe the work we do at CSRwire benefits society and communities all over the world. 16 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Team CSRwire has 11 full time staff of which 7 are women and 4 are men. In addition, the Company employs external contributing writers who write original content for CSRwire as well as a network of 122 bloggers who contribute content to the CSRwire Talkback Blog. Additionally, CSRwire employs external technology developers who support website innovations and maintenance. News from Natalie Thomas, Senior Director of Operations: You are shaped by the communities in which you involve yourself. I feel lucky to have been, and continue to be, shaped by the CSRwire and Gasoline Alley community. Organization 17 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 HOW DISTRIBUTES THE NEWS CSRwire distributes its news in four ways 1. News headlines are distributed in the News Alert to our 51,000+ opt-in subscribers each weekday morning. 2. News headlines are published on CSRwire’s homepage, archive page (Press Releases Page, Reports Page etc.) and category pages. 3. News headlines are issued to CSRwire's 45+ Syndicated Partners. 4. News headlines are distributed to direct media contacts through a new platform adopted in 2011. All Standard and Featured News Items now automatically reach a list of 355 global media contacts with an interest in CSR and Sustainability. CSRwire has three distribution options available for members. Standard News Item A Standard News Item is published to CSRwire's homepage under the Breaking Headlines section. It remains there for some hours depending on the volume of Press Releases published that day. The Standard News Item is also published on the Press Releases Archive page, and the archive pages of the two categories it is assigned to. The Standard News Item is published in CSRwire's News Alert to our opt-in News Alert subscribers. The News Alert contains all of the previous day's titles. The Standard News Item is distributed through CSRwire's Syndicated Partner network. These partners run an RSS feed of CSRwire headlines on their websites. Samples of our Syndicated Partners can be seen on our distribution page under Syndicated Partner Distribution. 18 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 See a small selection of our Syndicated News Distribution Partners here: In addition, members can choose a Featured News Item option which provides all the reach of the Standard News Item with the addition of seven day appearance in the homepage features section, and publication in five CSRwire News Alerts. News from Sarah Peyok, Director of Editorial: As Kenneth Cole said, No good deed should go unpublished. It's a mantra all businesses should adhere to. I go back and forth with those in the CSR and sustainability community all the time about the separation of CSR and PR. And, while I agree the two cannot be synonymous, what better way is there to professionally convey your business' good deeds than strategic, direct communication, i.e. the press release? 19 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 THE IMPACT OF THE NEWS In 2010, CSRwire distributed 3,006 news items which represents 28% growth versus 2009. The most important material impact that CSRwire can have as a result of its wide scope of activities is the delivery of CSR related content and insights to as broad a range of readers as possible, contributing to the change in the way business is done around the globe. It is our objective to provide leverage for companies wishing to gain advantage through promoting their corporate citizenship achievements, as well as for non-profits looking to advance a cause. In doing so, we provide a range of supporting commentary to assist readers to make sense of complex matters and be better placed to become more knowledgeable stakeholders and make more responsible and sustainable decisions. As our reach and volume of content grows, so does our impact. CSRwire membership has grown by 16% in the last 12 months, and distributed news items grew by 28% in 2010 versus 2009, showing that CSRwire members are more active in distributing news as they take advantage of CSRwire's new membership structure. 20 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Additional information about the impact of the reach of CSRwire's news is as follows:  Over 250,000 page views each month  Over 1.7 million unique visitors per year  224 countries/territories  14,500 referral sites link to CSRwire.com  More than 51,000 active opt-in subscribers to the CSRwire News Alert including 28,000 self-identified CSR professionals, Journalists, Investors, Analysts, Academics, NGOs, and PR Consultants  Syndicated distribution to over 5 different news partners  65,000 + green listings for news distributed to 100 cities in America via mobile application  51,000 individuals and 6,000 organizations share CSRwire news daily  Over 6,700 CSRwire members CSRwire achieves a 63 Klout score (September 2011) (Klout measures influence online) This score classifies CSRwire as a BROADCASTER! http://klout.com/#/csrwire 21 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRwire on Twitter: www.twitter.com/CSRwire 21,479 tweets and 10,278 followers, 899 listed in September 2011, an increase from 7,878 tweets, 4,000 followers, 379 listed in August 2011 CSRwire on Facebook: www.facebook.com/CSRwire 4,054 fans in September 2011 – an increase from 1,897 fans in August 2010 22 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 HOW ENSURES AND ETHICAL AND RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATION In this section, we describe how CSRwire does its business, with a focus in five core areas of operation:  Integrity: Values, ethics and business responsibility frameworks to which we adhere.  Workplace: human resources practices and employee care and participation.  Environment: managing our environmental impacts.  Community: contributing to building a strong community.  Transparency: our approach to reporting. 23 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Integrity Values CSRwire upholds eight Guiding Principles that aid working together in a collaborative culture, and are posted in CSRwire offices as a daily reminder for all. Trust ** Focus ** Honesty ** Collaboration Integrity ** Responsibility ** Unity ** Communication 1) Trust: We operate from a place of trust, assume good will and avoid being judgmental. 2) Focus: We stay focused, strive to be concise, stay on topic and honor time limits. 3) Honesty: We strive to be honest, speaking directly, speaking up when we perceive there is a problem and try to say the “tough stuff” appropriately. 4) Collaboration: We work together to find solutions, honor and appreciate ideas that are not our own, we welcome differences and are committed to each other and the success of the company. 5) Integrity: We try not to speak ill of others, we are accountable and not defensive, we try to improve, and we speak privately and respectfully to any individual with whom we have disagreements. 6) Responsibility: We build credibility by saying what we will do and then doing it, we let people who are depending upon us know what we can and can’t commit to doing, we speak up when there has been a change or delay. 7) Unity: We try not to lose sight of our shared purpose, we don’t discriminate against others and we try to have fun while learning from each other. 8) Communication: We strive to create an open and honest environment for discussion, we encourage everyone to contribute her or his ideas, we take responsibility for how the message is delivered and received, we listen well and are open to new information and ideas. 24 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRwire is committed to doing business in a way which prohibits all forms of corruption, extortion and bribery. CSRwire maintains policies to guide its employees with respect to standards of conduct expected in areas where improper activities could damage CSRwire's reputation or that of its stakeholders and which denounce all forms of corruption, extortion, bribery or breach of antitrust laws. CSRwire unswervingly upholds the letter of the law both in practice and in spirit in all dealings, and insists on lawful and ethical practices by all employees. Ethics at CSRwire CSRwire maintains an Ethics Policy which is distributed to all employees on joining the Company and employees will be invited to sign a declaration confirming they have received and read the policy, understand all of its terms and agree to be bound by its provisions in 2011. All CSRwire employees are aware of this statement and behave accordingly. Being a small organization, most employees have frequent contact with the Company President and/ CEO and discuss and consult on potential ethical conflicts as they arise. There have been no breaches of CSRwire's ethics policy during the period covered by the Communication on Progress and consultation on ethical issues as needs, there have been no compliance or ethics issues reported to CSRwire management or legal counsel by current employees or external parties. 25 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 CSRwire: A CERTIFIED B CORPORATION B Corporations are a new type of corporation which uses the power of business to solve social and environmental problems. B Corporations are unlike traditional responsible businesses because they:  Meet comprehensive and transparent social and environmental performance standards.  Institutionalize stakeholder interests.  Build collective voice through the power of a unifying brand. Read more about B corporations on the website: www.bcorporation.net. CSRwire became a certified B Corporation in October 2009 after passing a first review by B Corporation auditors. The change we seek is a fundamental transformation in how the world thinks and acts regarding the appropriate uses of money as well as the power and responsibilities money confers on enterprises. By providing a vital nexus and platform for all those involved in the burgeoning discussion about CSR and related topics, we aim to motivate corporate and non-corporate practices that improve the wellbeing of society and the environment. • CSRwire employees are actively engaged in volunteering, philanthropy, community development and environmental stewardship. • CSRwire is committed to becoming a carbon neutral company working with sustainable environmental and business practices. • CSRwire is located on “Gasoline Alley”, a chemically contaminated street in Springfield, Massachusetts. We actively participate in helping the Gasoline Alley Foundation support inner city and underprivileged persons to become successful entrepreneurs by using responsible and sustainable business practices while revitalizing an abandoned neighborhood. Read more about our certification on the B Corporation website: www.bcorporation.net/CSRwire 26 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 News from Kristen Sibilia, Director of Business Development: B Corps is an incredible certification for companies. This certification gives a face to the term triple bottom line and allows companies to showcase their transparency in changing the way the world does business. I am very proud to work for a company that is a Certified B Corporation. 27 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Workplace At CSRwire, we value people: the owners, employees and independent contractors who invest their knowledge, technical skills, experience, passion and entrepreneurial abilities in CSRwire. Their ever-increasing knowledge enables CSRwire to grow as a business and to expand the concept and practice of employee participation. We believe in working hard, working right, and advancing our social mission, while caring for people, ensuring they have the tools to succeed and paying a living wage while discovering the best ways to broadly share the risks, rewards, rights and responsibilities of good corporate citizenship. Through participation and cooperation, we believe, will give CSRwire the competitive edge needed for continued innovation and growth. In the near future many employees will have a financial stake in the firm, each an entrepreneur with a vested interest in our future. In this way, CSRwire is confident that it can thrive as a financially successful company providing meaningful work, supporting sustainable communities and getting your CSR message through! Steve O’Connor, Sales Associate: Someone once said, No one can whistle a symphony. It takes a whole orchestra to play it. This carries over to just about everything. A team on the basketball court is the same as a team in the office. We can always rely on the people who are a part of our team. 28 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Upholding human rights in our workplace practices CSRwire is firmly committed to upholding human rights in all aspects of its business, as well as to promoting the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence, and wide audience around the globe. CSRwire believes in the value of all individuals and respect for basic human rights contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and conducts business in a manner which is consistent with universal values of integrity, respect, fairness and decency, human dignity, peace and social and environmental justice. CSRwire promotes awareness of human rights through publication of related news and press releases. In the CSRwire workplace, many policies and practices support a workplace which is respectful to all employees and honors their basic rights including: 1. Maintaining a safe, respectful and empowering workplace. 2. Adopting a corporate mission which promotes social empowerment. 3. Implementing practices necessary to qualify for certification as a B Corp member. 4. Participation in the UN Global Compact and declaring open support for the Global Compact principles. 5. CSRwire's Ethics Policy which is communicated to and upheld by all employees. There have been no legal claims or lawsuits against the Company in relation to infringement of human rights. CSRwire's supply chain is composed largely of small, local suppliers or large services suppliers (such as utilities or telephony companies) which publish Corporate Responsibility Reports as a testimony to their support for responsible and fair business practice. Most CSRwire suppliers are local. 29 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Rights and Responsibilities of Stakeholders At CSRwire, it is a core principle that all employees should know their rights and that expectation are clearly articulated. CSRwire maintains a comprehensive Employee Handbook which is provided to all new employees containing details of terms and conditions of employment and company policies. The Rights and Responsibilities of CSRwire key stakeholders are explicitly laid out in the Employee Handbook: Rights &  Be free of discrimination in the work place. Responsibilities  Provide a fair day of work in exchange for a fair wage. of Employees  Understand and be responsible for the policies of the company.  Have a voice in decisions directly related to their job.  Look forward to advancement based on merit.  Access dispute resolution process of the company. Rights & • Organize, manage, plan and control the company’s operational affairs. Responsibilities • Fairly evaluate the performance of employees. of Managers • Hire and fire in strict accord with CSRwire policies. and Directors • Expect and honestly participate in annual performance reviews. • Establish and maintain regular procedures, reports and schedules. • Identify new products, technologies and business opportunities. • Make suitable training and education routinely available to all employees. Rights & • Create strategic plans necessary to implement the Board of Directors goals. Responsibilities • Establish and define the duties of officers and divisional managers. of Chairperson • Hire, manage and evaluate the performance of divisional managers. and CEO • Oversee the strategic initiatives of the company. • Organize, lead and facilitate the activities of the Board of Directors. Rights and • Establish the mission, objectives and policies of CSRwire Responsibilities • Select and define the duties, compensation and performance of the Board of evaluation of the CEO. Directors • Plan for long-term business growth and development. • Review and recommend modifications to the By-laws. • Know and stay current on laws that may affect the company. 30 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Employee Participation: Equitable Decision Making Our fundamental business philosophy supports more equitable distribution of decision making, and this is demonstrated by CSRwire practice. CSRwire employees will all have the potential to become employee shareholders. In 2011, CSRwire is setting aside up to 20% of its share ownership for employees and some external stakeholders as a way of demonstrating even greater commitment to the rights and benefits of employees through the long term. Employee Compensation: Paying a living wage We firmly believe that the right to a living wage should be supported by all businesses. CSRwire tries to pay a competitive livable family wage. In most cases, salaries are set at or near compensation for the same or similar work in other companies in Springfield, MA and the USA. CSRwire's lowest paid employee is paid $11.50 per hour, 27% higher than the minimum wage in MA, which is $9.04. Employee Evaluation and Feedback: Supporting Performance Each staff member is given the opportunity for an annual formal performance evaluation with his/her manager and a representative from human resources. Employees also have the opportunity to feedback to their managers about aspects of their performance which support or hinder delivering outstanding performance. This complements more frequent reviews of performance as required on a weekly or monthly basis in regular working sessions. During the last year, 100% of CSRwire’s staff participated in a formal performance evaluation. Employee Communications and Internal Transparency As a small business, all staff and key internal and external stakeholders are informed of what's happening at CSRwire on a regular and informal basis. However, we feel it is important to maintain a formal structure for communications to ensure full internal transparency. CSRwire holds monthly meetings for all staff, where business results are presented and discussed, alongside all other current issues. There are also a minimum of four “Town Hall” meetings per year which are held at CSRwire headquarters in Springfield, MA for the purpose of celebrating our progress and to enable knowledge sharing and interaction with many of CSRwire’s remote staff members, investors and stakeholders. 31 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Employee safety, health and well-being CSRwire is committed to maintaining a workplace which is healthy and safe for all employees, free of violence and harassment. We believe this is one of the most basic rights of employees in our workplace. There have been no workplace lost-time accidents recorded during 2010 / 2011. We support the wellbeing of our employees by providing homey, spacious and personally decorated office accommodation with good lighting and fresh air. Every staff member is set up to work remotely (through company laptop computers and cell phones) and any staff member may work from home or on the road, by prior arrangement, for personal reasons or in the course of regular business. Employee learning and training: Developing skills CSRwire is committed to supporting the ongoing learning and skill development of its team. While the Company does have a formal training program on its own systems, all employees are also encouraged to develop their learning and skills in several ways: • In depth, on-the-job training, supported by the Company President and other experienced CSRwire employees • Opportunities to assume more challenging assignments, with relevant focused training • Attendance at specific training events to meet specific identified needs. Employee-learning needs are identified and / or requested in annual performance evaluations and CSRwire addresses these as far as possible. Employee privacy: a basic right of all CSRwire is committed to upholding the privacy of all personal information relating to employees and does not reveal any such information to third parties. Child labor As a small private Company, employing 11 people, this principle is not directly relevant to CSRwire. No children are employed at CSRwire and the nature of work at CSRwire is such that would not be suitable for children. Given the nature of CSRwire's modest supply chain, made up largely of local services and equipment suppliers, the likelihood of child labor as a risk is low. 32 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Non discrimination CSRwire maintains a strict anti-discrimination policy, encouraging a culture and practice of diversity, inclusion and openness within the Company. CSRwire hires without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, political affiliation or belief, disability, age, or sexual preference. The overall effectiveness of CSRwire begins with our ability to attract and to select individuals who have the desire and potential to become owner entrepreneurs. News from Jack Wysocki, Vice President of Business Development: I found it by accident, a small opening in the woods off the bike trail. Not wondering where that trail led would have meant missing one of the most beautiful spots I've ever seen. My CSRwire journey over the years can be described as this, the main trail is pretty easy and you know where it goes. Sometimes we know where we want to go, but are not sure how to find the path. Sometimes you find a path and are not sure where it leads. All the members of the CSRwire team are very passionate and talented at what they do for the common good. I'd go down a path not sure where it ends, or make a path to where we want to go, with any one of them. CSRwire provides a workplace which is accessible to those with physical disabilities though the Company does not employ any disabled people at present. CSRwire complies with most of the United States ADA Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities (ADAAG). CSRwire endeavors, wherever possible to work with minority suppliers and women-owned businesses. All three CSRwire's contributing writers, for example, are women. Over 25% of CSRwire's suppliers are located in low-income communities. Collective bargaining As a small private Company, employing 11 people, this principle is not directly relevant to CSRwire. Similarly, CSRwire does not engage any significant suppliers of a size so significant that could present a risk for abuse of the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. However, CSRwire's business approach is one of involvement and consultation and sharing of rights and benefits. CSRwire staff and key stakeholders are invited to attend a monthly meeting where financial results are shared and discussed, and other topics are 33 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 raised as appropriate. Employees are provided with an Employee Handbook which provides extensive details regarding their rights and benefits. All questions raised by employees on such matters are responded to quickly by management. None of CSRwire employees are represented by an independent trade union and there have been no requests to management for such representation. Forced labor All CSRwire employees are hired of their own free will, after receiving a written offer of employment and which is formalized in a memo of agreement. This agreement is executed between each employee and the company as a symbol of the joint intent to cooperate and work together to achieve mutual satisfaction. We do not knowingly engage with suppliers or customers who engage in the practice of forced labor. News from Michael O’Connor, Vice President of Business Development: A team at the office is no different than a team on the field. If you think and work as a team, and not as individuals, the end result is greatness. 34 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Environment As a small business operating a virtual news distribution platform, CSRwire considers the Company's direct environmental impacts to be low enough to be of secondary importance to our contribution in distributing CSR news and changing the way business gets done. CSRwire maintains environmentally responsible practices as follows: Recycle Paper, plastic, aluminum, and ink cartridges from office use are regularly recycled. Reuse Almost all furniture is used and from other previous uses, and some furniture is made from recycled materials. All paper used is produced using over 70% post-consumer waste. The building housing CSRwire offices was formerly an old warehouse which CSRwire has made significant efforts to renovate, as well as improving the surrounding areas. Renovations are primarily completed with used or recycled materials. Reduce Employees are encouraged to turn off lights and computer equipment and responsibly use HVAC systems. Similarly, employees are encouraged to carpool and ride public transportation or bicycles to and from work. The Company CEO rides his bicycle to and from work on most days. The Company President owns a second-hand 2004 Prius. Business travel has been reduced significantly through the use of virtual communication and conferencing. In the summer of 2010, CSRwire completed a lighting retrofit in the Company's rented office premises in which all lighting with more efficient bulbs and motion sensors with timers in all of CSRwire offices were installed. Environmental news CSRwire is a strong supporter of environmental causes and promotes related news and press items through CSRwire's extensive news network. CSRwire news categories include Clean Technology and Green Products and Services and many commentaries cover environmental issues. 35 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Community Employee contribution to local communities and non-profits In addition to providing benefits to a wide range of non-profit organizations through the dissemination of their news on CSRwire.com at discounted rates, CSRwire is committed to being a part of the local community in which we live and work, helping to reinforce the community fabric around us and of which we are a part. CSRwire's offices are located in a federally designated low-income area, and this serves to remind us of our responsibility towards our community on a daily basis. CSRwire employees are encouraged to participate on a volunteer basis in community programs and specifically programs organized by the Gasoline Alley Foundation (see below) and most employees take part. Volunteering is permitted on Company-time (paid hours) by prior arrangement. Senior Management participates on national and international boards as trustees and governors. 36 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 www.gasolinealleyfoundation.org News from Ann Stockbridge, Content Coordinator: To me Gasoline Alley is not so much a place as it is a philosophy; let help people help themselves and they in turn will help others. The Gasoline Alley Foundation The Gasoline Alley Foundation (GAF), a 501(c)3 corporation that has incubated over forty small businesses and teaches inner city and underprivileged persons to be successful entrepreneurs using socially responsible and sustainable business practices while revitalizing inner city neighborhoods, was founded in 1985 by CSRwire's CEO Joe Sibilia. GAF's vision is the evolution of responsible and sustainable businesses. GAF is currently developing a curriculum to train individuals in entrepreneurship with a concentration in socially responsible business practices that will begin at the high school level. The Gasoline Alley Foundation believes job creation is the most effective means of both economic and community development. In short, socially responsible business practices are the strongest economic model for sustainability. Consequently, GAF focuses its efforts in socially responsible entrepreneurship education. CSRwire supports the Gasoline Alley Foundation financially and through CSRwire employee volunteering. A significant portion of CSRwire's overall community giving is through the Gasoline Alley Foundation and its programs. Each month CSRwire makes a donation to the Gasoline Alley Foundation so they can continue their good works in the community. During 2010 / 2011, CSRwire donated $8,000 in cash to support specific programs and general operations. 37 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 An example of such a program is the Gasoline Alley Community Garden Project, established by Peter Merzbacher, to show how urban gardens can renew the ecosystem. CSRwire supported this project via the Gasoline Alley Foundation and hours of volunteer time in the community garden by CSRwire staff. In 2011, CSRwire donated space to New Growth Gardens and their volunteers. New Growth Gardens is one of the businesses incubated within Gasoline Alley. New Growth Gardens guides urban and suburban communities towards building sustainable gardens with common sense solutions show how inexpensive, recycled materials can create beautiful and easy-to-manage gardens for anyone. All the resources for creating and taking care of inhome, on-porch and in-the-community gardens are entirely sustainable. News from Peter Merzbacher, New Growth Gardens Founder: For some, music or jogging or entrepreneurship is a way of life, for me urban agriculture is a way of life. Growing food in the city is a simple way to be healthier, more sustainable, socially connected and neighborly. Fresh food also tastes really good and who can argue with that? It makes sense then for New Growth Gardens to be so dedicated to 'growing healthy food, in more places, with more people.' The more urban food production, the more tangible health, sustainability and revitalization become. Photos from New Growth Gardens 38 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 39 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Transparency This Communication on Progress is posted on the UNGC website and freely available for all to download. CSRwire’s COP is available to download from its Enhanced Member Profile on CSRwire.com. Internally, we will provide an electronic copy of this Communication on Progress to all employees and reconfirm to them the importance of CSRwire's participation in the UNGC. We will encourage employees to familiarize themselves with the principles, the way in which CSRwire upholds the principles, and our future targets. Additionally, we will issue a Press Release using CSRwire's extensive distribution network, together with a News Alert to all CSRwire subscribers. We hope, modestly, that other small businesses, with limited resources such as ourselves, will view our Communication on Progress and gain inspiration from our example of how small businesses can be more responsible and transparent corporate citizens. 40 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Commitments CSRwire maintains its commitment to acting in alignment with the United Nations Global Compact Principles. Specifically, during 2011/2012, CSRwire has established the following goals.  Continue to expand CSRwire's business reach, offering electronic distribution solutions to a wide range of members.  Finalize allocation of employee share ownership.  Continue to assist Gasoline Alley Foundation and supported businesses with in-kind and volunteering, and cash donations.  Measure electricity consumption and reduce by 5% in 2012.  Calculate and publish CSRwire's carbon footprint.  Calculate fuel consumption and achieve efficiencies in 2012.  Maintain CSRwire's Ethics Policy and act accordingly, ensuring all new hires are appropriately briefed. Our commitment to this Communication on Progress This Communication on Progress covers the period October 2010 / September 2011. All data references in this document are for this period unless otherwise stated. The document was prepared by Janet M. Morgan, President, CSRwire and Natalie Thomas, Senior Director of Operations, with assistance from an external specialist in Corporate Responsibility, Elaine Cohen of Beyond Business Ltd (www.b-yond.biz/en). This COP has been approved and endorsed by Joe Sibilia, CEO, CSRwire and CSRwire Leadership. Natalie Thomas Janet M. Morgan Joe Sibilia Senior Director of President CEO Operations Springfield, MA., September 2011 41 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 Contact Person: Natalie Thomas Senior Director of Operations CSRwire LLC 250 Albany Street Springfield, MA 01105 United States Natalie@CSRwire.com Office: 802-251-0110 ext. 1108 Fax: 413-785-1238 www.CSRwire.com 42 CSRwire LLC | United Nations Global Compact | Communication on Progress | September 2011 WHERE NEWS GETS IT NEWS! UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS CSRwire, LLC September 2011 www.CSRwire.com OVER 1.7 MILLION PAGE VIEWS PER YEAR 43
