SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2010 Our culture of Sustainable Excellence in Practice STMicroelectronics Reader’s guide Report scope and profile The report is published in English and it is also accesThis is a report to ST’s stakeholders of how responsibly sible on the web in PDF format at http://www.st.com/ we have performed as a company in the calendar year internet/com/about_st/company_reports_st.jsp, Indicators and use of symbols 2010. along with past reports. Printed copies are available on Where relevant, we have used our own request. It covers all STMicroelectronics NV’s activities and subcompany indicators to give a complete and sidiaries in which ST has more than 51% share ownerMateriality accurate picture of our performance. These ship, unless otherwise stated. are all prefixed ‘ST’. Also, we have identified In 2010, we launched an extensive ‘materiality exercise’ You can find details of ST’s structure and countries of to review our Sustainability strategy and define the top a number of Key Performance Indicators operation in the chart on page 1. priority issues for ST. Business for Social Responsibility (KPIs), which are shown as X. For other information you can access reports from pre(BSR), a leading not-for-profit organization specializing A detailed table on the inside back cover vious years at http://www.st.com/internet/com/about_ in corporate social responsibility (CSR) research and provides a summary of the results of all KPIs st/company_reports_st.jsp. consulting, provided the methodology for this exercise, for the current year. High level objectives are I 3.2 I 3.3 I together with feedback and support throughout the listed on page 8 and are shown with relevant ST-Ericsson is an independent company whose finanprocess. sub-level objectives in each section of the cial results are consolidated by STMicroelectronics, but M For more information on ST’s Sustainability strategy, see pages 6-7 report. managed as an independent organization with gover5 For more information on BSR, visit their website: www.bsr.org nance that seeks to adopt and harmonize the best pracIn addition to this exercise, as in previous years, in order We have used symbols to illustrate: tices of each of its parents, STMicroelectronics and Ericto include the most relevant material in this report, we: n the level of achievement of our objectives sson. This report includes data and statements relating to the Sustainability strategy of STMicroelectronics only. n took into account spontaneous feedback (e-mail, achieved The financial figures presented in this report are based web requests); in progress on the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in n organized phone interviews with external stakeholdnot achieved ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC ers (including business partners, Socially Responsible on March 7, 2011, which also includes the ST-Ericsson Investment (SRI) analysts, the Corporate Responsibility n references to our Environment, Health and entity as consolidated by ST. community and major companies); Safety Decalogue j n conducted high-level benchmarking against our main 5 For more information on ST-Ericsson’s sustainability strategy and n references to our ‘top issue’ activities, see the online version of this report competitors, customers and best-in-class companies in (based on the ‘materiality exercise’) top issue Following an internal reorganization, the Corporate Sustainable Development; Responsibility and Environment, Health & Safety den interviewed ST’s vice presidents and managers inn references to the web 5 partments merged. This new organization is now called volved in the key issues linked to Sustainable Exceln references to another page in this Corporate Sustainable Development and is managed by lence; report M Alain Denielle, Group Vice President, Corporate Sustain launched an internal survey, with around 50 particinable Development reporting directly to Tjerk HooghiemGive us your feedback stra, Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Administrapants giving us their feedback on the 2009 report; tive Officer. For consistency with the evolution of ST’s n kept track of, and tried to anticipate, all relevant interWe are committed to improving both our Sustainability strategy, the Corporate Responsibility renational rules and regulations relating to sustainability. sustainability performance and the ways we port has changed its name to the Sustainability Report. communicate with our stakeholders. You will find details of our management approach for M For more information on ST’s Sustainability strategy, see the paragraph each section of the report on ST’s website. We encourage contributions and debate on materiality below and the article on pages 6-7 from all stakeholders and welcome feed5 See more http://www.st.com/internet/com/about_st/sustainable_ Change in scope development.jsp back on the content and presentation of this report, as well as suggestions for next year. In June 2010, ST’s production site in Phoenix (USA) was Assurance sold to a third party. ST production ceased at the end of In 2010, a full review of our assurance approach has In order to facilitate the collection of feedQ1 2011. With the exception of health and safety data, been carried out to understand how the accuracy of back, we have developed an online form, which are collected throughout the year, this site has statements and data, together with reliability of dataavailable at http://www.st.com/stonline/comnot been included in our 2010 social and environmental collection systems can best be evaluated and ‘certified’ pany/sd/contact.htm. Please do not hesitate reporting as data have been collected and/or consoliin our Sustainability Report. As a result of this evaluation, to use this for any comments. dated beginning 2011. we selected DNV to carry out the verification process You can also contact us directly at Accessibility on the 2010 report, which included data collection and auditing processes at ST headquarters and two manucorporate.responsibility@st.com This printed report presents STMicroelectronics’ susfacturing sites; Agrate (Italy) and Crolles (France). or contact: tainability performance, demonstrating how ST inteKate Cacciatore We value the role of external assurance as a means of grates its culture of Sustainable Excellence into its busiensuring the robustness of our data collection and the STMicroelectronics NV ness strategy and operations. relevance and accuracy of the data published in this reCorporate Headquarters As in previous reports, we describe our company straport. 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles – C.P. 21 tegy, the challenges we face, our achievements and M For more details of this verification process, see page 64 CH-1228 Geneva – Plan-Les-Ouates the constantly increasing company-wide awareness of Switzerland sustainability. The specific examples we use to illustrate our performance are selected to provide a complete and I 2.4 I balanced view of ST’s group-wide Sustainability strategy and its implementation. Adherence to GRI and the UN Global Compact This report is prepared and presented in accordance with the 2006 Global Reporting (GRI) G3 Guidelines. We have self-declared an A+ application level and received a statement from GRI confirming this level. If G3 indicators are not applicable or relevant to us we explain why in the text or in the indicator index. We use our own indicators to respond to or to supplement GRI indicators. ST has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2000, which commits us to fulfilling its ten principles. This report describes actions we have taken to implement these principles, and serves as our Communication on Progress. 5 For more details on the GRI Application Level Check Statement, see the online version of the report On the back cover, there is an index that references GRI, Global Compact and ST indicators to information in this report. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 value chain We have built strong partnerships with many suppliers and subcontractors from whom we purchase raw materials, equipment, energy, gas, chemicals and services. Manufacturing Front-end Suppliers Wafer processing Silicon ingot The manufacturing of chips is a process of around 400 separate stages in several workshops. Starting with a plain silicon wafer, the Frontend manufacturing results in the etching of several hundreds to thousands of die, depending on the end product and the used technology. Mask creation R&D Conception Design New products conception is the result of several steps: the design of the architecture and electrical layout, electrical and logical simulations, drawing of components and generation of reticles (circuit drawings). ST R&D and Manufacturing ST is everywhere In the home In the car On the go Our planet entertainment, comfort, engine control and mobile phones, PDAs, energy-saving solutions, security, appliances, powertrain, car body and MP3 players, bank solar power greener cars, energy savings… safety, navigation and cards… smarter transportation… other infotainment… STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 how do we create a chip Assembly & test Electrical Assembly Wafer Sorting line & final test Back-end Wafer sort The die are cut from the silicon wafer 13 main production Phoenix United States* before being assembled in a package. n Front-end This is the operation The chips are then tested prior to delisites manufacturing; n 531 ST employees. of electrically testing very to the customer. the die on the wafer. It is also known as More than 48,000 wafer sort or probing. Business Chip employees customers Advanced R&D centers in We offer a broad range of products and we serve a wide range 10 countries of customers that are leading companies in the fields of communications, consumer goods, automobile manufacture, computers and other industry sectors. Although reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of the summary financial information for the year 2010 in this report with ST’s financial reporting, reliance should only be placed upon the complete financial reporting contained in ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2010, as filed with the SEC on March 7, 2011, which can be found at www.sec.gov. Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended) based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Certain such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forwardlooking terminology such as ‘believes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘would be’ or ‘anticipates’ or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by disAt work or school Our health cussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Some of the relevant risk printers, PCs, climate control, medical imaging, telemedicine, factors are described in ‘Item 3. Key Information – Risk Factors’ energy savings… fitness aids, portable diagnosis, included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2010. We do not intend, and do not assume any obliDNA analysis, defibrillators, gation, to update any information or forward-looking statements set implantable devices, prosthetics… forth in this report to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. ST at a glance Company performance n STMicroelectronics at a glance ST has two kinds of manufacturing sites: Front-end and Back-end The Front-end sites produce transistors of silicon range from 5 to 12 inches in diaand the die are then sealed with wire connecand integrated circuits on silicon ‘wafers’ meter, with more advanced technology tions into the ‘package’ or box that connects through a series of complex processes that being required to produce the larger diameters. the chips to an electronic device. The chips enable the transistors in the silicon chip to Back-end sites perform assembly, packaging are then tested to ensure quality and proper process electronic information or control and testing functions. The individual silicon performance. the flow of electrical power. The thin slices ‘die’ or rectangles are cut from the wafers M For more information on ST’s company profile, see www.st.com Crolles I & II France n Front-end manufacturing, Tours R&D; Geneva France n 3,827 ST employees. Switzerland n Front-end n Worldwide manufacturing, headquarters, R&D, design; corporate functions; Shenzhen n 1,513 ST employees. China n 238 ST employees. n Back-end manufacturing; Bouskoura 2000 Catania 6” & 8” n 5,934 ST employees. Longgang Morocco Italy China n Back-end Back-end n Front-end n manufacturing; manufacturing, manufacturing; n 2,919 ST employees. R&D, marketing; n 1,401 ST employees. n 3,891 ST employees. Rousset Kirkop Muar Calamba France Malta Malaysia Philippines n Front-end manun Back-end n Back-end n Back-end facturing, EWS, R&D, manufacturing; manufacturing; manufacturing; central functions; n 1,538 ST employees. n 4,103 ST employees. Ang Mo Kio 5”,6”, 1,864 ST employees. n 2,615 ST employees. n 8” Singapore n Front-end manufacturing, R&D, Sales & Marketing, Design; (*) In 2010, the Phoenix site was sold, but ST production ceased at the end of Q1 2011. n 6,201 ST employees. Zoom on Agrate site… Headcount: 3,540 employees (ST + temporary workers) n Design of products and advanced system Profile: architectures n 75% Men / 25% Women n Manufacturing and industrialization mainly of n Average age: 39 years BCD and MEMS n Split by job category: engineers (49%), technicians Cleanroom area: more than 25,000m2 for the (19%), operators (32%) 8 inches silicon production lines n Domains of expertise: electronics engineer, Production: about 14,000 silicon wafers processed per physicist, chemist, software engineering, packaging, week (8 inches equivalent) generating more than operators and many others 9 million integrated circuits per week n Synergies via the local presence of MicronSite certifications: EMAS, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Numonyx, and a strong collaboration with local ISOTS 16949, ISO 9001, UNI CEI EN 16001 universities and research institutes R&D partners: 50 partners 2010 focus* Main activities: n Research and Development of advanced Investment over the past years: US$3 billions of capital investments since 1996 on site activities (*) Each year we focus on a different site to present their profile technologies of BCD and MEMS and local activity in a more detailed way. n Research and Development of packaging and testing STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 1 Company performance Table of contents Company 3 Vision & strategy 9 Corporate Governance Economic 13 Socially Responsible Investment 2010 Supporting Sustainable Excellence in ST 14 Business development Alain Denielle, Corporate Sustainable Development 15 Innovation and R&D Group Vice President 16 Performance overview Kate Cacciatore, Corporate Responsibility Director and her team: Mélanie Salagnat, Julia Genovini, Charlotte Yvard. Social This report has been prepared by: 21 Learning Director: Kate Cacciatore 22 Leadership & management Editors in chief: Mélanie Salagnat, Charlotte Yvard 24 Social responsibility Editorial team: Estelle Hainry, Laura Payssé 25 Human rights Editorial Services: Malcolm Guy (Reassurance Network) 26 Local community Photographers: Dominique Guillaudin, Stéphanie Joubert 28 Performance overview Graphic designer: Diane Ollivier, Originell Computer graphics: Rafale Health & Safety Printer: ProCo-Print 35 Health management The cover pages of this report use extracts of a design from 36 H&S strategy Gehrke, Hildmann und Schirmer, Munich done for ST for the Electronica Exhibition, Munich (November 2010). 37 Local actions 38 Performance overview Special thanks to: Jacqueline Arasanz, Carol Brighton, Monica Bianchi, Bernard Boulet, Patrice Chastagner, Nada El Graoui, Julia Genovini, Christine Gombar, Pierre Jacquemier, Bianca Guarino, Philippe Levavasseur, Giulia Environment Mancini, Jean-Marc Marcant, Laurence Maricot, MariaGrazia Prestini, Delphine Segura, P. Sreenivas, Damien 41 Water management Tisserand, Roma Zaborowska. 42 Environmental strategy We also thank: Olivier Ardesi, Mario Arlati, Alessandro 44 Climate change Beretta, Céline Berthier, Claude Boumendil, Alain Bucher, 46 Performance overview Ugo Cardamone, Moh Chern Chin, Leah Cruz, Enrique Diaz-Santana, Pascal Droulez, Joseph de Fombelle, Pietro Fox, Peter Gebler, Alisia Grenville, Federica Grotto, Fabio Gualandris, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, Ramesh Karayakavundan, Product Responsibility Otto Kosgalwies, Philippe Laffargue, Philippe Lambinet, Michel Lauféron, Olivier Leenhardt, Claudia Levo, Loic Lietar, 53 Responsible products Iris Lo, Matteo Lo Presti, Patricia Mangournet, Guy Monier, 54 Eco-design Claudio Mori, Robin Noels, Pierre Ollivier, Stéphanie Ordan, Pascale Poblet, Leonardo Sabato, Steve Sachnoff, Vivek 56 Quality excellence Sharma, Marie-Hélène Sibille, Laura Sipala, Laura Smith, 57 Performance overview Tait Sorenen, Carla de Sousa, Richard Stockdill, Kari Strom, Jean-Maurice Ramirez, Marco Rossi, Dominique Trebitsch, Stacia Vigne, Aurélie Villard, Ludovic Villaregut. Supply Chain Management Copyright©STMicroelectronics – May 2011 All rights reserved. 59 Conflict minerals The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered 60 Customer service excellence trademark of the STMicroelectronics group of companies. 61 Performance overview All other names are the property of the respective owners. All commissioned photography Copyright©STMicroelectronics Photo credits: ©treenabeena, ©Shutterstock, ©Fotolia, ©iStockphoto, ©Didier Jordan, ©Peter Marlow/magnum 64 Independent verification statement Photos, ©Harry Gruyaert 65 Key Performance Indicators Source of picture page 27: Médecins Sans Frontières/ Inside flap Indicator index Julie Rémy Outside flap Glossary 2 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Company performance n Vision & strategy Foreword by Carlo Bozotti, President and Chief Executive Officer President and Chief Carlo Bozotti, Foreword by Carlo Bozotti President and Chief Executive Officer of STMicroelectronics 2010 marked a milestone in our history 2010 was a year of strong recovery for ST after n Our corporate Health Plan now covers 82% Today, ST is a much stronger company. As a the deep worldwide economic crisis in 2008 of our employees, compared to 63% in 2009. result of our actions in 2010 and the efforts of and 2009. During that crisis, we were detern We reduced our energy consumption per our employees, we are now better positioned mined that ST would emerge even stronger production unit by 30% compared to 2009, to achieve our vision to become the undisputed than before, and we achieved that goal. This which also represents a 5.6% decrease comleader in sensing and power, and multimedia is due in large part to the continued dedicapared to 2008 (before the crisis). convergence applications. We are also ideally tion of our employees who remained focused positioned to address our four targeted applin We finalized our fourth EHS Decalogue with on near-term results as well as the future of ST cation areas; energy management and saving, ambitious new EHS targets, including the obthrough all the difficulties and the challenges. smart consumer devices, trust and data secujective of having 100% of our new products rity, and healthcare and wellness. These areas Here are some of our most important eco-designed by 2015. This new Decalogue is are driven by evolving societal needs and the achievements during 2010: accompanied by the decision to increase our pressing wider needs of our planet. n We reached the highest revenue level in our environmental investments, focusing on CO2 emissions and energy savings in the coming ST continues to be at the forefront in tackling history, a record US$ 10.35bn, growing years. such societal and economic challenges with 21.6% in 2010, and at the bottom line, we deour technology. We are committed to continue livered earnings of US$ 830m. As in previous years, sustainability was one of to be one of the world’s most innovative and n We improved our net financial position, our annual priorities and is integrated into our responsible companies, one whose talented turning a net debt of US$ 545m at the end of overall company strategy in a variety of ways, and committed people are helping our cus2008 into a net cash position of US$ 1.15bn including our strong focus on responsible tomers to help make the world a better place at the end of 2010; a positive turnaround of products and on our people. And we see the on every level: enriching peoples’ lives, making US$ 1.7bn. results: we continued to be included in all of society work better, and helping to preserve n We significantly increased our sales from the top five sustainability indices; we received the planet. new, innovative products, reaping the beawards from Nokia and the European Institute nefits of the significant R&D efforts we steadof Purchasing Management for our continuous fastly maintained during the last two years. In involvement in sustainable development; and terms of products, MEMS have become perwe saw solid improvement in our employee vasive in the exciting smart consumer devices engagement scores. market and, during the year, we achieved the milestone of shipping our one billionth MEMS device. Our new 32-bit microcontrollers and This report has been prepared following the GRI G3 Guidelines. It represents a balanced and our industrial, analog and automotive products reasonable presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. also performed strongly in the market. It also demonstrates our commitment to the UN Global Compact, to which we have been a n We achieved our best ever safety results in signatory since 2000. 2010 with a 19% decrease in our recordable cases rate and a 43% decrease in our severity rate. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 3 Company performance Vision & strategy n Looking back and driving forward in our commitment to sustainability Looking back and driving forward In 2010 Alain Dutheil, Chief Operating Officer, announced his retirement after a career at ST spanning 28 years. His successor, Didier Lamouche, joins ST after four years on the company’s Supervisory Board and a long career in the semiconductor industry. In recent years he served as CEO of the French ICT company, Bull. Alain, you have been in ST or one of its predecessors for 28 Interview years and in a senior management position for all of these. How would you describe ST’s sustainability journey? I joined Thomson Semiconducteurs in 1983 and then, STMicroelectronics when it was created in 1987 (SGSThomson). Only five years later, under the strong drive and vision of the CEO, Pasquale Pistorio, we were among a handful of companies to launch a structured environmental policy. Since then, we have progressively enlarged the scope of our engagement, from compliance to proactivity and from environment to sustainability. And this strong commitment is now recognized by all our stakeholders. We can be very proud of this because we have never deviated from our path to excellence in sustainability, always striving for the best approach and best results in whatever we addressed, whatever the economic context Alain Dutheil Didier Lamouche might be. Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of the Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of the Corporate Strategic Committee Corporate Strategic Committee Significant events 2010 June ST’s Secure Microcontroller Division (SMD), through its involveMarch ST joins 17 ment in Gemalto’s Onom@topic+ partners to project, wins the 2010 EUREKA InSTMicroelectronics is named by FORTUNE magazine as shape the novation Award for its contribution one of the “World’s most admired companies”. ST green inforto the architecture and design of was rated by its peers on nine factors including; quality mation society of the future with the the first 0.13µ contactless circuit. of products, quality of management, global competitivesupport of European NanoelecSpecial microchips for smartcards ness, people management and innovation. tronics Initiative Advisory Counhave been developed with very secil (ENIAC) a new research project cure microprocessors, incorporatMay for greener electronics through ing advanced cryptographic mateApril ST completes the sale of Nuenergy-aware design models, solutions, methods and tools. rial on which an individual’s data could be stored. ST continues its membership of the Die Attach monyx (the joint-venture company 5 (DA5) Consortium, formed by several semiconductor it created with Intel and Francisco ST launches the new solar energy booster, SPV1020, industry leaders (Bosch, Freescale, Infineon, NXP and Partners to supply flash memory recovering power lost due to solar panel variability. This ST) to jointly explore and standardize lead-free solders solutions) to Micron Technology. ST device deploys an innovative, distributed approach that that melt at high temperature for attaching dies to packstrengthens its financial position automatically adjusts solar intensity fluctuations. This ages during manufacturing. DA5 aims at reducing the through a focused and less capitaltechnology has significant potential to improve the qualification time needed by customers. intensive business model. energy productivity of photovoltaic systems. 4 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 In your role as Chief Operating Officer, you have today (through our Principles for Sustainable Exceltire industry, including ST, has to integrate sustainability witnessed first-hand many of the challenges the lence). into its core business. It is no more a question of procompany has faced in the sustainability domain. I am convinced that ST owes a large part of its strong activity; stakeholders, including employees, customers Which ones stand out for you and how has ST position today to this culture. and investors, are expecting more and more in terms embraced and tried to resolve them? of social, environmental and ethical management. I In your opinion, how well has ST done to date think ST is in a good position with ‘sustainability’ being Actually, sustainability challenges were already common at integrating its Sustainability strategy into its place when I was appointed as COO in 2005, especially one of the corporate key annual priorities of the comcore business strategy? pany with a strong focus on product responsibility and with the increasingly stringent requirements of our customers in terms of environmental and then social and When we started our Sustainability strategy, one of the people engagement. This integration took place before ethical performance. basic ideas was to anticipate changes to legislation the business context placed such a strong emphasis and therefore by doing so, to develop a competitive on sustainability, which I believe has given ST a distinct But I would mention two things; the semiconductor advantage. This is what happened and today the enadvantage in the market. market has always been very competitive and subject to significant downturns. To face this economic context in the mid-2000 years, ST had to go through massive restructuring, increasing the relative weight of our Asian Didier, you are well acquainthese domains and we are committed to continue on production. This resulted in two difficult situations to ted with the electronic sector this journey. manage: the restructuring of our western manufacturing sites that we have conducted by alleviating the negative Interview and with ST as a company. Your role includes a strong focus on operations, How do you perceive ST from impacts for our people as much as we could; and the where there are generally plenty of challenges the perspective of sustainabialignment of our new Asian sites with our sustainability to address. What management approach will lity in the context of the trends standards. We succeeded in deploying and applying the you be taking to follow ST’s activities in the and challenges that characterize the sector? same environmental standards and social programs in sustainability area? each and every country in which we operate, thanks to As you said, I have worked for more than 25 years in ”What gets measured gets done”. ST has already seen our strong commitment to our Sustainable Excellence the electronics industry and I’m very pleased today to the benefits of extensive measurement and quantificavalues. take on the role of COO. I think it is probably the best tion of its activities. My intention is therefore to review example of industrial success in Europe. When outside those results and related actions regularly, on a quarWhich of ST’s sustainability achievements would ST, I have always been impressed by the vision and terly basis, with the Sustainable Development Group. you highlight as key for the company and for its the commitment ST had regarding sustainability. ST wider contribution to sustainable development? Looking forward, what are the key ways in has always led the pack of all competitors in that field. I would like to mention one of the very first steps in ST’s Having an inside view now, I am impressed by how we which you feel ST can continue to integrate ST’s journey to sustainability which is also its foundation; I re“walk the talk” from an execution point of view and how Sustainability strategy in the company’s overall fer to the deployment of our Total Quality Management the values of sustainability are embedded deeply inside strategy? (TQM) culture. I am very proud to have participated in the company. From a commitment point of view, we need to make the establishment of this key milestone of ST’s history. sure we continue at management level to allocate the TQM introduced values that are still important today: How would you like to see ST evolve in the susappropriate level of resources (capital, human effort) to a committed management, empowered employees, tainability domain in the coming years? our Sustainability strategy; from a methodology stand our dedication to continuous improvement and to our I want ST to be the leader in this domain. For that, point, I believe we need to ‘disseminate’ the concept stakeholders’ satisfaction. We have always maintained we need to keep on investing for our environmental not only internally but also through our products e.g. these robust principles as the basis of our culture, maneutrality, in our people development and well-being creating less ‘energy-hungry’ products or those with king them evolve to progressively integrate our proacand in our innovative and responsible products. There less environmental impact; also helping our custotive approach in the environment (TQEM) and then in are still a lot of opportunities to reach excellence in mers to build their own products that have the same the wider definition of sustainability as it is understood attributes. July ST receives the ‘Supplier of the Year’ award by Flex Power System (FPS) for its outstanding support in 2009. ST sold ASIC controller Flex01 devices allowing FPS to be protected against illegal copying and reverse engineering from its competitors. September ST’s product STarGRID ST7590 is used in the new ‘STAR Project’, the advanced metering infrastructure program developed by the Spanish utility company October Iberdrola. This System-on-Chip (SoC) platform meets ST receives the ‘2010 Industry Award’ from the worldwide smart-metering and smart-grid standards Geneva office for the Promotion of Industries and Techand also optimizes power consumption, enabling our nologies, rewarding the company for its dedication to key customers to simplify their product design and reSustainable Excellence, its commitments to corporate duce their costs. responsibility, and its pioneering activities in energy efficiency and Sustainable Development. August ST boosts solar panel efficiency thanks to the SPV1001 intelligent device that maximizes the The 3Sun equal-share joint venture, composed by amount of power harvested from a single soEnel Green Power, Sharp and ST, entered its operational lar panel, enabling more energy to reach the phase with the signature of a binding commitment letter power grid and improving the overall effor a 150 million euros project financing agreement for ficiency of the photovoltaic system. the development of what will be Italy’s biggest photovoltaic panel factory. The initial capacity of the factory loM See also Nokia and European Institute of Purchasing cated in ST Catania manufacturing site will be 160MW. Management (EIPM) awarding ST on page 12 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 5 Company performance Vision & strategy n Reviewing the materiality of our top sustainability issues Reviewing the materiality of our In 2010 ST decided to review the relevance and potential impact of its ‘top sustainability issues’, using the ‘materiality exercise’ as an opportunity to articulate its Sustainability strategy more clearly and deploy it more effectively across the company. Human Resources do every day so what I see as an According to you, what challenges is ST facing opportunity from the synergy point of view is to highlight to keep progressing on the journey of sustainvery clearly all the progress that ST has been making ability? over the last years in the field of sustainability. We want ST has been focusing on sustainability for a long time ST to be renowned as a great place to work. and today, low hanging fruits have all been picked, Having Internal Communication and Human Resources meaning that the easy progress is gone. So I would say in my scope also provides an opportunity to address that one challenge for ST in the sustainability domain employee engagement. In ST we are a strong believer now is to address more difficult issues and respond to that an engaged workforce gives rise to better alignhigher expectations of our stakeholders in terms of susment between the interest of the people who work for tainability performance. the company and the interest of the other stakeholders. Could you give us one example of next sustainFor a long time, ST has measured how people look at ability focus for ST? the company and with Internal Communication and Human Resources working closely together, we can make In 2010 we have defined ST’s new environmental stratfurther progress in enhancing the engagement of eveegy with the finalization of our fourth Decalogue. We rybody working for ST around the globe. We do this have renewed our commitments and strengthened our by making sure that everybody in the company is well intention to go beyond just doing our business in a reTjerk Hooghiemstra sponsible way, meaning that through our products, we informed about the direction we are taking and about Senior Executive Vice President, the way that they can best contribute. In the end, this is want to address global environmental issues such as Chief Administrative Officer the source of engagement: “where do we go and how global warming with eco-efficient components. can I help?” Products seem to be a great opportunity for inDuring the year, we also added the Compliance function tegrating sustainability into ST’s core strategy to my area of responsibility to maximize the opportuniand achieve a competitive advantage on the Tjerk Hooghiemstra joined ST in ties for synergies between the Human Resources and market? February 2010 as Chief AdminisCorporate Responsibility functions on topics related to Of course, this is exactly what is happening now. All ST Interview trative Officer. He is responsible for Human Resources, Learning, Lesocial compliance. product groups are looking at developing eco-products gal, Compliance, Internal Commuand products that contribute to improving people’s qualAnd now, after one year in ST, what is your vision nication, Sustainable Development, ity of life. ST helps to limit the power consumption of the for the company in the domain of sustainability? Security and the Intellectual Property Business Unit. devices that our customers create with our components First of all, I think it is important to keep moving on inside. And in the health sector for instance, one of the Joining ST, what was your first impression of with the journey we have been on for the last decades current and future challenges is an ageing global popuhow sustainability was managed and integrated and build further on our rich heritage from the past in lation and increasing health costs. Here, ST can come in the company? the sustainability domain. Next, I still see an opportunity up with a lot of smart devices like monitoring systems. ST is one of the companies with the longest history of for the company to make further steps in broadening Patients using these can remain autonomous thanks to dedication to sustainability, so when I arrived in early the support base for the sustainability agenda. Sustainthis technology that senses their body functions and 2010, it was clear to everybody in the company how ability is part of the way we run ST but is it also to the communicates the data to medical professionals. important sustainability is. Sustainability really is in ST’s same extent part of the life of all the employees in the DNA! company? Let me give you an example; ST is quite adHow are sustainability topics and performance vanced in taking care of the health of all employees with reviewed and shared at top management level? You have been given a large scope of responsithe check-ups that we provide for everybody. I believe Sustainability is not different from sales or manufacturbilities, so from the sustainability point of view, we should take the next step, making sure that we have ing performance in the way we are running the comwhat synergies and benefits are you aiming to the healthiest workforce in the semiconductor industry. pany. During our quarterly Corporate meetings with the generate? I would like to see that all ST people live a healthy life, top ST management, sustainability key performance One of the big opportunities that I see by combining and we surely can make steps there. On the societal indicators are reviewed like any other subject. Also we Sustainable Development and Human Resources manapart too, we have a number of excellent examples of have equally in-depth discussions on the performance gerially, is that we can communicate even more effecengagement with local communities that we disclose in that we do on energy, health and other sustainability tively to the labor market that ST is one of the most the Sustainability report, but we can do even more here domains, as on anything else. Sustainability is also a responsible companies in the world, because these days too. Locally, sites have a huge amount of opportunities key focus on our Supervisory Board agenda, especially people want to work for sustainable companies. Reachto help local society and I’m sure ST could contribute when we discuss the five-year plan and during yearly ing out to the labor market is what our colleagues in more. reviews. 6 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Identifying our most relevant issues company’s Code of Conduct, the Principles for Sustainable Excellence, and the Environmental and Health & Safety Decalogue, providing a strong element of contiIn the spirit of continuous improvement, the Corporate nition and one or two measurable sub-objectives with nuity and serving as the bridge between past and future. Sustainable Development Group facilitated a ‘materialidentified owners (for example, sites, product groups or (*) In 2006, ST constituted Sustainable Excellence (SE) networks across ity exercise’ over the course of the year to identify the a corporate organization). Over time, existing annual key the company to support organizations and sites in the setting of most relevant issues to be focused on as part of the performance indicators that measure the actual perforsustainability related objectives and in making progress on key areas. Since then, these SE networks meet quarterly at corporate level company’s evolving Sustainability strategy. The key obmance of the company will be adapted and aligned with (SE Council) or at local level (SE steering committees). jectives of this exercise were to ensure that: our strategy these issues and sub-objectives. remains sharp and effective over time; that we focus on It was acknowledged by the top management group that the issues that have the greatest impact on our busithe success of this redefinition of our company Sustainness and on our stakeholders; and that the Sustainabilability strategy depends on its appropriation by those ity strategy is as closely integrated as possible with the who will actually deploy it in the field. With this in mind, a overall company strategy. Interview taskforce was launched including the Sustainable ExcelFarid Baddache A group of members of the top management worked lence Council*, site managers and their local SustainDirector, Europe, Business for together to evaluate risks and opportunities for ST over able Excellence steering committees*, as well as other Social Responsibility (BSR) a wide range of issues (42 in total) and used a methomanagers who are considered owners of measurable dology proposed by Business for Social Responsibility sub-objectives or whose organizations play a strong role In 2010, you have worked in close collaboration (BSR) to retain 25 ‘top issues’ considered to be the in achieving specific results. In 2011 these people will with ST on a ‘materiality exercise’, what is your most relevant and critical for ST. The company will conprovide their feedback, both on the first draft of subgeneral perception of the company, and of this tinue to work on other issues as necessary, but these objectives and on key success factors for an effective project? top 25 issues will be considered high priority and will deployment of the strategy. This project helped ST question and reshape its strabe the focus of specific sub-objectives, performance One of the strengths of this new strategic approach to tegic priorities and objectives for the next couple of measurement and reporting. sustainability is that sub-objectives – spanning a three years. There is a lot of value in generating consenThe decision was also taken by this top management year timeframe – will connect directly each year to the sus around strategic priorities on sustainability among group to more clearly articulate ST’s Sustainability stracompany’s ‘Policy Deployment’ process for setting anall people involved internally (Sustainable Excellence tegy through the focus on a Sustainability mission, buildnual objectives, defined at the top of the pyramid by Council*, Sustainable Excellence local steering coming on key themes contained in the mission – our PeoCarlo Bozotti, ST’s CEO. All organizations’ ‘Top Page’ mittees*, etc.). ST has a good commitment from its ple, our Products, the Environment and the Community objectives will need to align with these sub-objectives top executives on sustainability issues and benefits – by accompanying these with high-level objectives, and in order to contribute effectively to the business. At the from robust internal processes. These are key ingrearranging the top 25 issues under each of the themes. same time, this update of the Sustainability strategy redients to disseminate the required sustainability mindIt was decided that each issue should have a clear defimains firmly anchored in the existing foundations of the set throughout strategy and operations. Why is it so key to work on materiality? What is the added value of such an exercise? The sustainability agenda is very large in scope. ST can ST sustainability ST values: no doubt have huge impacts if it is able to focus efforts where there is an obvious level of responsibility and approach Principles for Sustainable impact on business. Materiality is a key step in strategy development and implementation as it offers opportuExcellence nities to prioritize issues of relevance and to align on Integrity People Excellence issues before moving onto the next step. Materiality also encourages careful consideration of objectives and strategy in order to properly address relevant isMateriality exercise Sustainability sues in a way that is satisfying to stakeholders and is mission “To be recognized as world conducive to ST’s business success. leader in innovation for sustainn able development through From your experience, in which sustainability Rank key issues excellence in our People, our domains is ST well positioned in preparation n based on importance Products, the of the future? In which domain do you feel ST Review for ST stakeholders Environment and the The materiality sustainability and impact on ST Community” should focus more? exercise conducted trends and business strategy ST benefits from a very diversified portfolio of custoidentify key in 2010, and issues for ST described in this mers. ST’s customers face a wide range of sustainSustainability article, helped ST ability challenges. There is no doubt that ST’s products strategy* have a potential role in addressing these challenges. Four high level objectives fine-tune its vision our People and strategy for This has implications for taking a strategic and delibour Products sustainability. erate approach to integrating sustainability into ST’s the Environment customer relationships, and offers the opportunity to the Community develop deep meaningful relationships with customers on sustainability issues. We can contrast this opportunity to some of ST’s peers who, with a much narrower customer base, don’t have the scale of opportunity here. Explicit integration of Sustainability strategy in Sustainability overall company strategy is a great initiative in this distrategy deployment rection. ST will have to further engage with clients to Sub-objectives and key get a robust understanding of their sustainability issues success factors for deployment to be and needs for solutions, learn from existing successes defined in 2011 – e.g. on automotive or healthcare businesses – and bring to a greater scale ST’s ability to drive innova(*) These four high level objectives are defined and tion and optimize revenue potential and positioning, detailed into 25 top issues on page 8. enabling clients to face their sustainability challenges. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 7 Company performance Vision & strategy n Performance versus objectives in 2010 Performance versus For several years now, we have prepared our ments in this page but this year we have foWe have decided to articulate our strategy on annual Sustainability Report based on high cused more on our new Sustainability strategy. four pillars: our People, our Products, the Envilevel objectives covering each domain of our Based on the ‘materiality exercise’ conducted ronment and the Community. In each pillar we Sustainability strategy: company, economic, in 2010, we have reviewed our sustainability have defined the key issues we will address. social, health and safety, environment, product objectives, taking into account stakeholders’ Going forward, we intend to communicate ST’s responsibility and supply chain. expectations along with issues of a global naachievement against these objectives more In our 2010 Sustainability Report, we have ture and those facing our sector. You will find precisely. This process is still ongoing and will continued to assess our performance against below the ‘top sustainability issues’ we have take into account our ‘top issues’ overview. these objectives in our performance overview defined and on which we will focus in the M For more information on ST’s Sustainability strategy sections. We used to also summarize achievecoming years. and ‘materiality exercise’, see pages 6-7 ST sustainability high level objectives and priorities Our People Our Products The Environment The Community Support our people in their Create high-quality, innovative, Manage our operations with a Conduct our activities to the growth and development within eco-designed products that suprigorous approach to reducing highest level of business integrity the company, promoting their port our customers in improving our impact on the environment, and with a view to creating valhealth, safety and well-being and the quality of life of end-users, following our EHS Decalogue ue for our stakeholders through their overall ability to contribute with a focus on energy-saving, objectives, and with a particular constructive, transparent ento ST’s innovation and business health, safety, and applications emphasis on low-environmental gagement and collaboration. success. that enable new environmental impact of our products and CO2 technologies. neutrality. Recruitment, training Customer Water use at Local sustainability impacts & development satisfaction operations Employee Sensitivity to Conflict metals Public policy engagement energy markets Global diversity & Product energy Partnerships in R&D Packaging equal opportunities efficiency & education Employee health, safety & Responsible products Management of sustainability Design for environment well-being (environment) in supply chain Labor rights & Responsible products Transport & logistics Bribery and corruption social issues (social) Product communication Waste management Intellectual property Management of chemicals (infringement avoidance) GHG emissions from operations 8 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Company performance n Corporate Governance top issue Corporate Governance Bribery and corruption ST is committed to attaining the highest international standards of Corporate Governance, Business Integrity and Ethics. and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, at http://investors.st.com in the Corporate Governance section. M For more information on the composition of our committees, individual remuneration and meeting frequency of our Supervisory Board, see the report of our Supervisory Board on page 30 of our Annual Report. Sustainable Excellence is managed within ST as a fully integrated element of our governance and operations. As such, it is not a separate agenda item for either the Supervisory Board or Managing Board. Instead, specific aspects of sustainability are addressed where required. No specific social, environmental or ethical topics were formally raised by ST’s shareholders during 2010. I 4.4 I Supervisory Board Our Supervisory Board advises our Managing Board and is responsible for supervising the policies pursued by our Managing Board and the general course of our affairs and business. Our Supervisory Board has adopted criteria to assess the independence of its members in accordance with corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE and is responsible for managing potential reported conflicts of interests between the Company and Board members. I 4.6 I The number and the identity of our Supervisory Board members are approved by the ST’s General Shareholders’ Meeting, based on a majority vote. Our Supervisory Board is assisted by a Secretariat whose responsibilities include ensuring the continuing education and training of Supervisory Board members. Our Chief Compliance Officer, Alisia Grenville, serves as the Executive Secretary of our Supervisory Board. I 4.4 I 4.10 I STMicroelectronics is registered in the NethPresident and Chief Executive Officer. In 2010 The Supervisory Board met 11 times in 2010. erlands and subject to the Dutch Corporate the Supervisory Board was chaired by an indeIt is advised by four non-executive committees, Governance Code. We are listed on the New pendent, non-executive chairperson, Antonino comprising members of our Supervisory Board York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris Turicchi. Members of our Managing Board and attended, when deemed necessary by the and the Borsa Italiana in Milan. Our policies and Supervisory Board are appointed and discommittees, by members of the management and practices are designed to meet all our missed by our shareholders. I 4.1 I 4.2 I team and/or by our auditors, PWC, and outstatutory requirements and also to incorporate Our corporate governance policies and pracside legal counsel: international best practices. The company was tices are outlined in our Corporate Governn The Nominating and Corporate Governance formed in 1987 as a result of a decision by ance Charter. This is available on our website, Thomson–CSF (now called Thales) and STET Committee, when making its recommendaalong with our Supervisory Board Charter (now called Telecom Italia S.p.a) to combine their semiconductor businesses and to enter Information on attendance at Supervisory Board and Supervisory Board Committee into a shareholder agreement. Details of the meetings during 2010 Agreement and major shareholders can be Supervisory Audit Strategic Compensation Nomination found on pages 56 and 57 of ST’s Annual ReBoard Committee Committee Committee and Corporate port. Committee Number of Our Corporate Governance Structure 11 10 1 4 3 meetings In accordance with Dutch law, our manageAttendance rate 97% 92% 100% 100% 100% ment is entrusted to the Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board. Attendance rate evolution versus +3.2% +12.2% 0% +7.5% 0% Mr. Carlo Bozotti is currently the sole member last year of our Managing Board with the function of STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 9 Company performance n Corporate Governance tions to the Supervisory Board about its size external audit. It has an established charter Our Standards of Business Conduct and composition, will consider competencies outlining its duties and responsibilities, which is Our standards of integrity and business conof candidates in the area of Sustainable Excelcontained within the Supervisory Board duct are specified in our Corporate Policy on lence. It also oversees ST’s corporate governCharter. In addition, the Audit Committee overBusiness Conduct and Ethics and our Princiance policies and resolves any related issues. sees adequate procedures for the confidential ples for Sustainable Excellence which require In 2010, agenda items included changes to the reporting of financial and accounting matters, us to integrate and execute all of our business Dutch Governance Code and US corporate and matters relating to our Business Conduct activities, focusing on our employees, custogovernance legislation. I 4.7 I and Ethics policy. mers, shareholders and global business. These n The Compensation Committee proposes Managing Board Principles apply to all people working in ST and the remuneration policy and annual remuneraare the top-level reference for guiding our beSince its creation in 1987, our Managing Board tion for the Managing Board and Supervisory havior and decision-making. Business ethics, has comprised a sole member, currently Carlo Board plus key members of the executive the respect of human rights and a sense of reBozotti who fulfills the function of President and team. This includes the incentive component sponsibility to all our stakeholders and to the Chief Executive Officer. Our Managing Board is of compensation for Executive Officers. environment are a matter of personal integrity supported by executive officers comprising: the n The Strategic Committee reviews strategic for each of us, and compliance is mandatory. Chief Operating Officer, (Senior) Executive Vice developments in the semiconductor industry Presidents and Corporate Vice Presidents with The Corporate Policy on Business contains and approves long-term planning and budgetresponsibilities for Product Groups, Corporate specific anti-corruption clauses. In addition to ing, including investment in major research and Staff Functions, Regional Sales and Marketing setting the standards of conduct, the Policy development. It also oversees the execution of organizations, Technology, Research and Dealso specifies how ethical, legal, environmenmergers and acquisitions, and other strategic velopment and our manufacturing operations. tal, employment and human rights issues must transactions. It met only once in 2010 as sebe addressed. These standards are commuDetail of decisions by the Managing Board that veral specific strategic discussions were held nicated to employees and permanent consulmust be referred to the Supervisory Board or at extended meetings of the full Supervisory tants of all ST companies and all managers are shareholders for approval is outlined in the AnBoard. Among its main activities, the Straterequired to renew their commitment to complinual Report, page 48. gic Committee reviewed the challenges of the ance by signing the Corporate Policy on BusiThere are two formal executive committees ness Conduct and Ethics each year. In 2010, semiconductor market, including the evaluaoperating under the Managing Board: 93.9% of eligible managers signed the Policy tion of possible partnerships to invest in new n Our Corporate Strategic Committee, chaired (eligible = approximately 20% of total populamarkets. by the CEO, Carlo Bozotti. tion). I SO3 I n The Audit Committee provides oversight of ST’s corporate accounting and financial ren Our Corporate Ethics Committee, chaired by Compliance e-learning was first introduced in porting, legal and regulatory related risks, and the Chief Compliance Officer, Alisia Grenville. 2007 and will be re-launched in 2011 to include a customized module on standards of Audit Committee Supervisory Board Compensation Committee Managing Board Strategic Committee President & CEO Corporate Strategic Committee Carlo Bozotti Nominating & Corporate Governance Committee COO Didier Lamouche Manufacturing & Sales & Marketing Product Groups Corporate Staff Functions Technology R&D Automotive Americas Technology R&D Finance Administration Strategy Product Group Robert Krysiak Jean-Marc Chery Carlo Ferro Tjerk Hooghiemstra Philippe Lambinet Paul Grimme Packaging & Test Computer & Comm. Infrastructures EMEA Communication Human Resources Manufacturing Infrastructure & Services Andrea Cuomo Claudia Levo Patrice Chastagner Georges Auguste Gian Luca Bertino Otto Kosgalwies Greater China & Front-end Home Entertainment Product Quality Legal South Asia Manufacturing & Displays Excellence François Guibert Orio Bellezza Philippe Lambinet Pierre Ollivier Fabio Gualandris Industrial & Compliance New Ventures Japan & Korea Multisegment Sector Marco Cassis Alisia Grenville Loic Lietar Carmelo Papa Analog, Power & Corporate Ethics MEMS Committee Carmelo Papa Microcontrollers, Memories & Secure MCUs Claude Dardanne Situation as of May 2011. 10 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Business Conduct and Ethics. This revised in full investigations. The company may deterreporting and management process. I 4.9 I module will be made available to a wider range mine that a thorough review or audit can sufIn 2010, we carried out a structured manual reof employees than before, raising awareness fice. Further concerns are raised through other view of corporate risks, with the involvement of and strengthening our levels of compliance routes, including Corporate Security, Human Executive Vice Presidents and their respective across a broader range of business areas and Resources and local line management. These organizations I SO2 I. They have provided defunctions. are reviewed and investigated at an appropritailed risk analyses, relevant at corporate level No fines or penalties were imposed on any ST ate level. There were no cases of reported corand including the rating of risks’ impact and businesses during 2010 for any significant nonruption during 2010. I SO5 I probability as well as the identification of corcompliance with laws or regulations. I SO8 I Improvements in 2010 rective actions for risk mitigation. Sustainability Our Corporate Ethics Committee During 2010, we made the following improverisks have been integrated in this process too, ments to further strengthen our ethics and meaning they have been identified, assessed The Corporate Ethics Committee was estacompliance: and measured with the same methodology as blished in 2007 with a mandate to provide business and financial risks. The resulting list advice to management and employees about Regional Ethics committees were introduced of sustainability risks is coherent with the ‘maour Principles for Sustainable Excellence, our in several regions. Their role is to ensure and teriality exercise’ conclusions covering issues Business Conduct and Ethics policy and any facilitate the implementation of corporate polisuch as human rights in ST operations and ST other ethical issues. It met eight times during cies at local level and to also monitor complisuppliers, air and water chemical pollution or 2010 and has an ongoing commitment to meet ance with local legislation. After a review of this chemical risks. at least six times a year, with at least one meetnew structure, further Regional Ethics commiting each quarter. This committee, chaired by tees will be introduced. M For more information on the ‘materiality exercise’ conducted in 2010, see pages 7 and 8 the Chief Compliance Officer, fulfills a role as Behavioral criteria have been incorporated into an advisory body for the Managing Board and senior managers’ overall performance assessThe process highlighted a number of risks alemployees on all areas relating to business ments under the leadership of the Chief Adready available on pages 6-20 of our 2010 Anconduct and ethics. ministrative Officer. A new policy, introduced nual Report. Raising Concerns in 2010, formalizes the need for everyone at In 2011, ERM will be further introduced across ST provides two formal channels for emST to display the highest standards of ethical the company under the responsibility of our ployees and business partners to raise serious and professional behavior and recognizes and Chief Compliance Officer and overseen by the concerns relating to aspects of business conrewards them for doing so. I 4.5 I Audit Committee of our Supervisory Board. duct; the first is via an external ombudsman Our Internal Audit function previously reported Recommendations will be made to address and the second is a direct confidential channel to our Chief Compliance Officer. In 2010 we major risks highlighted by this company risk reto the Corporate Ethics Committee. Employtook the decision to review and change this view and after corporate formal endorsement, ees are made aware of these via the internet, structure to reflect best governance practice. additional action plans will be implemented intranet and supporting communications. The The Head of Internal Audit now reports directly and followed up. contact details are also sent to suppliers on to the Audit Committee of our Supervisory Our Internal Audit Program will also benefit request. All reports through these channels Board which now has a direct and independfrom the expanded risk assessment with the are raised at the Corporate Ethics Commitent oversight of the Internal Audit function, the continued move towards risk-based auditing. tee and all valid concerns that fall within scope audit program and audit findings. The closer linkages between our audit and risk are investigated. During 2010, 22 cases were Our Risk Management management processes will help to both optireported through these channels resulting mize the efficiency and effectiveness of Internal Management of risk is well embedded in ST’s in four investigations. Allegations are classiAudit. organizations with policies, procedures and fied according to ten categories. The nature Our Policy Framework I 4.8 I programs in place to manage and monitor of allegations and investigations during 2010 those risks. Last year we mentioned our EnOur corporate policies provide a universal, conincluded: wrongdoing, conflict of interest and terprise Risk Management (ERM) program that sistent framework for compliance and Sustaintone at the top. Not all reported incidents result has been designed to include a corporate risk able Excellence across the company. These are supported by corporate Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) which are in turn supNon compliance reporting in 2010 l SO4 l HR4 l ported by Local Operating Procedures (LOPs). The number of incidents reported to the ombudsman or the Corporate Ethics Committee 22 LOPs interpret and implement corporate policy The number of corporate level investigations 4 at local and regional level, taking into account locally-applicable legislation. Together, the set Number of incidents closed 16 of policies and procedures support internationOpen incidents, currently pending 6 ally agreed standards, including the United Nations Global Compact, the OECD Principles of Corporate Governance and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Corporate Policies The following is a sample of some of our key policies that support our Principles for Sustainable Excellence. PRINCIPLES FOR SUSTAINABLE EXCELLENCE Our 2011 n Business Conduct and Ethics n Corporate Quality objectives n Classification and Protection of n Corporate Standard Policies and n Publish our group-wide policy on harassment. Proprietary Information Operating Procedures n Re-launch revised business conduct e-learning. n Conflicts of Interest n Introduction of the Corporate n Corporate Data Quality Accounting Manual n Implement Enterprise Risk Management. Management Independency n  n n Corporate Business Continuity Review the effectiveness of our n Corporate Environmental Policy n Recruitment confidential reporting channels. n Corporate Health and Safety n Sustainable Excellence in Human Resources Management STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 11 ECONOMIC Rewards for a sustainable approach to business A sustainable approach to business creates 2010 EIPM Award Nokia Sustainability Award long-term value for stakeholders by seizing The European Institute of Purchasing ManageNokia, the world leader in mobile communicaopportunities and managing risks relating to ment (EIPM), considered as one of the world’s tions, has recognized ST’s efforts to ensure economic, environmental and social issues. leading educational centers in strategic plansustainable business operations by awardSince the 1990s, STMicroelectronics has been ning and supply management, has launched an ing its ‘Outstanding Achievement in the Cata pioneer in integrating environmental issues online self-assessment tool to reward compaegory of Sustainability’ at Nokia World 2010 in into its business approach and we have mainnies for their excellence in procurement manLondon. tained our commitment to be among the most agement, based on the European Foundation Jean-François Baril, Nokia’s Senior Vice Presisustainable and responsible companies in the for Quality Management (EFQM) Excellence dent and Head of Sourcing, commented: world. Throughout ST, we evaluate how to Model. A total of 80 companies competed for “Nokia and STMicroelectronics have worked seize new opportunities that arise from sustainthese six EIPM awards. closely together over many years, sharing ability challenges and take strategic decisions concepts and best practices for sustainability, ST has been awarded for the maturity of the that we believe to be in line with the expectamost intensely within the area of environmental purchasing processes and its excellence in tions of our stakeholders. protection”. corporate social responsibility. In addition to In 2010, we were recognized by two key partthis award, we obtained an overall excellent Andrea Cuomo, STMicroelectronics’ Senior ners for excellence in sustainability approach score in our assessment against EFQM model Executive Vice President for Europe, Middle and performance: criteria. East and Africa, welcomed the award and said that ST “continually endeavours to achieve excellence in quality, customer satisfaction and world-class environmental performance”. 12 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Economic impact Socially Responsible Investment n Socially Responsible Investment Investors, non-financial rating agencies and analysts regularly approach ST to evaluate our strategy and progress in several non-financial domains: environment, social, health, safety, ethics, governance, supply chain management and product responsibility. ST considers these evaluations as important indicators of our progress in sustainability. Our 2010 sustainability rankings and inclusion in Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) indices In 2010 ST’s performance has been recognized by several key organizations in the area of sustainability: n Bank Sarasin re-confirmed ST as the sector leader and included our stock in their investment portfolios; n Oekom evaluated ST as B Prime placing us among the world’s best companies; n Corporate Knights ranked ST 87th in the ing increasingly specific information on corpoOur SRI management approach Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in rate responsibility. With increasingly deeper and Such assessments serve as a catalyst for the the World; extended analyses, this community plays a key continuous improvement of our sustainability role in stimulating our company. approach. Regular bi-annual and annual evalun ST is 11th (out of 50) in the Lundquist CSR In the meantime, we have also observed an ations track our progress and are effective Online Awards (Italy). elevated interest in extra-financial performance barometers of our global sustainability perforST also remains listed in the main series of from mainstream financial investors and anamance. The questions and requests from SRI benchmark ethical indices: lysts, with a particular attention to the assessanalysts also reflect the main interests and exn Dow Jones Sustainability Indices; ment of companies’ risk management related pectations of other stakeholders. to these areas. Many financial institutions now We communicate and share these inputs intern FTSE4Good; have analysts dedicated to SRI markets in nally, seeking to respond to SRI questions and n Advanced Sustainable Performance order to integrate extra-financial issues into specific topics of interest in our approach and Indices Eurozone (ASPI); financial analysis and to better assess compaalso in our sustainability reporting. We also use n E Capital Partners Indices (ECPI); nies’ risks and opportunities. these ratings to look at where we stand comn Ethibel Sustainability Index. In this context, on top of maintaining an appropared to our own commitments and to benchpriate level of disclosure on our extra-financial mark ST against industry peers. In 2010, FTSE and ECPI Groups have partperformances, we believe that it is particularly As described above, SRI performance is benered to create Italy’s first ethics indexes (FTSE important to be included in SRI indices, and coming increasingly significant for the finanECPI Italy SRI Benchmark and Leaders indiessential to maintain these inclusions, because cial community, and we work closely with our ces). ST was included in these two new SRI these indices allow investors to benchmark Investor Relations department to ensure we components that highlight global sustainability sustainability-driven investments over the longprovide an overview of our long-term perforleaders. ST is considered as a company with term. mance to those who need this information to a clear long-term strategic attitude, a sound operational management and a positive conmake investment decisions. tribution towards society and the environment. M For more information, see pages 16-17 Our interactions with the Socially ResponAwarded ‘SAM Bronze Class’ ST’s sustainability assessment provided by SAM sible Investment (SRI) community agency from 2005 to 2010 for our 2010 sustainability Ethical indices are mainly developed on the basis of analyses performed by extra-financial performance 100 rating agencies. These agencies evaluate and 90 Sustainability Asset Management’s (SAM’s) Corporate rate our Sustainability strategy through our poli80 Sustainability Assessment (CSA) provides an objective cies, management systems and performance. evaluation of a company’s sustainability performance. 70 Each uses its own methodology which includes Based on this rating, the Dow Jones Sustainability 60 questionnaires that we complete, public inforIndex (DJSI) lists the best-in-class companies in terms mation and other outside sources of informa50 of sustainability across all sectors. tion. 40 More generally, interacting with the SRI commuST has been included in the DJSI World since its creation in 1999; this index only includes the top 10% 30 nity brings significant benefits for ST. Through the regular evaluation of our stakeholders’ of the 2,500 major companies in the world. ST has 20 expectations we understand better how to been awarded ‘Bronze Class’ by SAM in 2010 with an 10 adapt and shape our approach to sustainabiloverall score that is significantly higher than the semiconductor average. 0 ity. Throughout the year we communicate our 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 sustainability successes and challenges to the % SRI community. Best score reached in semiconductor sector Over the past years, we have seen the SRI STMicroelectronics score investors, analysts and rating agencies requestSemiconductor industry average score STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 13 Economic impact n Business development top issue Responsible products at the Responsible Products heart of ST’s business strategy Responsible products at the With its unique range of technologies and products, ST is well positioned to help its customers meet the growing needs of end-users, and society as a whole. ST is able to create broad economic value for society as a result of a proactive and innovative approach to responsible products. What is the business strategy of ST today with What opportunities do you see emerging from regard to responsible products? And how would the recent ‘materiality exercise’, with its goal you define ‘responsible products’? to focus on key sustainability issues and their We develop different strategies according to product impact on business success and stakeholders? features. A characteristic of responsible products is that The ‘materiality exercise’ is a very good way to link our they respond not only to business needs but also to Sustainability strategy to mandatory business needs. needs expressed by society as a whole. For example, Through this exercise, we also have the opportunity to we develop products that allow lower power consumpfocus on the matters most relevant to corporate responCarmelo Papa tion, both by the products themselves, as well as the sibility. Moreover, it promotes a greater confidence in Senior Executive Vice President, General Manager final application in which they are used. At the same our ability to achieve the relevant objectives, because Industrial & Multisegment Sector time, we develop products which allow “greener” we actually link our sustainability objectives to imperaenergy production. This policy has enabled us to build tive business needs. and maintain a competitive advantage in the market. Do you see increasing demand from customers To what degree is this approach formalized? For for responsible products? How much is the deSustainability has been at the example, are there specific objectives or marmand encouraged by ST or driven by customers? heart of ST’s culture since keting activities relating to the generation of its creation in 1987. Can you The demand for responsible products is constantly Interview responsible products? describe the gradual integragrowing. The reasons are related to increasing energy tion of sustainability into the The generation of responsible products is largely demands which lead to cost increases, and also to actual business strategy over embedded into our business needs. Responsible intermediate and final customers’ sensitivity to the social the years? products have, inherently, a greater possibility to atand ecological impact of large companies’ operations tract customers and end-users. A product permitting and products. The demand for responsible products is We began introducing the Total Quality Management lower power consumption is easier to sell, especially in equally encouraged by our company’s product offering (TQM) culture in ST when this approach was unknown battery-operated applications or solutions requiring high and by customer requests. in most European companies. The deployment of TQM power. Our recent marketing campaigns (i.e. Sense and required a strong effort over more than 10 years, beginPower) focused principally on the energy-saving capaHow would you like ST to be perceived, by its ning in the 1990s and continuing through the first years bilities of our products. customers, stakeholders and society in genof the 2000s. The values of TQM have been embraced eral, from the perspective of its responsible by ST executives and managers, and TQM is now How are these products classified or how is products? completely integrated within the values that inspire the their ‘market’ value measured? As a responsible company, I believe that it’s mandatory behavior of ST employees. Our approach to eco-designed products is global. that we have an excellent perception by our customers In the last five to six years, ST’s TQM has evolved into Manufacturing of eco-compatible products must start in terms of responsible products and, more generally, a more global approach called the Sustainable Excelfrom the raw materials used, continue throughout the a responsible modus operandi. This perception, lence program. This approach helps create a strong link production process, during product operation and disundoubtedly, represents a competitive advantage in the between our values and our business objectives. For missal at the end of product lifecycle. This is mandatory market. Moreover, our employees and stakeholders can example, our products based on energy saving, green for our business, as it is a specific requirement from a all be proud of being protagonists in ST’s sustainability energy generation, healthcare and automation allow majority of our customers. And it also promotes goodapproach. us to contribute to an improved long-term sustainable will between ST and the local communities where we quality of life. ST’s environmentally-friendly production have operations. So if we are not eco-compatible at processes also play a key role in our commitment to the the company level, we cannot survive for long in the Sustainable Excellence program’s ideals. marketplace. 14 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Economic impact Innovation and R&D n top issue Research and Development Partnerships in R&D & Education Excellence program Research and Development Research and Development (R&D) depends on effective communication and collaboration between ST organizations to share information and best practices. In 2010, R&D participants at ST further improved this collaborative style of working to define and adopt common tools, processes and policies in order to increase R&D effectiveness. R&D is critical to ST’s ongoing competitiveness more and more critical to weigh up the relain the semiconductor market which is driven tive benefits of strategic intellectual properties by constant demands for innovative, cheaper (IPs) that must be developed in house, against and higher quality solutions. This requires sigthose that we can source outside. An additional nificant product innovation as well as advances complexity relates to the trend for several IPs in manufacturing technologies. R&D is also key to be made available concurrently to different to the achievement of sustainability through the organizations within both ST and ST-Ericsson. development of responsible applications that This makes R&D investment decisions even reduce the eco-footprints of our products and more critical because of this greater compaour manufacturing. ny-wide impact. The objective of the Intellectual Property management work group was to ST owes its current strong position in the market define a process to ensure timely and informed to significant R&D investment. To build on this make or buy decisions relating to critical IPs investment, ST’s senior management launched for the whole company, thereby maximizing the R&D Excellence program in early 2010 to overall R&D efficiency. This process has been create the best possible conditions to foster an applied in 2010 to several key IPs that are effective R&D environment. A dedicated steershared across multiple product lines. The working committee composed of Product Groups, group has now handed over its mission to a R&D and Corporate Strategy Vice Presidents newly created IP Sourcing & Strategy organizawas created. This senior management group tion. Their activity is overseen by the Corporate R&D Excellence People observed that Product Groups, Front-end Manufacturing and Technology and R&D organizaIP Committee which meets quarterly and conStream sists of a pool of Vice Presidents. tions all have a significant number of engineers The lasting success of any program is often deterdedicated to R&D but that they often develop n Software and systems development ST mined by employee engagement and creating the their own tools and methods without benefiting increasingly delivers a large amount of software right mindsets. This becomes even more significant from common approaches. The group agreed together with its products. Indeed, several leadfor programs like R&D excellence which are highly on a number of areas that should be harmoing edge developments involve more software dependent on individual and team skills. With the aim nized throughout the company in order to geengineers than IC designers. Being able to proof focusing on the softer aspects of the R&D Excelnerate more value from our R&D investments. vide an optimized combination of hardware and lence program, a specific people stream was launched To address this, five multi-disciplinary task software is an essential aspect of our customer in the latter half of 2010. forces were formed to address the following service and product differentiation. These comA dedicated working group has identified five aspects: bined platforms drastically reduce the amount major focus areas: n Metrics The first step in leveraging R&D inof development our customers need to do on n organizational structures with the objective of top of our platforms to deliver their products, vestments is to improve the measurement and gaining flexibility and leveraging collective competencies; allowing them to increase the number of prodtracking of our R&D activities. A task force has ucts they bring to market while focus on differn people R&D skills and careers aimed at creating focused on developing the right indicators of entiation. Here again, this work group has colbroader exposure to and interest in R&D; success and to harmonize their measurement laborated with ST-Ericsson that already invests SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, reacross the organizations. The objective is to n significantly in the development of these solualistic and timely) R&D goals with better linkages complete the deployment of this initiative within tions. The objective has been to build a comwith market needs; all product groups by the end of 2011. mon approach to quality software development n R&D tools harmonization Over time, the n creating a conducive environment with the based on best industry practices, capitalizing company has adopted or developed many objective of bringing people together to enhance on combined skills, knowledge and best practools to manage its R&D, sometimes with difknowledge sharing, internally and externally to foster tices. As a result we plan to train 500 software ferent tools to achieve the same goals in difinnovation. Another aspect is to make the working enengineers in 2011. ferent areas of the company. There will be an vironment more efficient by removing operational botn People (see text-box). tlenecks, through optimized approval processes and emphasis during 2011 in standardizing the use of fewer tools and associated R&D processes. accelerated procurement; Also, a new tool for ‘requirement manageThe program has so far met many of the n raised profile of R&D experts to enhance the ment’ will be introduced in 2011 to manage objectives that were set by the top manageimage of technical disciplines and to promote R&D. the emerging complexity of describing the ment. These deliverables have already started The working group is now focusing on actions to functionality of our most complex products. to bring benefits to the key players. More will be achieve these objectives with the target of developing n Intellectual Property management As the introduced and implemented in 2011. a set of proposals by the second quarter of 2011, with complexity of our products grows, it becomes implementation planned for later in the year. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 15 Economic performance overview 2010 High level objective Satisfy shareholders’ expectations through financial and non-financial performance (ACCI) segments, registering an increase of approximately 45% and 32%, respectively, while Wireless sales registered a decline of approxiThe financial figures presented in this performance overview section are mately 14%. based on the Consolidated Financial Statements, included in ST’s By location of order shipment, Greater China-South Asia and Americas Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC on March 7, 2011, were the top performers, with approximately 32% and 31% growth, respectively, largely exceeding the results registered by Japan-Korea which also includes the ST-Ericsson entities as consolidated by ST. at approximately 15% and EMEA at approximately 7%. Our largest customer, the Nokia group of companies, accounted for approximately 14% of our net revenues in 2010 compared to about 16% during 2009. Important new products recently launched include: 2010 was a year of rebound and record sales at STMicroelectronics n in the area of MEMS, new families of gyroscopes, high-performance In 2010, the semiconductor industry significantly rebounded after the and low-power stereo MEMS microphones, and a new family of highprevious year’s decline, with the total revenues reaching new historically g acceleration sensors for advanced airbag systems; high levels. n extremely small silicon pressure sensors for use in smartphones, The 2010 overall improvement of our performances, particularly in terms sports watches and other portable equipment, and a S-Touch® Fingerof higher revenues and manufacturing efficiencies, coupled with a strong Tip controller, offering smartphones true multi-touch capability; decrease in the amount of impairment and restructuring charges, led to n important new families of 32-bit microcontrollers for automotive a significant turnaround of our operating results, moving from a loss of (including several design wins at tier-one OEMs in Europe and the US), US$ 1,023m in 2009 to an income of US$ 476m in 2010. Our continued industrial and security applications; effort to develop new and exciting products has started to translate into n new complex digital ASICs for computer peripherals and communicaincreased profitability as operating results improved in 2010 by approximately US$ 1.5bn on US$ 1.84bn of higher revenues. tion infrastructure; In 2010, we were well prepared to take advantage of significantly better n new generation of set-top box and TV products that offer our customindustry conditions with the right portfolio and we have started to turn ers top performance at low power consumption focusing on 3D our vision of leadership in ‘Sense and Power’ applications and in multigraphics and 3DTV applications, and three new highly integrated SoCs media convergence into reality. In the last eight quarters, we went for integrated digital TVs (iDTV); through the most severe economic recession in 2009 and successfully n tie-ups with key leaders in markets that require secure solutions, capitalized on the 2010 market recovery. Throughout this time frame, we significantly in NFC (Near-Field Communications) applications; remained focused on our growth and profitability objectives. n key products for industrial markets, including the dSPIN motor-control platform, LED lighting drivers and smart-metering chips; We finished the year on a very strong note n in wireless, ST-Ericsson’s solutions were chosen by two leading handWe were growing revenues sequentially during 2010: by 9% in Q2, by set manufacturers – the M5730, an extremely power-efficient and com5% in Q3 and by 7% in Q4, registering record quarterly sales and we pact HSPA+ modem capable of transmitting data at speeds of up to continued to increase our profitability, moving from an operating loss of 21Mbps, has been launched. ST-Ericsson is preparing to ramp new US$ 20m in Q1 2010 to an operating income of US$ 213m in Q4 2010. products, such as the thin modem and U8500 smartphone platform; Our gross margin increased in 2010 to 38.8% of revenues from 30.9% n and, of course, a wave of new products in the areas of advanced in 2009, benefiting from higher sales volume and, consequently, the analog, power and smart power for all applications. improved loading of our fabs, overall improvement in our manufacturing efficiencies resulting from our cost optimization initiatives and restructurM For more details please refer to our annual report ing plans and new product introductions in several of our product lines. Our inclusion in sustainability indices M For more details please refer to our annual report In 2010, ST confirmed its inclusion in the major sustainability indices, including ASPI (France), Dow Jones Sustainability Index (United States, Rewarding our shareholders Germany), Ethibel Sustainability Index (Belgium), ECPI (Italy) and FTSEWe remain focused on creating value for our shareholders, which we 4Good (United Kingdom). In 2010, ST has been included in two new measure in terms of return on net assets in excess of our weighted aversustainability indices, created in partnership between the FTSE and age cost of capital. ECPI Groups. Our inclusion in these indices is based on the evaluation At our annual general meeting of shareholders held on May 25, 2010, of publicly available information and our responses to specific questionthe distribution of a cash dividend of US$ 0.28 per common share was naires and requests for information. approved by our shareholders, to be paid in four equal installments, in June 2010, August 2010, December 2010 and February 2011. In 2010, M For more information, see page 13 US$ 212m was paid to shareholders as dividends, out of which US$ 26m related to the 2009 dividend paid in February 2010. M For more details please refer to our annual report Our sales by market segment and region Our 2011 objectives In 2010, we registered a strong performance, posting growth in all n Satisfy shareholder expectations through financial and non-financial regions and in all product segments, with the exception of Wireless. Our performance. revenues reached a record US$ 10,346m, increasing 21.6% compared to last year, as a result of a broad product portfolio and significantly betn Create economic value for stakeholders. ter industry conditions. By product segment, our revenues performance was supported by the n Create the conditions for sustainable innovation. strong results within both Industrial and Multisegment Sector (IMS) and Automotive, Consumer, Computer and Communication Infrastructure 16 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Satisfy shareholders’ expectations through financial and non-financial performance ST key figures I EC1 I Dividends paid I EC1 I US$m 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 X ST1 Net revenues US$ 9,842m US$ 8,510m US$ 10,346m Dividends 107 269 240 158 212 X ST2 Net earnings (losses) US$ (786)m US$ (1,131)m US$ 830m Operating income and cash flow I EC1 I US$m X ST5 Gross profit as a 36.20% 30.90% 38.80% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 percentage of sales X ST3 Gross profit US$ 3,560m US$ 2,626m US$ 4,015m Operating income 677 (545) (198) (1,023) 476 X ST4 Earnings (losses) Net operating cash flow 666 840 648* 227** 972*** US$ (0.88) US$ (1.29) US$ 0.94 per share (*) Excluding payments for mergers & acquisitions (Genesis and NXP) which totalled US$1,694m. X ST6 Market share versus TAM (**) Excluding net proceeds received in business combination (Ericsson Mobile Platform) which totalled 3.96% 3.76% 3.47% US$1,137m. (Total Available Market) (***) Excluding payments for mergers & acquisitions which totalled US$11m. Average daily trading volumes I STE8 I Share price 2010, NYSE I STE8 I US$ Euronext Paris/Borsa Italiana Milan/NYSE 20 16 18 14 16 12 14 10 12 8 10 6 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Number of shares (million) High price Low price ST sales by market segment I EC1 I 2.7 I STE9 I % ST Revenues I EC1 I US$m 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Automotive 14.4 13.8 12.2 14.0 ST Sales 9,854 10,001 9,842 8,510 10,346 Computer 12.4 12.0 12.9 13.0 Consumer 14.0 13.6 11.5 12.2 Distribution 18.2 18.3 15.8 20.9 Industrial & Others 7.5 9.0 7.7 8.1 Telecom 33.5 33.3 39.9 31.8 ST sales by region I EC1 I 2.7 I STE7 I % 5 You can ﬁnd the full disclosure on management approach on http://www.st.com/internet/com/about_st/st_company_overview.jsp 2007 2008 2009 2010 EMEA 33.4 30.7 28.4 25.0 M For more information on the indicators presented in this section, please refer to the Reader’s Guide at the beginning of the report Americas 13.4 13.6 11.9 12.9 Greater China South Asia 41.5 39.9 40.6 44.1 Japan Korea 11.7 15.8 19.1 18.0 ST inclusion in the main sustainability indices I STE11 I Ethibel ASPI DJSI ECPI FTSE ECPI Index series FTSE4GOOD TOTAL Sustainability Index (EU) (US) (Germany) (Belgium) (Italy) (Italy) (UnitedKingdom) DJSI DJSI DJSI ESI Excellence Europe Ethical Ethical Ethical FTSE ECPI Italia FTSE4GOOD FTSE4GOOD FTSE ECPI Italia SRI World STOXX EURO Index Index Index SRI Benchmark Europe Index Global Index Leaders Index STOXX Emu Euro Global Index 2010 ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 12 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 17 Economic performance overview 2010 High level objective Create economic value for stakeholders Economic impact on four key stakeholders l EC9 l STE10 l Some key achievements in partnership with our customers Our economic contribution to society We believe that strategic alliances with customers and industry partnerWe operate in many jurisdictions with highly complex and varied tax ships are critical to success in the semiconductor industry. We have a regimes. Our tax rate is variable and depends on changes in the level of strategy based on four tenets, which we believe will help us gain market operating profits within various local jurisdictions and on changes in the share: applicable taxation rates of these jurisdictions, as well as changes in n We work with our key customers to identify evolving needs and new estimated tax provisions due to new events. We currently receive certain applications in order to develop innovative products and product featax benefits in some countries, and these benefits may not be available tures. We have formal alliances with certain strategic customers that in the future due to changes in the local jurisdictions. allow us and our customers to exchange information and which give our M For more details please refer to our annual report customers access to our process technologies and manufacturing infrastructure. We have entered into several strategic customer alliances, Other developments including alliances with Bosch, Continental, Hewlett-Packard, Marelli, On January 4, 2010, we signed a joint agreement with Enel and Sharp Nokia, Pioneer, Samsung, Seagate, Sharp, Sony-Ericsson and Western for the manufacture of triple-junction thin-film photovoltaic panels in Italy. Digital. We are actively working to expand the number of our customer On August 2, 2010, we announced, together with Enel and Sharp, the alliances, targeting OEMs in the United States, in Europe and in Asia. signature of a binding commitment letter for a project financing of around n We are targeting new major key accounts, where we can leverage our € 150m by a group of banks and our equal share joint venture, named position as a supplier of application-specific products with a broad 3Sun, began operations at the Catania (Italy) factory. The Catania factory range product portfolio to better address the requirements of large users is to be financed through a combination of equity from sponsors, grants of semiconductor products with whom our market share has been hisfrom the Italian Joint Ministerial Committee for Economic planning, torically quite low. which recently committed € 49m to this project, and project financing provided by leading banks. Panel production at the Catania plant is n We have targeted the mass market, or those customers outside of our scheduled to begin in the second half of 2011. traditional top 50 customers, who require system-level solutions for multiple market segments. In 2010, we continued the execution of the framework agreement with the French Ministry of Economy, Industry and Employment, the n We have focused on two regions as key ingredients in our future sales “Nano2012” Research and Development program. Under this agreegrowth. The first is Greater China-South Asia and the second is Japanment, we are the Coordinator and Project Leader and have been alloKorea. We have launched important marketing initiatives in both regions. cated up to € 340m (about US$ 450m) in grants for the period Creating value for our suppliers 2008-2012 if all technical parameters and objectives are met. Nano2012 is designed to promote development of advanced CMOS (32nm and While the amount paid to suppliers of tangible assets is an official and below) technologies for System-on-Chip semiconductor products in the audited figure published in our 20-F report, the split of purchases Grenoble-Crolles region of France, in cooperation with International between tangible assets, materials and others is based on different data Semiconductor Development Alliance (ISDA) led by IBM and grouping sources and timeframes (see graph ‘Purchase expenses by category’). seven leading world-wide semiconductor partners. It aims to give a realistic picture of the most important transactions between ST and its main supplier categories but it should not be All of these worldwide activities create new ideas and innovations that considered as official and audited accounting information. enrich our portfolio of intellectual property and enhance our ability to provide our customers with winning solutions. Furthermore, an array of We use three main critical types of suppliers in our business: equipment important strategic customer alliances ensures that our R&D activities suppliers, raw material suppliers and external subcontractors. closely track the changing needs of the industry, while a network of Demand for increasingly smaller chip structures means that semiconducpartnerships with universities and research institutes around the world tor producers must quickly incorporate the latest advances in process ensures that we have access to leading-edge knowledge from all cortechnology to remain competitive. Advances in process technology canners of the world. We also play leadership roles in numerous projects not be brought about without commensurate advances in equipment running under the European Union’s Information Society Technologies technology and equipment costs tend to increase as the equipment programs. becomes more sophisticated. Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials. The prices of M See more on page 19 these materials are very volatile and they are obtained from diverse sources on a just-in-time basis. It is then important for us to closely work with our suppliers and we have joint development programs with some of them such as Air Liquide, ASM Lithography, Hewlett-Packard or PACKTEC. M For more details on our suppliers and subcontractors management, see pages 62-63 Purchase expenses by category % Payments for purchases of tangible assets I STE1 I US$m 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Purchases of tangible assets 1,553 1,140 983 451 1,034 29 32 41 40 All taxes of the year I EC1 I US$m 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Tax expense for the year 98 64 49 (34) 183 30 28 Outsourcing and others Manufacturing materials Asset purchase and maintenance 18 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Creating the conditions for Sustainable Innovation Research and Development nologies. These include Smart Power (BCD and VIpower), analog, disWhile R&D is essential to all semiconductor companies, we at ST place crete, MEMS, IPAD (Integrated Passive and Active Devices) and mixed particular emphasis on it and believe that this unswerving commitment signal processes, in all of which we have a long tradition of leadership. has been a key factor in our success. New developments in semiconM For more details on our responsible products, see pages 52 to 55 ductor technology can make end products significantly cheaper, smaller, faster, more reliable, and embedded with more functions than their preResearch and Development funding & expenses decessors. This directly results in value creation for our customers and We participate in several programs established by the EU, individual counfor ST. In addition, being one of the industry’s most innovative compatries and local authorities in Europe (principally France and Italy) that nies is important for motivating our people and attracting talented young encourage R&D activities, capital investment and industrialization in the engineers. relevant regions. These programs are partially supported by direct fundThe main R&D challenge we face is to continually increase the capabiliing, tax credits or specific loans (low-interest financing). ties, speed and cost-effectiveness of our devices and the range of comThe main cooperative European programs for R&D in which we are petencies required as we increasingly seek to deliver complete system involved include the Eureka-CATRENE program (Cluster for Application solutions, while ensuring that technological developments are converted and Technology Research in Europe on NanoElectronics); EU R&D prointo profitable commercial products as quickly as possible. jects within FP7 (Seventh Frame Program) for Information Technology; Because our product portfolio ranges from discrete power devices to ENIAC, the Joint Technology Initiative with combined public support from the most complex System-on-Chip devices, our technology R&D folEurope Member States and the European Commission; and national or lows two main directions. One is the development of next-generation regional programs for R&D and industrialization involving many companies Complementary-Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) processes that and laboratories. are mastered by very few companies and the other is the development Because our principal investment and resource allocation decisions are of proprietary analog, sensing and power technologies. necessary for expenditures on R&D and capital investments in manufacCMOS technology is used to manufacture the most advanced inteturing facilities, we ensure that our various product groups share, as much grated circuits and there is a continuous market pressure to increase the as possible, process technologies, IPs and manufacturing capacity. density of integration. The costs and technological risks involved in the Product innovation development of next-generation processes continually increase. To minimize these most of the major manufacturers work together to develop Our advanced Product R&D centers are strategically located around the the basic next-generation CMOS processes. ST was a pioneer of this world: in France, Italy, Belgium, Canada, China, India, Singapore, model with the ground-breaking alliance in the nineties with Philips SemSweden, the United Kingdom and the United States. iconductors (now NXP), which was based at ST’s site at Crolles, France. In 2009, despite the worldwide economic crisis, we resolved to protect Later on Freescale and TSMC joined with ST and Philips Semiconducour future by maintaining our efforts in R&D. This decision paid off in 2010 tors to form the Crolles2 Alliance, which achieved all of its goals. with the introduction of an important wave of new products. In 2008, after the successful conclusion of the Crolles2 Alliance, we We have the knowledge, partners and financial resources to develop new, entered into a new R&D alliance with the ISDA (International Semiconleading edge products, such as cellular modems and application procesductor Development Alliance), a technology alliance led by IBM and sors for wireless applications (via ST-Ericsson, our wireless JV with including top players such as GlobalFoundries, Infineon, Renesas, Ericsson); automotive, MEMS; digital consumer products focused on setSamsung and Toshiba whose goal is to develop the CMOS process top boxes and digital TVs; and system-oriented products for the multisegtechnologies for the 32/28-nm and 22/20-nm nodes. ST also estament sector, where we are one of the few semiconductor companies able blished some additional strategic objectives: to offer complete kits of parts and are also moving up the value chain by n to develop additional differentiated CMOS technologies that deliver providing full turnkey solutions. added value in particular applications e.g better analog performance; ST’s vision is to be the leader in Multimedia Convergence and in Sensing n develop libraries, methods and tools necessary to design complex ICs and Power applications. To this end, we intend not only to reinforce our using these technologies; current strong positions in the already established multimedia and power n equip the Crolles 12 inches operation with competitive leading edge applications but also to be the leader in key new markets such as healthmanufacturing capability; care/wellbeing and energy-saving applications. n perform advanced technology research on the CMOS nano-strucM For more details please refer to our annual report tures that will be need for future CMOS generations. ST is a major partner in the ISDA and in 2010 Joel Hartmann, from ST’s R&D engineers and technicians by region* I X STE5 I Technology Research and Development organization, was appointed to 2006 2007 2008 2009** 2010 jointly head the IBM Semiconductor Research & Development Center Europe 4,857 6,958 7,011 4,519 4,593 (SRDC) that covers both ASTA (Advanced Semiconductor Technology Americas 352 407 702 532 496 Alliance) and ISDA. Within the overall ISDA agreement, ST and IBM also Asia-Pacific 1,730 2,399 2,943 2,031 2,009 have a separate agreement to jointly develop unique, value-added, difOthers 256 489 428 307 277 ferentiated versions of the core CMOS technology. Total 7,195 10,253 11,084 7,389 7,375 Furthermore, in order to serve customers in all electronics application (*) Excluding ST-Ericsson headcount. sectors, we are continuing our development of multiple proprietary tech(**) We have adjusted the 2009 data according to the perimeter selected excluding ST-Ericsson headcount. R&D expenditures I X STE4 I US$m Partnerships with the academic community I SO1 I STE3 I X STS44 I 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Expenditures 1,668 1,802 2,152 2,365 2,350 Partnerships with universities, 236 335 437 470 240 colleges, schools for R&D purposes* (*) In 2010, we restructured our data for partnerships with the academic community doing a split between ST patents filled by region I X STE6 I the partnerships for R&D purposes and those dedicated to teaching programs, internship programs and recruitment. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Italy 212 152 175 186 197 R&D headcount evolution I X STE5 I France 233 204 141 181 260 2007 2008 2009** 2010** Rest of Europe 59 49 36 105 64 Overall R&D headcount* 10,341 11,162 7,458 7,453 Americas 41 33 70 61 96 R&D engineers and technicians 10,253 11,084 7,389 7,375 Asia-Pacific 62 59 63 56 122 (*) Including operators. (**) Excluding ST-Ericsson headcount. Total 607 497 485 589 739 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 19 Social Building employee engagement programs ST conducts a regular anonymous worldwide In 2010, there were many examples of congagement roadmap has been closely followedemployee engagement survey. In September crete programs across the whole company to up with the support of the AMK management, 2010, 45,575 employees were invited to parsupport specific action plans. One such exHR and training functions. ticipate in the survey. The overall response rate ample relates to ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore). In addition to this management development reached 86%, an increase of 6% compared to Since the 2008 engagement survey, the Ang program, a Welfare committee comprising 2008. These results have significantly improved Mo Kio (AMK) Front-end manufacturing site senior management staff was asked to look thanks to two years of focused work by Human has launched a pioneering management deinto employee welfare policies and practices to Resources (HR), the Internal Communications velopment program linked to their engagement enhance the overall working environment and Group and senior management who collecroadmap. culture. tively acted on the key drivers for engagement. This program acknowledged that manageSuch engagement programs in AMK have had As the result of this, ST employees have exrial effectiveness was the key to employee encouraging results with the follow-up engagepressed growing motivation and involvement engagement. A two-pronged approach was ment survey showing a marked improvement. in their day-to-day work due to increased taken. Firstly, communication was reinforced These initiatives will be continued in 2011 as trust in senior executive management and the between managers and their teams through a key program for AMK and are expected to company strategy. To continue this positive increased forums, dialogue and one-to-one benefit ST employees and promote the comtrend, ST has decided to conduct the survey sessions. Through this regular communication, pany’s success. on a yearly basis from 2011. This more regular important drivers of employee engagement As a result of these successful action plans, feedback will give a unique opportunity for ST such as recognition, mentoring and employee other organizations will be inspired to take simito fine-tune its responses. Moreover, each ordevelopment were built. Secondly, managelar actions thanks to the positive feedback from ganization and each site within ST have been ment development programs were enhanced ST AMK site. mobilized to develop action plans to improve to strengthen managerial skills such as comfuture engagement. munication, coaching and mentoring. This en20 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Learningn top issue Strengthening employee Recruitment, Training & Development learning to improve performance Strengthening employee As part of ST’s commitment to maintain a leading edge position, we have renewed the way we approach learning. The new Corporate Learning organization helps ST’s employees to meet business challenges. In July 1994, ST created its first formal learning experts, and coordinated at corporate level; structure to enhance employees’ capabilities. n the ‘Leadership Development’ pillar, to deTo build a strong educational and knowledge velop managerial and leadership competenbase, ST has provided high-level developcies for managers at all levels. ment opportunities across a worldwide platCorporate Learning is deployed around two form, consisting of a large variety of company main ideas: cross-fertilization and networks. training programs and learning services. This By creating an environment for people to colculture of learning has continued to evolve over lectively solve key business issues, we will the past 15 years. enable good practices to be shared and will To create learning within a business context, create strong cross-organizational networks. ST coordinates the training and development The other benefit is that, across the company, of its employees, via a new Corporate Learnn the deployment of Leadership courses, people have access to consistent and joineding (CL) organization which has succeeded e.g. Coaching Skills for Managers, Situational up training that is closely matched to ST’s busithe original ST University. CL is a networked Leadership, Managing Remote Teams, Leadness priorities. structure that is closer to operations and busiers as Communicators. 2010 has been largely dedicated to the defininess. It is governed by a Group Vice President Corporate Learning has new challenges to take tion of this new learning organization, but we and aimed at establishing an organization-wide up in the coming years. ST wants collaboration have already seen some initial achievements: learning infrastructure encompassing both and working in synergy to become engraved n a First Collaborative Problem Solving workprofessional and behavioral competencies in its culture, and it relies on CL’s network to through an extensive mix of tools e.g. e-learnshop, held in September, to bring new innovadeliver this. In a multinational company like ST, ing, classrooms, seminars, workshops, etc. tive ideas to ST’s marketing. A second session this means finding the right balance between is planned for February 2011 to define actions a corporate and local approach, taking into This new learning structure is tightly integrated to tackle supply chain challenges; account different cultures and learning styles. within the business. Its aims are to: n a ‘Leadership Development’ program, the ST’s objective is also to maintain high quality n connect learning closely with the business; ‘Monte Blanc’ program, aimed at developing training, regardless of the prevailing economic n adopt an operating model for learning that is the skills of junior managers. 11 sessions incontext. This renewal of a learning culture conre silient through the cyclicality of the business; volving 156 participants coming from 23 differtinues to be seated within ST’s key Human Ren get maximum value for ST investment in ent sites (Europe, Asia, US) have been held in sources principles. learning for the business and the people. 2010. 35 new sessions are planned for 2011; (*) Morgan McCall, Robert. W. Eichinger & Michael M. Lombardo from the Center for Creative Leadership (CCL) The CL structure is based on ST’s long experience in learning, and on the 70-20-10* model detailing how people learn: about 70% of organizational learning takes place on the job ST Rousset site develops a Lean culture through (through problem solving, job experience, and the ‘Elan’ program tasks), 20% comes from the others (from feedIn 2008, ST Rousset (France) began to implement a with the aim of improving a defined issue in less than backs, observation, coaching & mentoring), Lean management initiative, the ‘Elan’ program, to imthree months. These workshops have focused on four and the remaining 10% occurs through forprove its operations and people performance through strategic themes: mal learning (such as classrooms, e-learning). the development of a Lean culture. This management The three styles are complementary and are n ergonomics, environment and working methods, to system is based on the fast resolution of problems and gain safety, comfort and productivity; needed to operate in tandem to be effective. a culture that brings about efficiency and cooperation ST has oriented its learning process around n equipment robustness and efficiency; between functions. The Lean system identifies potential this framework and is organized around three added value for customers and focuses employees’ n manufacturing flow, to improve cycle times; pillars: attention on reducing non value-added processes, or n quality. n the ‘Collaborative Problem Solving Work‘wastes’. This is achieved through the training and enAnother key aspect of the ‘Elan’ program is the abilshops’ pillar, tailored to a specific business isgagement of staff. ity to visualize issues and opportunities. Production and sue and executed in close collaboration with support teams use visual performance boards aimed at The Lean initiative relies on people empowerment to business owners; improving communications within the team to create a further improve manufacturing site performance. One n the ‘Professional Competencies Developclear and shared understanding of issues and progress key aspect of this program consists of workshops that ment’ pillar, covering multiple disciplines e.g. adapt the Plan Do Check Act (PDCA) process to drastiin real time and on a daily basis. These boards are effecquality, personal development, Front-end and cally improve manufacturing performance, using multitive ways to engage a larger audience and to keep the Back-end operations, engineering, product disciplinary teams of employees working together. The site updated. They typically highlight people news, opand technology R&D, based on a network of first three-day module is followed by a weekly session erational goals, current performance and potential gaps. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 21 Social performance Leadership & management n top issue Focusing on Talent and Recruitment, training and development Performance management Focusing on Talent and In 2010, ST’s Corporate Human Resources (CHR), under the governance of the new Chief Administrative Officer, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, decided to focus on talent and performance as a means of developing our people. This responded to the findings of the 2010 employee engagement survey which highlighted employees’ expectations in this area. Aimed at achieving a breakthrough in organigaging and retaining talented people. It uses a Appraisal, job evaluation, reward, career manzational and resource development, the Talent two-way, win-win approach between manageagement, mobility and recruitment. These are and Performance management program was ment and employees so that: managed through seven workstreams, focusfully launched in 2010. It has created a powern managers are able to anticipate and provide ing on major bottlenecks which had limited the ful momentum for change and laid the foundaefficient and effective resources to meet our efficiency of these key processes in the past. tions for talent development which is essential business needs; The articles below look at three specific proto our success. grams; People Review and Performance Apn ST can encourage and support transparent The initiative is driven by Corporate Human and progressive career management and sucpraisal (two complementary processes to Resources Development and co-chaired by cession planning to raise employees’ employsupport people growth and company competia steering committee composed of Executive ability and adaptability. tiveness) and the new Technical Ladder (which and Corporate Vice Presidents, Corporate HR recognizes our specialists and experts). The program encompasses the main HR proand senior HR managers. It aims at promoting cesses such as People Review, Performance sustainable competitiveness by attracting, enPeople Review: ensuring The People Review double approach alignment of resources with business needs n Strategic business challenges Organization n Job categories evolution and skill gaps Resources The People Review process has been enReview n Succession plan for key positions planning hanced this year to respond to employees’ & expectations, highlighted in the previous employee engagement survey, calling for an imTalent provement in the evaluation of potential, and Individual n Talent pools identification management for this to be better-linked to their career develPeople n Potential career directions opment. In 2010, the People Review process Review n Professional development action plans has been deployed at company level to provide a mid-term perspective and corresponding action plans in the areas of resources planning and people development relating to major contribution against their potential and perforwith all ST organizations. trends in business direction and job developmance. In order to make People Review an efficient and ment. There was a specific focus on management sustainable process, Corporate HR will ensure level JG14 and above in order to identify talent that this process is repeated every two years A double approach was used: pools and potential successors for all key posiand will follow-up on the People Review action n Collective organizational approach: a comtions across the company. plans annually. prehensive ‘bottom-up’ analysis has been This has also allowed a dynamic picture to be A key objective for 2011 is to prepare the next conducted by business organizations to idenbuilt up of employees’ professional developgeneration of leaders through the development tify how the market environment, ST’s strategic ment mapped against future organizational and deployment of a new talent management positioning and key business challenges will needs. policy which will incorporate career evolution, impact on future job categories. succession planning, individual feedback and The 2010 campaign successfully covered 73% By the end of 2010, 100% of ST organizations of levels JG14 to JG18 and 93% of JG19 and development plans. Specific attention will be had performed their SWOT* analysis and deabove. Talent pools have been identified from paid to talented people with the potential to veloped the first step of a strategic resource all levels of the organization. attain a senior position in the organization and action plan. who are anticipated to achieve rapid career n Individual analysis: within each site, counThe People Review double approach: development. One of these programs which try and region, People Review meetings, led In 2010, for the first time, the main outcomes will be deployed in 2011 is the Development by committees of managers at each level of of both collective and individual reviews were Booster, detailed on the opposite page. the organization, have assessed employees’ consolidated by Corporate HR, after discussion (*) Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats analysis 22 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Career Management: Thanks to the strong support of ST’s Chief Technology Officer (CTO), the new approach n The definition of four levels of expertise. Depending on their level of expertise, employthe individual path for was adopted by all internal stakeholders. Its ees can now be recognized as ‘Member of the technical and specialist methodology and practice is now incorporated technical staff’ in junior positions, ‘Member of into a new corporate procedure. We are anticithe Technical staff’ in intermediate positions, functions pating it will bring clearer and more consistent ‘Fellow’ or ‘Company Fellow’ for higher posiAt ST, we have a career management system deployment across all the regions, and also imtions. that offers employees attractive career prosproved alignment with ST’s expertise strategy. 2011 will be dedicated to the implementation pects along three possible paths: a manageof these measures. The first Corporate TechniSome key outputs of this new approach inment path, a cross functional management cal Advisory Committee will take place in Q2, clude: path, and a new individual path for technical followed by the definition of clear roadmaps to n The identification of the features that deand specialist functions. support consistent deployment throughout the fine a technical or specialist function. TechIn order to realize the full potential of technical regions. For the technical community, the denical functions from within the core business and specialist personnel we have specifically velopment of their internal and external visibility were identified that required a solid engineering reviewed these job roles and career paths. To will be fostered through networking tools and background and that had the potential to cresupport our core business we had to redepractices. A communication plan is being preate ‘breakthrough’ innovative ideas and solufine and/or confirm ST’s areas of expertise pared for all employees. tions. and identify the associated technical roles and n A common career path for all individual competencies that are needed. This led us to clarify the characteristics of technical and spefunctions. The previous path did not adecialist functions, to include what is expected quately define or group technical and specialist functions. Job titles have now been redefined Development Booster from employees in terms of competencies and contributions as they grow and develop within to better represent different levels of expertise The Development Booster is a specific prothis career path. or specialism. gram, dedicated to highly talented, fast track n Recognizing the expertise of technical individuals in the early stage of their career To achieve a better balanced career managewho have been specifically identified during the ment system, able to offer a channel to senfunctions, internally and externally. Technical expertise is now evaluated through Technical People Review as having career development ior positions, our objective was to increase the potential. It offers participants opportunities for number of these senior positions in technical Advisory committees at corporate, regional and local levels. accelerated learning and development through and specialist functions. a set of development activities: n a 360° assessment; n mentoring activities by a top manager from another organization; Performance Appraisal Improved performance differentiation n action learning program which provides an In 2010, our Performance Appraisal process It is important that our Performance Appraisal process reflects the reality of ST’s working enviopportunity to collaborate with other particievolved in response to our last employee enronment. In 2010, the five-level rating scale was pants on a project of strategic importance to gagement survey results. It has focused on reviewed to better assess employees’ overall ST and an individual customized development improving the linkage between individual concontribution by incorporating the three dimenplan that responds to needs identified through tributions, results and overall organizational obsions mentioned above. Also the expected their 360° assessment; jectives and performance. It seeks to achieve this through a broader individual assessment performance levels have been reviewed so that As a result, it provides the participant with an employees fully meeting their job requirements individual customized development plan, inand a clearer differentiation of performance. are positioned in the middle of the rating scale. creased visibility by senior management and There was also a need to strengthen managea wider knowledge and deeper understanding ment accountability and improve consistency Achieving consistency across of the company. For the company it prepares relating to the deployment of this important organizations people to hold other job responsibilities through process. The consistency of the Performance Appraisal a more structured, consultative and proactive These objectives have been addressed through process, both within and between organizadevelopment path. the Talent and Performance management protions, has been greatly improved through the gram. establishment of a three-stage review, with asBroader individual assessment sessment now performed at: The Talent Management approach The level of achievement of business objectives n team level the evaluation of employee perultimately depends on individual performance formance by his/her manager; but it is the way in which this is achieved that n organizational level a deeper analysis of is crucial to long term sustainable performance. performance is now in place which collectively Employee evaluation has therefore been broadreviews the evaluation data at all levels of the Development ened to assess their overall contribution to the organizational structure. Adjustments are made Booster organization. It now takes into account three as necessary to achieve consistency; complementary dimensions: n company level a collective review is now in Prepare future leaders n the achievement of individual objectives; place to achieve global consistency. n the way these objectives have been achieved, Deployment across all levels including: To date, the application of Performance Apdemonstration of specific behaviors that praisal across the company has been someare in line with ST’s shared values, Succession Career what inconsistent: well done in most cases but Planning Committee the mastering of the job role, as described not coordinated in a systematic and comprein the contribution matrix, job description*, hensive way, in particular for senior manageand compared with job competencies. ment. This has now been improved to incorPrepare Resource porate the very specific personal interaction (*) Contribution matrix and job description are internal HR documentareplacement for management tions that detail the missions of a job and the associated between the manager and the employee and key positions to meet key competencies expected. has been applied throughout, including the organizational highest levels of the organization. needs STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 23 Social performance Social responsibility n top issue Social Responsibility in France Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities Within our French Human Resources organization, a department is dedicated to Social Responsibility (Responsabilité Sociale d’Entreprise RSE) in order to better respond to local issues and national labor laws. Human Resources are particularly involved in n integrating people with disabilities across all the deployment of ST’s Principles for Sustaintypes of employment contracts, including inable Excellence, especially addressing subjects ternships and apprenticeships; such as gender equality, integration of young n developing specifically adapted professional people, employment of seniors and people with training programs; disabilities. M For more information on this topic, see text-box on the right Whereas French labor standards and regulations are among the most extensive and rigorn sub-contracting to specific companies that A training program to employ people with serious disabilities; increase the employment of ous in the world, Human Resources (France) n equal opportunities for people with disabilihas gone beyond these legal obligations with people with disabilities in the the creation of a department dedicated to the ties e.g. access to training, career evolution, management of RSE issues. This collaboration wages. semiconductor industry of French ST sites in France allows the poolHR France has committed to hiring 130 people with disabilities by 2012, which will make up Initiated in 2008 by ST Rousset (France), Human ing of resources, sharing of best practices and approximately 4% of the total French ST workResources partnered with an association speciahas resulted in deploying common policies and force, compared with 1.23% in 2006. lized in adult professional trainings, Association common action plans. Nationale pour la Formation Professionnelle des In addition to Sustainable Excellence contacts Gender equality Adultes (AFPA), to launch a program dedicated to and sponsors, each French site has a ‘RSE coSemiconductor companies face cultural genpeople with disabilities and aimed at adapting their ordinator’ to oversee the following areas: der stereotyping, mainly relating to technical competences to the specific aspects of the elecn Seniority, to encourage senior employees jobs that are often considered to be ‘male tronic industry. This two-year program includes 910 to disseminate and share their knowledge roles’. ST has decided, in a jointly signed theoretical training hours and practical sessions in through mentoring and tutorial programs; agreement with trade unions, to prevent and industrial cleanrooms. The certificate obtained is correct this imbalance through several actions. n Young employability, to attract pupils and renown at national level and by all companies in the Firstly by monitoring recruitment so that the students into industrial jobs at ST and support sector. Six out of seven trainees who finished the hiring ratio of women to men is equivalent to them during their studies through apprenticefirst session in Rousset in January 2010 are now the gender ratio of graduated students in partship programs (we have an objective of mainworking for ST; and a second session for 35 peoner schools and universities. HR will monitor taining 4% of apprentices in French sites) or ple has already been launched in Crolles, Grenoble, and adjust this ratio by job type e.g. operators, through social initiatives such as “100 Chances Rousset and Tours. non-exempts and exempts throughout employ100 Emplois” (100 opportunities 100 jobs); ees’ career evolution. In 2010 the percentages From 2010, all French sites will contribute to this of women in each category in France were: program, and a mid-term objective is to involve 5 For more information on the initiative 100 Chances 100 Emplois, see www.100chances-100emplois.org operators 50%, non-exempts 25%, exempts other French companies. Under the program, train22%. Equality in remuneration and promotion ees will have more job opportunities as companies n Transportation management, to ensure respond to the French 2005 legislation ‘to promote that employees benefit from transportation is a second key aspect of the agreement. In 2010, HR and unions worked together on the equality of rights and opportunities, participation incentives; and citizenship for disabled persons’. Under this definition of criteria and methods to ensure and n People with disabilities and gender evaluate this equality. French HR will launch this scheme, companies will dedicate funds to a proequality (detailed below). program in 2011. Besides, personal decisions gram that aligns the needs of able and less-able to take maternity or parental leave should not stakeholders with the company’s business needs. People with disabilities negatively impact career evolution either. IndiEric Guadouri, founding participant In France, people with disabilities are among vidual interviews are held with HR before and hired in 2010 the most fragile populations in the labor marafter these periods to help employees adapt “This program offers the opportunity to people with ket: 85% of unemployed disabled people have their job roles to their new circumstances. disabilities, like me, to integrate into companies low qualifications and their unemployment rate is twice as high as the national rate*. French Internal and external communications, incluand have a professional career like everyone else. ST sites have been engaging actively for many ding a presence at external events such as I could prove to myself and some people around years to facilitate disabled people’s access school forums, support this policy to counme, that despite my disabilities, I am able to work to a job (the first site was Grenoble in 1991) teract stereotyping and encourage women like non-disabled persons.” and since January 2010 they have adopted a to join our industry. An internal dashboard, Philippe Gobbo, tutor of a participant common agreement on integrating and keepclosely monitored by HR and the Employee “We may have prejudices at first, but they quickly ing disabled persons at work. ST France has Representative, also ensures these measures disappear when we meet the persons and work with taken the option of encouraging opportunities are working. them. As a tutor, my role was to accompany and for less-able people instead of merely paying For each of these aspects, ST France is worksupport the trainee, and sometimes to give encourlegal compensatory fees. This policy is built ing in close collaboration with stakeholders agements too. Helping him to become professionalaround five aspects: such as employees, unions, public organizaly autonomous was a very rich experience for me.” n communication and awareness, both intions, local and national associations, sourcing Cédrik Pomes, team manager who welcomed ternal to educate employees and managers companies or the academic community. Not a participant about prejudices and external, under the banonly does ST benefit from stakeholders’ exper“This first experience was such a success, for the ner ‘employer for people with disabilities’; tise but it also contributes to better responses participant, my team as well as me, that we have n retaining ST employees who become disato their expectations. welcomed a new participant for the second session, (*) Source: French association for employment of disable persons, bled during their career at ST; AGEFIPH. and everything is going very well.” 24 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Social performance Human rights n top issue Improving labor Labor rights and social issues conditions in Asia As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact Improving labor and a member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, ST is committed to improve and promote its workers’ rights and labor conditions in sensitive countries. Auditing our sites against end sites where the risk of having non-conformities is the highest. The VAP program aims to wage calculation, medical checks and personal protection equipments. This has been corporate responsibility at verifying that our operations are conducted useful to help us further strengthen our polistandards in a socially and environmentally responsible cies and practices. Following the audit, the manner, identifying good practices and areas site’s management implemented a corrective Since 2005, ST has been a member of the for improvement. It also enables us to share the and preventive action plan and a better data Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) results with our customers, many of whom are capture system to improve control on the isand deploys the EICC Code of Conduct in its also members of EICC. Going forward, we shall sues raised. The two main actions related to manufacturing sites and also across its first tier extend this approach to all our sites. dormitories and overtime. On the first issue, suppliers to ensure that working conditions are ST Shenzhen has improved living conditions The program started in April 2010 with the first safe, workers are treated with respect and digthrough a maintenance improvement program audit of our Shenzhen site (China) by a third nity, and that business operations are environ(electricity, cleanliness, renovation, etc.), and party EICC-certified audit company. With the mentally responsible. As part of this process, has drafted and implemented a local specifisupport of our local Environment, Health and ST supports its manufacturing sites in the cation on dormitories. The site’s management Safety (EHS) and Human Resources (HR) completion of Self-Assessment Questionnaires is also preparing an e-OT (electronic Overtime) teams, the auditors led a four day on-site (SAQs), follow-up of action plans and preparatool providing weekly automated overtime reevaluation gathering evidence in order to astion for the Validated Audit Process (VAP). port alerts to managers which will enable them sess our management systems and verify that M For more information on our commitments towards EICC, Shenzhen site’s EHS and HR programs are fully to predict and prevent excessive overtime. see page 58 defined, implemented and effective. It included To ensure completion of remedial actions and As full member of the EICC, we have to update interviews with employees and managers and to systemize the management of our human our sites’ SAQ once a year and to conduct aua facility walk-through tour to observe physirights risks, ST has developed a pilot human dits on our resulting high risk sites (based on the cal conditions and current practices (working rights dashboard, as a new internal tool to proSAQ scores). In 2010, our 12 production sites environment, emergency procedures, canteen vide a more precise overview of ST’s major huwere covered by SAQs including our Calamba and dormitory hygiene and safety, etc.). The man rights areas e.g. working hours, living con(Philippines) and Longgang (China) sites which auditors also reviewed HR records to evaluate ditions, migrant workers’ conditions, etc. At were included for the first time. Even though working hours, wages and benefits, and EHS, the end of 2010, Muar (Malaysia) and Calamba none of ST’s sites have been evaluated as high labor and ethics management system docu(Philippines) sites were preparing the two other risk, we have nevertheless decided to deploy mentation. EICC audits planned in 2011. an internal audit program based on the EICC The audit raised major non-conformities reM For more information on human rights management, Validated Audit Process (VAP). Over the next lated to safety maintenance, living conditions see page 32 three years it will focus on our Asian and Backand working hours, and minor ones related Status on ST passport providing guidance to institute an equitable treatment of employees regardless of their nationality. ST sites’ practices in these countries to confirm that our Shenzhen, Longgang (China), Ang Mo Kio retention and agency ST Singapore has progressively implemented poliand Muar sites pay these fees on behalf of emfees payment in Asia cies to reduce the period of time for passport retenployees, preventing any form of financial bond. tion: two years in 2006, six month in 2009 and from Actually, three kinds of practices exist: ST pays the As a global company, we are operating in China, Mafees directly; ST reimburses them immediately and in July 2010 all ST migrant workers have been able to laysia, Philippines and Singapore where the economic full; or ST reimburses employees in incremental paykeep their passports safely during their employment. and social aspects of out-migration from Asian counments over a reasonable period of time. ST also encourages labor agencies, labor brokers, or tries raise a number of important issues relating to labor service providers acting as intermediaries to reThese are challenging subjects to manage because the human and labor rights of migrant workers in our lease migrant workers’ passports. In doing such, ST we progressively had to change local habits and sites. was one of the first companies in Singapore to stop HR practices, while dealing with local administraST addresses ethical, social and human rights quespassport retention. tive guidelines and implementing other approaches tions through its Principles for Sustainable Excellence to attract and keep our workforce. Tracking is also This is a common practice in Malaysia too. Since (PSE), and is continuously seeking to strengthen its difficult because of the number and diversity of January 1997 ST Muar returned the passport of all human rights approach in all sites. As a member of stakeholders and practices in each country. Starting foreigners hired directly by ST and since the end of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), in 2011, we will be able to follow these issues more 2010 passport retention was also stopped for conST also deploys the EICC Code of Conduct, both on effectively through the implementation of a human tract workers hired through labor agencies. Other its own sites and for its suppliers. ST’s commitment rights dashboard and our commitment to conduct at Asian sites do not have a culture of passport retention. to uphold human rights across its operations and least two EICC audits on our sites per year. spheres of influence is illustrated by its management Another issue linked to freely chosen employof the passport retention issue in Singapore. The rement is the payment of agency fees by employees 5 For more information on the EICC Code of Conduct, (foreign workers in Singapore and Malaysia and see www.eicc.info tention of migrant workers’ passports to prevent their M For more information on our actions with the EICC, potential departure is a common practice in this counworkers from rural areas in China). At the end of see pages 58, 59 and 63 try. Since 2006, ST has been tackling this issue by 2010, the Corporate Responsibility team reviewed STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 25 Social performance Local community n top issue ST Foundation’s history Local Sustainability Impacts and social mission ST Foundation’s history Since 2003, the ST Foundation has helped reduce the digital divide in both Here is a testimony from a DU trainee in Bolivia: developing and developed countries through a worldwide computer literacy Noemy Villagómez Nuñez: “I study at the program, Digital Unify (DU), based on a voluntary network of ST employees. Nuestra Señora del Carmen School. The teachers used to come to my school and they invitSo far, over 110,000 people have benefited. ed me directly. I have followed the informatics course for about four weeks, two hours every day. I learnt a lot, everything was new for me.” course to adapt it to local needs and culture. Through the “train-the-trainer” program, they 5 For more details on these testimonies, see www.stfoundation.org/du/testimony.php train local partner’s staff who then cascade ST 5 For more information on STMicroelectronics Foundation, Foundation’s specific basic computer literacy Digital Unify program and the overall commitments by course to their local community. country, please visit: http://www.stfoundation.org The local partners i.e. associations, administrations, schools, guarantee outside hours access to the learning center for trainees and to those who have completed the course. Basic computer literacy and access empowers peoST Foundation ple to have improved opportunities on the job At the beginning of 2011, the ST Foundation lost its market, improved access to information and Chairman and founder, Carlo Emanuele Ottaviani. In higher educational skills. order to continue Carlo’s work, Pietro Fox has been chosen as his successor. Pietro has been a top execuThe following testimonies demonstrate how tive manager at ST for many years and, once retired, the ST Foundation is active in local commuhe dedicated most of his time to promote and support nity development: technical education in African Countries. From the DU coordinator in Morocco: Carlo leaves a wonderful legacy of helping disadvanHoumad Boukdir: “My role is both to suptaged people. He will be remembered with great reThe ST Foundation’s core mission is to develport actual partners by providing DU courses spect and admiration. op, coordinate and sponsor projects that emmaterial kits (equipments, internet, manuals, ploy the use of modern science and technolodiplomas, etc.) and to seek for other potential Bolivia gy to promote the sustainable development of 2010 Moroccan partners. I can count on the total less privileged communities around the world. Burundi The Digital Unify (DU) support of ST Morocco management and ST Currently, ST Foundation’s resources are enreaches 110,000 Foundation’s staff to deploy the DU program in Cambodia tirely dedicated to the Digital Unify program, my region. The benefits I get from this experitrainees and which aims at providing free basic training to Congo Brazzaville ence over seven years are to continually learn 20 countries. those who have no knowledge of how to use a other ways of working and thinking thanks to Dem. Republic Congo personal computer or access the internet. these collaborations with various people.” The ST Foundation is also an active member Domnican Republic From DU trainers in India: 2005 of the United Nations Global Alliance for InforChhavi Bajpai: “To help my fellow Indians and Ethiopia mation and Communication Technologies (ICT) The DU expands to contribute towards man-kind, I have been enand Development, bringing together governthe first non ST gaged since the beginning of this program. France ments, international organizations, businesses, From this experience I gain satisfaction and a countries: NGOs and academia to share cutting-edge India feeling that we are a resource for many in the Nepal and Congo D.R. ideas, knowledge and best practice to proworld. This has helped to connect people.” Italy mote the effective use of ICT for development. Menka Tangri: “Digital Unify offers an amazing In 2010, 30,285 trainees completed the InMalaysia formatics and Computer Basics (ICB) course, opportunity to make a real difference to bridge 2003 the gap of knowledge and make this world digMalta bringing the total number of people who have The DU program is itally connected irrespective of age and status. benefited from the program to over 110,000. Morocco established in four pilot Moreover, I get from this experience several Two new countries, the Congo Brazzaville and countries: India, Italy, gain factors like confidence, enthusiasm, leadNepal the Dominican Republic, joined the program in ership qualities which are add-ons to guide one Malta and Morocco, in 2010, raising the number of participating counto success in the professional life.” Rwanda the neighborhood of tries to 20. Gaurav-hed Sharma: “As a trainer I feel satisSenegal ST sites. The organization of this voluntary-based fied by sharing my computer knowledge with network others. It gives me immense pleasure when I Sierra Leone This success has been made possible thanks see that many students, women and aged perto the joint effort of ST Foundation’s volunteers, Thailand 2001 sons of village community who are connected partners and staff. to DU program are now able to work on comTunisia ST Foundation is ST volunteers from different countries are puters. As a result now most of the population incorporated in constantly developing and updating the ICB of my hometown Porsa is computer literate.” Uganda Geneva, Switzerland. 26 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 top issue ST support for Haiti’s Local Sustainability Impacts earthquake victims ST support for Haiti’s In early January 2010, a devastating earthquake struck Haiti. ST immediately reacted by launching a company-wide, voluntary fund-raising scheme with the company matching the funds raised by employees. Contributions went to Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), an international medical and humanitarian non-governmental aid organization active in projects in war-torn regions and developing countries facing endemic disease. started providing psychological follow-up to meet the needs of the population. In October, only 9 months after the earthquake, the Haitian population was affected by a terrible cholera epidemic. By the end of the year, more than 62,000 cholera cases had been treated by MSF medical teams in 47 cholera treatment centers throughout the country. We established more than 3,200 hospital beds for the cholera outbreak and maintained a case fatality rate of less than 2 percent in these facilities. Today, in addition to responding to the cholera epidemic, our focus is to ensure as best as we can the continued free access to health care for the Haitian population who, in the vast majority, does not at present have the capacity to pay for it. We are also adapting temporary facilities to more permanent structures that MSF can manage and operate for the time being and possibly turn over to local participants in the future.” 5 Fund raising for Haïti is still going on, for any information or donation you can contact MSF at www.msf.org ST sites are used to fund raising for local comlost, people injured and the destruction of inmunities and when a major disaster strikes a frastructure required a truly massive response. region of the world, employees often ask for a For example, 60% of the medical infrastructure company-wide campaign to be set up. When had been destroyed. Some key figures to bear the earthquake struck Haiti, ST immediately responded by organizing a collection of donaMédecins Sans Frontières has been working in Haiti since 1991 and was therefore able to rein mind… tions around the world. Laurent Sauveur, Comact immediately to the earthquake, working out munication and Fundraising Director at MSF of temporary facilities after its own structures Thanks to the solidarity of people from Switzerland, provides feedback on how ST’s were damaged, performing emergency triage contribution supported their relief efforts. all over the world, MSF raised around and surgical interventions wherever possible, “We were extremely pleased with the huge and bringing in tons of supplies on a daily ba104 million euros to respond to the solidarity and contribution provided by ST emsis, including an inflatable hospital. All of this earthquake in Haiti, to be spent during ployees which was matched by the company, was done with the active and tireless participa2010. resulting in a total donation amount of more tion of Haitian staff members who had themthan US$ 500,000. selves suffered great losses in the earthquake. In the first month, MSF performed Such donations from the private sector and Even if MSF’s primary mission is medical ac1,300 urgent surgical operations in from individuals are critical for an NGO like tion, we also contributed by providing items 26 health facilities including hospitals, MSF which is 80% funded by private donathat were immediately needed, such as shelter, post-operative care facilities, rehabilitations. It reinforces our principles of independdrinking water, hygiene kits, etc., in order to reence, neutrality and impartiality and it allows spond to the urgency of the situation. tion centers, general medical centers and our teams to be under less pressure and enjoy After the first hours and days, during which mobile clinics. more freedom in the field. emergency intervention and lifesaving surgery After three months, MSF had taken MSF’s response to the Haiti earthquake is the were the clear priorities, as time went on, the most significant in the organization’s history. needs evolved. After several weeks in place, care of 92,000 patients and performed The scope of the catastrophe in terms of lives we also contributed to post-surgery care and nearly 5,000 surgical operations. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 27 Social performance overview 2010 High level objective Support the company in adapting to its surrounding dynamic context Objective 2010 Publish social objectives for 2010 Disclosure on management approach contracts. Positions filled through external resources were 96% (for the For 2010, almost all of our sites have participated in data collection most part in manufacturing operations) and all these employees went covering 99% of our employees. As usual, very small sites (up to 10 through a newcomers’ program to integrate them into ST. employees) are not included in the data collection process. M For more information on this Talent and Performance management, see pages 22-23 Note that social indicators refer to different categories of employees, Retention including: ‘professionals’ i.e. employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible In 2010 the overall turnover rate was 15.2% with some considerable for overtime compensation; ‘others’ i.e. those who may hold administradifferences between the regions. In the Asia-Pacific region it was hightive or technical positions and who are eligible for overtime compensaest at 31%, mainly due to operators in China, Singapore and Malaysia. tion; ‘operators’ i.e. those who work in production facility cleanrooms High turnover rate in China is due to a specific context in this region. A and are also eligible for overtime compensation. large proportion of employees are migrants from rural China and many of them leave their job to return home once a year. With the local labor 5 For the full disclosure on management approach, see shortage employees often change employers in order to increase their www.st.com/internet/com/about_st/st_approach_social_aspects.jsp earnings. To have more meaningful information, we have a new indicator Ensuring the right resources are in the right place where we now have turnover by job category and by gender. Among women, the rate was high in Asia-Pacific region among operators at Headcount evolution 36.8% and lowest in Europe for operators at 0.4%. Among men, again The company’s overall headcount increased in 2010 by 2,445, with the the rate was high in Asia-Pacific region among operators at 53.3% and large part of this increase occurring in manufacturing in China (788), the lowest was in Europe for others at 0.6%. Malaysia (509) and Singapore (443). For manufacturing, the hiring has Focusing on the voluntary turnover rate and career length, we notice followed the intended plan in line with demand expectations. In nonthat the highest turnover rate is for employees who have been with the manufacturing sites the increase was just 97, indicating that we have company for less than two years. This is also highly influenced by the stabilized the headcount in this domain. turnover among operators in the Asia-Pacific region. The turnover for The highest percentage of headcount increase has been in Asia-Pacific, the employees who have been with the company for more than 10 years is at +8%, and the lowest in the Mediterranean area at +3%. stable and this corresponds mainly to the non-manufacturing professionals. The overall hiring for professionals was 3,573; that of operators was 8,193 and for others the figure was 1,884. Following the 2009 recession, there was a sudden surge in demand which has necessitated an increased focus on hiring activity. Key highlights of 2010 Our Human Resources (HR) strategy aims to ensure the right level and n In February 2010, Tjerk Hooghiemstra joined ST as Chief Administrative Officer, kind of hiring and retention, to match the company’s evolving requirements in terms of profiles, competencies and the dynamic integration of taking the responsibility of eight departments, including Human Resources, new people. Attraction and retention is addressed and enhanced through Learning, Compliance, Internal Communications, and Sustainability. Having these several internal programs and in 2010 it was initiated through the ‘Talent departments under the scope of one Senior Executive Vice President offers and Performance management’ program. This comprehensive program significant opportunities in the areas of people development, employee engagement comprised seven work streams, led jointly by one Vice President and and social compliance. The new synergies brought about by this organizational one Senior HR manager, was aimed at enhancing people development, change are also key to support ST in its sustainable growth and in the completion of people recognition and alignment with the business needs. its strategic priorities. M For more information, see pages 22-23 M For more information, see Tjerk Hooghiemstra interview on page 5 Attraction and recruitment n In 2010, ST conducted a ‘materiality exercise’ to define and focus on key issues As the economic conditions improved, the demand for our products considered to be the most relevant and critical for ST and its stakeholders. Through increased and therefore increased our need to attract new talent. The this exercise the following high level objective related to ST’s employees has been total number of professionals and operators hired when compared with defined as: “Support our people in their growth and development within the headcount evolution in 2010 reflects higher turnover in some countries company, promoting their health, safety and well-being and their overall ability (notably those in Asia) requiring more regular hiring on the one hand, to contribute to ST’s innovation and business success.” Based on the results of and an increase in hiring to respond to the increase in production on the this exercise, sub-level objectives will be defined with relevant people at site, other. During 2010 even though the demand had sharply increased, ST organization and corporate levels in 2011. kept a high level of permanent contracts (97%), compared to temporary M For more information on the ‘materiality exercise’, see page 6 Total headcount evolution I LA1 I X ST12 I Hires by job type I LA1 I X ST12 I 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Europe Asia-Pacific Mediterranean Americas Total Engineers and managers 2,312 1,775 5,224 538 3,573 60 Technicians and administrators 1,154 774 1,163 639 1,884 51.74 52.14 51.74 Operators 4,088 3,663 5,502 5,984 8,193 47.97 45.52 Total 7,554 6,212 11,889 7,161 13,650 In thousands 40 External hires in manufacturing I STS2 I % 22.56 2009 2010 20 Percentage of jobs filled externally vs overall jobs filled 92 96 19.02 4.68 1.70 0 M F or more information on the indicators presented in this section, please refer to the Reader’s 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Guide at the beginning of the report 28 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Ensure diversity and equal opportunities Objective 2010 Encourage all ST sites to have a formal program for equal opportunities and document best practices As detailed in our earlier report, ST’s strategy for equal opportunities, important aspect of our strategy, and there has been steady progress in with a particular focus on gender equality, was defined in 2006. We conthis area over the last few years. In 2010 the percentage of employees tinue to be committed with formal programs overseen by committees in with disabilities has increased to 1.0%. The budget invested by our sites France and Italy. In other ST sites, programs exist in line with our culture to support the integration of disabled employees is US$ 2.3m which is for Sustainable Excellence but are less formalized. less than the 2009 budget of US$ 3.5m. This reduction is due to the In 2010, the percentage of women in senior and executive management closing down of operations in a few locations while the budget in the increased in line with the trend of the previous years, 9.9% in 2010 and remaining locations remained stable. 8.9% in 2009. To have a close look at the equality of opportunities, when we consider the promotion rate by gender and by category, the data M For more information on gender equality and disability programs in France, see page 24 indicates that women are promoted to an equal extent or more than In 2010 a specific program was designed by Corporate HR Developmen in some regions (number of women and men in each region should ment to accelerate and support transmission of knowledge to prepare also be considered). Data shows that, across all regions, women cona small group of employees for senior job responsibilities in ST in the sistently have more promotions in the operator category, but this should medium or long term. This program includes a mentoring program with be considered along with the number of women as a percentage of total executive managers as mentors. We plan to extend this program to operators (as indicated in the chart showing this breakdown). various geographical regions involving senior professionals in the future. Ensuring equal opportunities for employees with disabilities is another M For more information on this program, see page 31 Promotion ratio female/male by category and by region in 2010 Women in management I LA13 I STS11 I STS12 I % I LA13 I STS9 I % 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Americas STS11 Women in senior Professionals management 7.04 7.89 8.02 8.90 9.91 Others (JG17 and above) Operators STS12 Women in executive management 5.65 5.92 6.78 7.60 9.71 Asia-Pacific (JG19 and above) Professionals Others Operators Gender split by category in 2010 I LA13 I X STS10 I % Europe Professionals Professionals Others Others Operators Operators Total Japan Professionals 0 20 40 60 80 100 Others* Operators* Female Male Mediterranean Professionals Disabled employees I LA13 I STS12b I STS12c I Others Operators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 STS12b Disabled people employed 0.62 0.61 0.89 0.95 1.03 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 as % of total workforce Female Male STS12c Budget spent on disability 3,489 2,321 programs (US$k) (*) Not applicable because in these regions the company does not have any manufacturing areas. Number of nationalities in corporate staff I LA13 I STS8 I Average employee age I STS4 I 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Different nationalities represented 7 8 9 7 7 Average employee age (years) 34 34 34 34 33 in the corporate staff Worforce by employment type I LA1 I % Workforce by employment contract I LA1 I % Percentage of employees Percentage of employees 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 by contract type by employment contract Full time contract 98.25 98.17 98.04 97.88 97.85 Regular contract 95.11 96.24 97.77 97.41 96.56 Part time contract 1.75 1.82 1.95 2.12 2.15 Temporary contract 4.89 3.76 2.23 2.59 3.44 Newcomers induction program I STS18 I % 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of newcomers who Career length and voluntary turnover rate I LA2 I % participated in a formal induction Total voluntary turnover vs career length 2009 2010 83.95 84.25 92.72 72.35 97.23 session (e.g. newcomers’ seminar) during their first year of employment % of voluntary turnover of new hires (below 2 yrs) 44.87 45.54 % of voluntary turnover of employees from 2 to < 5 yrs 13.12 18.07 Average turnover rate I LA2 I X ST12 I % % of voluntary turnover of employees from 5 to < 10 yrs 3.40 5.31 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 % of voluntary turnover of employees from 10 to < 20 yrs 1.86 2.02 Average turnover rate 8.79 8.81 10.12 11.65 15.16 % of voluntary turnover of employees from above 20 yrs 1.21 1.06 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 29 Social performance overview 2010 High level objective ensure employee empowerment and engagement Objective 2010 Establish a continuous improvement cycle at all levels in the organization and measure it through our engagement survey Employee engagement In line with our initiatives to engage employees, the focus on our longEmployee engagement can be summarized as ‘the extent to which emstanding suggestion scheme has remained consistent, measuring the ployees commit to something or someone in their organization, how percentage of accepted suggestions that are implemented. In 2010 this hard they work and how long they stay as a result of that commitment’. rate improved marginally to 55% from 53% in 2009. In 2010 the recogniThe focus on employee engagement continues to be a critical factor for tion activities continued to be our strategy embedded in our culture of ST to achieve its business targets. Taking forward the initiative started in Sustainable Excellence. The budget available with local sites for recogni2008 to move to an engagement focused survey, in 2010 this survey tion activities was a US$ 3.3m which was almost double the budget of was conducted globally, providing employees with an opportunity to 2009 at US$ 1.6m. In addition to this, in order to improve the direct share their perception regarding their jobs and ST’s work environment. connection between employees’ contributions and ST strategy, the corporate recognition program, STAR, has evolved to ensure that the STAR The overall participation rate in this survey was 86%, which was higher categories to which participants must apply correspond with ST’s key than the 80% achieved in 2008. The engagement relationship measured annual priorities: manufacturing and supply chain excellence; new prodthrough the survey shows a significant improvement in our employee uct and business creation; quality; innovation; corporate responsibility engagement levels across ST, compared to 2008 results and despite the and improving efficiency. 2009 crisis, though the results remain below benchmark averages. Over the same period (2008-2010), the average engagement levels across Compensation and benefits the benchmark fell, indicating ST’s performance is even stronger in relaRemuneration tive terms. The percentage of ST employees exhibiting the highest levels of engagement increased from 3.8% to 6.6% (an increase of 74%) and In 2010 annual increases in salary were implemented across all sites benchmark average is 5.9%. Improvement in employee engagement after no increase in 2009. Due to specific local and cultural challenges has been driven largely by improvements in managerial performance. there was also a mid-year increase given by an additional budget which Another area of improvement has been employees expressing greater was specially focused on a few countries in Asia-Pacific region (see confidence in ST’s senior executive team and the strategic direction of page 28). Overall 95.2% of the employees have been covered by indithe company. vidual salary increases; 82.4% of employees are above the ST’s minimum range of salary for their job grade according to the company policy. M For more details on employee engagement programs, see page 20 For 2010 the number of employees below ST’s minimum salary scale Of the five major indices which summarize the employee engagement has increased compared to 2009, which is largely due to the salary survey, ST has improved on four of them compared to 2008. ‘Rational freeze during 2009. Each year a dedicated budget is assigned to reduce Commitment’ improved from 0.16 in 2008 to 0.20 (the extent to which the percentage of those who do not reach this minimum of the salary employees believe their skills are being developed and their careers adrange of their job grade. We will continue to monitor this in future. vanced); ‘Emotional Commitment’ improved from 0.35 to 0.40 (the extent to which employees enjoy their jobs and are proud of their work); Benefits, bonuses and Unvested Stock Awards ‘Discretionary Effort’ improved from 0.43 to 0.44 (overall employees’ In 2010, around 24% of eligible employees (from the professional popuwillingness to go ‘above and beyond the call of duty’); ‘Intent to Stay’ lation) received Unvested Stock Awards, compared to 23% in 2009 and decreased from 0.34 to 0.32 (overall employees’ intent to stay and pre33% in 2008. This is in line with the company’s desire to deliver Stock diction of retention). Much had been done after the 2008 survey to reAwards to a limited population as a strong recognition and retention tool spond to employees’ expectations. HR and Internal Communications for key contributors. ST’s incentive plans vary throughout the world groups have worked closely together to improve confidence, trust and based on local market practices, and there is a consistent element appride in ST and its leadership as well as to increase the amount of emplicable to all relating to company performance with better results ployee recognition. achieved by the company resulting into better incentives received. For The results of the survey have been cascaded to all managers and other top management and executives, 50% of their incentive is conditional relevant staff. HR has been supporting them locally to communicate on the achievement of the targeted company performance level, while these results and define appropriate action plans. A detailed action plan for all others 25% is subject to this measure. As the company achieved is being drawn up considering the feedback provided and progress in its performance target for 2010, the incentive payments will be made the implementation will be closely monitored. These high level action accordingly. plans will be communicated to employees. New Employees survey Engagement rate I X STS28a I Innovation involvement I LA5 I % 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Overall participation rate (%) 80 86 Percentage of employees that participate to at least one ac7.78 13.20 Rational Commitment Index 0.16 0.2 tive innovate program within the company Emotional Commitment Index 0.35 0.4 Discretionary Effort Index 0.43 0.44 Remuneration I STS30a I STS30b I STS38 I % Intent to Stay Index 0.34 0.32 2009 2010 STS30a Employees above the ST minimum salary scale 87 82.44 Formal recognition I STS28 I X STS26 I X STS34 I in their job grade 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 STS30b Employees below the ST minimum salary scale 12 16.62 in their job grade STS28 Overall recognition 1,031 2,684 2,161 1,644 3,305 STS38 Employees covered by annual individual salary budget of all sites (US$k) NA* 95.24 X STS26 Number of people increase 77,390 50,171 38,805 38,373 36,697 recognized* (*) Not applicable in 2009 due to salary freeze. X STS34 % of accepted suggestions which 39 62 61 53 55 Benefits, bonus & USA I STS47 I were implemented 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (*) Can include more than one recognition for one employee over the year. Unvested Stock Awards (USA) % of elligible (exempt > JG 12) emplo34 35 33 23 24 Unplanned absenteeism I STS28b I % yees receiving unvested stock awards 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) 6,000 6,300 5,700 3,670 3,790 Unplanned absenteeism 3.05 2.90 3.00 2.47 2.67 Number of employees rewarded 30 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Ensure dynamic career progression, life-long learning and employability to meet employee and company needs Objectives 2010 Consolidate people management processes into a comprehensive corporate talent/performance Establish a learning infrastructure as a key strength of ST with an offering of state-of-art programs in all critical management platform domains for all employees Performance and assessment of potential Career development Employees’ performance and potential are assessed through two interWe continue to monitor three indicators to evaluate the effectiveness of nal complementary programs: ‘Performance Appraisal’ and ‘People our career development process. These show that 15% of employees Review’. While performance appraisal is focused on short term evaluahad a promotion during the year, while 33% had a change in their job tion of the employee’s contribution to the organizational needs, people function. The third indicators shows that the percentage of jobs filled review is projecting the employee’s evolution during medium to long internally was slightly lower at 41%, compared to 48% in 2009. This is term through an assessment of his/her potential to grow in the comdue to the fact that most of the hiring had taken place in manufacturing pany. operations in the Asia-Pacific region, leading to limited possibilities for In 2010 68% of employees (excluding operators) received an appraisal internal mobility. performed using electronic Performance Appraisal (ePA). For In 2010, the number of training hours for professionals increased to professionals, the percentage has increased from 78% in 2009 to 89% 32 from 26 in 2009. We see a similar trend for non-professionals, with a in 2010 which represents a continuous progress in the usage of this key marginal increase to 43 from 41 in 2009. For the operator population, process. the number of average training hours is 91 which has decreased slightly Performance appraisal creates the backbone for the annual individual from 94 in 2009 and this is primarily due to closing down of manufactursalary increase. Another intended outcome is the individual developing operations in US where the average was relatively high in 2009. The ment plan which is implemented and monitored throughout the year. training for operators reflects both mandatory training on equipment and 69% of the professionals who used ePA had a formal development plan. procedures often linked to certification and re-certification. To align with the strategy of ST and to enhance the collective stake of ST continues to invest in its employees’ development in various ways, employees in ST’s performance, a workgroup comprising business including the fact that 3% of the total number of ST employees are managers was initiated during 2010 by Corporate HR Development. enrolled in formal external schooling programs paid for by ST. While the This workgroup revisited the current performance appraisal process percentage is stable compared to 2009, there is a significant increase in with a goal to enhance the management accountability, to take into the number of professionals who are now included in this program, account the overall contribution of the individual and to allow more dif4.4%. ferentiation in the reward process. To reflect this evolution and change in In 2010, 1.5% of ST employees are formally recognized as ST ‘Associapproach, the evaluation was extended to three dimensions (individual ate Trainers’, qualified to train other ST employees on key programs and achievements, professional behaviors and job fit to organizational needs) subjects. While this continues to be a good source of motivation for the and the new performance rating scale was implemented. employees, it also helps in ensuring consistency of the training that is The people review process was conducted in 2010 with a target to conducted. cover all professionals. While we did not reach the full target, the actual In this area of training, 2010 was a special year with significant changes result of 43% of professionals assessed represents a considerable occurring in ST’s learning structure. ST’s new Corporate Learning improvement against the 21% of professionals assessed in 2009. This organization has established a company-wide learning infrastructure professional category includes 73% of job grade 14 and above. Our encompassing the learning offerings for both professional and behaviostrategy is to identify key talent across all sites and have an integrated ral competence domains for all employees through an extensive mix of talent management approach for them. tools. The revised focus of the people review in 2010 was to have an evaluaM For more information on ST Corporate Learning, see page 21 tion of the experienced professionals in order to identify the talents within ST. Our strategy is to identify the key talents of our company across all the sites and the organizational hierarchy and have an integrated talent management approach for them. M For more information on ‘Performance Appraisal’ and ‘People Review’ programs, see pages 22-23 Performance assessment I LA12 I X STS21 I STS21b I % Average training hours I LA10 I STS15 I STS16 I STS17 I X STS19 I 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 X STS21 % of employees having STS15 Professionals* 30 30 27 26 32 78.36 67.59 completed the annual ePA STS16 Operators 91 61 72 94 91 STS21b % of exempts* assessed STS17 Others (non-exempt) 43 44 43 41 43 during a collective people 59 62 53 21 43 review in the past 2 years X STS19 Total** 43 44 43 51 49 (*) It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who (*)  It refers to employees who hold managerial roles and are exempt from overtime compensation. are not eligible for overtime compensation. (**) Including training on equipment and outside training. Career development I STS23 I % Schooling programs* I LA11 I % 2009 2010 2009 2010 % of employees that had a promotion over the year 8.50 15.00 Professionals** 2.76 4.39 % of employee having a job function change in the year 27.37 32.95 Operators 2.75 1.02 % of exempts* having a formal individual development plan 51.53 69.37 Others (non-professional) 4.69 6.01 (*) It refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who (*)  % of employees following ST supported external schooling programs vs total number of employees. are not eligible for overtime compensation. (**) It refers to employees who hold managerial roles and are exempt from overtime compensation. Internal mobility I STS14 I % Associate trainers I LA11 I % 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 Jobs requiring experience 61 78 84 48 41 % of associate trainers 2.00 1.45 filled internally STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 31 Social performance overview 2010 High level objective Proceed to deeper integration of human rights in our management systems Objective 2010 Prepare for deployment of EICC training on worker-management communication Working time and overtime Training, communication and stakeholder engagement 2010 was marked by a significant increase in production after last year’s Since 2010, ST has worked with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) economic crisis, and this is reflected in the average overtime per that helped ST to conduct its ‘materiality exercise’ and the definition of its employee, which rose to 3.14% compared to 1.97% in 2009. ST faced new Sustainability strategy. ST is also engaging with stakeholders and has stronger customer demand and stronger production needs. Working participated in the Human Rights event organized by BSR, and the Living hours and overtime have been especially high in ST Muar (Malaysia). Wage event organized by Nokia in which several stakeholders such as Local labor regulations allow 72 hours per week, limited by ST to the Good Electronics, SOMO, investment communities and International Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC) standard working time Metalworkers’ Federation (IMF) also participated. In 2010 the Corporate of 60 hours per week, except in emergency cases. Working time and Responsibility team also completed formal SA8000 training. overtime issues have been addressed by the site’s management during In 2010, ST continued to participate in the business network, Entreprises preparation for the EICC audit that will take place in April 2011. Followpour les Droits de l’Homme (EDH) and attended sessions with EDH to ing the EICC audit of ST Shenzhen (China) in April 2010, the site’s manprovide a common answer to the draft of United Nations framework for agement has implemented a corrective action plan and better data Business and Human Rights, and started looking at ways for internal capture to have a better control on overtime issues. implementation. Freedom of association and collective bargaining l HR5 l M For more information on Human Rights management, see page 24 We estimate that 75% of our workforce is covered by union or employeeelected representation. In 2010, in countries where freedom of associaCollective bargaining I LA4 I STHR5 I tion has been historically limited, or remains limited by regulations, 2009 2010 significant improvements have been achieved on ST sites this year. In May 2010, two Moroccan unions have integrated our Bouskoura site, Number of collective agreements signed in the year 59 38 and already three agreements have been signed with them. Our Shenzhen site in China has invested four full-time dormitory representatives to Average weekly working time in selected countries in 2010 manage administrative matters, cleanliness, and complaints. In our I STHR8 I Hours Malaysian site, an evolution in the national legislation has enabled a major local trade union to require an official recognition through an on40 site election aiming at acknowledging in 2011 the first employees’ union North America 1.51 and the first collective agreements. 40 China In 2010, 38 agreements have been signed between management and 5 48 unions. For example, in France, agreements have been signed regarding Malaysia 10.32 medical insurance spending and high risks (incapacities-invaliditiesSingapore 44 death) and the reimbursement of medical costs to anticipate employees’ 5.88 risks of illness or death in service. France 38.50 0.31 Human Rights management systems activity update 40 Italy In 2010, we have consistently focused on strengthening our manage1.15 ment systems for Human Rights, and we have developed several pro40 Malta 6 grams to systematically embed Human Rights into our corporate and Morocco 44 local management systems. Our activities in this area included: 2.62 Social/ethics management systems reinforcement In 2010, we improved our social and ethics reporting campaign guide0 10 20 30 40 50 lines through a renewed reporting and consolidation system that ensures ST standard working time Overtime more reliable and flexible data collection. Human Rights management has been included in two main corporate programs; our ‘materiality exercise’ resulting in the renewed ST Sustainability strategy, and our Percentage of employees working part-time by gender Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process. Also, ST Corporate I STHR9 I % Responsibility and Corporate Human Resources organizations started to draft a Corporate Social Manual aimed at harmonizing and enhancing 2009 2010 our social management system. Women working part-time 84.77 84.96 Men working part-time 15.23 15.04 M For more information on the ‘materiality exercise’, see page 7 M For more information on the ERM program, see pages 9-11 Development of EICC shared methods and tools and participation in Working time and overtime hours I STS36 I STHR7 I EICC activities 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, ST continued in its full membership of the EICC (including repSTS36 Employees with regular resentation on the EICC’s Board of Directors). ST has been involved in worktime less than 48 100 100 100 100 100 the EICC’s Learning & Capability Building workgroup to develop a trainhours per weeks (%) ing course on worker-management communication, including workers’ STHR7 Average weekly overtime 4.17 3.12 2.22 1.97 3.14 (hours per employee) rights (for use by all EICC members and suppliers in the electronic supply chain). ST had a specific facilitator role in the partnership of this workgroup with the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and International Labor Communication meetings I LA5 I X STS34a I Organization (ILO) and in the communication with stakeholders. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ST is also deeply involved in the EICC Membership Compliance program, with our 12 manufacturing sites completing annual Self-AssessNumber of meetings for the organisation/site management ment Questionnaires (SAQs) and with an audit campaign launched in to present company/organisation/site 9 10 10 15 11 2010. results to all employees allowing time for open discussion M For more information on our compliance to this program, see page 24 32 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Engage proactively with local community and society to create mutual value ST’s commitment to the local community Corporate responsibility awards Engaging with the local community at all of our sites around the world in In 2010 there were 23 awards received by ST sites for excellence in a variety of different ways remains a strong aspect of our culture. Many corporate responsibility. site-based initiatives and activities have a charitable aim, either social or In December 2010, ST Calamba (Philippines) was given an award by the environmental. Here are some examples of initiatives implemented in Haribon Foundation for its support to the ‘Road to 2020 Campaign’ to 2010: restore the Philippines’ rainforests and for assisting in the rehabilitation n ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) has initiated a ‘Have a Heart, Share a Gift’ of the vulnerable Caliraya Watershed considered to be a major forest charity drive. This initiative driven by the Electrical Wafer Sort (EWS) reservation. The site aims to plant 20,200 trees by 2020 to mark its organization, called on employees to donate basic necessities such as milestone 20th year in the Philippines. rice, cooking oil and canned food to beneficiaries of the welfare organiIn Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), Mr. Sirtori, the ST Group Vice President zation ‘Care Corner for Elder Care Services’. Employees’ collection has and Asia Chief Financial Officer, received the 2010 May Day ‘Upturn the benefited 110 needy or elderly people and both sites’ management and Downturn’ award from the National Trade Union Congress (NTUC). This employees personally handed gifts to the beneficiaries on December 21. award recognizes individuals and companies who have saved jobs and n In March 2010 in La Jolla (US), ST employees participated in the San looked after workers during the 2009 economic downturn. Mr. Sirtori Diego Race for Autism in partnership with the National Foundation for was recognized for his contribution to facilitating the re-skilling and reAutism Research. The purpose of the 5km run/walk was to raise funds deployment of workers, guiding downsizing activities and enhancing for programs to benefit children diagnosed with autism in the San Diego workers’ employability. community. ST Foundation Partnerships with the academic community 2010 has been an extremely successful year for the ST Foundation Digital In 2010, we refined our community indicator to distinguish between Unify (DU) program with over 30,000 trainees who have completed the partnerships with local universities, colleges and schools and R&D partInformatics and Computer Basics (ICB) course. The DU program nerships (reported in the economic section). Collaboration with acaexceeded the symbolic threshold of 100,000 beneficiaries worldwide. demic institutions, universities, schools and colleges represents 374 In addition to this, two new projects were launched in Congo Brazzaville strategic partnerships for 2010. and the Dominican Republic, bringing the total number of DU countries to An example of an initiative conducted with these partners is ST Rousset 20. In 2010 the program has also been expanded in France with the (France) which has implemented an original program called ‘ST3e’: development of a new partnership with CARITAS-secours Catholique in offering a class of 20 pupils and their teachers from a secondary school Grenoble. Teachers have been trained for the deployment of the DU prothe opportunity to see what industry is like. Different workshops were gram to make it available to ageing, unemployed and immigrant sections developed in collaboration between teachers and ST engineers to proof the community. vide educational materials with examples of their application in the comIn 2010, two groups of ST volunteers have worked in cooperation with the pany. The objective is to make pupils think about their career path, their Foundation’s staff to prepare a standardized DU program package with professional vocation, and to stimulate technical interest. updated DU basic information course and a number of supplementary materials for the deployment of this program in DU labs worldwide. This Charitable donations new material is expected to be available in 2011. Cash donations to support charitable activities, including employee M For more details on the ST Foundation’s activities, see page 26 donations to Haiti’s victims, remained stable at US$ 452k, while in-kind donations significantly increased in 2010. Donations are made directly Corporate responsibility awards I 2.1 I STS43 I by ST sites which define and implement their local strategy for commu2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 nity involvement in line with local needs and culture, but within the overNumber of recognitions or awards all framework of Sustainable Excellence. 68 76 87 26 23 received for excellence in CR The increased in-kind donations is a result of the Carrollton manufacturing site closure which generated US$ 3.9m through the donation of furSTMicroelectronics Foundation I S01 I EC1 I niture, equipment (no longer of use to ST), office accessories and, most 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 notably, the land in East Texas (tree farms) which was donated to the Total new trainers 171 645 120 72 57 Stephen F. Austin State University. Total trainers from 564 1,209 1,329 1,401 1,458 beginning of program Total trainees 12,915 15,118 15,178 26,091* 30,285 Total trainees from Partnerships with the academic community I S01 I EC1 I X STS44 I 24,975 40,093 55,271 81,362* 111,647 beginning of program 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (*) In 2009, a project in Congo, which was originally born as a telemedicine project, has offered some Informatics and Computer Basics courses on top of that. We have updated the figures of the total number of Partnerships with universities, coltrainees for 2009 taking into account this initiative. leges, schools: teaching programs, 236 335 437 470 374 internship programs and recruitment* (*) In 2010, we restructured our data for partnerships with the academic community doing a split between the partnerships for R&D purposes (common research labs, long term research contracts (CIFRE, BDI), any Research and Development programs, etc.) and those dedicated to teaching programs, internship proOur 2011 objectives grams and recruitment. n Publish social objectives for 2011. n Achieve continuous improvement in n Complete implementation and key engagement drivers at all levels in communication of the talent and perforthe organization, measured through our mance management programs. annual engagement survey. STMicroelectronics donations I S01 I EC1 I US$k n Deploy the networked learning n Following our ‘materiality exercise’ 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 approach and execute the Leadership conducted in 2010, review our objecDevelopment curriculum based on tives and KPIs in terms of: labor rights STS39 Total cash donated to 271 444 463 474 452 organizations’ needs and associated & social issues, local sustainacharitable associations investments. bility impacts and partnerSTS39a Estimated value of in-kind donations to community 772 250 188 268 4,253 ships in R&D & education. and society STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 33 HEALTH & Safety Providing high protection for our employees, physical assets and neighboring communities ST is strongly committed to ensuring robust visits, he tests the effectiveness of prevention ments in this area. To reach Adequately Prosafety management at our sites. A dedicated and protection equipments and evaluates the tected Risk (APR) or Highly Protected Risk ‘Loss Prevention’ program is defined to ensite’s safety management. Findings are com(HPR) levels, sites have to be compliant with 10 sure each manufacturing site and large nonmunicated via a comprehensive report which or 14 rules respectively, covering management, manufacturing site has an appropriate level of includes a set of risk improvement recommenprocesses, equipment, fire protection, subdiviprotection against fire and associated hazards, dations. Based on these recommendations, sion, storage of substances and handling, etc. e.g. smoke, corrosion, explosion, heat and wasites have to propose loss-prevention actions At the end of 2010, seven manufacturing sites ter, etc. The objectives are also to provide an and if necessary investment plans. Reports had attained either APR or HPR levels. The aid to the decision process for cost effective and action plans are reviewed and followed-up objective for 2011 is to have two more sites risk reduction and preserve human and physiat corporate level. This process is also factored in line with these criteria and to continue the cal assets. into site extension programs so that all loss broadening of this program to additional nonIn addition to ongoing safety risk prevention, prevention requirements can be implemented. manufacturing sites. an external risk control expert visits all the sites To promote continuous improvement, ST has enrolled in the program annually. During these defined criteria that recognize sites’ achieve34 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Health & Safety Health management n top issue Employees’ access to Employee Health, Safety & Well-being healthcare through ST’s Health Plan Employees’ access to Since its inception, ST’s Health Plan has provided over 260,000 medical examinations for ST employees. ST launched a worldwide Health Plan in 2006 examinations have been provided to ST Promoting sport practice and good with the goal of providing the same level of employees. To foster the health prevention pronutrition healthcare for all ST employees, wherever grams on site, a global budget is allocated to To stay healthy, it is important to regularly practhey are and whatever their work. The Health each of them for developing awareness camtice sport and have a balanced nutrition. In Plan both enhances employees’ wellbeing and paigns and medical examinations. In parallel 2010 ST has encouraged all its sites to launch health, helping to fill the gap between regions to this, we run a range of corporate commucampaigns to improve nutrition e.g. offer of who have universal public healthcare systems nication campaigns to raise awareness about fresh fruits in vending machines, balanced and those who have not. global health and wellbeing issues. We also meals in cafeterias, etc. and to promote parThe health promotion strategy is global, but all reinforce good practice sharing between the ticipation in sport. programs implemented in ST sites are customsites to promote more innovative programs A corporate program provided guidelines for ized to address local needs and cultures. Sites’ and health initiatives. sites so that employees can have easy access involvement is fundamental to ensure that the In order to follow-up on these projects and to sport facilities. It included recommendations health services and benefits offered to employtheir benefits for ST employees, Corporate such as; installing showers, cycle shelters, fitees reflect local priorities. EHS collects various indicators such as the deness facilities and/or sport complexes at site, ST’s Health Plan is based on established mediployment rate of medical examinations (numor establishing partnerships with neighboring cal practices, and is deployed thanks to best ber of people with at least one medical examiexternal sport centers and associations. At practice initiatives that are shared and implenation during the last 18 months), the number local level, each ST site deploys and fine-tunes mented throughout ST sites. This program of medical services by region, and the Health these services according to their specific conincludes medical check-ups, blood analysis, Plan’s expenditure. These figures are monitext and the expectations of their employees. screening for the most common types of cantored by on-site Human Resources. A successful initiative to ensure that ST emplocers (e.g. breast, colorectal and prostate), and In 2008 ST defined six additional global health yees have an ideal environment to regularly educational programs including awareness of indicators to be tracked by sites (respecting practice sport is to provide sport infrastructures tobacco risks, nutrition, cancer prevention and the confidentiality of individuals) in order to on ST sites. Several sites offer these kinds of cardiovascular risks. help identify and address relevant health issues facilities such as Calamba (Philippines), Greatacross the company: smoking, blood pressure, er Noida (India), Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), CopST Health Plan management Body Mass Index (overweight and obesity), pell (USA) and Rousset (France). Here, emThe definition and implementation of regular sport practice and cholesterol. ployees have the possibility to practice sport local health programs and activities are jointly Based on these results, we have decided to during their lunch break, after their working managed by several local functions such as focus our efforts on three aspects; tobacco day, or during the week-end. They have many Communication, Human Resources, and consumption, overweight and physical inacchoices of sport (with the possibility to have Environment Health and Safety (EHS), worktivity. Guidelines adapted to each theme have a professional coach), and they can manage ing together with internal or external medibeen defined to support ST sites to better adtheir own agendas. ST is pushing other sites to cal experts. The Corporate EHS department dress these specific health programs. An exoffer similar services to our employees. supports these programs and activities, playample was the campaign on the importance ing a key role in the sharing of good practices. of sport practice and good nutrition which is a A significant number of health projects have good way to reduce risks of morbidity and mornow been formally designed and developed tality from cardiovascular and other diseases. Local initiative in ST Calamba across all ST sites. Since the Health Plan was introduced in 2006, over 260,000 medical M For more details on ST’s Health Plan approach, see pages 38-39 to facilitate participation in sport ST Calamba (Philippines) encourages physical Definitions of our global health indicators tracked and classified in 2010 by their level of importance activities through employee clubs. The basketball Global health indicators ST definitions club organizes tournaments twice a year and the Percentage of the population examined in the period of 18 months who declare havrunners’ club is also very active with weekly runs. Physical inactivity ing no regular sport activity. There is also a table tennis club, badminton club Percentage of the population examined in the period of 18 months who declare that and further activities e.g. mountaineering, cycling Smoking they smoke (whatever the number of cigarettes per day). and air soft clubs which meet regularly to make Percentage of the population examined in the period of 18 months with a BMI physical fitness an enjoyable experience. Body Mass Overweight between 25 and 30. Index (BMI) Obesity Percentage of the population examined in the period of 18 months with a BMI >30. Number of people among the population who have a HDL* <0.35g/l or a LDL** Cholesterol >1.6g/l in the period of 18 months. Percentage of the population examined in the period of 18 months with a blood presBlood pressure sure higher than 140/90mmHg. (*) High Density Lipoprotein (HDL). (**) Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL). STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 35 Health & Safety H&S strategy n top issue Enhancing employees’ role Employee health, safety & well-being in safety performance Enhancing employees’ role ST has reached a level of safety performance that is best-in-class and is now focusing on empowering employees and managers so that safety becomes everyone’s responsibility. ST‘s 23 largest sites are certified to OHSAS ment systems across the company. It supused for theoretical courses and, for practical 18001, with corporate rules and procedures ports sites’ safety managers in continuously aspects, on site experts check if competendeployed locally and a comprehensive safety improving safety performance through the intecies have been attained. Training is repeated dashboard of indicators. Since ST started gration of best international standards, regulaif necessary. to implement its corporate safety managetions and practices. Influencing employee’s behavior and empowment system in 2001, recordable cases have The second initiative was the design and erment will remain a priority for ST’s safety decreased by 69% and the severity rate by deployment of two EHS e-learning courses management to ensure that safety becomes 84%. Current safety results compare well for all managers within ST. These are aimed at an automatic ‘reflex’ for employees and against the semiconductor industry as a raising managers’ awareness of: managers. whole, positioning ST as best-in-class. In orn their role in terms of EHS management e.g. der to maintain improvements in the company ensuring the safety of operations and demonsafety performance, we are further strengthening training and awareness at both corporate strating involvement and commitment to ST’s EHS Week in ST Muar (Malaysia) EHS values and objectives; and local levels. The objective is to empower in November 2010 employees and managers regarding safety, n the reasons for accurate capture and and to increase their commitment to a safety measurement of EHS performance and how Every year, many sites organize EHS events to culture. this is achieved. Also the high profile of this in raise employees’ awareness through exhibitions terms of the interest and expectations of ST’s and activities. Such events are always a great sucEnlarge the scope of employees covered cess and are a good way to draw attention to the key stakeholders e.g. relating to performance, by ST’s safety management system importance of safety. commitment to local and international regulaIn 2010, to further improve the completeness tions and standards and continuous improveIn November 2010, Muar organized this kind of of safety performance reporting, the systemment against our EHS Decalogue. event for more than 1,800 employees who parized, formal capture and reporting of safety ticipated in the following activities over a three-day The first course was launched in September performance was expanded and now covers period: 2010 and, by the end of the year, more than 99% of ST’s employees. In addition to manuDay 1 700 managers had successfully completed it. facturing and main Research and Development n fire hose drill competition; It is also interesting and encouraging to note sites, about 80 ST entities are now included n exhibition on: that some sites like Catania (Italy) have made in monthly review and follow-up of their safety awareness of water, hazardous waste, the course compulsory. performance. To coordinate and facilitate this, air pollution with posters supplied by the safety reporting supervisors and deputies have Enlarge the scope of employees covered Malaysian Department of Environment; been appointed at all sites. Each of these speby ST’s safety management system awareness of Health and Safety; informacialists has undergone dedicated training from Twice a year, ST formally tracks and reports tion with posters supplied by the Malaysian the Corporate Safety senior manager, coversites’ safety training and how they are raising Department of Occupational Health and Safety. ing company safety reporting and procedures, employees’ safety awareness. An EHS trainDay 2 OSHA indicators and the use of SafeTrack, ing matrix has been developed, covering about n blood donation organized by the Muar ST’s recording and reporting tool, which is also 50 main EHS training and awareness topics Johor Health Department and distribution of health useful for internal benchmarking and crossacross different categories of employees within awareness pamphlets. fertilization. The training places an emphasis ST. The objective is to track sites’ progress and on the importance of capturing reliable data by remind them of their responsibilities in terms of Day 3 n health check i.e. blood sugar content, blood stressing how this data can be used to make training. the workplace safer. pressure, Body Mass Index, by the Mahkota MediIn 2010, the number of training and awareness cal Centre and the distribution of health awareness In 2011, the objective is to extend systemized hours per employees again exceeded the corpamphlets. data capture to the remaining 600 employees. porate target with 174,000 hours of training Enlarge the scope of employees covered provided (3.6 hours per employee) compared by ST’s safety management system to 154,000 in 2009 (3.4 hours per employee). This includes theoretical training, practical There have been two particular initiatives at training (such as fire exercises and risk specorporate level to complement local actions cific trainings) and awareness events (such as in terms of managers’ awareness and emEHS days and weeks). Many ST sites, espepowerment. Firstly, safety managers at all ST’s cially manufacturing locations, are very active manufacturing sites have been trained to use a in terms of awareness programs. self-assessment tool that was initially piloted in 2009 at ST Crolles and Rousset (France). The M For more details on these awareness programs, see two concrete examples in Muar and Ang Mo Kio on the right tool will be invaluable in helping us to identify opportunities for the improvement of our EnviTo ensure employee training is effective, the ronmental, Health and Safety (EHS) managestandard Kirkpatrick assessment level 1 is 36 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Health & Safety n Local actions top issue Local Sustainability Impacts Safety training at Ang Mo Kio Public Policy (Singapore) Front-end manufacturing site ST Italy contributes to improving its country’s safety approach improving its country’s ST Italy contributes to ST Italy has dedicated time and resources to the government objective of improving Italian companies’ safety results. For almost a decade STMicroelectronics has on the work institute, the Istituto Nazionale per aimed to be “a corporation that strives for l’Assicurazione contro gli Infortuni sul Lavoro, zero accidents in the workplace for our peooffices of judicial police in charge of health and ple and partners”. ST started in 2001 with the safety. ST was invited to join this group and to The Ang Mo Kio site emphasizes a shared ownerdeployment of the international Health and represent Italian industry. The objective of this ship of safety culture and a mindset that creates a Safety (H&S) standard, OHSAS 18001 as the network is to collect and share experiences proactive approach to safety management. common management system for each manuand deploy best practices. The Court of Milan A robust commitment to training and awareness facturing site. Nine years later, ST is among a has organized several conferences to explain building is necessary to cultivate and reinforce small best-in-class group in the semiconductor how misunderstandings can result in fatal this culture and mindset to an extent where they industry and maintains its ambition to reach the events and what can be done to avoid misinbecome second nature to employees in their ultimate goal of zero accidents. terpretation of legal obligations. The President day-to-day work. A systematic approach is used ST’s performance is also recognized in Italy of the Court of Milan introduced one of these to communicate safety protocols and procedures where ST has been engaged to support its conferences by declaring that the mission of to employees, starting from the induction of new industrial peers in enhancing their safety manthe working group was not only to help all oremployees and carrying on throughout their caagement and performance. ganizations to be compliant with legal rules but reer with ST. In 2010, employees at Ang Mo Kio also, and above all, to save workers’ lives. In 2007, during the traditional end of year received an average of 4.2 hours of EHS training speech, the President of the Italian Republic 5 For more information on these conferences, visit this website osservatoriosicurezzalavoro.it per employee in areas such as Safety Awareness, declared on television that the Italian injuries Gas Safety, Risk Assessment, Fire Safety Awarefrequency rate* for 2005-2007 was 33.38 (this ness and OHSAS 18001, exceeding the corporate compares with 8.00 for ST) was unacceptable ST Agrate management worked with Business target of 3.5 hours per employee. and that all managers leading companies had International organization to create networks Designated Emergency Responders undertake to be involved in putting in place new programs with several companies that are adopting best specific Emergency Response Team training and to reverse this poor trend. practices. This was an opportunity to share certification. In 2010, 94 employees were certiinformation with other experts, increasing eveFollowing this communication, ST Italy decided fied in areas that included; emergency response ryone’s efficiency in health and safety manato actively participate in its country’s efforts to procedures and use of fire extinguishers, self-congement. For instance, ST Agrate shared its improve this situation. It initiated the design of tained breathing apparatus and personal protecexperience on safety ownership rules and safea training course focused on managers’ legal tive equipment. ty training to empower employees. responsibilities with the support of a judge Recognizing the importance of basic first aid, from the Court of Milan. Italian ST managers 5 For more information on the Italian Business International organization, see www.businessinternational.it/home cardiopulmonary resuscitation and use of fire have been involved in the project, mainly for action extinguishers, the Ang Mo Kio Front-end site jointly the analysis of events and injuries that occur organizes a Community Emergency Preparedness in Italian companies, and in establishing their ST Agrate is also involved in a school in its program with the Singapore Civil Defense Force. root causes. This collaboration between legal neighborhood community to provide safety In 2010, 395 employees attended this program. professionals and ST managers has been very training to young people and to contribute to Safety training and awareness-building has had fruitful, combining ‘legal theories’ with practithe creation of a safety culture. a positive impact on workplace incidents. The cal facts in a very open-minded discussion with These experiences have also benefited ST recordable cases rate has been steadily declining the objective of reducing the injury level. Italy. Analyzing the root causes of accidents since 2007, bringing the Ang Mo Kio Front-end ST was also invited to join a working group has helped enhance our own risk analysis and site closer to the corporate target of 0.32. The created by the President of the Court of Milan management. severity rate of 0.92 is below the corporate target and involving the most important judges, Trade (*) Injuries frequency rate = (number of injuries/ number of of 4.2 with very promising progress again in 2010. Unions, the Italian national insurance of injuries employees) x 1000. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 37 Health & Safety performance overview 2010 High level objective Ensure a safe and healthy workplace Objectives 2010 Reduce recordable cases rate to 0.32 and severity rate to 4.2 Reduce the rate of injuries with days lost for our contractors by 10% Deploy a new self-assessment tool to main manufacturing sites Disclosure on management approach We continue to encourage and adopt a proactive approach; looking We manage our Health and Safety (H&S) performance and systems to forward, anticipating and predicting in order to prevent injuries. We firstly the international OHSAS 18001 standard which is widely recognized as identify a hazard and then anticipate its possible impact. The hazard is the most rigorous international standard for Occupational Health and analyzed, recommendations are proposed and corrective actions and Safety. 23 of our sites, including all 13 manufacturing sites covering system improvements are implemented. more than 92% of our employees, are certified to OHSAS 18001. One This has resulted in a 28% decrease in the rate of industrial cases and a additional site (Bangalore) was certified in 2010. 1% decrease in the rate of on-site domestic cases, which are not directly 5 You can find the full disclosure on management approach in the html version of this report linked with industrial activity. Note that, in ST, we split recordable cases into two main categories; ‘industrial’ and ‘on-site domestic’, to allow a The safety performance data presented in this section covers approximore effective approach to improvement**. mately 99% of our employees. The remaining 1% will be included in 2011 and work in functions and locations unrelated to manufacturing*. M For more information on our training and awareness programs, see page 37 Since 2010 we have extended the scope of our reporting by using a new online reporting tool to track, record and investigate all work-related Contractor safety injuries and illnesses across the company. It also allows internal benchIn 2007 we started to track one element of recordable cases, injuries marking and the calculation of the related indices that are necessary for with lost time, incurred by our main contractors at all our manufacturing performance monitoring. sites and our main non-manufacturing sites. In 2010 the injury rate remained at the 2009 level of 0.74. This covers more than 6,500 conBest-ever safety results achieved in 2010 tractors. The overall improvement since 2007 has been 25%. We are pleased to report that, since we began keeping company-wide records in 2004, there have been no work-related fatalities. There was Chemical workstation assessment I STEV67 I STEV68 I further improvement of our performance in 2010 with a 19% decrease in Each workstation using chemicals has been assessed using an internal the recordable cases rate for work-related injuries and illness, going methodology called ST Chemical Risk Assessment. ST has a comprebeyond our 10% reduction target. The overall improvement since 2002 hensive approach to ensure the identification of hazards associated with is 69%. chemical storage, usage and disposal, with rigorous actions to control Our severity rate decreased by 43% in 2010, which was significantly all such risks to an acceptably safe level. better than our 10% reduction target. The overall improvement since This Chemical Risk Assessment takes into consideration both the spe2002 is 84%. cific characteristics of the workstation and the risks of all chemicals The impact of these results can be seen in the decrease of the estimated used. Following the company-wide chemical workstation assessment cost to the company by more than 40% in 2010 compared with 2009 carried out in 2005, we have adopted an approach based on precau(see graph). In total, the improvements since 2002 have resulted in tionary principles when assessing the Environmental, Health and Safety savings of more than US$ 35m. (EHS) risk of new chemicals. All new chemicals are screened, evaluated In 2010 we continued to expand a number of initiatives and programs, and require the approval of the site chemical committee before entering in particular in the areas of communication, awareness and training. We the site. In this evaluation, strict engineering controls, hazard identificaalso deployed our self-assessment tool to all our manufacturing sites to tion, training, measurement, collective and personal protective equipstrengthen our H&S management systems. This tool helps us identify ment are taken into consideration on a continuous basis. and control gaps and risks and choose the best way of preventing them. It stimulates the implementation of new ideas, sharing of good practices, Health and Safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade helps our sites prepare and define next year’s objectives and assists in unions I LA9 I continuously improving the safety culture. 5 For details, see the online version of the report (*) The employees not yet covered by the safety performance data presented in this section work in small ST offices in different countries around the world. Specific training and support by the Safety department Health and Safety fines & penalties 0,35 1,0 is required to extend the reporting perimeter to these locations. None. 0,30 0,8 0,25 (**) Domestic Recordable Cases are on-site cases with a fall or slip on stairs/floor/ground/outdoors, while Lost work day case rate (LWDC) for ST subcontractors1 0,6walking, struck by or against door/chair/building and structures/trees, 0,20 etc. This is based on OSHA event I LA7 I STHS13 I classification followed by ST. See the chart on the html0,15 version of the report. 0,4 2007 2008 2009 2010 0,10 Lost work day case rate 0.99 0.87 0.74 0.74 0,2 0,05 0.29 0.28 0.23 0.23 0.17 0.93 0.78 0.74 0.51 0.59 0.49 0.39 0.35 0.29 0,00 0.29 0.22 0.17 0.12 0.12 (1) The scope of this indicator covers contractors with long-term contracts or working on ST site on a per0,0 manent basis. 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 -10% per year using 2002 as a baseline Industrial Domestic Recordable Cases rate Recordable Cases rate (EHS Decalogue Severity rate target) Injuries/illnesses cost I LA7 I X STHS1 I j 9.1 I breakdown: industrial/domestic I LA7 I X STHS2 I j 9.3 I I LA7 I STHS6 I US$m I LA7 I STHS11 I STHS12I 10 9 1,0 0,35 20 8 8.43 0,30 7 0,8 0,25 15 6 0,6 0,20 5 10 4 0,15 0,4 3 0,10 0,2 5 2 0,05 1 15.7 1.66 0.29 0.28 0.23 0.23 0.17 0.93 0.78 0.74 0.51 0.59 0.49 0.39 0.35 0.29 0,00 0.29 0.22 0.17 0.12 0.12 11 8.8 8.8 6.7 5.5 4.5 2.6 6.4 4.7 3.8 4.3 5.0 4.3 3.4 2.9 0,0 0 8 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 -10% per year using 2002 as a baseline Industrial Domestic -10% per year using 2002 as a baseline Results without action (EHS Decalogue target) (EHS Decalogue target) 38 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 10 High level objective Give all employees access to the same level of medical care Objective 2010 Continue company Health Plan deployment ST’s Health Plan approach Health Plan Medical examinations* The health and well-being of our employees is essential to the success 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total of our company. ST’s Health Plan provides voluntary health promotion Medical Examinations 62,500 36,023 50,295 69,164 217,982 programs, based on the following key building blocks: n Check-up with a physician 23,700 14,057 20,687 32,456 90,900 n regular medical examinations for all ST employees, at least every 18 n  lood analyses (including B months, with check-ups performed by a doctor or clinician; 17,000 9,287 12,287 17,344 55,918 biomonitoring tests**) n specific tests or examinations, based on risk factors for early diagnon Chest X-rays 8,500 3,788 7,205 9,763 29,256 sis and disease prevention, i.e. blood analysis, mammography, chest n C  olorectal cancer immuocult test 1 400 754 851 523 3 528 X-rays, colorectal cancer tests, nutrition and weight counselling, or n ECG / EKG 6,300 5,019 5,257 5,728 22,304 stress management; n Mammography 1,700 1,160 1,138 1,080 5,078 n biomonitoring for employees working in manufacturing areas, and n Pap smear tests 2,800 1,488 2,084 1,691 8,063 especially on some specific maintenance operations to measure potenn Prostate cancer screening 1,100 470 786 579 2,935 tial exposure to hazardous substances; Screening test 0 9,028 11,923 10,958 31,909 n educational programs based on identified health concerns such as Immunization 1,041 3,121 4,347 3,505 12,014 physical inactivity, obesity, smoking, stress management. Total services provided 63,541 48,172 66,565 83,627 261,905 In addition to ST’s Health Plan, in 2010 ST’s Corporate Environment (*) In 2009 we followed the ‘number of invitations sent to employees’ to evaluate sites’ commitment to enHealth and Safety department required all ST’s manufacturing and courage people to participate to the Health Plan. As the number of employees benefiting from this pronon-manufacturing sites to be equipped with heart defibrillators. This gram is now in line with our corporate objective, we have decided to stop tracking this information. (**) These tests are dedicated to employees working in manufacturing areas (and especially on some speprogram was designed to complement the emergency preparedness cific maintenance operations). for cardiovascular risks. Their deployment is accompanied by specific training and awareness. At the end of the year, 25 sites, including 8 of our 12 manufacturing sites, had started equipping their buildings with defibrillators. Tours Interview with Dr. Gan Ah Sai, external visiting (France) installed 6 defibrillators, one in each building. The objective for doctor in ST Muar (Malaysia) 2011 is to cover 90% of our employees. “Through my experience in Muar, ST is the only company in Malaysia that has a Health Plan deployment in 2010 comprehensive corporate Health Plan. When I’m interacting with the workers, they are very appreciative of this program. In 2010, we continued to deploy a number of health initiatives and programs. The corporate expenses for ST’s Health Plan were US$ 815,000, Through ST’s Health Plan, employees have become much more aware of their health which paid for 32,456 check-ups and approximately 51,000 single status as it allows them to take preventive measures to reduce the occurrence of examinations and tests. medical issues.” Based on our stated 18-month check-up frequency, the average number of people who should have been offered a health check last year covers two thirds of ST’s employees: 43,400*, i.e. 29,000 employees. Health & safety awards For the first time, in 2010, we have achieved this target with 32,456 medical check-ups. We are pleased to see that the number of checkCalamba, Philippines ups provided this year has increased by about 63% compared to 2009, Department of Labor and Employment, Bureau of Working Conditions Director, and more and more employees wish to participate to this voluntary proBrenda Villafuerte, presented STMicroelectronics and its safety practitioners a gram. To continue promoting the ST Health Plan in 2011, a company Dole-BWC Smile award for the Safety Milestone of 9,224,643 safe man-hours, 5 charter will be formalized to better inform employees about its benefits, which was achieved between May 2008 and June 2010. in addition to awareness campaigns on some specific health issues. Longgang, China 4 (*) ST total population minus the US which participates in the Health Plan but does not disclose any information The award, given by the local fire bureau to Longgang (China), is based on the about health for legal reasons. achievement of four attainments: 3 M For more information on our health programs, see the article on page 35 n the ability to extinguish a fire; n knowledge in fire safety; 2 n evacuation plans and practices; n high management commitment and awareness in fire safety programs. 1 0.29 M F or more information on the indicators presented in this section, please refer to the Reader’s Recordable Cases rate benchmarks* 4.3 1.0 0.8 Guide at the beginning of the report 0 5 F or definition of the safety indicators presented in this section, please see the online version 5 2009 US Manufacturing** of the report 2009 All US semiconductor** 2010 SIA*** OHS 4 Our 2011 objectives 2010 ST (*) Latest data available. (**) Bureau of Labor Statistics. 3 (***) Semiconductor Industry Association. n Achieve a recordable cases rate of 0.3 or below and a severity rate of 3.7 or below. This chart shows ST’s recordable cases 2 n For the recordable cases rate and severity rate, increase the reporting rate compared to US manufacturing and coverage to 100% of our employees. US semiconductor industry. 1 n Reduce the rate of contractor lost time injuries to 0.67. The source of data is the US Bureau of 0.29 Labor Statistics (BLS) and the Semiconn Continue company Health Plan deployment. 4.3 1.0 0.8 0 ductor Industry Association (SIA). 2009 US Manufacturing** 2009 All US semiconductor** STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 39 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ENVIRONment ST new Decalogue, our EHS commitments 1.0 : REGULATIONS & COMPLIANCE 3.4 : Carbon neutrality: compensate the remain6.3 : Reduce the generation of hazardous waste 8.4 : Strive towards ’green procurement’ and 1.1 : Comply at all of our locations with all appliing direct CO² emissions through reforestation by at least 5% per year (weight per production purchase Eco-Label TM or other ’green labels‘ cable national, regional and local Environment, or other carbon sequestration methods, to reach unit). (when available) materials, products and enerHealth and Safety (EHS) regulations. CO² direct emissions neutrality by 2015. 6.4 : Reduce the landfill waste to less than 2%. gies. 1.2 : Meet at all of our locations, the most strin4.0 : POLLUTION 7.0 : PRODUCTS & PROCESSES 9.0 : HEALTH & SAFETY gent of, either their national/local EHS regula4.1 : VOCs (Volatile Organic Compounds): im9.1 : Number of work-related injuries and ill7.1 : Design products for decreased energy tions, or the Company EHS Standard Operating plement at 100% of sites VOC abatement sysnesses: reduce the Recordable Cases Rate* by consumption and for enablement of more enerProcedures (SOP). tems*. at least 5% per year. gy efficient applications (2.2) and products that 1.3 : Apply this requirement for all locations, 4.2 : Acidification: implement at 100% of sites create value for all stakeholders, with a focus on 9.2 : Severity Rate**: reduce the Severity Rate activities, processes and products. acids/ammonia scrubbers*. healthcare and safety applications. by at least 5% per year. 2.0 : CONSERVATION 4.3 : Heavy Metals: implement at 100% of sites 7.2 : Develop and manufacture products and 9.3 : Subcontractors: reduce the main on-site 2.1 : Energy for manufacturing: reduce total heavy metals segregation/abatement systems*. processes, responsibly managing their potential subcontractors Lost Work Days Cases Rate* by energy consumption (kWh per production unit) 4.4 : Fluorides: implement at 100% of sites social, EHS impacts, establishing Eco-tools (Life 5% per year. by 5% per year through process and facilities fluorides abatements systems*. Cycle Assessments, Eco-Profiles,…). (**) OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration-USA) model. optimization, conservation and building design. 4.5 : Noise: meet a “noise-to-neighbors” rate 7.3 : Strive towards “products greening strategy” through EcoPack® programs deployment 10.0 : MEASUREMENT & VALIDATION 2.2 : Energy for products applications: develop of less than 60 dBA at any point and any time outside our property for all sites, or comply with and 100% recyclable and PVC free packing 10.1 : Continuously monitor our progress, inproducts for alternative energy uses, reduced local regulations (whichever is most stringent)*. materials. cluding periodic audits of all our sites worldfuel and energy consumption and increased 7.4 : Have 100% of our new products ‘’ecowide, including non-manufacturing sites, and energy efficiency. (*) Whenever technically possible. designed’’ by 2015. cooperation with international organizations and 2.3 : Energy for products use: reduce continu5.0 : RISK MANAGEMENT corporations to benchmark and define future ously the energy used by our components. 8.0 : PROACTIVITY goals. 5.1 : Chemicals selection and screening: adopt 2.4 : Water use: reduce water draw-down (cuan approach based on precautionary principles 8.1 : Promote the use of more efficient (less 10.2 : Measure progress and achievements and bic meters per production unit) by 5% per year, when assessing the EHS impacts of new chemiconsumption and lower pollution) vehicles for publish our results in our Sustainability Report. through re-use and recycling, conservation and cals (liquids, gases and solids) and operational our employees, and encourage the use of alter10.3 : Maintain the ISO 14001 certification, process optimization, and strive towards recyprocesses. native ways of transportation (mass transportaEMAS validation and OHSAS 18001 certification cling rates of 45% for our manufacturing sites. tion, car sharing) and clean and healthy ways of 5.2 : Continuously reduce hazards and hazardof all our manufacturing and large non-manu2.5 : Chemicals: reduce total consumption of ous materials in our processes and activities, transportation (bicycles, walking). facturing sites worldwide. chemicals by 5% per year (weight per producstriving for an environmentally friendly, safe, 8.2 : Support local initiatives for sponsoring EHS 10.4 : Certify new manufacturing and large nontion unit), through process optimization and and healthy working place. projects, sponsor local EHS events at each of manufacturing sites within 18 months of their recycling. our sites, encourage our people to lead or par5.3 : Strive towards continuous reduction and operational start-up. 3.0 : GLOBAL WARMING elimination of substances of high concern such ticipate in EHS committees, conferences, etc. 10.5 : Design and certify all new buildings 3.1 : Energy: reduce total emissions of CO² due as CMR (Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, toxic for Re8.3 : Select only suppliers and sub-contractors and manufacturing sites according to ‘LEED’ to our energy consumption (tons of CO² per proproduction), bio-accumulative, persistent, ODS compliant with our EHS requirements and prac(Leadership in Energy and Environmental duction unit) by 5% per year. (Ozone Depleting Substances) in our processes tices. Establish long-standing partnerships with Design) or equivalent methodology (concept of and products. suppliers and customers to achieve common zero energy building). 3.2 : Renewable energies: adopt whenever posenvironmental goals and strongly encourage 10.6 : Verify by a third party our GHG emissible renewable energy sources such as wind, 6.0 : WASTE suppliers and subcontractors to be EMAS valisions of our manufacturing sites and our CO² hydroelectric, geothermic, photovoltaic and 6.1 : Reuse and recycle at least 95% of our dated or ISO 14001 certified and OHSAS 18001 sequestrations. thermal solar. waste. certified (target of 100% for our key suppliers 3.3 : PFCs: reduce absolute perfluorinated com6.2 : Reduce the generation of waste by at least and sub-contractors), and assist them through pounds (PFC) emissions by 30% in 2020 from 5% per year (weight per production unit). training, support and auditing. 1995 baseline. 40 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Environmental performance Water management n TOP ISSUE WATER MANAGEMENT AT ST AGRATE WATER USE AT OPERATIONS LOCAL SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS in the face of geological constraints, the agrate site (italy) has developed an ingenious system that has reduced its water consumption per production unit by 47% over the past six years. Sustainable water management is a crucial issue for both communities and businesses. The world’s population is growing at a rate of 80 million people per year which generates an increased annual fresh water demand of approximately 64 billion cubic meters*. In the meantime, the demand for industrial water is also rising to sustain this growing population. The responsible management of this essential resource is of critical importance for a company such as ST. ST identified water conservation as a key issue for sustainable growth in the first release of its EHS Decalogue in 1995. Since then we have achieved our yearly reduction target of 5% for water draw-down i.e. cubic meters per production unit. Through continuous improvement programs undertaken by each Front-end manuWaTeR ReCYCling SYSTeM facturing site, ST’s water footprint has been in agRaTe further reduced by 50% in the past five years. The Agrate site has chosen to go beyond ST’s EHS Decalogue targets to minimize the impact Re-engineering to save water and at the same time, modify water distribution of its water consumption on local communities. ST Agrate has developed a dual approach, across the site to divert UPW only to the proWater quality and extraction duction processes that needed it. These steps firstly through the ‘water saving’ program, The Agrate site draws the majority of its wafocusing on reducing consumption, and secreduced the site’s dependence on the deep ter from groundwater sources. Agrate’s unondly through the ‘zero deep water’ program aquifer and, by 2010, only 7% of water was derground geology is characterized by two taking measures to preserve the high quality being drawn from this source. This residual aquifers, a shallow source containing a high water source. The result is that, in 2010, ST’s extraction is due to one particular application quantity of poor quality water and a deeper extraction from the deep aquifer was 75% lowwhich needs exceptionally pure water with zero aquifer with a limited high quality supply which er than in 2006. organic content which, at the present time, is is suitable for drinking water. The two closest still located close to one well extracting deep Following the ‘reduce, recycle, reuse’ strategy, cities of Agrate and Caponago draw their water. In the coming year, this application will Agrate’s first step was to measure and evaluwater from the deep aquifer because it be upgraded which will enable us to eliminate ate patterns of water use to know which areas can be drunk without any treatment. The all deep water extraction by 2012. to focus on. This entailed a detailed analysis shallow aquifer water has a high concentration of of how every drop of water was being used Cost savings and community beneﬁts organic compounds and suspended solids throughout our production processes. It then ST Agrate has always taken pride in its role in and so does not meet the standards for drinkset about introducing specific measures to rethe local community and has recognized the ing water set by Italian law. duce consumption. Actions undertaken have critical importance of responsible water manaST’s commitment and aim is to implement the included: necessary technology to purify and use the gement. The overall levels of water extraction n Reducing Identifying the most water-effihave been reduced by 33% over the past six ‘dirty’ water from the shallow aquifer to maxicient equipment and processes for each proyears. The reduction is highly significant to the mize the diminishing availability of potable waduction step and then aligning operating procommunity as it equates to the typical water ter sources for the surrounding communities. cedures with these best practices to reduce usage of around 20,000 people, equivalent to Semiconductor production requires the use the overall primary consumption. the total combined population of the two towns of Ultra-pure Water (UPW). To obtain UPW for n Recycling Extracting further usable water closest to the plant, Agrate and Caponago. Front-end factories, a very stringent purificafrom the concentrate produced by the UPW The programme has also delivered some tion is necessary, using special technology in plant. Prior to this, the concentrate had been significant cost savings. From a total investa dedicated plant. One of the main treatments discarded. ment of US$ 150,000, the water manageto create UPW is reverse osmosis, which involves purifying water through a special memn Reusing Using post-production water from ment program has saved US$ 600,000 per brane to eliminate all contaminants, minerals the manufacturing process for specialist equipyear over the past six years. The work carried and hardness from the water. Reverse osmosis ment such as scrubbers and cooling towers. out at the Agrate site gained a wider intercreates pure water, ‘permeate’, and discharge In 2006, before implementing the ‘zero deep est and the site is now contributing to sevwaste water, ‘concentrate’, with a high mineral water’ program, extraction from the deep aqeral national water conservation programs. content. Agrate’s recycling system further prouifer accounted for 24% of the total site con(*) according to un World Water Development Report n°3, 2009. cesses this concentrate in a secondary reverse sumption. This major program was undertaken (**) ST standard to calculate the water consumption by production unit osmosis system. to improve the efficiency of UPW production, (wafer out for front-end sites, number of units for Back-end sites). STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 41 Environmental performance Environmental strategy n top issue ST renews its EHS strategy The Environment and commitments ST renews its EHS strategy With the fourth version of its Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Decalogue, ST renews its historical commitments and resets its strategy. Alain Denielle, Sustainable Development Group Vice President, comments on ST’s ‘ten commandments’ and on the environment, health and safety challenges facing the company over the next few years. In 2010, you enlarged your CR department view and understanding of our external responsibilities beyond EHS stakeholders’ expectations. Indeed, ST has always been (your previous role) to invery active in constantly raising the environmental perInterview clude Corporate Responsibility formance of our manufacturing sites. But in the mean(CR). What synergies are you time, international society’s mindset rapidly evolves and seeking to generate with this pushes for an ever more considerate industry, with wider new scope? responsibilities. The CR team is well-positioned to deManaging both EHS and CR groups, which are major tect and address these new expectations, share them domains of sustainable development, offers a lot of opwith our internal EHS community, and communicate portunities for synergies. One key added value is to take our performance to our stakeholders such as Socially advantage of the long-term expertise of ST’s environResponsible Investment (SRI) rating agencies. Alain Denielle mental teams, at corporate and local levels, and of the Corporate Sustainable Development Group Vice President ST Environmental Commitments framework Creation of the Corporate EnvironTexts, laws 1987 1993 1993 1995 1995 mental function 1st Corporate Quality and strategies Birth of SGS Thomson 1st Corporate Environment policy program: Total Quality 1st Ecological Corporate Environmental Microelectronics implementation Management (TQM) Decalogue Management Manual I nitiate and coordinate actions to improve 1st Corporate Carbon neutrality 1998 2002 Programs Environnemental report goals set and Initiatives Texts, laws 1987 1993 1996 1997 2003 and strategies Environmental EU Waste Electrical Environment managed Management Systems Start of legal/regulatory Manufacturing sites certified and Electronic Equipment at site level launched (EMS) audits (ERM) to ISO 14001 and EMAS validated (WEEE) Directive D ecreasing the environmenta l footprint of Programs Local initiatives Launch of reduction processes Environmental dataEnergy saving Measurement methods 1993 1993 1998 1999 2000 and People for consumption (energy, water, banks collect all site plans for site eco-footprints and Initiatives Empowerment chemicals…) environmental data and environmental (TQM) and emissions (air, water…) impacts 1996 2003 Texts, laws Management of and strategies Moore’s Law and chemicals and substances EU WEEE Directive More Moore Reducing the size and weight of our D ecreasing the environmenta l devices (shrinks) Launch of Design for Life Cycle Assessment Energy efficiency program EcoPacks program to 1995 1998 1998 2000 Programs Energy saving (LCA) and 1st Life cycle remove polluting and and Initiatives initiative hazardous substances from packages 42 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 What is your vision of sustainability for ST? new EHS Decalogue aims at mitigating these impacts Ambitious targets necessitate consistent financial investWe want to be recognized as a sustainability leader through the integration of environmental parameters in ments, sometimes with no direct payback; however we within the electronic industry. Since 1993, ST has conour devices’ design and production; consider this as a necessary commitment for a respontinuously strived to develop its activities and products in n Secondly, the increasingly stringent chemicals manasible company. a more responsible way, establishing ‘people’ and ‘envigement required from regulations and our customers, ST is also able to bring about indirect environmental ronment’ as core company values. with regular updates of banned or restricted substances. benefits through its products e.g. by designing and deMultinational firms are major actors on the sustainable We are really committed to ensuring a safe and healthy veloping energy efficient products which reduce carbon development scene and ST has a key role to play in adenvironment for our internal and external stakeholders in emissions. dressing the worldwide social, environmental, health and our daily activities; For several years, ST’s environmental investsafety challenges. We cannot account for everything, but Thirdly, our environmental neutrality; not limited to n ments have been decreasing due to a difficult through our strong Sustainable Excellence values, our CO2 emissions, but embracing the whole spectrum of international economic context. How confident long-term experience in sustainable development and our impacts; are you now to meet these new objectives? our deep commitment to continuous improvement, we pursue our journey towards environmental neutrality by n And finally we also have to ensure the continuFacing the worldwide economic crisis, we had to slow reducing all our impacts. ous safety robustness of our manufacturing tools and down our ambitious investments dedicated to programs processes to ensure that we are free from any safety, that took us beyond legal compliance. Consequently, our One of your key programs in 2010 was the revichemical or environmental accidents at our sites and objective of direct emissions neutrality for 2012 had to sion of ST’s EHS Decalogue. Why a fourth verlocations. be postponed to 2015. But the positive point is that ST sion? has emerged stronger from the crisis and is now again Our ultimate objective is to be proactive and lead ST released its first environmental Decalogue in 1995, able and of course willing to allocate significant investchange through our EHS management and practices. and has renewed its EHS commitments several times. ments in the coming years to the continuous reduction We not only want to be at the edge of regulatory and The third version of the Decalogue dated from 2005 of our company’s environmental footprint. customers’ requirements, but we also want to anticipate and since then we have met new challenges. So, with We are also more strongly positioned to meet these all these needs and requirements to achieve our Princithis new edition, ST reiterates its strong commitment to ples for Sustainable Excellence. objectives thanks to the increasing involvement of our our long-term values by engaging new ambitious EHS supply chain partners in this environmental engagement, objectives. This contributes to ST’s ambition of being the This new version focuses on reaching the neusharing commitments and providing mutual support to benchmark in terms of sustainability, as stated on sevetrality of our direct emissions, what does it all be better positioned and also more competitive. ral occasions by our President and CEO, Carlo Bozotti. mean? And a last important point is that the materiality exercise M For more information on this new Decalogue, see page 40 ST’s objective is to approach environmental neutrality conducted in 2010 to reshape ST’s Sustainability stratMany things have already been done; what do through the reduction of our total impacts. As our largest impacts arise from the release of CO2 and perfluoriegy has resulted in a list of 25 key issues for ST’s busiyou see as the mains challenges of the EHS ness success that includes all the aspects of our EHS policy? nated compounds (PFCs) at our manufacturing sites, we maintained the neutrality objective for our direct emispolicy. This means that our policy is closely integrated At ST, we are continuously looking for ways to improve to ST’s overall strategy and that it is deployed and supsions, although we have already decreased our PFCs our practices. I see several challenges to be addressed ported throughout the whole company. This is particuemissions per production unit by 60% since 1995. As in the years to come: larly important for our objectives in terms of greener and regards other emissions such as volatile organic comn Firstly, the impacts of our products in their manupounds, ammonia, heavy metals and acids, they are safer products. facturing phases, and also during their whole life cycle. already well treated on sites, but we must continue to M For more information about the materiality exercise, see page 6 The eco-design program that we have added in our equip the sites where abatement systems are missing. 3rd Environmental, Health & (*) For more details, see full Decalogue page 40 1998 1999 2005 2011 2nd Environmental Safety (EHS) Decalogue 4th EHS Decalogue* Name changed to Decalogue > Health & Safety > Product and processes enlarged; STMicroelectronics > Waste highlighted commitments added > Global warming targets specified Aiming for a stable and environmenta l performance sustainable CO2 offsetting through Renewable energy Neutrality of our Reduction of absolute FUTURE 2002 2003 2015 2020 reforestation farm comes on line direct emissions perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) emissions by 30% from 1995 baseline 2003 2006 2007 2011 EU Registration, Evaluation and All manufacturing sites EU Restriction of Hazardous Authorization of Chemicals Deployment of the certified to OHSAS 18001 Substance (RoHS) Directive (REACH) Regulation new EHS Decalogue Aiming for the environmental S T manufacturing activities neutrality of our 1st site achieved zero waste Construction of a High Environmental Theoretical ecological Third party verification of ACTIVITIES 2002 2007 2008 2012 to landfill Quality (HQE) building in Grenoble roadmaps the GHG emissions of our manufacturing sites and of our CO2 sequestrations 2006 2007 2009 2011 2011 EU Eco-design Energy using Products (EuP) and Energy related Products Launch of Life Cycle Setting an eco-conscious EU RoHS Directive EU REACH Regulation (ErP) Directives Inventories (LCIs) product strategy Aiming for the footprint of S T products environmental neutrality of our Material Declarations Eco-design and LCA Green procurement Towards greener and PRODUCTS 2008 2009 2011 2011 program to disclose program program safer products information STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 43 Environmental performance Climate changen Our approach to climate change mitigation and adaptation Our approach to climate ST has integrated climate change into its environmental policy and is actively pursuing its goal of reducing its impacts on global warming. The renewal of our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Decalogue in 2010 outlines crucial targets to achieve by 2015 and 2020. ST also aims at reducing its vulnerability to the effects of climate change through programs that increase its resilience, ability to recover quickly, and by developing innovative, energy efficient technologies. have also defined an environmental investment strategy to upgrade existing equipment at our manufacturing sites. Despite an overall increase in PFCs consumption to support expanded production, our emissions remain at their 1995 level in absolute values, which equates to a decrease of 60% per production unit since 1995. We work closely with the World Semiconductor Council (WSC) and are also part of a working group within the Electronic Semiconductor Industry Association (ESIA) to define and share technical guidance and develop best practices. ST has made important progresses through the optimization of process recipes, replacement of high GWP gases with lower or GWP-free gases, and point-of-use abatement systems. Renewable energies: Adopt whenever possible renewable energies sources such as wind, hydroelectric, geothermic, photovoltaic, and thermal solar. Reducing our impact on global warming can also be brought about by changing our traditional ways of selecting and managing our energy sources. ST has defined corporate guidelines to increase the purchase and conMitigation of global warming effects roadmap with a CO2 neutrality target by 2010 sumption of renewable energy and encourages ST has implemented a multi-faceted strategy which proved to be too ambitious. We faced a the deployment of similar local initiatives. Reto mitigate our greenhouse gas (GHG) emisdifficult worldwide economic situation and the newable energy represented 6.9% of ST’s total sions. Since 1995, we have measured our GHG reporting process has also evolved with manufacturing requirement in 2010 through performance through an emissions accounting stricter calculation rules. This resulted in the reinitiatives such as the building of a wind farm in system, using indicators that have been deview of our strategy in 2010 focusing now on the South of France in 2003 which generated signed in accordance with the GHG Protocol direct emissions neutrality by 2015. ST’s larg23.8 million kWh in 2010. and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). est direct emissions mainly result form our use of PFCs in our manufacturing processes and Carbon neutrality: Compensate the reThe new EHS Decalogue details our commitmaining direct CO2 emissions through rein a smaller extent from our use of natural gas ments and actions to minimize our impacts forestation or others carbon sequestration boilers. through a four-dimensional global warming methods, to reach CO2 direct emissions strategy: PFCs: Reduce absolute perfluorinated neutrality by 2015. Energy: Reduce total emissions of CO2 due compounds (PFCs) emissions by 30% in To offset the remaining emissions, ST has deto our energy consumption (tons of CO2 per 2020 from 1995 baseline. veloped a number of reforestation programs. production unit) by 5% per year: The semiconductor industry uses PFCs in Between 2002 and 2003, ST planted approxiSince the early 1990s, ST has been working its manufacturing activities at a relatively low mately 9,000 hectares of trees in Australia, with the World Business Council for Sustainalevel. PFCs have a long-lasting life and high Morocco, Texas and Italy. In 2010, we comble Development (WBCSD) to define how to reglobal warming potential (GWP) and ST has missioned a third party assessment of CO2 duce our CO2 and other GHG emissions. Since defined a specific program to significantly resequestration for the overall reforestation prothen, we have achieved our targeted reduction duce their emissions. Our policy requires all gram, based on the Weibull method*. In 2010, of 5% per year. Our second and third Decanew processes and tools adopted by ST sites the annual carbon sequestrated amounted to logue (1999 and 2005) had defined a carbon to be equipped with abatement systems. We 249,000 tons CO2, compensating around 52% 44 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 top GHG emissions from operations issue Sensitivity to energy market of our annual direct emissions (18% of both anticipating our sites’ local regulations and A key area where ST can make a positive imdirect and indirect). We forecast a total CO2 specific needs. When purchasing energy, we pact on climate change is through the design sequestrated from 2002 to 2015 of 2.5 million consider proposals that offer the optimum baland development of energy saving products. tons CO2, enabling us to reach our neutrality ance between cost and environmental perforThese both offset climate change and have the target of 2015. mance. Although our purchase and generation potential to create new business opportunities. of green energy supplies only a small proporExamples include the development of prodM For more information on our CO 2 sequestration validation, see MWH statement tion of our total energy, ST also encourages ucts and technologies that use ultra-low power sites to adopt and install renewable energy and deploy built-in smart energy consumption Adaptation to climate change sources when possible, to be less dependent technologies. While reducing our impact on climate change, to this sensitive market. ST also continues to focus on energy saving in our manufacturing M For more information about responsible products, see page 52 we must also adapt to increase our resilience. activities and the construction of energy effi(*) Annual sequestration rate during the growth period with differentiations according to the kind of trees in the plantation. Our materiality exercise undertaken in 2010 cient buildings. highlighted that GHG emissions from operations and sensitivity to energy markets were important issues from a risk viewpoint. Our 12 manufacturing sites are ISO 14001 certified and EMAS validated, which means that they have evaluated their environmental risks MHW works with ST on a and impacts and have integrated them into CO 2 sequestration program management systems. ST Corporate EHS also undertakes reviews of local practices to In 2010 and 2011, MWH worked closely with STMicroelectronics on the assessment of CO2 emissions sequestraassess site conformity. We also work in close tion at three afforestation projects in Australia, Morocco and Texas. collaboration with supply chain partners and To mitigate its direct impacts on climate change, ST has two complementary programs; afforestation and PFCs strongly encourage them to adopt environemission abatement. MWH commented that ST has set challenging goals, is committed to achieve them and also mental management schemes. Through the committed to public reporting of performance. These principles are mirrored in the project in which MWH collaboElectronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) rated. ST did not choose to buy the cheapest carbon credits, but planned and established a long term afforestation Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQ), we program. The program was studied and developed to be reliable and consistent. Furthermore, during the course ensure that our main suppliers implement EHS of the project, the program was further improved by carrying out additional monitoring activities and cooperating risk assessment processes and programs. In with external consultants. 2010, 76.2% of our suppliers and 97.7% of our subcontractors were ISO 14001 certified and/ or EMAS validated. Our Decalogue requires all our sites to comply Sustainable transport options for with their national and regional regulations and adopt the most stringent standards, be they ST Grenoble employees either local or corporate. Legal compliance is ST Grenoble (France), has celebrated the 10th annivera crucial commitment on all our sites; ST adsary of its company mobility plan. As part of our Sustaindresses and anticipates requirements that are able Excellence culture, it promoted local initiatives to applicable to our activities and products. reduce the impact of our employees’ travel to and from We have two key company-wide programs in work and to develop on-site programs to reduce carbon terms of risk management. The company Enemissions. Although transportation represents only 8% terprise Risk Management (ERM) program has of our total emissions, it remains a contributor to climate been introduced by Corporate Compliance dechange at global level it is therefore important to seize partment. In 2010 a first exhaustive review of any opportunity to reduce this indirect impact. corporate risks was carried out with Executive Vice Presidents and their respective organiSeveral green transport initiatives are deployed on-site, zations. The program will then be deployed promoted by communication and awareness campaigns, across the company, under the supervision of incentives for public transport and coaches, car-pooling the Audit Committee. networks, etc. In Agrate (Italy), there is now a dedicated website to connect employees to arrange car-pooling with a reduction in tolls offered to car-poolers. At Tours M For more information on the ERM program, see pages 9-11 (France) there are bike parks with proposals to enable employees to rent or purchase bicycles for commuting and Business continuity procedures established private use and there are also now internal shuttles between our Crolles/Grenoble and Rousset sites in France. by ST’s Corporate Security department are In 2000, ST Grenoble started the development of a company mobility plan to save CO2 and other traffic-generated also translated into Business Continuity Plans emissions. Employees have been encouraged to switch to greener modes of transport through incentive programs, (BCPs) which seek to manage continuity durthe availability of diversified transportation and by working together with local authorities e.g. city council and public ing natural or man-made events, enabling us to transport companies. The mobility plan offers a mixture and variety of sustainable options. The take-up to date can identify hazards, prevent and minimize possibe expressed as the percentage of users for each: ble risks or business interruptions, and ensure business continuity and customer service. n public transport including urban (37%), extra-urban (15%), and train (13%); M For more information about business continuity plan, n bikes and electric bikes (22%); see page 60 Defining and quantifying our exposure to clin car-pooling (8%); mate change and energy-related risks is a n motorcycles (4%); complex process due to market price volatin electric or gas cars (1%). lity and the forecasting of CO2 emissions taxation. ST consumes mainly electricity and very By 2010, 1,373 employees had joined the mobility plan, meaning that 60% of the site’s population is involved. low quantities of natural gas and fuel. A deThe program is audited through Grenoble site’s ISO 14001 certification and enables a saving of more than 1,000 partment is dedicated to the management of tons of CO2 each year. ST has also supported and promoted the deployment of similar plans for its local catering, energy sourcing at global level, following and cleaning and security subcontractors. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 45 Environmental performance overview 2010 High level objective Maintain top class management systems for environment Objectives 2010 Maintain ISO 14001 certifications on all ST manufacturing sites Maintain EMAS validation on all ST manufacturing sites Disclosure on management approach l j 10.3 l j 10.4 l 50%. Atmospheric acidification decreased by 42% for ST as a whole ST manages its environmental performance using ISO 14001 and the (Tours by 68%) and the photochemical oxidant creation decreased by Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS), both of which are widely 48%, mainly due to Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and Agrate. The only recognized as the most rigorous relevant international standards. In increase in this set of indicators is related to the global warming (+2.4%) 2010, 17 of our sites were certified to ISO 14001 and 15 were EMAS which is explained by the increase in our energy consumption since both validated (including our 12 manufacturing sites). Also 13 ST sites that do are correlated. business with Sony received the Sony Green Partner Certificate. Since M For more detail on the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, see pages 44-45 2001, Sony has created its own environmental standards to certify suppliers that are involved in the production of environmentally sensitive Emissions to water l EN21 l products. Emissions to water also improved in comparison to 2008. EutrophicaOur environmental reporting covers 82% of our employees, and all our tion and aquatic oxygen demand show a significant decrease by about manufacturing sites. At the end of 2010, the data collection process for 4.5% and 14% respectively. Aquatic ecotoxicity decreased by 24% and environmental performance indicators covered 12 manufacturing sites, heavy metals emissions by 7.5%. This improvement is mainly related to excluding Phoenix (US) that was sold in 2010. the closure of two sites (Carrollton in 2009 and Phoenix in 2010), both of which had low wastewater treatment performance. 5 For the full disclosure on management approach, see www.st.com/internet/com/about_st/st_approach_Environment.jsp Environmental incidents 2010 l EN23 l 2010, an impressive production upturn A minor case of soil contamination by solvents occurred in Tours 2010 was a good year in term of production as the economic crisis of (France), in 2006. Investigations were completed in 2007 and remedia2009 was overcome (the decrease of production between 2008 and tion is still ongoing. 2009 was around 30% in terms of wafers out). The increase in producA groundwater organic contamination identified at our site in Rennes tion in 2010 resumed 2008 levels, a 45% increase compared to 2009. (France) in 2006 has been investigated in collaboration with local authorFor this reason we have chosen to comment on our environmental perities. A remediation plan was launched in early 2008 and is still ongoing. formance by comparing 2010 data with 2008. No new environmental incidents occurred in 2010. Environmental Burden methodology l EN16 l EN20 l Since 2001, net emissions to air and water have been reported using the Environmental Burden methodology to give a complete overview of the environmental impact of ST’s activities independent of the variation in production. After the significant impact that occurred in 2008 due to the carve-out activity linked to the creation of Numonyx (sold to Micron in Environmental awards 2009 l STEV19 l 2010) and despite the production growth during 2010, we saw a further n The Agrate site (Italy) won an award, sponsored by the Italian Environmental reduction in these results, most notably in air emissions, both due to Ministry and the European Platform on Mobility Management, for its promotion of significant investments in this area and to the closure of our site in Phoebicycle use for employees; nix, Arizona (United States). n Calamba (Philippines) was among 8 industries who were rewarded as part of Emissions to air l EN16 l EN17 l EN19 l EN20 l the Philippines Environment Partnership Program (PEPP) with recognition for their exemplary environmental performance with the DENR (Department of Environment In 2010 all the indicators relating to air emissions show a significant and Natural Resources) Seal of Approval; decrease, mainly due to investments at Tours (France), where point of use ammonia abatement systems were installed in 2010, and Agrate n Crolles (France) was awarded with the Carnet Sanitaire label by Bureau Veritas for (Italy) where 2009 investments in VOC abatement systems have started the health quality of its water and air networks, thanks to the outstanding manageto deliver performance improvements. Emissions of VOCs decreased by ment and control of legionella risks. 27% for ST as a whole with Agrate decreasing by 30% and Tours by M For more information on the indicators presented in this section, please refer to the Reader’s Guide at the beginning of the report Environmental burden: net values I EN16 I EN17 I EN19 I EN20 I EN26 I STEV21 I j 4.1 I j 4.3 I j 4.4 I Units 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Emissions to air Global warming* MTCE 563,363 478,884 404,319 358,167 413,974 Ozone depletion Kg R11 Eq 135 171 62 8 7 VOCs Tons 290 262 244 170 178 Atmospheric acidification Kg SO2 Eq 72,951 58,178 63,142 55,370 36,581 Photochemical oxidant creation Kg ethylene Eq 65,974 15,761 48,969 35,044 25,292 Air emission toxicity** Kg PH3 Eq 3,737 4,881 4,720 4,101 4,484 Emissions to water*** Eutrophication Kg (P+N) 385,031 381,889 414,730 305,502 396,271 Aquatic oxygen demand Kg COD**** 354,965 351,967 834,032 626,835 709,202 Heavy metals to water Kg heavy metals 13,279 13,277 10,354 8,934 9,579 Aquatic ecotoxicity Kg Cu Eq 13,964 10,398 7,598 6,698 5,774 (*) Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect emissions from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon Equivalence (MTCE). Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, subcontractors and foundries. (**) Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, expressed in phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. (***) Domestic waste water is included.(****) Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). 46 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective contribute to company efficiency and financial performance Objective 2010 Continue to save money through effective environmental management (net savings of US$ 278m in 2010) Environmental accounting Programs for the reduction of natural resources l j 2.0 l Expenses ST’s programs to reduce the use of energy, water and chemicals at all The table on page 47 presents the total costs versus savings for the sites are the foundation of our long-standing eco-efficiency approach to three key resources used in our industrial processes (energy, water and environmental stewardship. These programs have saved the company chemicals). more than US$ 1,600m over ten years. Once established at a pilot site, The costs include all environmental expenses for water, waste water and environmental good practices are then deployed in other manufacturing air treatment, recycling of water and chemicals, waste transportation plants and building installations across the company. Most of the proand disposal, as well as costs related to environmental management jects have a pay-back of less than three years, meaning that the money systems, audits, permits and remediation. invested to increase equipment-related and other kinds of efficiency will be recouped within a maximum three-year period. They also include sampling and analysis of water, waste water, recycled chemicals, ground, air and external noise as well as the depreciation of As part of our culture of spreading good practice across the company, equipment and investments in the upgrading of environmental facilities. many resource-efficient projects have been implemented in our sites in 2010: Savings n point of use ammonia abatement systems in Tours (France); We calculate our annual savings as follows: we originally set a baseline n 11 thermal processing units abatement systems for PFCs in Rousset using a 1994 model (2000 for chemicals) with the assumption that there (France); are no installation enhancements. This baseline is projected each year n nitrogen consumption reduction program in all Back-end sites; and compared with the yearly value to show actual savings. n installation of water flow control valves in Shenzhen (China); In 2010, our total accumulated savings compared to the “zero action” n chiller upgrading in Muar (Malaysia). baseline were US$ 331m with net savings of US$ 278m once costs are deducted. Environmental investment The graph on page 47 shows the trend in environmental investment since 1994. The 2010 value seems relatively low compared with previous years and this is partially because environmental investments have become more and more embedded into the mainstream investments in production equipment. Indeed, ST has a dedicated policy requiring sites to ensure that equipment uses minimum quantities of chemicals, water, energy or other materials, and causes minimum air emissions, water pollution, chemical spills and waste. For example, equipment using PFCs is now automatically installed with built in abatement systems. Other specific environmental investments have been made to ensure environmental compliance (e.g. Crolles oil grid installation in the car park). With the coming release of the fourth EHS Decalogue, ST senior management has engaged in allocating significant investments to meet these news targets, starting in 2011. Environmental costs versus savings Environmental investments I EN30 I STEV6 I I EN30 I STEV8 I STEV35 I STEV58 I US$m 3.0 Indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total costs 35 28 41 48 53 2.5 Energy savings 129 201 192 87 219 2.0 Water savings 26 27 25 15 25 Chemical savings 82 90 86 58 87 1.5 Total saving 237 318 303 160 331 1.0 Balance (cost savings) 202 290 262 112 278 0.5 0.40 0.16 1.96 2.45 2.99 1.90 1.33 1.83 2.10 1.20 2.00 0.75 0.92 0.53 0.67 0.48 0.06 The method used to calculate the savings shown in this table is 0.0 the following: 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1) we set a baseline using the 1994 model with the assumption that there are no % of total company investments installation enhancements, except for chemicals for which the baseline is 2000; 2) this baseline is projected each year (in relation to the quantities produced); 3) each year, the actual value is compared to this projection; and 4) the result shows the theoretical benefits due to the installation improvements concerning the savings for energy, water and the use of chemicals. Total costs cover expenditure of environmental management areas (including waste and remediation) and yearly net investment and equipment depreciation. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 47 Environmental performance overview 2010 High level objective continuously improve our eco-footprint according to our decalogue target Objective 2010 Reduce energy consumption by 5%* (*) Per unit of production/year compared to the 1994 baseline. Overall reduction in consumption of resources Energy saved In 2010, despite the significant production growth, consumption of The energy savings reported on page 48 are calculated as follows: a resources in absolute values for all ST manufacturing sites decreased in baseline is set every year and the expected consumption for the followcomparison with 2008: electricity usage by 5.1%, water usage by 4.4% ing year is determined with the assumption that no improvement actions and usage of chemicals by 4.2%. will be taken, which means that the expected consumption will be These positive trends are explained by a decreasing perimeter (two strictly proportional to the variation of manufacturing volumes. Every Front-end manufacturing sites have been sold between 2008 and 2010) year the real consumption is measured against the expected consumpand by the work completed at all our manufacturing sites to improve tion to show actual savings. Based on this calculation method, in 2010 their efficiency despite the economic crisis of 2009. we generated 129 GWh of energy savings thanks to the progress made by each site, meaning that we met our target. Consumption of energy Consumption of electricity per unit of production In 2010 the overall figure for electricity consumption reduction was higher than the target set, compared to the 1994 baseline, but 3.4% Next water challenges for ST lower than in 2008. Our EHS Decalogue target is to achieve a cumulative reduction of 5% per year (per unit of production). ALESSANDRO BERETTA, Water Manager of the ST Agrate site, and corporate water specialist for Front-end manufacturing facilities. Consumption of natural gas Natural gas represents approximately 10% of our total energy use and is “There are two future challenges that ST will be facing from my point of view: mainly used for air heating, for cooking at on-site canteens and for n Firstly, to understand and reduce the total water used during the life cycle of a abatement systems. The graph on page 48 summarizes the results of product. The international community refers to this as ‘virtual water’. Supplying low natural gas consumption per unit of production. The 2010 value versus water products challenges us to control and minimize the overall amount of water 2008 shows a decrease of 26%. used in the entire life cycle from the generation of raw material, production and Our global energy consumption per unit of production has also product utilization right through to final disposal. This is a very challenging goal. decreased by 5.6% compared to 2008 but we slightly missed our Decalogue target of 5% reduction per year, compared with the 1994 baseline. M For more information on this topic, see the article on Eco-design and LCA page 54 n The second challenge concerns the creation of integrated water management across an entire geographical area. It will involve industries, cities, farmers and communities to find common strategies to optimize consumption, improve water conservation and to increase possibilities of recycling.” Consumption: absolute values Energy saved**: absolute values I EN5 I j 2.1 I I EN1 I EN3 I EN4 I EN8 I STEV64 I j 2.1 I j 2.2 I j 2.3 I 250 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electricity (GWh) 2,469 2,482 2,127 1,986 2,018 200 Water (1,000m3) 22,215 21 729 18,194 16,346 17,393 Chemicals (Tons) 21,378 20,498 17,883 12,451 17,138 150 Natural gas (GWh) 277 279 234 214 171 100 50 205 55 205 93 130 0 129 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010 GWh (**) Includes electricity and natural gas. Consumption of electricity (per unit of production): Consumption of natural gas (per unit of production): normalized values I EN4 I X STEV31 I j 2.1 I normalized values I j 2.1 I 100 120 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 100 94.6 94.5 88.5 87.8 77.5 69.5 80.5 70.1 63.2 58.6 56.7 54.3 52.3 49.7 71.0 48.0 100 101.8 100.9 100.9 105.2 80.6 80.9 91.8 74.0 60.8 53.4 54.2 44.4 42.9 39.9 51.6 29.4 0 0 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010 kWh/production unit Target GWh/production unit (*) The data shows that the global consumption per unit of production for 2009 was adversely affected by decreased production output during the year, as a result of the economic downturn. 48 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective continuously improve our eco-footprint according to our decalogue target Objectives 2010 Reduce water consumption by 5%* Reduce chemical consumption by 5%* (*) Per unit of production/year compared to the 1994 baseline. Consumption of chemicals l j 5.1 l We monitor our complete water cycle, which consists of a number of Our manufacturing processes require significant amounts of chemicals, stages. Water is drawn from relevant sources and is used, reused and especially in Front-end activities. Since some chemicals have a potential recycled for use in our manufacturing processes and our site services. impact on the environment and also carry health and safety risks, we During these processes, some water is lost through evaporation and the work hard to keep their usage as low as possible. remaining water is discharged in waste water sewage systems or as part of liquid waste (such as salt water solutions, solvent solutions or In 2010 the trend since 2000 for chemicals usage reduction has been sludge). maintained with an overall percentage decrease of more than 5% per year. The Decalogue target states a reduction of 5% per year. All of our water is treated either internally with a waste water treatment plant or externally. Since 2008, we have disclosed the percentage of Consumption of water waste water treated internally. It is however important to mention that several ST sites have also contributed to their community by participatThis is another area where we continue to make good progress. We ing in the building of municipal waste water treatment plants that are have consistently exceeded our EHS Decalogue target, reducing water adapted to industrial water discharges. consumption per unit of production by more than 5% per year since 1994. The chart on page 49 shows that the reduction of water conM For more information on our sites’ initiatives in water management, see page 41 sumption per unit produced has been much faster than anticipated, even if the decrease between 2008 and 2010 has been less than 5%. The reduction in water consumption is achieved through continuous improvements in our processes and through a reduction in water draw down. It is also affected by water recycling practices that are shared While none of our manufacturing sites is located in sensitive biological areas, or in between different sites. As a company, our water recycling and reuse any special wetland environments, every care is taken to keep the environmental rate is 37.3% but reaches 43% in Agrate (Italy), 53% in Catania (Italy) impact of our activities on our surroundings to a minimum. l EN12 l and 70% in Kirkop (Malta). Total water discharge I EN21 I Recycled and reused total water I EN10 I j 2.2 I Units 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water discharge (1,000m3) 17,934 14,931 12,867 14,000 Total water used (1,000m3) 29,567 27,791 25,622 27,736 Treated in ST waste water Water recycled and reused rate (%) 26.51 34.53 36.20 37.29 % 54 76 75 73 treatment plant Treated in external waste water % 59 51 43 57 treatment plant* (*) Part of this water has already been treated in ST waste water treatment plant, meaning that 100% of water discharge is treated whether internally, externally or both of them. Consumption of chemicals (per unit of production): Consumption of water (per unit of production): normalized values I EN1 I STEV64 I j 2.3 I normalized values I EN8 I X STEV56 I j 2.2 I 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 100 79.1 71.1 65.5 61.1 60.2 60.5 57.7 55.6 70.9 54.3 100 91.0 81.7 80.0 77.5 64.0 53.1 59.4 47.0 40.9 36.1 34.0 31.3 29.5 27.3 39.0 26.7 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009* 2010 kg/production unit Target m3/production unit Target (*) The data shows that the global consumption per unit of production for 2009 was adversely affected by decreased production output during the year, as a result of the economic downturn. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 49 Environmental performance overview 2010 High level objective continuously improve our eco-footprint according to our decalogue target Objectives 2010 80% of waste to be reused or recycled Reduce pollution from VOCs by 10%* Reduce our eco-footprint below 0.95* <5% landfill waste versus Reduce pollution from heavy metals (*) Note that the five objectives: reduce pollution total waste by 10% * from eutrophication, reduce pollution from VOCs, reduce pollution from heavy metals, reduce pollution from acidification, and reduce our Reduce pollution from eutrophication Reduce pollution from acidification eco-footprint will not be published in a graph. by 5%* by 5%* The five items will be summarized in one comment. Waste ST’s eco-footprint In 2010, the total waste production was reduced by 12% compared to In 2009, we decided to stop publishing our eco-footprint results because 2008, with only 2.8% of this waste sent to landfill. All other waste was this complex composite indicator was too difficult to explain and its real reused, recycled or burned to produce energy. The reduction of landfill added value is its internal use, as it allows our sites to evaluate themwaste has been achieved by selecting appropriate waste recycle and selves against corporate targets and other manufacturing sites. reuse activities. We organize regular audits to control the waste recycling Through this indicator, we follow our pollution from VOC, acidification, conducted by our subcontractors. eutrophication and heavy metals. In 2010 our Decalogue targets for As a result of our program to reduce landfill waste, reused and recycled VOC, eutrophication and heavy metals reduction were achieved. For waste (measured as a percentage of total waste) has increased steadily acidification, a major reduction was achieved thanks to Tours (France) over the years. In 2010, we reused or recycled about 89% of waste site who conducted a large program during 2010 with the objective of generated. Recycled and reused waste at our sites varies between 76% improving its ecological footprint and more specifically reducing its in Tours to 100% in Malta according to the local technologies available ammonia air emissions. As a result, ST’s acidification target was almost and specific waste characteristics. achieved, and Tours won a silver award in our internal annual recognition program (STAR). The hazardous waste, in very general terms, is the waste resulting from the production process, which can include such things as chemical substances, some contaminated plastics and light-bulbs. This waste showed a reduction of about 11% in comparison with 2008. Most hazardous waste is recycled or reused and the remaining waste is disposed of safely by specially authorized companies. Most of our hazardous waste is treated in the same country that it was produced, unless there is no authorized treatment plant. The safe transportation of hazardous waste to a location where it can be treated can then occur in full accordance with the Basel Convention. In 2010 none of our sites had to transport such waste. Landfill waste I EN22 I X STEV73 I Recycled waste I EN22 I STEV72 I j 6.1 I % 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Waste recycling & reuse 80 83 89 87 89 80 70 60 Waste under Basel Convention I EN24 I 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 40 Hazardous waste transported 0.09 0.02 0.003 0.00 (as a % of total hazardous waste) 30 20 14.8 8.3 10 71.0 51.0 41.0 42.5 36.2 26.0 25.8 21.0 5.9 6.7 4.8 5.5 3.6 3.3 2.8 0 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 % of total waste Target Our 2011 objectives n Deploy our fourth EHS Decalogue. n Implement PFC abatement systems at our Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and n Initiate ISO 14064 certification. Crolles (France) sites. n Launch our sustainable procurement n Maintain our commitment toward Waste I EN22 I Tons initiative. greener products. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Total hazardous waste 15,647 13,205 12,756 9,391 11,365 Total waste 44,364 43,628 46,367 33,439 40,775 50 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective Progressively achieve carbon neutrality Objectives 2010 Achieve carbon neutrality on our direct emissions by 2012 Increase use of renewable energy to 15% of total energy use by 2010 (5.8% in 2010) Summary of greenhouse gas emissions l j 3.0 l However our CO2 emissions by wafer out decreased by more than 6% We consider global warming as a critical issue and work hard to in 2010 versus 2008. decrease the level of greenhouse gases (GHG) released into the atmosThe increase in our electricity consumption resulted in a slight increase phere through our manufacturing activities. In the previous 2005 version in our indirect emissions (absolute values), by less than 3% compared of the EHS Decalogue, we defined an ambitious carbon roadmap which to 2008. The increase was minored by the update of the emission factor targeted CO2 neutrality for ST by 2010. used by sites’ electricity suppliers. Due to changes in ST’s reporting and the worldwide economic downEmissions from the transportation of goods are complex data to conturn, we had to redefine our strategy in order to target neutrality for solidate at corporate level. In 2010 we engaged our transportation logisdirect emissions only, first by 2012 and finally by 2015, as reported in the tic suppliers to declare the emissions which led to a better estimation. new edition of our EHS Decalogue. We have started to work on the reliability of this data and will continue We are now confident in our ability to meet this objective thanks to the this work in 2011. Total transportation emissions in 2010 were about planned installation of abatement equipment for perfluorinated com126 kTons CO2. pounds (PFCs) and to the reforestation program started in 2002 that M For more information on our reforestation program see page 45 includes programs in Texas, Australia, Morocco and Italy. Green energy In order to improve our reforestation projects, ST contracted MWH to provide a study with the purpose of checking the methodology used to Our wind farm located in the south of France produced 23.8 GWh in 2010. estimate the annual carbon sequestration and reviewing the parameters This represents a 5% increase compared to 2009 and this was achieved used as inputs. The reforested areas and the sequestered values since despite significant damage on one of our turbines which lasted several 2002 have been revised and modified accordingly (as reported in table months. page 51). The total green energy used by ST consists of electricity that is either purIn 2010, 11 thermal processing units (TPU) systems have been installed chased or generated by renewable sources and accounts for about 6% of in Rousset (France), while new important projects are forecasted for total energy consumption, much better than 2009 but still far from our 15% 2011. target. Our efforts to increase this percentage have been hampered by difficulties negotiating an acceptable price with green energy suppliers. Despite these efforts, in 2010 net emissions of PFCs increased by 155 kTons of CO2 compared to 2008, mainly due to the high production The electricity produced by ST’s windfarm accounts for about 1% of total increase (approximately 50%). energy consumption, while the small contribution of photovoltaic and solar thermal energy accounts for about 0.01%. In addition to this, the electricity purchased from nuclear sources is about 24%. Summary of net CO2 emissions CO2 emissions: normalized values I EN16 I j 3.0 I I EN16 I EN17 I EN18 I EN29 I j 3.1 I j 3.2 I j 3.4 I kTons 120 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Direct emissions 792 532 482 337 485 100 STEV46 Direct emissions due to 728 481 439 296 453 80 PFCs Direct emissions due to 64 51 43 41 32 60 boilers Indirect emissions 40 975 1,029 882 876 907 (purchased electricity) STEV48 Other indirect emissions 20 242 107 89 104 126 (transportation*) 100 103 97 92 88 83 72 72 63 57 52 49 38 33 30 36 28 0 X STEV47 Total emissions** 2,009 1,668 1,453 1,317 1,518 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 STEV52 Sequestration due to kTons CO2 /production unit the implementation of refo86 133 176 215 249 restation projects*** Total direct net emissions 706 399 306 122 236 Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary source (*) The transportation emissions value is a global computation of employees’ transportation and transportaI EN3 I EN4 I STEV37 I j 3.3 I tion of goods. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 (**) Transportation emissions are integrated in the total emissions. (***) Our sequestered values since 2002 have been reviewed in 2010 after a revision of our methodology Breakdown of energy consumption used to estimate the annual carbon sequestration and justifying the parameters used as input to the (GWh) model. Electricity consumption 2,462 2,482 2,127 1,986 2,018 Natural gas consumption 274 279 234 214 171 Initiatives and changes resulting in a reduction in GHG I EN18 I STEV38 I j 3.3 I Saved kTons CO2 Others sources 41 1 0 0 0,00 Total energy consumption 2,777 2,762 2,361 2,200 2,189 2007 2008 2009 2010 Percentage of energy consumption Related to PFCs direct emissions reduction 88.66 89.86 90.09 90.27 92.19 235 50 155 due to electricity per IPPC guidelines Breakdown of energy sources (%) Saving electricity 189 295 195 Green electricity purchased 9.51 3.01 2.04 2.63 5.79 Used green electricity 24 17 41 Electricity produced by ST’s windfarm 0.96 1.10 0.92 1.03 1.09 Electricity produced by windfarm 9 8 8 Photovoltaic and thermal solar Total GHG gas emissions reduction 457 370 398 0.004 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 electricity produced by ST Electricity purchased from nuclear 29.84 25.60 28.78 22.15 23.72 (CO2 free) Electricity purchased from fossil Electricity produced by ST-owned windfarm fuel sources 48.35 60.18 58.34 64.48 61.57 I EN3 I STEV40 I j 3.3 I GWh Natural gas 9.87 10.10 9.91 9.70 7.81 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Other fuels 1.47 0 0 0 0.00 Electricity 23.7 30.0 21.7 22.7 23.8 Total 100 100 100 100 100 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 51 product responsibility New EnergyLite ™ platform of ultra-low power products In 2010, ST launched a new microcontroller these products allow energy saving through Internally, the ST organization that develops family that offers specific features for applicasleep modes, closing down unused parts of this product range, Microcontrollers Memories tions in needs of energy savings. These prochips with advanced ultra-low power modes, & Secures MCUs (MMS), is also working with ducts are member of the branded EnergyLite™ and unique ultra-low-leakage technology (proother product groups to explore ways of incorplatform and respond to several market trends; prietary of ST) that saves power when the deporating the technology into a broader array of new national and international norms to reduce vice is active. components. energy consumption, the increasing number of These products are particularly adapted to ST is investing significantly in ultra-low power battery-powered applications, development of portable devices such as medical equipment technologies and design with the ambition of green technologies and commitment to envie.g. glucose meters, insulin pumps, heart monibeing a global leader in this market. ronmentally-friendly products. tors or electronic cholesterol monitors but Everything from the design, architecture and also gaming accessory and security periphtechnology of these new products is pererals. Some customers in the medical sector formed with the objective of reducing energy have already shown an interest and have partconsumption and extending the life time of nered with us to benefit from our low-power battery-operated products. In practical terms, technology and design. 52 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Product Responsibility n Responsible products top issue Focus on ST’s healthcare Socially responsible products products Focus on ST’s healthcare Advances in semiconductor technology offer exciting opportunities to address global sustainability issues. Environmental and safety challenges are often mentioned but there are other growing societal challenges arising from an ageing population and the need for more affordable and accessible healthcare. ST has a long-term commitment to be both responsible and innovative. This combination of values creates a strong catalyst for responsible product development. In 2010 our CEO, Carlo Bozotti, has put a strong emphasis on the new promising areas where our technologies and products could help to address global challenges such as energy saving, healthcare, medical applications, security and data protection. These business priorities are now firmly integrated into our Sustainability strategy: to create high-quality, innovative, eco-designed products that support our customers in improving end-users’ quality of life, with a focus on energy-saving, health, safety, and applications that enable new environmental technologies. In the field of medicine, semiconductor technology presents many varied opportunities to make healthcare more flexible, accessible and affordable. The specific challenges facing this sector include aging population, growing incidence of cancers and chronic health problems, escalating cost of equipment, unequal access capacity (for complex products) and connecThrough these fruitful partnerships, ST is to healthcare, to name a few. ST is able to suptivity (for traceability and remote monitoring). It leveraging its experience on the medical marply this market with innovative and complete is also partnering with key electronic medical ket which is key to keep on developing and solutions, leading edge technology, state-ofcompanies to co-develop health products. introducing new products and solutions for the-art products and a strong commitment To illustrate this, in 2010 MMS helped to dethese demanding customers. to quality and reliability. We are progressively velop a best-in-class breathing device for (*) Extract from ST press release from October 25th 2010. moving to this new market with a double apsleep apnea. Adults suffering from this sleep proach; supplying ‘standard’ electronic comdisorder can stop breathing for anything from ponents based on our main area of expertise; a few seconds to more than one minute and and supplementing this by offering specific this can occur up to hundreds of time a night. medical devices, created through partnerships This mainly causes fatigue and poor concenST’S strengths in the US with medical companies. tration during the day but, if not treated, can health sector The main healthcare segments we have identiincrease health risks such as heart attack or ST identified and responded to US customers’ needs fied are: diagnosis and therapy (e.g. electrocardiabetes. Thanks to this partnership, MMS and in the health sector thanks to its technological experdiographs, pacemakers), imaging (e.g. X-ray, our customer have improved the quality of life tise and its close relationship with a wide range of magnetic resonance imaging), medical instruof these persons by providing a bedside device customers in the different segments of this market ments (e.g. blood analysis systems, dialysis that gently delivers pressurized air via a mask including Therapeutic, Diagnostics, Imaging, Consystem), patient monitoring, consumer prodto keep the upper airway open and prevent sumer Medical Disposable Healthcare and Molecular ucts (e.g. remote monitoring, insulin pump, obstruction. MMS technology provides sensDiagnostics. heart-rate monitor) as well as wellness equiping support to help automatically control the air A major innovation developed in 2010 for the US marment (e.g. pedometers, cardio trainers). pressure needed by the patient; it also allows ket was a Disposable Bio Sensor that enabled medical for extensive data logging, and an easy-to-use M For more details on the ‘materiality exercise’, see pages 6-7 professionals to quickly verify if a patient recently had LCD screen interface. M For more details on environmentally friendly products, a heart attack through troponin detection in the blood. see page 52 and 54-55 This powerful biological diagnostic marker is used to detect various heart disorders. In the past, checking Various ST organizations are taking an interest for troponin was a long procedure and could only be and an active role in this healthcare market. performed by medical personnel. ST’s experience in Considering the Product Group MicroconMEMS biosensors has been central to this innovative trollers, Memories & Secure MCUs (MMS) it is new approach. We have developed a disposable carresponding to many needs of this sector with tridge whereby a drop of blood is injected into the its low and ultra-low power technologies (for cartridge and a reader gives a reliable response, at a portable devices), high performance memory fraction of the cost and time. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 53 Product Responsibility Eco-design n Our journey towards Our progress to achieve eco-design In 2010, ST teams worked on different aspects of LCA and eco-design to successfully inte100% eco-design grate this approach within the company. Two PhD students, working within the Corporate Sustainable Development department, have been specializing in product and process in Our journey towards Research and Development since 2009 and new projects have been initiated in several of ST’s internal organizations. In the meantime, ST has put in place some initial communications to enhance the consciousness of employees in eco-design and encourage them to Achieving eco-design of 100% of our new products is a target that ST is explore innovative opportunities. In 2010, LCAs have focused on the environdetermined to achieve by 2015 with the aim of firmly establishing ST as mental benefits of selecting greener materials best-in-class in eco-designed solutions. in the product and have highlighted the potential for major ecological improvements. A joint team composed of Packaging and Test ST’s product responsibility has been integral to a sustainable management approach within Manufacturing (PTM), Technology Research the business since its first Environmental Decaits manufacturing operations, covering conand Development (TR&D), ST Groups and STlogue in 1995. It has been progressed against sumption of resources, emissions and waste Ericsson members has introduced a method of a backdrop of increasing development of elecreduction. Through ‘low energy conscious’ dereplacing gold with copper in the wire bonding tronic goods and more stringent environment, sign and energy efficiency programs, ST had process*, an improvement that has received an health and safety requirements for products. originally focused its device design on reducinternal gold award from the CEO. In selectThis context reinforces our ambition to guaraning energy consumption in the final applicaing a more eco-friendly material (due to heavier tee a high level of built-in environmental comtion. Further on, the company also focused on extraction processes for gold), changing the pliance and confidence for our products and removing polluting and hazardous substances package composition and modifying processthe devices they are used in, through a process from its manufacturing lines and products by es, these LCAs have shown a decrease of the of assessing and minimizing impacts at each implementing the ECOPACK® program in environmental impact of device manufacturstage of their life cycle. We define eco-design 2000. In 2009, we conducted pilot Life Cycle ing by 5%. This material change across 10% as the systematic design of products taking Assessments (LCAs) to identify and define of our product range generated economical into consideration the environmental impacts product life phases and flows which had the benefits and represented a saving of 311 tons of the device during its whole life cycle. greatest impacts. The objective now, integratof CO2 equivalent. We plan to substitute up to ed in our new EHS Decalogue and in line with 70% by the end of 2013. 30% of devices are ST’s commitment to eco-design our Sustainability strategy, is to eco-design all currently unable to be converted and further Since 1993 and the first stages of its environnew ST products by 2015. development is needed to address this remainmental strategy, ST has been fully and publicly committed to reducing any negative effects of M For more information about ST new EHS Decalogue, ing proportion. see pages 42-43 its activities and its products on humans and (*) Wire bonds are elements making the connections between the die the planet as a whole. ST has been developing M For more information about the materiality exercise, and the package. See also the 3D chip illustration on page 55. see pages 6-7 How to eco-design a ST semiconductor device? n Green procurement of materials n Decrease consumption (water, n Conceive and optimize greener n Select suppliers, subcontractors energy, chemicals) packing through 100% recyclable and foundries compliant with n Reduce emissions (to air, to water) and PVC-free packing materials our EHS requirements n Improve and optimize logistics, n Minimize waste n Involve suppliers, subcontractors transportation and distribution n Partnering for n Apply the 3R philosophy (Reduce, processes and foundries in LCA and better recycling Recycle and Reuse) to continually eco-design approach n Reduce transport flows and disposal decrease sites’ eco-footprints R&D Manufacturing Assembly line The life Raw materials Front-end and Distribution & Usage by Conception and final test End of life of the device procurement Electrical Wafer retail consumer & Design Back-end Sorting n Conceive greener technologies through selection of n Improve customer and consumer Die materials and manufacturing processes information through eco-tools such n Decrease surface area as LCA results or eco-profiles Life Cycle Thinking: n Create less energy-demanding circuits n Enhance customer relationship Consider the impacts of each Electric n Adapt concept and functionalities to the final management action on the whole Life Cycle circuit application’s needs of the device, and prevent n Select suitable sustainable design schemes impacts transfer. n Conceive greener technologies through selection of Package materials and manufacturing processes n Decrease size, mass and volume 54 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 top issue Design for environment Optimizing package design and transportation Conceiving and developing greener packing is one of ST’s eco-design priorities. In 2010, ST launched an ambitious Lean Packing program at all manufacturing sites, generating benefits for ST and its logistics suppliers by decreasing costs, air freight space and CO2 generation. The program covers both the third (outer box) and fourth (container) levels of our four-level packing scale, and aims at re-designing and optimizing packaging and also the efficiency of its use and transportation. MEMS ST’s Global Logistics Warehousing Organization (GLWO) firstly carried out an inventory review covering ( Micro-Electro-Mechanical System) local practices and performance in order to understand and share good practices and define individual action plans for sites. These encompassed the followOur challenges to address Future steps ing areas: availability of box formats; instructions for Eco-design is an innovative area in the semiOver the coming year, ST will continue to build box filling; usage of bar coding for traceability and conductor industry, and eco-designing a chip its leadership in eco-design. The implemenvarious other initiatives. is an intricate process. ST adopts a continuous tation strategy will be updated through the GLWO now tracks logistics across sites on a quarterly and dynamic approach through the integration preparation of the eco-design roadmap, the basis, using a suite of indicators e.g. number and type of a combination of awareness, knowledge integration of key indicators into ST’s internal of parcels, volumetric weight and destinations. Also, and performance. processes and the development of a methodST’s corporate packing guidelines have been redeThe complexity comes from the high level of ology to disclose the LCA results of ST’s profined with new packing criteria in terms of quality, technology, the very small size and shape of ducts. This will entail the input of a dedicated safety and environment, and new rules for the use and the products, their diversity (more than six engineer. Our Sourcing department has also reuse of boxes. In parallel, we ran an awareness camthousand), complex process flows and long produced guidelines to implement a Green paign to communicate changes to employees. These and variable cycle times. Another challenge Procurement policy into our supply chain in new specifications have been deployed internally and is to achieve the shift change in the mindset 2011. also to our main subcontractors. of those involved in the marketing, design and Another major point will be the launch of workBy the end of 2010, this program had delivered an development of these products so that life ing groups on three dedicated topics; the increase of 10% in packing density and an estimated cycle thinking is integrated into each stage of integration of environmental parameters in saving (freight cost) of US$ 50k. It has also resuldecision-making. Our Eco-design program aptechnology and product design, greener mated, in the fourth quarter (Q4), in the saving of the plies to all products of the company and interial selection and greener packing. Ongoing equivalent to 30 containers which has environmental volves of a wide range of parties (see graph). internal training and improved employee inforbenefits in terms of transportation CO2 emissions. The In 2010, ST defined five pillars that needed to mation on eco-design will be deployed and we aim is to achieve a 10% additional increase in packing be integrated in the design and development also plan to further develop our collaboration density by Q4 2011. of any new product to reach our eco-design with stakeholders. objective: n Improve the eco-efficiency of devices by looking for solutions that increase their value during use, and/or decrease their environmenST’s Life Cycle Assessment methodology tal impact; In 2009, we performed four pilot LCAs that were completed in 2010 along with LCAs on three Micro-Electron Avoid the relocation of environmental impact Mechanical System (MEMS) devices for mobile phones and video games. Results have confirmed that there are from one phase of a product life cycle to anoopportunities for improvement in the manufacturing phase. These complementary assessments have resulted in the ther. To avoid this relocation, a holistic life cycle development of a bespoke methodology to perform LCAs on assembled devices, as the first stage of eco-design. approach must govern each decision-making Our LCA procedure includes the collection of necessary data across key ST organizations where applicable. step; The four main stages of this method are in accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044: n Integrate environmental requirements within other areas and factor these into decisions e.g. n The definition of goal and scope The functional units and the system boundaries have been clarified; data for technical feasibility, customers’ expectations or Front-end manufacturing refers to a single real wafer production, and data for Packaging and Test Manufacturing product costing; refers to a single die production. The final LCA result is expressed per chip. n Consider the environment and life cycle n The Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) analysis This involves procedures for data collection and calculation to quantify analysis as early as possible to maximize the inputs and outputs of a product system. The entire life cycle requires the capture of data relating to the material potential benefits; procurement, Front-end and Back-end manufacturing, transportation, use and disposal. n Coordinate eco-design and sites’ Environn The Life Cycle Impact Assessment (LCIA) Results of the previous life cycle inventory are converted into quantimental Management Systems to reduce envified impacts on climate change, eco-systems quality, resources conservation and human health, using a dedicated ronmental impacts of both sites and products. software package to calculate impacts. M For more information on environmental performance of ST n The Life Cycle interpretation This step involves the identification of the significant issues based on the previmanufacturing sites, see pages 46-51 ous results (LCI and LCIA) and the evaluation of the checks for completeness, sensitivity and consistency. Finally, M For more information on our chemicals management, conclusions, limitations and recommendations are developed and communicated. see page 62 We have adopted this approach when responding to customer requests and when setting up a product dashboard. We also use it as a decision-making tool for a ‘life cycle conscious’ approach. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 55 Product Responsibility Quality excellence n top issue 2010, a year of driving Customer satisfaction sustained improvements in quality 2010, a year of driving In 2010, ST created a dedicated corporate function to drive quality improvement throughout the company, with a specific focus on the Automotive Product Group (APG) which is the most stringent product line in terms of quality. with them any specific constraints or challenges we may Then, in 2008, we deployed a Quality Excellence in have. Internally, we can then use this new visibility in Practice (QEP) campaign to raise employees’ awareboth corporate and product group quality management ness on the importance of quality excellence for our to make adjustments to our systems and enhance the customers, and enhance knowledge and competences overall quality tools and programs. relating to quality tools, methods and procedures. Within the framework of the ‘ST School of Quality’ we In short, 2010 was really focused on driving consolihave also launched an important training program, Quadated improvements in quality. lity Excellence through Skills Training (QUEST). Quality So what have been the main achievements of courses and workshops have been tailored to fulfill the this strong focus? expectations and requirements of ST organizations and A few months after this re-structure, I further strengthto match each job-specific environment. Georges Auguste ened the Corporate Quality department with the creation M For more information on QEP and QUEST, see page 57 Executive Vice President, Director of Product Quality of two new functions dedicated to quality incident preExcellence vention and quality problem-solving analysis. The main objective of these new corporate departments is to gain And to come back to sharing ideas and experience, in a global view of the practices within ST’s product groups 2010, I also took the opportunity of some site visits and organizations and to capitalize on everyone’s good to organize ‘quality round tables’ with small groups of and bad experiences and lessons learnt. Cross-fertilizavery diverse profiles (from different organizations and Quality is a top priority at ST with tion was the key aim throughout the year. with different responsibilities). These two-hour meea culture of Sustainable Excellence tings gave participants the chance to have open discusIn this context, I have really pushed to strengthen comInterview firmly embedded throughout the sions about quality strategy, corporate or local quality Company. Product quality and cusmunication and the sharing of ideas and good practices. issues, etc. The exchanges were really fruitful and tomer satisfaction are cornerstones A dedicated person in my organization is now in charge brought to the table local, organization-specific and corof ST’s values and business strateof publishing a monthly Quality Excellence Bulletin as porate views. It is often necessary to hear these views gies. ST aims to be ‘best-in-class’ and in early 2010, it well as a quarterly Quality Magazine. The first publication together to better understand how things go wrong and further strengthened the focus on quality with the anfocuses on corporate level programs and the second how to find solutions. nouncement that Georges Auguste would take direct gives a voice to people on the ground who are deployresponsibility for Automotive quality alongside his Coring quality programs and driving improvements. These Did your new appointment bring real changes porate quality responsibility, within a new organization, documents are designed for quality professionals to and benefits? Product Quality Excellence (PQE) . bring them real value in their daily activities. Yes, I think that there have been positive effects from But the main quality event in 2010 was the Quality both internal and external perspectives. In 2010, I spent Through this new function, ST intends to continue to Convention organized in September in Annecy, France. a lot of time in meetings and discussions with autoenhance customer satisfaction through rigorous adherMore than 80 ST managers spent two days sharing their motive customers. They really appreciated the personal ence to quality and consistent zero-failure performance. experience and ideas. In many cases they realized that attention and time devoted to their products’ quality reCould you explain what has motivated this reortheir problem had already been faced by someone else quirements and the responses we were able to provide ganization and what have been its main effects? in ST and that a solution had been developed, which to their questions. gave them ideas for solving their own problem. We all Internally, through our link with the Automotive Product Quality is a most powerful enabler for the sustained sucknow the power of sharing ideas and experience, but we Group, it seems that new quality programs and locatcess of a company like ST. That is why ST is continudo not always take enough time to practice it. In 2010 ing corporate quality teams closer to field matters have ously striving for the highest levels of quality excellence we made a commitment to hold a Quality Convention at facilitated collaboration between corporate and on-site and customer satisfaction, as stated in our Principles least annually. departments to address everyday quality challenges. for Sustainable Excellence. This is particularly true in the automotive market where quality requirements are even How do you ensure that quality messages reach And it seems that 2011 will bring more changes more stringent than in other product sectors. So, in early every employee? for quality again…? 2010, we saw an opportunity to re-structure the qualWe are developing different ways to help all employYes, indeed, there won’t be another re-organization, but ity function of the Automotive Product Group in order ees whose responsibilities require quality competences a new Corporate Vice President will head PQE: Fabio to adapt to the market situation and better respond to and awareness. Firstly, we translated our Quality Policy Gualandris, coming from Micron Technology. Fabio will customers’ expectations. into five languages (Chinese, English, French, Italian and work with me to transition to this post in early 2011 These new responsibilities enabled me to meet autoMalay) and made it accessible to everyone through a before I leave to Asia where I will take on new responsimotive customers regularly, which was a great opporworldwide distribution. It is really important that all embilities as Executive Vice President, General Manager of tunity to fully understand their expectations and share ployees are aware of this key document. Packaging and Test Manufacturing for Back-end sites. 56 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Product responsibility performance overview 2010 High level objective Create high-quality, innovative, eco-designed products Quality Excellence n Environmentally responsible products The design, development, sale ST strives to enhance the quality of products and constantly seeks to improve and marketing of products that enable customer applications to reduce their customer satisfaction. energy consumption and/or are intended to provide new environmental soluThe customer complaints and customer returns indicators are good barometions. ters of overall customer satisfaction and, since 2004, these results have shown n Socially responsible products The design, development, sale and marpositive trends. In 2010, this continued performance is due to several factors: keting of products that are intended to provide new social solutions and n an automatic improvement in the ratio because of high level of sales in improve end-user quality of life e.g. health related products, safety applicaQ4 2010 (number of complaints or returns per million units shipped) ; tions, etc. n Product communications Ensuring the integration of key environmental n an economic market characterized by high demand and low supply, meaning that in case of problems, customers tended to check our products interand social attributes of products into marketing and product communicanally rather than return them to ST for re-screening; tions, including existing ECOPACK® labeling and new flagship products. n an emphasis on preventing, as well as detecting, non-conformities and on Many initiatives are already underway within ST Product Groups and our improving lot traceability along the value chain. ambition for 2011 is to harmonize these existing approaches and define common ambitious objectives. M For more information about ST’s traceability program, see Corporate Responsibility report 2009 page 60 M For more information on ST’s new Sustainability strategy, see page 7 In terms of cycle time to process failure analysis, ST’s objective is to improve For more details on ST commitment to responsible products, see pages 14, 16 and 52 to 55 the quality of our failure analysis and corrective action plans while maintaining our current level of performance. The benefits include improved ability to meet Use of our products in military application our customers’ short-term expectations, receiving quick responses to their STMicroelectronics’ position on the military use of its products is stated in the requests and also reduced non-conformities. Principles for Sustainable Excellence: “We will not sell products that we know Through its School of Quality, ST pursued the deployment of quality awareare to be included in weapons.” ness (Quality Excellence in Practice, QEP) and practical (Quality Excellence In 2007, our Corporate Ethics Committee (CEC) published a position paper through Skills Training, QUEST) training. The deployment of the QEP program detailing the definition of what we consider as a weapon and how we can commenced in 2008 has now been delivered to the following employees: check the end uses of our products. The committee is aware that situations n quality methods and tools: 65% of eligible population; may be complex or sometimes very specific, and in case of doubt the CEC provides advice when sales representatives require specific guidance or a n quality processes: 68% of eligible population. high level decision on this issue. We have also built a quality network to support practitioners in their use of a specific quality tool and/or method (QUEST program). The network is comECOPACK® and Materials Declaration programs posed of quality trainers who develop the skills and knowledge of fellow In response to increasing legal and customer requirements regarding chemical employees, and quality specialists who provide mentoring and on-the-job composition of delivered products, ST has two dedicated programs in place. support. At the end of the year there were 370 trainers and more than 30 Since 2000, ST has developed a wide voluntary and strategic program quality specialists. called ECOPACK® to devise and implement solutions leading to environIn 2010, the QUEST program focused on fundamental tools and methods mentally friendly chip-packaging. ST’s products have been classified into such as problem solving and prevention. Objectives for 2011 are to start three specific ECOPACK® categories: addressing more specific tools & methods. n Non ECOPACK®: 8% of products in 2010 (compared to 13% in 2009); Looking forward into 2011, the Product Quality Excellence organization will n ECOPACK®1 (compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances strengthen its interactions among operations, namely manufacturing, R&D, (RoHS) directive and ‘lead free**’): 58% (compared to 61% in 2009); Products Groups, Supply Chain and sales support to be better aligned with n ECOPACK®2 (ECOPACK®1 + free of brominated and chlorinated flame the needs of our company and our customers. retardants): 34% (compared to 26% in 2009). (*) Customer complaints and returns received at a given moment are compared to the number of products Our Materials Declaration process which commenced in 2006, allows us shipped at this moment but are generally relative to product sent several months ago. Therefore these indicators are influenced by previous levels of production. to provide customers with a chemical composition identity card for each product, defining how we report the material composition of products and Product responsibility trace levels of banned, exempted or declarable substances according to Growing sustainability challenges at a worldwide level present ST with many the International IPC 1752 standard. opportunities in terms of responsible product innovation. In 2010, ST has Thanks to support from several organizations, including sourcing and placed an emphasis on three main areas: energy-saving, healthcare and medproduct groups, we can effectively respond to our customers’ enquiries, for ical applications, and security. These priorities are aligned with ST’s Sustainaexample, by the end of 2010, we have doubled the number of specific bility strategy which was recently renewed to focus on our most material issues. Materials Declarations forms available online, compared to 2009. This new strategy covers five key issues related to product responsibility: (**) With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, as some exemptions are necessary mainly for the automotive market. n Design for environment Designing and developing products and manufacturing processes for reduced environmental life cycle impacts; including WEEE I EN27 I water, energy, materials, hazardous substances, air emissions, recyclability, interoperability and reduced obsolescence. As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and not manufacturers of electronic equipment), we are not directly affected by the European n Product energy efficiency Measures taken during the design process to Directive 2002/96/ EC Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). continuously reduce the energy used by our components. Quality* (baseline 100 in 2004) I PR5 I X STPR2 I X STPR3 I X STPR4 I Q4' 04 Q4' 05 Q4' 06 Q4' 07 Q4' 08 Q4' 09 Q4' 10 Customer complaints 100 86.2 71.6 64.2 82.6 61.5 55.0 Cycle time to process failures analysis 100 72.7 62.6 71.9 62.2 65.4 71.1 Customer returns 100 41.1 38.3 40.0 33.7 30.8 20.0 (*) Quality indicators include ST-Ericsson. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 57 Supply CHAIN ST’s commitment to the EICC Since 2005, ST has been a member of the The internal deployment of the EICC and low score. In 2010, it helped prepare ST Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition compliance program is managed by the Shenzhen and ST Muar* for site audits through (EICC), a group of leading companies from Corporate Responsibility department which a very detailed analysis of their results, the defithe electronics industry and its supply chain, supports sites in the completion of Selfnition and follow-up of action plans and sharing dedicated to developing tools and programs to Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs), follow-up of good practices. The objective for 2011 is to produce higher standards of corporate social of action plans and preparation for audit, in line continue to support Muar until its audit in April responsibility. In 2010, the number of members with the EICC Validated Audit Process. and to prepare Calamba for an audit planned increased from 43 to 59 including more and for the second half of the year. This program By 2010, 75% of ST sites had uploaded their more of ST’s key customers and suppliers. will be progressively extended to cover all our SAQs, resulting in an overall score of 91.7%. This year, EICC membership requirements sites. Despite ST occupying a ‘low risk’ position, were strengthened to ensure all members are there are still major areas for improvement effectively deploying the EICC compliance proM For more information on how ST sourcing and purchasing which is why the Corporate Responsibility dedepartments involve suppliers and subcontractors in the EICC gram within their company and also directing it program, see page 63 partment decided to deepen the analysis of ST to their first tier suppliers, to foster continuous sites’ SAQ results. Going beyond EICC requireM For more information on the Shenzhen EICC audit, see page 25 improvement. ments, ST has deployed an internal EICC audit At the end of the year, ST was among the 20% program focusing on ‘critical non-conforming (*) Muar audit is planned for April 2011. of members that met these requirements. questions’ i.e. questions with high weight 58 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Supply chain Conflict minerals n top issue ST’s position on conflict Conflict Metals minerals and human rights issues ST’s position on conflict The mining of certain minerals in conflict areas associated with human rights violations has been a major focus for our supply chain and corporate responsibility programs since 2007. We continuously and consistently apply our sourcing policy to prevent illegal and unethical sourcing of minerals from conflict areas and their use in ST’s products. Context and positioning Through our membership within the smelters, and then for the other metals of conThe issue of ‘conflict mineral’ refers mainly to Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) cern. If we are faced with a risk of conflict metthe mining and trade of minerals (and the asand Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), we als in our supply chain, we have a follow-up sociated refined metal) controlled, supported are closely following the development of the process to implement corrective action plans or financed by illegal armed groups, causing conflict metals issue and have supported the with our supplier, which can lead to supply serious human rights violations and environconclusions of the report entitled ‘Social and source delisting. mental damage in the region of conflict within Environmental Responsibility in Metals Supply Internal actions within our upstream supply the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo to the Electronics Industry’ published in 2008. chain, combined with EICC initiatives have (DRC) and neighboring countries. The minerals Also in 2008, we decided to extend the metals enabled us to make significant progress on the of concern are conlumbite-tantalite, cassiterestriction to tin and cobalt, and asked all our entire mapping of our supply chain and to imrite, wolframite and gold. They are refined into material suppliers to certify that products supprove our understanding of our own positioning metals to produce tantalum, tin and tungsten, plied to ST did not contain any of these three regarding conflict minerals. collectively known as the ‘3Ts’, and gold. All metals if they originated from the DRC. Each these can commonly be found at the end of the answer has been collected and analyzed and, We have undertaken a thorough investigation electronic industry supply chain in consumer to date, no non-conformity has been reported. to identify the origin of over 2,500 parts used products such as laptops, processors or disk in ST across 36 first tier device suppliers and In December 2009, we extended the restriction drives. all our Front-end foundries and Back-end subto two additional metals, gold and tungsten. It contractors. We have been able to establish As a producer of electronic components, ST has been enforced and generates visibility and the mine of origin in the majority of cases, usneeds to use these metals at different stages traceability on the origin of all relevant metals, ing the information our suppliers have provided of production for sputtering targets and deincluding detailed information on our first tier on their own smelters and refineries suppliers. vice metals in Front-end manufacturing plus suppliers’ smelters and mine of origin, wherever From this mapping, we obtained conflict-free wires, lead frames, and grid arrays in Back-end such information was accessible. declarations from 96% of our suppliers, and manufacturing. detailed information from the remaining 4%. On Actions in 2010 Position on legislation In 2010, ST endorsed a further public statethis basis, we did not identify any major risks of ST believes that legal enforcement supported ment on conflict minerals, detailing the overall conflict minerals sourcing in our supply chain. by industry initiatives can drive the elimination company commitments and actions underof conflict minerals from supply chains and entaken. M For more information on our mapping, see also supply chain performance overview pages 62-63 courage demand for conflict-free products. M The full ST Statement on conflict minerals is available on our Challenges On July 21 2010, the US President signed website www.st.com into law the Dodd-Frank Act drafted by SecuOur main challenges now include the imOur policy toward conflict metals has also been rity Exchange Commission (SEC) in which secplementation of a complete mapping and fully integrated in our internal ‘Banned, Extion 1502 specifically relates to US and foreign tracing system throughout our entire supply empted and Declarable Substances list’. We electronic device manufacturers who incorpochain and the obtaining of evidence of our suphave strengthened our policy on the tracking rate certain forms of 3Ts and gold metals into pliers’ declarations, to achieve total sourcing of mines located in conflict areas known to be their products. Canada and the EU through a visibility. Also, to provide a degree of assurance controlled by illegal armed groups by requiring ‘critical raw materials list’ are also taking the on compliance of our metal sourcing operaour suppliers and subcontractors to provide appropriate legal steps to require companies tions with the EICC guidelines and to verify the detailed information on their own metal supply. to implement a conflict-free policy and audited conflict-free status of the smelters used by our We have also reinforced our internal processes procurement processes. first tier suppliers, we will follow up on the first to detect in all our supplied devices, those conTo be fully compliant with the forthcoming SEC taining at least one of these metals. To help our results of the EICC and GeSI third-party smelter legislation, the Information and Communication customers in the tracing of their entire supply audit process. Technology (ICT) industry must undertake due chain, we completed an internal analysis to We are also working to integrate new criteria diligence on its supply chain regarding these detect any potential use of these metals in our into our suppliers’ purchasing specifications to metals, publicly disclose its conflict minerals final products, either because they enter in the ensure the management of materials part numpolicy and enforce conflict-free measures in direct composition of our products, or because ber that potentially contain one of these metals its procurement processes, including metals they indirectly participate in our manufacturing of interest at the beginning of the component traceability back to the mine of origin. processes. development process. ST engagement In parallel, we have participated in the activities ST also supports the Industrial Technology ReSince 2007, ST has led actions to prevent conof the EICC extractive group work, and have search Institute (ITRI) traceability process, to flict metals entering its supply chain. At this particularly been attentive to the progress of put tracking systems in place from ore mines early point, we required an engagement letter the EICC smelter audit program that will proand to develop legitimate trade sources from from all our tantalum suppliers confirming that vide certified and independent information on DRC and surrounding countries. this metal was not sourced from DRC. conflict-free status, firstly for major tantalum STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 59 Supply chain Customer service excellence n top issue ST’s approach to customer Customer Satisfaction service excellence ST’s approach to customer As a global company with locations and suppliers around the world, ST faces a wide range of potential threats to its supply chain. To reduce and mitigate the occurrence and consequences of supply chain risks, we developed and integrated a risk management approach into our key management activities to protect our employees, support business continuity and meet customer demand. To fulfill our commitments towards customer service excellence, not only do we search to continuously improve our programs, but we also increase our capacity to enable us to react rapidly and effectively to major disturbances in our operations. Customer demand driven In 2009, we undertook an end-to-end evaluation of our supply chain processes to reveal In order to test these areas, we have run a proof of concept exercise on a limited scale supply chain potential improvement areas in our demand, to confirm feasibility, identify gaps and assess As the global financial crisis emerged in late supply and fulfillment processes. the risks of the proposed approach. During a 2008, ST experienced a sharp decline in reveAs a result of this evaluation, significant imcollaborative workshop with all supply chain nue, followed by an equally sharp recovery over provement opportunities have been identified functions, we have improved and validated the a very short time period. Such wide swings in in various fields such as: future supply chain model. A demand-driven demand imposed unprecedented stress levels supply chain journey is starting with tangible ren governance and people; on our global supply chain and presented a vasults expected as soon as 2011. Thanks to this riety of new challenges. n data quality; program, conducted over the past two years, In order to increase our flexibility through the n planning process; we will re-discover a better balance between market cycle, and our ability to meet our cusn demand management; demand and capacity for most of our product tomers’ demand for our products, we have categories. This will contribute to bringing our n cycle-time; service performance back to peak level. defined and implemented action plans which strengthen our customer demand managen capacity planning; M For more information on our customer service performance, ment. n inventory management. see page 61 Ensuring business continuity and customer service area of the business structure, and aimed at and network with our major Middle Eastern reducing and mitigating the potential severity carriers, ST was able to secure vital priority of consequences and probability of occuruplift capacity. rence. Finally, despite the heavy disruption to the During the Icelandic volcano crisis in April European air network, the BCP teams moni2010, ST’s Global Logistics and Warehoustored and tracked distribution flows to ensure ing organization (GLWO) deployed a BCP business continuity. One of our key priorities team to assess the full impacts of the crisis was to sustain our supply chain. Due to the on ST’s supply chain. They worked together strength of ST’s BCP, we were asked to exwith our logistics service providers and cartend our emergency logistics services to both riers to develop and implement a successful customers and suppliers who did not have strategy that incorporated a number of fastsuch strong emergency planning. response measures. These included diverDuring this period, GLWO diverted 132 tons sion routings and planning activities to cover of freight and limited the cost of diversion to the whole crisis period. US$ 685k, in doing so avoiding a potential In the face of unpredictable or catastrophic A key element of the planning was to put into business impact that could have cost over events, ST’s Corporate Security organization effect, regular and effective communications US$ 50m. Lessons learnt were consolidated has developed and integrated a range of between ST’s supply chain stakeholders, via after the crisis had subsided, establishing business continuity measures that will be dea twice-daily bulletin to manufacturing, rediversion processes as a standard feature ployed in ST sites and organizations to engional sales, product groups, suppliers, straof ST’s Logistics network design. GLWO’s sure business continuity, providing support tegic partners, key customers and logistics experience also assisted other BCP teams for business activities in order to maintain service providers. This enabled us to provide during heavy flooding in Casablanca in our service to customers. Business Contiand share timely and accurate information. It October 2010 and during exceptionally nuity Plans (BCPs) protect critical business minimized delays in the forwarding of mateheavy snow falls that hit France, Switzerland processes from the effect of such major failrials and finished goods, and ultimately preand Germany, also in late 2010. ures or disasters. ST’s BCPs are based on vented any interruptions in our customers’ operations. Thanks to a strong relationship M For more information, see also the article on climate change risk assessments, adapted to each specific pages 44-45 60 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Supply chain performance overview 2010 High level objective CONTINUOUSLY AIM TO SATISFY AND EXCEED OUR CUSTOMERS’ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REQUIREMENTS Objective 2010 Re-attain the 2008 level (measured as on-time delivery vs customer request and vs ST commitment) while keeping inventory under control (measured as inventory turns) Customer service performance In 2010, social and ethical requirements increased by 16% compared to After a year of economic downturn, the market cycle has been dominated by 2009, with a total of 65 customer requirements. The majority of these strong demand growth with constrained supply availability in 2010. While in requirements (63%) referred to labor and ethics standards and manage2009 the objective of the entire supply chain was to decrease inventory to ment systems, with significant interest in human rights and our engagement minimize financial exposure, in 2010 the goal has been to catch up with the with suppliers. In this category, 54% of the requirements were EICC-orimarket opportunities. The broad growth across all end markets and busiented. This trend clearly confirms that the Electronic Industry Citizenship ness segments has been fuelled both by refilled customer inventories, followCoalition (EICC) Code of Conduct, management systems, shared methods ing drastic inventory reductions in the previous year, and by end user and tools on labor and EHS are recognized by our customers and also demand. more widely by the electronic industry as a whole. In 2010, four of our major For ST, as for our peers, the combination of demand outstripping supply and customers went beyond these standard requirements and asked us to the work to reshape the inventory profile during 2009 had a profound impact carry out second and third party corporate responsibility audits. The EICC on performance in terms of on-time delivery and service level to our custoaudit program, launched on our Packaging and Test Manufacturing sites mers. Within this context, our 2010 service performance has made good this year, will enable us to meet these requirements. ground compared to 2009, but has not yet reached the expected level. As the result of the new USA legislation on conflict minerals sourcing, Our operations have performed exceptionally well in responding to the adopted in July 2010 by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), the strong increase in demand; for instance, in Front-end manufacturing sites proportion of ST’s customer requirements relating to conflict minerals have the wafers out production plan has been rising steadily quarter after quarter. proliferated. About 26% of social and ethical requirements in 2010 referred But, as demand has been considerably outstripping supply, lead times for explicitly to how ST manages this issue. In order to standardize our our products have generally become extended. approach and to anticipate the coming release of new SEC laws in April We have been working to increase investment in strategic points of the sup2011, ST has formalized a statement describing its policy and actions on ply chain (Diffusion, Assembly and Testing), but the effects of such investconflict minerals. ments have been considerably limited by the long delivery times from our M For more information on STMicroelectronics Statement on conflict minerals, see page 59 suppliers, who suffered from a shortage of components and raw materials. Regarding EHS requirements, the figures in the table suggest a slight To catch up with the demand, the solution has been to always produce at or increase in customers’ demands in 2010. We have noticed an increase of above 100% of the capacity of all manufacturing sites – especially for some 3% in EHS requirements in comparison with 2009. Moreover, the number critical bottlenecks. Implementing this solution to meet this specific challenge of EHS customers’ requirements (treated at corporate level) remains signifidid not always allow us to optimize production and also reduced our cant with more than 100 of our customers involved in 2010. These EHS flexibility to protect demand for critical products. In response to that, we have requirements also represent 76% of global demands on corporate responreinforced our demand and inventory management programs e.g. by sibility related subjects. In addition, most of the environmental demands, deploying additional investments, higher productivity and efficiency, and linked to specific product Materials Declaration (specifying the precise have also increased our reservation capacity in foundries and with subconchemical content of our products), are managed by ST’s Product Groups. tractors. This specific data is not included here. We are working to improve the visibility of customer demand to confirm or Our processes for managing customer requirements on corporate responforecast any future trends in order to better respond to future demand sibility topics also gives rise to improvements in efficiency and cycle time. dynamics. We focus on two key drivers to continually improve our process: the integration of corporate responsibility topics into our management systems and a M For more information on our customer service approach, see page 60 continual and more precise measure of customer satisfaction. Customer requirements on corporate responsibility Our customers continue to demonstrate a marked interest in our corporate responsibility policies and performance, covering social, ethics, environCustomer CR requirements I STSC9 I ment, health and safety (EHS). 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 The table below shows the number of social, ethical and EHS requirements Number of customer requirements* 144 157 277 252 267 that have been addressed by ST’s Customer Requirement Review process. The figures show only those formal corporate responsibility requirements (*) This data includes only customers’ corporate responsibility requirements (Social, Ethics and EHS) received by our corporate level departments for review and approval. Day-to-day customer requests arriving in the that have been addressed at a corporate level. course of business between ST and the customer are not included. On-time delivery to customer request On-time delivery to ST commitment 130 130 120 120 110 110 100 100 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (target) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 (target) Delivery date in line with customer request (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) Delivery date in line with ST commitment (Baseline 100 – December 31, 2007) STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 61 Supply chain performance overview 2010 High level objective ACHIEVE EFFICIENT, SOCIALLY AND ENVIROMENTALLY BENEFICIAL PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS Objectives 2010 Continue to encourage our suppliers and subcontractors to be certified Full compliance to REACH program by all our suppliers and subcontractors Progressively integrate additional EHS indicators in the supply chain ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 evaluation based on customers’ needs Chemicals and minerals management We also have a structured and comprehensive Materials Declaration proST’s requirements regarding its suppliers and subcontractors are increacess to provide our customers with product chemical identity cards. singly stringent in terms of chemicals and minerals management in order Sourcing departments are involved in this program through the collection to respond to increasingly rigorous legislation and customer requirements. of suppliers’ data certificates (based on the list of banned, exempted and In 2010, our main regulatory focus concentrated on the expanded scope declarable substances) and subcontractors’ Materials Declaration forms of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (IPC 1752). 100% of Front-end and Back-end subcontractors had com(REACH) and the US Dodd-Franck act on conflict minerals. pleted their Materials Declaration forms by the end of 2010. M For more information about the new US legislation on conflict minerals, see page 59 Certifications ST is committed to work with suppliers and subcontractors that are comThe Sourcing department in charge of these issues has been strengthpliant with stringent Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) standards. ened to ensure the appropriate follow-up of legislation, supplier and subThrough bi-annual performance evaluation (Supplier Performance Evaluacontractor compliance as well as responses to customers’ requests for tion and Score Cards), ST strongly encourages and supports its partners more and more detailed and specific information. to be ISO 14001 (or EMAS) and OHSAS 18001 (or equivalent) certified. All these legal and customer requirements are continuously updated in ST is progressively extending this recommendation to a larger part of its ST’s list of banned, exempted* and declarable** substances. Corporate suppliers and subcontractors. In 2010, we have included our spare part and local sourcing departments are responsible for communicating this suppliers because of the significant business volume we have with these corporate policy to every supplier and subcontractor. Partners are partners. expected to sign a Statement of Acknowledgement of ST’s requirements At the end of 2010, 76.2% of suppliers were EMAS or ISO 14001 certified and provide analysis data to demonstrate they comply with the list of (81.6% excluding spare part suppliers), as well as 97% of Back-end subbanned, exempted and declarable substances. In 2010, an important contractors and 100% of Front-end subcontractors. focus has been done on tantalum, tin, tungsten gold and cobalt to ensure OHSAS 18001 or equivalent certifications remained high for Back-end our suppliers and subcontractors will be in line with new US legislation, to and Front-end subcontractors (87% and 84%), but we recorded only be introduced in 2011. At the end of the year, 96% of suppliers and Back32.6% of suppliers certified. The reason for this low rate is that there are end subcontractors had signed the statement ensuring they do not supseveral local or industry-specific health and safety standards that are not ply minerals coming from conflicts areas: recognized internationally. n 53% provided evidence of the origin of these minerals; In addition to that, it is important to highlight that most of our key suppliers n 9% declared minerals come from national stockpiles; are also members of Semiconductor Equipment and Materials Internan 13% declared minerals come from recycling channels; tional (SEMI) and have signed the SEMI Global Care Initiative*** . n 25% did not provide exact mining information for confidential reasons. 5 For more information about the Global Care initiative, visit their website at: http://www.semi.org/en/P009555 We started addressing our Front-end subcontractors in October 2010 and, by the end of the year, 42% had provided their minerals origin. We (*) Substances meeting the criteria set out in the banned substances list but allowed only for one special will continue to deploy this program in 2011. use due to a proven lack of a technical alternative. (**) Substances not banned but subject to potential future restriction or specifically requested to be declared Although our requirements are more and more complex, we obtained to customers if contained in their product. (***) The Global Care Initiative provides a framework to build and strengthen commitment to the environment, more numerous and comprehensive responses from our suppliers and health and safety. subcontractors in 2010, reaching a compliance rate above 96%. Suppliers’ and subcontractors’ environmental performance I X STSC1 I STEV17 I j 8.3 I Number of suppliers/subcontractors ISO 14001 certified/EMAS validated (%) Our 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 objectives Suppliers of materials 108 112 107 108 104 73.0 82.0 83.7 81.1 81.0 Suppliers of equipment 61 61 40 40 40 76.0 76.0 85.0 82.5 83.0 Customers Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA NA 35 NA NA NA NA 54.2 n Obtain best-in-class performance Total 169 173 147 148 144 74.1 79.9 84.1 81.5 76.2 in on-time delivery. Subcontractors Back-end NA 56 59 65 62 NA 91.0 97.0 97.0 97.0 n Reach our targets in meeting our customer demand Subcontractors Front-end* NA 22 11 10 19 NA 100 100 100 100 (see graphs page 61). (*) Starting 2008, total Front-end subcontractors can change from one year to another, because to be reactive versus the market evolution, we implement the ‘active foundries’ concept. This list is updated each quarter versus planning data in order to give an interactive overview. Suppliers & subcontractors n Continue to engage our suppliers Suppliers’ and subcontractors’ health and safety performance I STSC2 I j 8.3 I and subcontractors towards our EHS policies and objectives. Number of suppliers/subcontractors OHSAS validated (%) n  Continue to engage our suppliers 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 and subcontractors in our Suppliers of materials 112 107 108 104 30.0 37.0 41.0 44.0 conflict-free mineral policy. n  Progressively integrate additional Suppliers of equipment 61 40 40 40 NA 6.0 10.0 8.0 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 35 NA NA NA 20.0 EHS indicators in the supply chain evaluation based on Total 173 147 148 179 NA 28.6 32.6 31.3 customers’ needs. Subcontractors Back-end 56 59 65 62 80.0 92.0 91.0 87.0 Subcontractors Front-end* 22 11 10 19 95.0 82.0 80.0 84.0 (*) Starting 2008, total Front-end subcontractors can change from one year to another, because to be reactive versus the market evolution, we implement the ‘active foundries’ concept. This list is updated each quarter versus planning data in order to give an interactive overview. 62 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 High level objective actively contribute to the EICC initiative by supporting suppliers and subcontractors in reaching compliance Objectives 2010 Enlarge the population for equipment and services suppliers to comply with Obtain completion of 16 additional SAQs in E-TASC by suppliers and Deploy EICC e-learning to suppliers and subcontractors* EICC (target 50%) Back-end subcontractors Deploy improvement plans for critical Halve the number of SAQ Launch EICC audits based on defined 60% Sourcing department managers issues, based on SAQ results non-conformities, based on SAQ results criteria (with a minimum of 2) trained on the EICC e-learning Obtain commitment to the EICC Obtain completion of SAQs in E-TASC Update Score Card EICC evaluation from our Front-end newcomer by 2 additional Front-end criteria versus Front-end subcontractors subcontractors subcontractors’ advancement in the EICC process ST has been a full member of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition ments. By 2010 we had engaged more than 80% of our suppliers in an (EICC) since 2005 in order to benefit from and support a shared and EICC designed e-learning about corporate responsibility and EICC prostandardized approach to corporate responsibility management within the gram. This initiative was very well received and we will continue rolling it electronic industry supply chain. out to our partners in 2011. The EICC approach, is composed of four steps: ST’s Sourcing department provided each supplier who filled in the SAQ Phase 1: Introduction – EICC Code of Conduct introduction and Risk with a detailed report on their results and action plans for improvement. As Assessment level 1 (RA1); evidenced in our new graph below, we are very pleased to see that this program helps our suppliers and subcontractors improve their managePhase 2: Self-assessment – Risk Assessment level 2, Self-Assessment ment of corporate responsibility. In 2010, the objective was to halve the Questionnaire (SAQ) and use of E-TASC, the industry online database; number of critical questions in the SAQs and this target was met (from an Phase 3: Validated assessment – Validated Audit Process (VAP) with average of 7.3 to 2.9). standardized audit tools and resources; Concerning phase three, five of our suppliers have been audited by other Phase 4: Corrective action and continuous improvement – training and parties through the EICC VAP. The EICC recommend the use of audits for capability-building efforts. suppliers who remain in the overall high risk category or have more than In our road map to comply with the EICC program, we are committed to five sections in high risk; none of these suppliers in fact fell into this cateprogressively extend the number of suppliers and subcontractors involved. gory. In 2010, we decided to launch phase one with our 35 key spare parts Each of ST’s sites has engaged their top 30 local suppliers (not managed suppliers** (in terms of business volume). In 2009 we invited our logistics at corporate level) with 60% of them having signed the EICC engagement service providers but these suppliers serve so many industries that they letter in 2010. An internal task force was formed in 2010 to adapt the cannot engage in signing every industry’s code of conduct. For other supEICC SAQs to these local suppliers. We expect to see implementation on pliers and subcontractors engaged in phase one, we had an increase in pilot sites during 2011. the number of engagement letters signed. We deploy the RA1 for the companies involved in the EICC program. We We also continue to deploy the EICC e-learning to our internal purchasing then move to step two for companies identified as high risk by RA1, and managers in order to reinforce their knowledge of the EICC framework that represent significant business volumes for ST. In 2010, a total of 99 and requirements. An additional 100 managers were trained in 2010. SAQs has been completed by our suppliers and subcontractors, com(*) Once modules are fully available. pared with 60 in 2009. Five years of constant awareness have been fruitful (**) Suppliers of replaceable components, assembly or sub-assembled industrial equipment. since we are now able to reach our annual objective in terms of assessSuppliers’ compliance with EICC Phase 1 Introduction Phase 2 Assessment Agreement to comply EICC Risk assessment Invitation to EICC SAQ Target Number with EICC (%) 1 performed (%) E-TASC sent completed** 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Suppliers of materials 117 108 108 104 52.0 81.5 82.4 89.0 100 100 100 100 17 46 21 18 42 76 Suppliers of equipment/facilities/IT NA 104 104 104 NA 34.0 41.4 50.0 NA 34.0 41.4 50.0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA 35 NA NA NA 71.0 NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA NA Subcontractors Back-end 28 40 39 32 69.0 97.0 98.5 98.0 100 100 100 100 9 7 2 11 17 20 Subcontractors Front-end* 22 11 10 19 0 86.4 90.0 95.0 0 100 100 100 0 2 2 0 1 3 (*) The total Front-end subcontractors can change from one year to another, based on our response to the (**) The number of SAQs is not the number of suppliers/subcontractors that have filled-in SAQs. One supmarket evolution. This list is updated each month versus planning data in order to give an interactive plier or subcontractor has to fill-in one company level SAQ and SAQs for all their manufacturing sites overview. that produce materials/equipments/products for ST. 2010 EICC SAQs: Major 2010 EICC SAQs: Distribution non-conformities I HR2 I of non-conformities by domain I HR2 I % Our 2011 objectives Suppliers & subcontractors Enlarge the population for equipment n Rresults n L  abor and Ethics Management eview FE subcontractors’ SAQ System Elements Ethics n Labor and support their action plan. and spare-parts suppliers to comply L  abor and Ethics Policy and Environment n  n 9.4 with EICC (target 70%). E ngage identified suppliers to underProcedures 19 4.9 n  take third party audits Continue to enroll suppliers and n  n Freely Chosen Employment Health Back-end subcontractors to reach Maintain an overall score of more n EHS Management System Elements and Safety 13.3 120 completed SAQs. than 85%*** (SAQ based) for all supIndustrial Hygiene pliers and subcontractors. Obtain commitment to the EICC n n n  Continue to enroll suppliers and from our Front-end (FE) newcomer subcontractors, and completion subcontractors in EICC corporate 53.1 of SAQs by 2 additional FE responsibility training. subcontractors. (***) 8 5% is the minimum Management System n  SAQ score to be included Decrease the number of SAQ nonin low risk category. conformities to an average of 2.7. STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 63 Company performance n Independent verification statement DNV verification statement DNV Certification France was engaged to provide assurance services to STMicroelectronics. Introduction Principal Considerations Det Norske Veritas Certification France S.A.R.L. (‘DNV’) has been comMateriality missioned by the management of STMicroelectronics NV (‘the CompaBased on our review, we consider that the Report includes the major ny’) to carry out an assurance engagement on the ‘2010 Sustainability material aspects concerning the Company’s performance. The process Report’ (‘the Report’) in its printed format. to determine material issues and indicators, as well as their inclusion in The Corporate Departments of the Company are responsible for the the Report, shall be formalized and rolled out across all the Company, collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within and be reviewed over time to allow improvements over the long term. the Report. Our responsibility in performing this work is to the manaCompleteness gement of STMicroelectronics NV only and in accordance with terms We believe that, overall, the topics and indicators contained in the Reof reference agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement is port cover STMicroelectronics NV material impacts sufficiently to enable based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us stakeholders’ assessment of the Company’s sustainability performance is complete and sufficient. in 2010. The exceptions relate to potential under reporting for some Scope of Assurance indicators due to varying perimeter as well as a limited materiality check. The scope of work agreed upon with STMicroelectronics NV includes Reliability the following: Overall, we found that the information and processes are sufficiently n Key Performance Indicators for Health, Safety, Social and the Environcollated, recorded, compiled, analyzed and disclosed in a manner that ment as reported for 2010 within the Report as well as statements on allowed us to examine and establish the quality of the information; the Social and Health & Safety performance. Verification of baseline data exceptions relate to some environmental data being extrapolated with a was not included in the scope. limited number of intermediary checks. n Visits to the Headquarters as well as two other sites (Crolles & Agrate). Comparability Interviews with external stakeholders were not included. The verification We consider that stakeholders have sufficient information that is adewas conducted during April 2011. quately selected and compiled in order to analyze the changes in the Company’s performance over time. However, rates of improvements are Verification Methodology in some instances calculated over different period of times making comn DNV is a leading service provider of sustainability solutions, includparisons more difficult. ing verification of sustainability reports. Our assurance engagement was Accuracy planned and carried out in order to review adherence to the principles of We consider that the reported information is reasonably accurate and Materiality, Completeness, Reliability, Comparability and Accuracy. The balanced for stakeholders to assess the company’s performance. We application level has been reviewed by the GRI Report Services and are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. found to be in line with the requirements of the application level A+. DNV’s Independence As part of the verification we have: DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data Challenged the Environmental, Social and Health & Safety statements included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV exand claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the pressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a perdata management systems, information flow and controls; Examined son or entity would make based on this Verification Statement. and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by the Company ; Conducted interviews with an excess of 30 company’s representatives in two sites and the company’s headquarter (including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and functions); Performed sample-based audits of the mechanisms for implementing the Company’s own policies, as described in the Report; Jean-Christophe CARRAU Performed sample-based audits of the processes for generating, gathLead Verifier, DNV Certification France ering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data included in the Report. Conclusions Based on the assurance work we performed on both the Key PerforAntonio ASTONE mance Indicators as well as the narratives in the Company’s ‘2010 SusTechnical & Quality reviewer, DNV Global Service Responsible tainability Report’ we are not aware of anything causing us to believe that there may have been any material mistake or omission. The organiDet Norske Veritas, Lyon, May 2011 zation has carried out a review of its material sustainability issues the outcome of which shall be implemented to improve future sustainability reporting. We believe STMicroelectronics NV efforts to embed its sustainability approach into the business and management processes are progressing steadily towards an advanced level. We welcome the Company’s continuous improvement activities and in particular the dedicated commitSocial, H&S, Environment indicators ment shown at all levels of management. verified by DNV Certification France. 64 STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Company performance Key performance indicators n 2010 Key Performance Indicators 2009 ST’s indicators 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Company Percentage of eligible employees who signed the Business Conduct STS01 NA 88 92 94.5 93.9 and Ethics Policy (%) Economic Net revenues (US$m) ST1 9,854 10,001 9,842 8,510 10,346 Net earnings (US$m) ST2 782 (477) (786) (1,131) 830 Gross profit (US$m) ST3 3,523 3,536 3,560 2,626 4,015 Earnings per share (diluted) (US$) ST4 0.83 (0.53) (0.88) (1.29) 0.94 Gross profit as a percentage of sales (%) ST5 35.80 35.40 36.20 30.90 38.80 Market share versus Total Available Market (%) ST6 3.98 3.91 3.96 3.76 3.47 R&D expenditures (US$m) STE4 1,668 1,802 2,152 2,365 2,350 R&D overall headcount evolution STE5 10,300 10,341 11,162 7,458 7,453 R&D engineers and technicians STE5 7,195 10,253 11,084 7,389 7,375 ST patent applications filled by region STE6 607 497 485 589 739 Social Rate of employee turnover (%) ST12 8.79 8.81 10.12 11.65 15.16 Job creation: hires by job type ST12 7,554 6,212 11,889 7,161 13,650 People recognized STS26 77,390 50,171 38,805 38,373 36,697 Accepted suggestions which were implemented (%) STS34 39 62 61 53 55 Average number of meetings in each organization or site during which management presents company/organization/site results to all employees allowing time for open STS34a 9 10 10 15 11 discussion Average training hours (total) STS19 43 44 43 51 49 Percentage of employees having completed the annual e-PA STS21 78.36 67.59 Professionals by gender (Men/Women) STS10 80/20 79/21 78/22 79/21 79/21 Employee engagement survey overall participation rate STS28a NA NA 80 86 Number of partnerships with universities, colleges, schools STS44 236 335 437 470 374 Total cash donated to charitable associations (US$k) STS39 271 444 463 474 452 Health & Safety Recordable cases rate STHS1 0.59 0.49 0.39 0.35 0.29 Severity rate STHS2 8.80 6.70 5.50 4.50 2.60 Environment Consumption of electricity (per unit of production): normalized values (kWh) STEV31 54.3 52.3 49.7 71.0 50.8 Consumption of water (per unit of production): normalized values (m3) STEV56 31.3 29.5 27.3 39.0 26.7 Landfill waste (% of total waste) STEV73 4.8 5.5 3.6 3.3 2.8 CO2 emissions (PFC+energy+transportation) (kTons) STEV47 2,009 1,668 1,453 1,317 1,518 Product Responsibility Customer complaints (per million units shipped) (baseline 100 in 2004) STPR2 71.6 64.2 82.6 61.5 55.0 Cycle time to process failure analysis (in days) (baseline 100 in 2004) STPR3 62.6 71.9 62.2 65.4 71.1 Customer returns (as a percentage of billings) (baseline 100 in 2004) STPR4 38.3 40.0 33.7 30.8 20.0 Supply Chain Suppliers environmental performance (% of suppliers certified) STSC1 74.1 79.9 84.1 81.5 76.2 2010 Key Performance Indicators for Health, Safety, Social and the Environment as well as statements on Social and Health & Safety performance found in this report are verified by Det Norske Veritas Company performance n Indicator index ST Indicators correspondence with Global Compact and GRI The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report in line with the United Nations Global Compact, the ten Principles of the Global Compact and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) elements and indicators. This index also indicates where to find information relating to ST’s own performance indicators. These are all prefixed ‘ST’. ST has identified a number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which are shown as X. All 2010 KPIs have been verified and validated by Det Norske Veritas Certification, France. ST’s Indicator GRI Indicator Global Compact Principles Content Pages Company 1.1 Statement of continuing support Chief executive statement 3, 4 1.2 Description of key impacts Key impacts, risks and opportunities 3-8, 11 2.1-2.9 Company organization and profile Reader’s guide, inside front cover, 1, 4-5, 10, 16-17, 28-29 2.10 CR awards received 12, 33, 39, 46 3.1-3.4 Report profile Reader’s guide 3.5-3.11 Report scope & boundary Reader’s guide, inside front cover, 1, 16-19, 28-33, 38-39, 46-51, 57, 61-63 3.12 GRI content index Inside flap 3.13 Assurance Reader’s guide, 64 4.1-4.3, 4.6, 4.8, Governance Reader’s guide, 3, 4-5, 6-7, 4.9 9-11, 40, 42-43, 58, 63 4.12-4.13 Commitments to external initiatives 3, 6-7, 8, 58, 63 4.14-4.17 Stakeholder engagement Reader’s guide, 4-5, 25, 26-27, 28, 32-33 SO1 Community engagement 3, 6-7, 8, 26-27, 33 X STS01 SO2-4, HR4, GC10 Corruption 10-11 SO5, SO8, HR3 GC1-10 Public policy and compliance 3, 9-11, 25, 32, 38, 58 Economic X ST1, X ST2, X ST3, X ST4, X ST5, EC1 Economic performance 16-18, 27, 30, 33 X ST6, STE7-9, STE11 EC2 GC7 Risks and opportunities due to climate 8, 44-46, 52, 54-55, 57 change STE1, STE10 EC6 Market presence 17-18, 62-63 X STS39, STS39a, STS43 EC8-9 Indirect economic impacts 3, 6-7, 8, 18-19, 26, 33, 44-45 STE3, X STS44, X STE4, X STE5, X STE6 Sustainable innovation 15, 18-19, 30, 33, 51-55, 57 Social STS2, X ST12 LA1-2 GC6 Employment 28-29 STHR4-9, STS36, STS30a, STS30b, X STS34a, LA4-5, HR5 GC1, GC3 Labor & management relations 30, 32 STS38 X STHS1, X STHS2, STHS6, STHS11-13, STEV67LA6-8 GC1, GC3 Occupational Health and Safety 34, 36-39 68, j 9.1, 9.3 STS15-18, X STS19, X STS21, STS21b LA10-12 Training and education 21-24, 31, 37 STS14, STS23, X STS26, STS28, X STS28a, Employee empowerment and enga8, 20, 22-23, 30-31, 35 STS28b, STS29, X STS34, STS47 gement STS4, STS8, STS9, X STS10, STS11-12, STS12b, LA13, EC7 GC1, GC6 Diversity and equal opportunities 24, 29, 35 STS12c Environment STEV6, STEV8, XSTEV31, STEV35, STEV37, EN1-5, EN7, EN10, GC7-9 Expenses and investments on key 41, 47-49 X STEV56, STEV58, STEV64, j2.0, 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 5.1 EN30 resources (energy, water, material etc.) STEV19, STEV21, STEV40 STEV46, X STEV47, EN12, EN16-24, GC7-9 Emissions, effluents and waste; com44-45, 46, 49-51, 54-55, 57 STEV48, STEV52, X STEV73, STEV72, j 3.0, 3.1, EN29-30 pliance; transport 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 4.1, 4.3, 4.4, 6.1, 10.3, 10.4 STPR1 EN6, EN26 GC7-9 Design for environnent Product Responsibility STEV78-79, X STPR2, X STPR3, X STPR4 EN27, PR1, PR3, PR5 GC1, GC8-9 Responsible products (social/ethics, EHS) 4-5, 8, 14, 44-45, 52, 54, 55, 57 Supply chain X STSC1, STSC2, STSC9, STEV17, j 8.3 HR2 GC1, GC3-6 Supply chain management 58-59, 61-63 This report is in accordance with the 2006 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines, with an A+ self-declared rating checked and confirmed by GRI. The GRI Application Level Check 5 For more information on the GRI Application levels, Statement is available in the online version of this report. see: www.globalreporting.org/GRIReports/ApplicationLevels/ STMicroelectronics n Sustainability Report 2010 Glossary APG Automotive Products Group LCI Life Cycle Inventory GRI indicator prefixes ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit LCIA Life Cycle Impact Assessment EC Economic Impact BCP Business Continuity Plans LWDC Lost work day case EN Environment BMI Body Mass Index MEMS Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems HR Human Rights BSR Business for Social Responsibility MMS Microcontrollers, Memories & LA Employment Smartcards CAO Chief Administrative Officer PR Product Responsibility MSF Médecins Sans Frontières CEC Corporate Ethics Committee SO Society MTCE Metric Tons of Carbon Equivalent CMOS Complementary MOS (Metal Oxide Semiconductor) NGO Non-Governmental Organization ST indicator prefixes CMR Carcinogenic, Mutagenic, toxic for NYSE New York Stock Exchange Reproduction ST Company ODS Ozone Depleting Substances COD Chemical Oxygen Demand STE Economics OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index and Development STEV Environment DNV Det Norske Veritas OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers STHR Human Rights DRC Democratic Republic of the Congo OSHA Occupational Safety & Health AdministraSTHS Health & Safety tion in the United States STS Social Ecopack® Lead-free labelling for RoHS-compliance (the EU Directive on Restriction on Use of OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety AssessSTSC Supply Chain Hazardous Substances) ment Series (OHSAS 18001) STSO Company EFQM European Foundation of Quality PDCA Plan Do Check Act Management STPR Product Responsibility PFCs Perfluorinated Compounds EHS Environmental, Health & Safety PQE Product Quality Excellence 5 You can find a more complete glossary in the online EICC Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition version of this report PTM Package Test Manufacturing EIPM European Institute of Purchasing QEP Quality Excellence in Practice Management QUEST Quality Excellence through Skills Training EMAS Community Eco-Management and Audit The ST Sustainability Report 2010 is printed Scheme R11 ChloroFluoroCarbon (CFC) and is also on paper produced by a manufacturer that is called CFC 11. It is an Ozone Depleting EMEA Europe, Middle East & Africa certified to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Printing Substance. ENIAC European Nanoelectronics Initiative uses chlorine-free pulp which enables both recyREACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorization Advisory Council clability and renewability, and a chemical free, of Chemicals ePA electronic Performance Appraisal pre-press system. Furthermore the paper used RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances is certified by the Forest Stewardship Council ERM Enterprise Risk Management SAM Serviceable Available Market and the Program of Endorsement for Forest ESIA Electronic Semiconductor Industry Certification Chain of Custody. These confirm SAQ Self-Assessment Questionnaires Association that the paper used comes from controlled SEC Securities and Exchange Commission EWS Electrical Wafer Sort forests that are well managed according to strict SEMI Semiconductor Equipment and Materials environmental, social and economic standards, FEM Front-end Manufacturing International GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative and links the production chain from source of SIA Semiconductor Industry Association timber through to paper manufacture and the GHG Greenhouse Gases SoC System-on-Chip final printing process. GLWO Global Logistics & Warehousing SRI Socially Responsible Investment Organization TAM Total Available Market GWP Global Warming Potential TR&D Technology Research & Development HDL High Density Lipoprotein UPW Ultra-pure Water H&S Health & Safety USAs Unvested Stock Awards IC Integrated Circuit VAP Validated Audit Process ICB Informatics & Computer Basics Certificate Chain of custody of forest VOCs Volatile Organic Compounds Based products ICT Information and Communication N°: PEFC/14-33-00002-B www.pefc.org Technologies WBCSC World Business Council for Sustainable Development This book is printed on Creator Silk 350g/m2 ILO International Labor Organization (cover pages) and 135g/m2 (inside pages) IQnet and AEONOR certify that the WEEE Waste of Electrical and Electronic organisation Torraspapel, S.A. (Motril) as IMS Industrial & Multisegment Sector implemented and maintains an ISO 14001 Equipment Environmental Management System. IP Intellectual Property WSC World Semiconductor Council ISDA International Semiconductor 20-F Annual report filed with the Securities Development Alliance and Exchange Commission ISO International Organization for Standardization KPI Key Performance Indicator LCA Life Cycle Assessment ST Sustainability Mission To be recognized as world leader in innovation for sustainable development through excellence in our people, our products, the environment and the community.
