1 Contents • Page 2 General • Page 3 Preamble  Page 4 Sustainable indicators & activity  Page 5 Sustainable indicators, KPI’s & results Being Green  Page 6 Sustainable indicators – Leadership & Management and viable  Page 7 Sustainable indicators – Economic  Page 8 Executive talk whilst sustaining  Page 9 Electrical energy growth  Page 10 Environmental activity – RoSHH, REACH & WEEE  Page 11 Environmental activity – Noise, ventilation & water  Page 12 Social Responsibility – H & S, manual handling, 5S & 7W  Page 13 Social Responsibility Training  Page 14 Corporate Responsibility – Site visits& research &development Timeline  Page 15 Corporate Responsibility Corruption, bribery & ethics Joined Global Compact Initiative First COP submitted Second COP due Third COP due  Page 16 Corporate Responsibility Energy – commitment  Page 17 Corporate Responsibility – Environmental – commitment  Page 18 Corporate Responsibility Quality – commitment  Page 19 Corporate Responsibility – Conservation preservation  Page 20 Corporate Responsibility – Ethics  Page 21 Corporate Responsibility Anti – bribery COP reporting 2 Preamble RGE Engineering Co RGE Yate Ltd RGE Engineering Co RGE Group have continued to uphold and follow Whittlesey UK Bristol UK Alconbury Logistics. UK the principles of the Global Compact. This has been transferred to all our global sites and is proving beneficial due to the continued RGE Engineering Co satisfaction of our workforce. Godmanchester. UK GMC (Tools) Ltd RGE Group HQ RGE Spark Eroders Ltd The Key process indicators that are set for RGE Group are discussed and reset yearly based on whether the targets set in the previous year have been met. The KPI’s are only set at a level that we believe are achievable, sustainable and could be realistically improved on year by year. Our intention is to remain within or KPI targets even though our manufacturing profile is expanding with new customers, projects and ideas. Whilst RGE Group are small when placed against large global conglomerates' our contribution in % as a statistic is often on a par or sometimes better. RGE have added a new paragraph to our new supplier questionnaire asking whether they have signed up to the Global compact. Whilst this would not stop us using a reputable company it is aimed at encouraging them to investigate what it is all about with the hope RGE USA Inc. that they in turn will contribute. RGE Baltic UAB Tennessee, USA Siauliai, Lithuania RGE Shenzhen Ltd RGE Europe Shenzhen, RGE Grand Marinha Grande Denmark China Portugal 3 Sustainable Indicators Social KPI,s 2009 2010 2011 2012 Global Compact Signatory Yes Yes Number of fatalities Nil Nil Number of reportable accidents Nil 2 Bonus Scheme (UK initially) Yes Yes Inter-site training worldwide Yes Yes Pension scheme Yes Yes Minimum wage (all sites) Yes Yes Minimum wage (all sites) Yes Yes Regulated hours (Amount country dependant) Yes Yes Holidays commitments (legal requirement) Yes Yes Off site training 0 Yes On site housing (China only) Yes Yes On site canteen (all sites) Yes Yes On site cooked meals (China only) Yes Yes 4 Sustainable Indicators 2009 2010 2011 2012 CO2 monitoring on energy usage 0 WIP Energy consumption per moulding produced % (Global rolled) 6.75% 4.56% Tonnage of recycled plastic recycled 681.65 tonnes 786.27 tonnes Tonnage of cardboard sent for recycling 36.60 tonnes 54.75 tonnes Tonnage of plastic wrapping sent for recycling 21.25 tonnes 56.63 tonnes Waste oil sent for recycling 27.04 tonnes 50.10 tonnes Tonnage of waste going to landfill 265.26 tonnes 304.66 tonnes Scrap metals sent for recycling 29.93 tonnes 110.67 tonnes Hazardous waste 9.94 tonnes 11.17 tonnes Tonnage of purging/plastic waste sent for recycling 89.95 tonnes 115.95 tonnes Monitoring for RoSHH regulations Yes Yes Monitoring for REACH regulations Yes Yes Managing Environmental system to the principle of ISO14001 Yes Yes Improvements in lighting of working environments Yes Done UK Monitoring of Power Factor Yes Done UK Global Compact Signatory Yes Yes Note – some minor corrections made to 2009 data 5 Sustainable Indicators Leadership & Management Style 2009 2010 2011 2012 Membership of approved test houses to reduce costs 1 2 Local Managers (Worldwide, all levels) 27 29 Local Operations Managers (all sites) Yes Yes Equal opportunity policy worldwide Yes Yes Balanced male v female workforce 65/35% 70/30% Gender tolerance worldwide Yes Yes Religious tolerance (all sites) Yes Yes Multi-racial workforce (all sites) Yes Yes Multi-cultural workforce (all sites) Yes Yes Right to join a trade union or body Yes Yes Records to prove COP contents Yes Yes 6 Sustainable Indicators Economic KPI,s 2009 2010 2011 2012 Cost of quality % as a measure against turnover 1.52% 3.75% Cost of reworking defective products %, UK only monitored 0.47% 0.66% Bulk purchasing to save cost and CO2 reduction Yes Increased Financial contribution to manufacturing locally Yes Yes Increased local manufacturing worldwide 0 Yes Research and design development Yes Yes ISO9001-2008 Quality Management system Yes Yes In house testing of products 1 3 Membership of approved Test houses Yes Yes Improved data collection at Global sites WIP 7 RGE Group Executive Talk RGE Group is made up of a number of companies spread globally in 2010 was a difficult year with rising oil and energy prices that caused us strategic positions to take advantage of lower manufacturing costs, to look at every opportunity to create growth without compromising reduced transportation, satellite storage and delivery to market. This quality, customer satisfaction or any of our core skill sets and personnel. gives RGE the competitiveness it requires to complete with emerging far Customers, likewise needed to retain their markets without heavy price east and Indian markets. increases which resulted in RGE seeking ways to become more lean. This is being achieved through continuous improvement programs, RGE Group seeking alternative material suppliers, evaluation of new suppliers and applying green measures that not only improve the environment but RGE Engineering Company UK. Whittlesey & Godmanchester have also reduced the need to landfill and the associated taxes. Design, Toolmaking & injection moulding. A bonus to being green is that we have found outlets to purchase much of our waste that would have gone to landfill. RGE Alconbury, UK – Warehousing, Logistics & distribution All our scrap, energy usage, waste, OEE, recycling, CO2 emissions and RGE Yate Ltd, UK – On site moulding at customers production data are recorded, analysed, graphically presented and premises shown at all RGE global sites. By being fully transparent it has lead to a RGE USA Inc. USA – Injection moulding, Warehousing & high percentage of our personnel thinking about wastage without having distribution. to impose rigid rules that often have a negative effect. RGE Baltic UAB, Lithuania Injection moulding, Warehousing & distribution Many of the projects we have undertaken have involved the introduction RGE Shenzhen Ltd, China – Toolmaking, tool design & injection of new equipment that is more energy efficient, cleaner, and quieter. moulding This has have had an immediate effect both internally of the sites premises but also on the local community without them even noticing RGE Marinha Grand, Portugal – Toolmaking any noticeable change. RGE Spark Eroders Ltd Toolmaking GMC (Tools) Ltd – Purchasing RGE Europe, Denmark Sales 8 Environmental Indicators Electrical energy RGE Group have continued to invest heavily in new moulding machines and ancillary equipment at all our global sites. These RGE Engineering Co 2007 2008 2009 2010 newer machines are more energy efficient and often smaller in sites in United footprint size than their predecessors. Today RGE group have 136 Kingdom moulding machines and is therefore very aware of its dependence Godmanchester & on electricity and the need to find ways at reducing the associated costs and the CO2 that is generated. Whittlesey Mwh 11.36 10.35 9.13 11.7 Most of our efforts in the last year have been in negotiating an energy contract that will minimise the risk of being hit by big increases due to the volatility of gas and oil prices. By having a contract that effectively reduces this risk, allows us to keep our product prices at a constant level which is beneficial to our RGE Group Carbon Footprint 2010 customers. Tonnes/CO2 per site for energy (electricity) 400 Investment has been made in upgrading existing and installing new 350 water cooling towers and air blast systems. These being more RGEGMC 300 energy efficient and provide the cooling capacity and constant flow RGEWhit 250 to improve moulding cycle times, improve quality and reduce 200 RGEBaltic scrap. 150 RGEChina 100 RGEUSA In the last year we have been monitoring our CO2 levels at all 50 global sites. These show considerable differences., however they 0 cannot be compared directly as some site work different shift Jan-10 Feb-10 Mar-10 Apr-10 May-10 Jun-10 Jul-10 Aug-10 Sep-10 Oct-10 Nov-10 Dec-10 patterns have different size machines and different number of machines. • Our aim is to monitor the trends of each site attempt to show a year on year reduction at each site. Increases noted in 2010 due to having more machines and working additional shifts 9 Environmental Activity RGE Group continue to support and encourage recycling of RoSHH and REACH all materials through government approved companies and With the ever changing rules and regulations affecting restrictive additives in raw agents. materials, RGE Group, monitor in line with our suppliers that we are in full Our aim is to minimise the amount going to landfill and compliance. maximum the amount we recycle. The recycling in most Many of the restrictive additive by their removal sometime have a detrimental cases has the benefit of being a saleable commodity that effect on the characteristics of the finished products. In order to ensure that the produces a financial incentive and the revenue to support changes do not cause other unknown problems relating to strength or fire further energy projects. retardency etc. we test what we can in-house but more and more we are sending components to Third party approved test houses so that we can get certification that backs up any of the statement we make to our customers. Packaging RGE Group are working with our major customers in developing knock down packaging and returnable packaging that can be re-used many times. The biggest problem noticed is the amount of cardboard packaging coming out of China that we have to recycle. WEEE Regulation All obsolete or broken electrical and electronic products are safely stored until a sufficient amount is gathered to allow a Government approved contractor to visit and remove for restoration of breaking down into various commodities. Site Environment We have managed to find a contractor that is willing to take this away All RGE Group sites are actively participating in 5s free. This has encouraged this project to projects to improve the visual aspects both internally function very well. and externally. We understand that this has a direct effect on Health and Safety and by improving the aesthetics makes the general atmosphere of factory environments a much better place to work in. 10 Environmental Activity Noise Material Purchasing RGE Group continue to grow and with the growth comes the As more and more material is being purchased in bulk for storing in silos, the inevitable additional machinery and ancillary equipment required movement of material to machine is gradually being changed from being a manual to sustain the demand. The additions, whilst manufactured to operation to a centralised feed system from Silo direct to the moulding machine give a low noise output, the often low level white noise can cause hopper. This is quicker, cleaner, safer and more cost effective giving the material some people unwanted side effects. RGE group provide free handlers time to do other activities. Personal Protection ear defenders or plugs for this purpose. Each site also is monitored for noise levels to ensure that it lower that the recommended safety levels. Water reduction Complaint due to external noise: Injection moulding uses a massive amount of water to cool each mould tool and 2008 – 1 accounts for around 98% of our water need. On all sites a closed loop system is 2009 – 2 in place that recycles the water through water towers or air blast systems 2010 – 0 cleaning and cooling within this process. Our losses of water therefore come only from evaporation. As we add more updated cooling systems the process of cooling is much improved reducing the evaporation levels significantly. The down side is that once a year all the water has to be removed in order to White noise clean the system to prevent the risk from Legionellia Ventilation Injection moulding, being a process of heating oil based products as part of the manufacturing process often give off some unpleasant smells, whilst not harmful they can make people feel unwell if the ventilation levels are not reasonably balanced. In plants that have little natural ventilation, forced air extraction is gradually being installed. Air quality is checked yearly by Health & Safety with records being kept in case of a Government audit. 11 Social Responsibility Health & Safety Manual Handling The fortunes of any company are dependent on a reliable and It is well known that lifting, if carried out incorrectly can lead top incapacity, long dependable workforce. It is therefore in the interest of the term health problems and the risk of litigation. Managing Directors and departmental Managers to insure that its RGE Group provide free on site and off site training to anybody that has lifting as workforce are healthy in body and mind. part of their normal responsibilities' Even if lifting is not part of a person normal routine they can All sites have an H & R department and a site representative request basic training without fear of being turned down. looking after Health and safety and environmental matters. RGE Group’s interest lies in people being fully trained in basic activities so they can be called upon to help in other As RGE Group have sites on 3 continents, each having their own areas of the company if needed. set of standards and regulations, the representatives on each site are charged with ensuring full compliance and applying corrective action where necessary. First aid The key areas monitored are: Trained first adders are available at all RGE Group site to assist as the first line of defence in the case of an accident. Heat and cold Whilst trained, laws in many countries forbid first aiders Reportable accidents and near misses. administering little more than comfort , calling the Fire drills paramedics and recording the incident. First adders are Ventilation given regular training to update them on the legal aspects of Lumen levels, overhead and local workplace lighting. the job. Noise levels Extinguisher checking Noise levels, internal and external Drinking water purity 5S and 7 wastes Dust levels Stocking of minimum first aid equipment This is an activity that is being rolled out at two sites, one in the UK and the Hygiene other in Lithuania. This is proving very effective with personnel starting to see the benefits that can be gained by reducing unnecessary movements and Should corrective actions be required they will be discussed in full being able to locate and find equipment and tools. This is increasing their with the Site Operations Manager who keeps a legal record of any productivity and reducing the frustration of constantly looking for parts and activity undertaken equipment. 12 Social Responsibility Training and Personnel Development Improvements seen through training As a group RGE know that training is a key factor for its survival  Improvement in confidence levels and growth. Training is seen as an investment for the future and as new  Better understanding of process flow technology is purchased, engineers and technicians are instructed either in-house or externally by the suppliers of the new  Improved communication routes equipment. As these engineers and technicians become proficient they in turn  Increased productivity train other within the production chain.  Increased customers satisfaction As engineering seems to be a profession that many of the younger generation seem to sideline, RGE Group regularly take on  Scrap analysis becoming part of the process apprentices, especially in the line of tool making to ensure that there is some continuity when the older generation of toolmakers  Understanding of the need for procedures retire.  Team working Promotion within the group is encouraged so that we retain the knowledge that has been gained over time, however we do often  Product risk analysis seek “new blood” so that new ideas and processes are brought to the group in order to keep ahead of our competitors.  Improvement in skill sets Continuous improvement shows our customers that we are pro  New ideas active, with projects in progress at most global sites. Training in the mythology of continuous improvement is conducted  Increased capability studies through third party training or from the UK headquarters by personnel who already have knowledge of this process of  Basic understanding of SPC business improvement.  Improved recycling 13 Corporate Responsibility Research and Development RGE Directors know that having a Corporate and Social responsibly policy is useless unless seen to be actively RGE Group have a small and dedicated team of product designers who work on RGE working. products. These designers are approved by a number of our major customers to design products for them or actively become part of their development team. With this in mind that Directors make regular visits to all sites to ensure that the 10 principles of the Global Compact are To enhance our services we have a large tool design and tool making network in seen to be carried out and are effective in improving the United Kingdom, China and Portugal that interface with tooling co-ordinators at the welfare of its workforce. UK headquarters. These visits boost moral especially at overseas sites as it This support allows short timelines shows personnel that the company and people at top actually for our customers from design to care. market. RGE Directors have an open door policy allowing anybody to discuss improvements to process and product ideas. It is well known, that people at production level can often find new and better ways at improving the process and process saving time, money and effort. 14 Corporate Responsibility RGE Group continue to support the 10 Principles of the Global Compact and actively attempt to encourage our customers to also support these principles All our policies are reviewed yearly, updated and sent to all global sites for placement on their notice boards. Ethical Trading Policy Our policies are written in there simplest form to include all the 10 Global principles. We have deliberately kept our statements short so that they can be easily read and understood especially as many of our global personnel have a limited command of English. Should there be a request, these policies along with any others would be translated to ensure that they are fully understood and can be followed without mis-interpretation and confusion. RGE Group will never knowingly trade with a company who does not support the general global principles of ethical trading. Many companies are very reputable and support the very same principles in many different ways Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director July 2011 15 Corporate Responsibility Rising energy prices and its volitility has a profound effect on RGE Groups ability to have stability of raw material prices for any length of time. This can have an immediate effect on the groups financial situation as we often have to give our customers some price stability when signing contracts. Along with green taxes now being imposed by Governments, the reduction in Climate Change levies rebates, changing lifestyle commitments, additional holidays, the right to work past normal retirement age and the Global economic situation makes it much harder to compete with emerging nations form the far east and Indian continent. We are determined to survive by seeking better technology, giving improved training and seeking cheaper alternative materials without giving way to any of our policy structures Energy Policy Commitment To look at new and alternative ways of reducing our energy demand though improved energy purchasing packages, changing equipment that is energy efficient using variable speed motors, improved handling methods using more robots, reducing scrap and designing products that use increased levels of recyclable materials. We are committed to having a responsible energy policy and reduce our CO2 emissions as far a practically possible. Energy improvement per manufactured product improved by 2.19% over 2009 Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director July 2011 16 Corporate Responsibility Injection moulding and tool making is totally reliant on oil based products so it is the interest of RGE Group to seek ways of reducing the demand. This is not an easy task and is impossible to eliminate. Worldwide demand in plastic raw material and steel is increasing at a phenomenal rate therefore we are committed to find alternative ways to minimise our risk to these demands. Environmental Commitment Aim to design new products that use less material but retain all their strength and aesthetic characteristics. Design products that can use recycled materials but retain all their strength and aesthetic characteristics. Design products that can be safely protected without the need for heavy packaging requirements. Encourage our suppliers to reduce the amount of cardboard they use in packaging. Seek alternative materials that are in greater supply. Investigate processes to find ways at reducing scrap levels. Reduce landfill Landfill v Recyling Year 2009 Landfill v Recyling Year 2010 Improvement Recycling v Landfill over 2009 is 1% Landfill Landfill, 89.95 115.95 tonnes tonnes 10% 9% Recycled Recycled Landfill Landfill Gordon Leach Recycled, Recycled, 822.78 tonnes 1174.37 RGE Group Managing Director 90% tonnes July 2011 91% 17 Today's markets are rapidly changing with customers expecting lower production costs, improved designs but with higher quality in strength and aesthetics. This combination of demands is contradictory but an expectation if we are to retain and expand our markets. RGE Group, like many other manufactures are competing against many far eastern and Indian manufacturers' whose products are far cheaper but do not necessarily have standards that are “like for like”. To compete with this, RGE ensure that our Quality Systems conform to ISO9001 and all our products are tested in house during production and are independently certified for strength to National and International standards by accredited test houses on a regular basis. Our corporate quality statements and policies are reviewed annually and amended if required, fortunately these quality statements have always stood us in good standing and the contents reflect our attitude today to providing Quality of product and service Quality Policy Mission Statement The mission of RGE Group of Companies is to provide a worldwide service in technical design, innovation, sales, tool making, manufacture, assembly, printing and delivery and build on our history of product excellence and technology innovation to provide the highest-quality and most reliable products and services to our customers world-wide. RGE Group specialise in the field of tool making and injection moulding for office seating, white goods, garden products, school seating, industrial and domestic appliances, medical, sporting, electric switchgear and hygiene products Quality Statement The RGE Group of Companies Quality Policy is a guide for everybody and is based on the principles outlined in the standard ISO 9000-2008. Our customers expect the best and RGE Group aim to be world-class through their expertise, investment, training and understanding of out customer’s requirements. Customer satisfaction is our prime aim which will always remain our highest priority. Zero defects is our goal, through continuous improvement and training programs which involve the total workforce. Sacrificing Quality is not an option and the emphasis will always be prevention over detection. Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director June 2011 18 Conservation and Preservation of our Environment Our Commitment To reduce our usage of energy by investing in technology that requires less energy itself when in production. To use the saving made by using less energy by investing in new technology. To source materials only from companies that comply with the latest REACH and RoSH regulations. To investigate areas within our production process that could be robotised to give greater efficiencies and cycle times. To design products where practical that can use recycled materials. To provide a service of our products at the end of life cycle that can be recycled back into some of our products. To monitor our CO2 emissions in line with increased production. To provide our workforce worldwide with a safe and environmental friendly place to work. To put into place projects that will investigate and monitor transport movements. To maximise on packaging to allow better loading of vehicles with reduced movements. To create a work ethic that supports and encourages recycling of all materials. To reduce landfill year on year. Gordon Leach RGE Group Managing Director 19 Corporate responsibility and Ethical trading RGE Group have included into its Contract of Employment Booklet statements that would directly refer to the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles of Social and Ethical trading, whilst wording maybe different the contents and meanings are the same. The booklet gives guidance and examples of what each section mean in order to take away the risk of misinterpretation. : Any allegation of harassment regardless of type will be dealt with seriously and confidentially and employees making such an allegation will be protected against victimisation. 20 Corruption and Anti Bribery Policy RGE Group commit to working in a fair and transparent way that gives the company its strength to support the ideas and talents of employees and customers.. We expect our suppliers to work in a similar manner to prevent unfair exploitation of the marketplace. We believe this statement is fully in line with the 10th United Nations Global Compact Principle of corruption bribery and anti-bribery and fully support this principle. Global Compact Reporting RGE Group, on signing the UN Global Compact are proud to provide a yearly statement of our contribution and support of the 10 principles. We know that our workforce are key to our successes and disappointments, especially in times of restraint. It is therefore in our interest to provide a good working environment that gives support, continuity of employment and training to enhance their working lifestyles and contribute to their external activities. By giving, we in return, retain a loyal workforce and retain their personal expertise to continue our manufacturing and sales services globally. 21
