1 The UN Global Compact Progress Report 2010-2011 Status report 30 June 2011 2 Table of Contents Statement of continuing support........................................................................................................................ 3 1. Sphere of influence................................................................................................................................................ 4 2. Valuing our clients..................................................................................................................................................7 2.1. Improving access to health care...................................................................................................... 8 2.2. Monitoring medical expenses ....................................................................................................... 8 2.3. Increased ‘medicalisation’ of Vanbreda International........................................................... 8 2.4. Solid case management capacities............................................................................................... 8 2.5. Surveys on specific topics ................................................................................................................9 2.6. Proximity to clients ............................................................................................................................ 11 2.7. Extension of our online services .................................................................................................... 11 2.8. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network............................................................... 11 2.9. Regular assessment of health care needs ...............................................................................12 2.10. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network......................13 3. Valuing our employees....................................................................................................................................... 14 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being ................................................................................. 14 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point of view..........................................................................................17 3.3. Aiming to be an attractive and equal opportunity employer........................................... 18 4. Valuing our environment...................................................................................................................................21 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness........................................................................................................21 5. Our ethics.................................................................................................................................................................23 5.1. Company code of conduct................................................................................................................23 5.2. Combating money laundering.......................................................................................................23 5.3. Combating health insurance fraud..............................................................................................23 Cross-reference table.............................................................................................................................................. 25 3 Statement of continuing support As a true believer in the United Nations Global Compact’s principles in terms of human rights, labour and anticorruption, we continue our support. As is the case for many other corporations, the true challenge of our growth and development lies in aligning our business goals with the pursuit of sustainable management, thus contributing to the global economy. In August 2010 our company was acquired by Cigna, one of the world’s largest health service companies. This gives our combined business unmatched global reach and further positioning for growth. There is a strong cultural fit between our two companies, especially regarding our commitment to exceptional customer service and fair treatment of all employees, as well as our commitment to business ethics and corporate social responsibility. With regard to business ethics, Cigna is at the forefront of implementing and maintaining best corporate practices. It is heavily committed on creating and upholding a culture of ethical behaviour throughout the enterprise. These efforts are supported by formal procedures as well as checks and balances to make sure ethical behaviour is not only a mindset, but also properly secured through a formal system. Both culture and procedures are kept alive through training and awareness actions. Our core activity is helping people wherever they are. Our core value is doing things the right way. We remain committed to being a sustainable and ethical company and we do so through embracing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Rudi Bertels Chief Executive Officer Sphere of influence 4 1. Sphere of influence Operations Vanbreda International has over 50 years of experience in designing, implementing and managing cross-border employee benefits and health insurance programmes for private, public and not-for-profit organisations. These include companies with expatriate staff and offices in different countries and continents, intergovernmental organisations, diplomatic staff and foreign trade representatives as well as non-governmental organisations. As a provider of insurance products, services and solutions, we are aware of the impact that our activities have on society, both nationally and globally. The United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative report ‘Insuring for Sustainability’ (UNEP FI, 2007), rightfully mentions that “the insurance industry is a strong lever for sustainability due to its size, the extent of its reach into the community and the significant role it plays in the economy.” By enabling economic actors to take risks and protect their assets, insurance stimulates investments and innovations. By providing financial protection against death and disability risks and annuities for retirees, insurance reduces the pressure on the public sector. By analysing risks, insurance signals danger and provides risk management advice. Last but not least, by investing collected premiums, insurance directly contributes to the economy. 1 “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control. 2 Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall respect economic, social and cultural rights as well as civil and political rights and contribute to their realization, in particular the rights to development, adequate food and drinking water, the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, adequate housing, privacy, education, freedom of thought, conscience, and religion and freedom of opinion and expression, and shall refrain from actions which obstruct or impede the realization of those rights.” 3 Since our foundation, we emerged as a company with an ever-increasing global reach. For our clients, we play a role in helping them implement their employee benefits strategy in line with their financial targets. We service over 430,000 people residing and working all over the globe. By providing global access to health care we touch upon and influence their daily lives and those of their families, wherever they work and live. In addition to affecting our client’s HR and business strategy and financial performance, and their employees’ wellbeing, we play a key role in the lives of our employees and their work environment. Our client services are being taken to heart, day in day out, by almost 440 people. 4 The majority works from our headquarters in Belgium while others are based in our offices in the United States of America and Malaysia. We also have commercial and sales representations in Italy, Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa, Chile and the United Arab Emirates. 1 UNEP FI, 2007. 2 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 25. 3 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 12. 4 Number of Vanbreda International employees on 30 June 2011, representing 403.89 full-time equivalents. Sphere of influence 5 Our commitment to act in a socially responsible way We are committed to act in a socially responsible way. Our commitment is reflected in systems and initiatives that benefit all our stakeholders. We strongly believe in business ethics. We support and pursue international principles and standards regarding human and labour rights, environmental protection and ethical business conduct. 5 Not only do we adhere to the United Nation’s Global Compact principles, but we also subscribe and live up to the Diversity Declaration of the Flemish Chamber of Commerce. In addition, in the wake of our acquisition by Cigna, we are in the process of integrating Cigna’s Corporate Social Responsability policy. Aimed at creating a healthier world for plan members, employees, partners, investors and the communities we serve, it focuses on 4 impact areas: promoting wellness, developing leaders, expanding opportunities and embracing communities. Moreover, we comply with all legislation and regulations that have a bearing on our activities and we act responsibly beyond what is legally required. Our adherence to the UNGC principles demonstrates that we strive to be a socially responsible service provider and employer. We translated all of our engagements into our own specific set of commitments. Based on the principles of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ (People, Planet and Profit) they represent our intentions with an eye to organisational as well as societal success. 5 We refer to: • the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights; • the International Labour Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO); • the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development; • the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; • the UN Convention against Corruption; • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). Sphere of influence 6 Vanbreda International is a Major Sponsor of UNICEF Belgium For many years, Vanbreda International has sponsored UNICEF by donating 10 EUR for each customer satisfaction survey fully completed by its clients. Thanks to this contribution we are officially recognised as a ‘Major Sponsor’ of UNICEF Belgium. Survival Between 2008 and 2010, our yearly 30,000 EUR donation has been used for a project entitled ‘Child survival and development activities in two health care zones of Katanga – Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). While child mortality has regularly been declining worldwide, 1 child out of 5 still dies before the age of 5 in DRC, most often from evitable diseases (2009). Fortunately, thanks to UNICEF, infant and child mortality rates have finally started decreasing after 20 years of stagnation. UNICEF combines structural actions with interventions in 3 main directions: immunisation campaigns, nutrition and health education and mobilisation: • In 2009 92% of all children of less than 1 year received basic vaccinations and 83% of all targeted mothers were vaccinated against tetanus. An exceptional campaign against malaria enabled to distribute 5.5 million impregnated mosquito nets. • More than 60% of children of less than 5 are involved in an integrated health and nutrition monitoring programme developed in collaboration with health centres. • A programme was built around 5 vital low-cost measures that have a real impact on child mortality: availability of safe drinking water, washing hands before meals, breast feeding, rehydration in case of diarrhoea and the use of mosquito nets. Education and gender equality At the end of 2010, UNICEF Belgium and Vanbreda International renewed their partnership for another three years: 2011-2013. Vanbreda International’s annual donation is now allocated to a basic education and gender equality project in the DRC. DRC is a country in permanent state of emergency where political instability, poverty and child labour do not allow for the development of an education system. 1 child out of 2 does not go to school. UNICEF has set itself the target of sending 100% of the children to primary school by 2015. In order to improve schooling and instil associated values such as health, hygiene and protection, UNICEF has developed a 3-fold strategy: • support to early childhood education and sponsorship of young children by older ones; • development of basic education through continued training of teachers, rehabilitation of school buildings, etc; • stimulation of teenager involvement through training sessions about HIV/AIDS, drugs or citizenship. In all 3 programmes, special attention is given to the gender equality issue. The project has been very successful so far as the attendance objective for early childhood centres has already been exceeded! Valuing our clients 7 2. Valuing our clients We want to ensure easy and affordable access to worldwide health care and reduce barriers to health care and protection wherever possible. At the same time, we raise plan members’ awareness of the cost of health care plans and how they can contribute to keeping these costs down. In addition we foresee measures and mechanisms to discourage and discover insurance fraud. Our solutions are designed to enable staff covered by a health insurance or wider employee benefits programme to optimally benefit from the plan’s advantages. By upgrading and fine-tuning these plans and by launching new products and services, we continuously improve the plan’s and product’s experience and cost impact. Our strive towards continuous improvement is reflected in our ISO certification which we obtained in 1998 for employee benefits claims handling. 6 Ever since, this certification was renewed every three years. The latest re-certification was awarded in 2010. Between July 2010 and June 2011 two successful follow-up audits were conducted. 7 6 Certificate no BE98/01053 SGS European Quality Certification Institute E.E.S.V. 7 Based on the new ISO standards ISO 9001:2008. Management responsibility a pl an ct Client’s Resource Analysis & Client’s requirements management improvement satisfaction o ch k d ec Product realisation Input Output Product As an ISO certified company we have a fully maintained quality management system in place that is based on quality design in the business process (PLAN), execution of the business process in accordance with quality guidelines as described in the quality handbook (DO), monitoring of the output with measurable and significant quality criteria (CHECK) and constant process improvement (ACT). 8 8 For more information on ISO, see www.iso.org. Valuing our clients 8 2.1. Improving access to health care We have a significant impact on the extent to which our clients’ employees and their families are covered against health risks. When designing our health care plans we take into account local specificities and cultural diversities, therapeutic freedom and cost effectiveness. To provide sound advice on how coverage can be improved for plan members, we monitor medical expenses, invest in relevant surveys and closely monitor emerging health care needs. 2.2. Monitoring medical expenses When reimbursing medical claims to health care plan members we always assess whether the expenses made are justified. First of all, we verify whether the treatment itself was justified, taking into account the underlying diagnosis. Secondly, we assess whether the expenses comply with levels that are reasonable and customary in the country where the treatment was given. These assessments require a continuous follow-up of health care developments and related costs worldwide. We are supported in this effort by our global network of 156 medical correspondents, with new correspondents in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the Barbados, Guinea, Bangladesh, Austria, Hong Kong, Haiti and Cameroon. 2.3. Increased ‘medicalisation’ of Vanbreda International Vanbreda International is specialised in health insurance services to expatriates worldwide and is trying to meet an increasing customer demand for health management and advice. Therefore, we decided to make the extension of our Medical Board a top priority. Apart from the medical consultants in Belgium, Italy, Chile and Malaysia, the Philippines, India and Afghanistan, our inhouse medical board has now extended with medical consultants in Brazil and Senegal. This extension confirms our strong global position and presence when it comes to its knowledge of regional medical cultures, the follow-up of reasonable and customary expenses, case management and the detection of possible fraud. 2.4. Solid case management capacities Our international team of case managers helped our clients save more than 2 million USD in 2010. In consultation with the patient and his treating doctor(s), Vanbreda International’s case managers look for economical alternative treatments, discuss the length of stay and negotiate case specific rates (on top of the ones already agreed with our Provider Relations department). They keep close contact with the patient throughout the admission process. Day in, day out, our case management team strives to find the right balance between our insured members’ comfort and well-being and helping our clients to keep their benefits costs to sustainable levels. Valuing our clients 9 2011 Client seminar Every two years, Vanbreda International organises a client seminar about a relevant theme in the field of international employee benefits. The main purpose of the seminar is to raise awareness and increase knowledge of participants. In 2011, our seminar focused on cost management in international health care with representatives from 40 different Intergovernmental Organisations attending the event. Experts from the academic and business world updated our clients on the best-in-class cost management practices introducing additional tools for improving the health and overall well-being of their workforce. 2.5. Surveys on specific topics Our clients expect our advice to be well-founded and realistic. To this end, we make use of our extensive database of medical information to make analyses and organise surveys on specific topics such as preventive care, disease management, the impact of ageing on health care costs, trends in disability management and return to work policies and other topics. We work closely with specialised institutions and academics to perform these surveys. In December 2010 we have renewed the content and format of our ongoing client satisfaction survey. The new survey now focuses on the plan members’ perception of our customer service, the availability and clarity of information provided and our direct payment service. We have also added the Net Promotor Score 9 question on recommendation to others: ‘How likely is it that you will recommend our services to a friend or colleague?’. The score of this question allows for cross-sector comparison of customer feedback. To keep a high response rate and modernise the survey we have published it on an online platform. Plan members now receive either an invitation by e-mail or by paper and in both we ask them to complete the survey online. Not only does the online completion of the survey make it easier for plan members to respond, it also makes reporting easier as all data are available online in real-time. The survey is sent out to a 1% random selection of members having claimed with us and can be completed in 7 languages. 9 For more information on the Net Promotor Score, see www.netpromotorscore.com. Valuing our clients 10 Implementation of our 10 principles of Customer Care Keeping our customers satisfied is key to pursue our current service level. We have defined 10 principles of Customer Care to remind us of our commitment to our customers every day. They are built around 3 key values: Respect, Responsiveness and Reliability. These principles are implemented in every department and carried out in every activity we engage ourselves in. An internal launch campaign created awareness of our Customer Care Charter amongst our employees. This campaign entailed posters with the 10 principles hung on all departments, a 10-week quiz with reallife situations and multiple choice answers. At the end of the campaign, the 3 quiz winners were awarded a special prize and all employees received a campaign related gadget to show our appreciation for all the hard work they put in every day. Our 10 principles of Customer Care 1. We treat customers with respect and dignity by being courteous, helpful and honest. We make sure not to discriminate on whatever basis. 2. We empathise with our customers, treating them how we wish to be treated ourselves. 3. We handle requests with care and we treat information in confidence. 4. We make sure to respect timings and deadlines. We deal with inquiries, handle complaints and correspond within the timescale agreed. 5. We prefer personal and direct communication. We transfer calls directly to the right colleague. 6. We listen to our customers and take into account their personal needs & issues. 7. We provide accurate and complete information in the customer’s preferred language. We explain decisions and give advice in a clear and knowledgeable manner. We acknowledge and respond rapidly to complaints. 8. We ask our customers for feedback on our services (via our client satisfaction survey) in order to continually improve the quality of service we provide. 9. We ensure that the quality of services and products is at the best possible level. 10. We train our staff appropriately so that they can provide the high standards of quality service Vanbreda International stands for. Valuing our clients 11 2.6. Proximity to clients In recent years, Vanbreda International has made substantial investments to be close to where its clients and plan members are based by opening additional sales and claims processing offices, hiring local representatives and extending its international network of medical correspondents. Today, we have local offices, sales and/or local representatives in Europe (Belgium, our headquarters, Italy and Switzerland), the Middle East (United Arab Emirates), Africa (Kenya and South Africa), Asia (Malaysia), Latin America (Chile) and North America (U.S.A.). With Claims Processing Offices in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Antwerp (Belgium) and Miami (USA), we are present in three time zones so that our customers globally have the best possible access to us for communication and smooth claims handling purposes. 2.7. Extension of our online services Vanbreda International strives to make the administration of medical plans easier, swifter and less time-consuming for its plan members and plan administrators. In the past year, we have expanded two of our most prominent online services to more clients and developed a new service: • Thanks to Settlements online details, plan members can consult their reimbursement details online. • Online Claiming enables plan members to submit their claims electronically. • With the online insurance certificate plan members and administrators can download an individual insurance certificate. 2.8. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network We have started leveraging Cigna’s strong USA provider network. We are currently implementing access to this network for various clients. This effort results in an improved customer service for plan members seeking care in the USA and important cost savings for our clients. Valuing our clients 12 2.9. Regular assessment of health care needs Every year we perform a detailed analysis of each client’s medical claims history. These analyses can reveal new cover needs that had not yet been included in the health care plan. In such cases, we will advise our clients to adjust their plans to better meet the health care requirements of their employees and their families. At the same time, the analyses of the plan’s experience helps to raise awareness about the cost of the plan both for employers and employees. Disease management – pilot project for HIV/AIDS patients It has always been a top priority for us and our clients to provide HIV/AIDS patients with optimal health care access without concerns for the financial aspect, confidentiality or stigmatisation. With this in mind, we initiated a pilot project with one of our clients in April 2010 in 9 African countries. It consists of disease management in tight cooperation with the patient’s treating physician, and of psychological and treatment advice. In practice, the first step consists in identifying the affected plan members, as well as their dependants. In this respect, on-site Voluntary Counselling and Testing sessions (VCT) are organised, the results of which are used to interact with the patients directly, without involving the client. Once in the program, the patients are guided and granted access to the best possible (proactive) medical care. The patient’s health is actively followed up and managed, by monitoring lab results and controlling the intake of medication. The project has been running for several months. An assessment has been conducted. The overarching conclusion is that the project should be continued as it delivers successful results for both patients and our client, their employer. The project saves lives: additional HIV/AIDS infections have been averted and most importantly, patients’ lives are extended as Disability-Adjusted Life Years are saved. It also contributes to breaking down stigma and discrimination around HIV/AIDS. Finally, it proves to be cost-effective with an expected, significant return on investment. This positive evaluation encourages us not only to further enhance and expand the project, but also to use the lessons learnt in the broader context of the development of a global disease management program. Valuing our clients 13 2.10. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network Our Provider Relations department manages and monitors the worldwide Vanbreda International network of medical service providers. This network grows with the needs of our clients, new and existing ones. Providers who sign up to our network agree to apply direct payment for our plan members and/or preferential rates for the health care services they provide. In June 2011, Vanbreda International had 8,262 direct payment and/or preferential rate agreements with medical service providers worldwide. This is an increase of 5.7% compared to last year (7,816 agreements on 30 June 2010). The maintenance and further development of such a provider network would not be possible without optimal relationships with and proximity to those providers worldwide. To achieve this, we largely invest in face-to-face contact between our Medical Network Managers and providers. Between July 2010 and June 2011, we thus visited 747 medical service providers in 42 different countries. The importance of Vanbreda International’s direct payment agreements Direct payment agreements ensure that we pay hospital bills – as well as medical bills for outpatient care – directly and promptly to the medical service provider. This service facilitates access to health care as it reduces out-of-pocket expenses for plan members and thus the impact on their financial situation. Furthermore, Vanbreda International has obtained preferential rates from many providers, an added means of keeping health care costs under control. This has a positive impact on the aggregate claims expenditure and limits premium and contribution increases for health care plan members and their employers. Counts of medical service providers we have an agreement with All Providers June 2011 300 > 3.000 30 > 300 5 > 30 1 >5 Valuing our employees 14 3. Valuing our employees 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being Our employees are at the heart of our activities and they represent our most precious asset. We consider their wellbeing of paramount importance. “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall provide a safe and healthy working environment as set forth in relevant international instruments and national legislation as well as international human rights and humanitarian law.” 10 Our policies are aligned with international principles as well as national legislation in Belgium, the USA and Malaysia. We established a prevention policy, aimed at taking care of the physical and mental health of our employees and calling upon every employee to help ensure his/her own health, safety and well-being and that of his/her colleagues and to maintain a clean and environmental-friendly workplace. 11 The means to put these ideas into practice are based on a combination of labour regulations and practical provisions, targeted at promoting physical and mental well-being. Physical well-being • Employees’ safety New employees are informed about our safety guidelines, and how to identify, evaluate and appropriately act upon dangers and risks. We stress the importance and regularly remind employees of order and tidiness guidelines. One of these is the ‘clean desk’ policy, as an orderly workplace is a first condition to prevent accidents and provide easy access to fire extinguishers and emergency exits. Unfortunately, not all accidents or injuries can be avoided, which is why we work in close cooperation with an external service for work-related accidents. Each incident is evaluated and results in an improvement of preventive measures whenever possible. Employees are encouraged to report defects, complaints and suggestions for improvement via dedicated communication channels. The following table includes the number of employee accidents at work and on the road to work for the last three years. None of these accidents resulted in permanent working incapacity or death. Accidents at work Accidents on the road to work 2010 0 7 2009 0 4 2008 2 10 Vanbreda International organises fire drills for the fire intervention team, and the people in charge of evacuation and first aid on a regular basis. These exercises relate to fire prevention, reporting a fire, warning about fire and the various types of fire, appropriate extinguishing agents, familiarity with the layout of the building and evacuation instructions. Every month, all alarm signals are tested. After each fire drill a performance report is drawn up and discussed with the Committee for Prevention and Safety at Work. 10 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 7. 11 Vanbreda International’s prevention policy is laid out in its Policy statement on well-being. Valuing our employees 15 Business Continuity Plan In order to be able to respond to all kinds of disasters (accidents, emergencies, threats, etc) without stopping our operations we have designed and implemented a Business Continuity Plan. In October 2010 we tested an important part of the recovery of ICT infrastructure. The test was carried out very successfully, timing was fully respected and the test even finished one hour earlier than planned. • Internal medical service An Occupational Health Physician (OHP) and nurse are present at our offices once every two weeks. The OHP examines new employees, follows up on prolonged sickness and gives all staff working with computer screens a sight test every three to five years. He is also responsible for the annual influenza vaccination campaign. In 2010, 70 employees were vaccinated. The OHP is available for employees who wish to consult him about work-related medical complaints. From the age of 40, all employees are entitled to a complete medical check-up every 3 years. • Further investment in in-house medical emergency equipment Two Automated External Defibrillators or AED appliances are placed in strategic locations in our Antwerp building: on the top floor in our cafeteria and on the ground floor next to the reception desk. In order to make sure that these appliances are handled correctly, our team of first aiders have received an extra training to provide first assistance before the emergency services can take over treatment of the patient. • Non-smoking policy Our labour regulations include a smoking ban in all offices. • Preventive alcohol and drug policy As from 1 April 2010 a preventive alcohol and drug policy was included in our labour regulations because workrelated alcohol and drug use is a possible factor that can negatively affect the safety, health and well-being of the employee and his or her environment. Moreover, it might also have a negative impact on the productivity and the work-quality and, as such, on our image as a company. Mainly, this policy has been established as a means of prevention. • Ergonomics, health and comfort We attach great importance to ergonomics. The following extract from our ISO quality manual reflects this concern: “Creating a pleasant working environment is a key element at Vanbreda International. The Workplace Health and Safety Adviser ensures that all employees are able to work in the best possible conditions.” Valuing our employees 16 To eliminate ergonomic risks, our Internal Department for Prevention and Safety at Work gives general as well as personalised advice on taking preventive measures. Such measures include positioning computer screens to avoid flickering and allow proper lighting, and finding the right furniture to support correct posture. Employees are informed of the symptoms of Repetitive Strain Injury, eye disorders and other typical health problems associated with poor ergonomics. They are encouraged to prevent these injuries or to address them by taking the appropriate measures. To this end, we invest in high-quality ergonomic office furniture for all employees. The ergonomist visits our headquarters six times per year. • Promoting physical exercise We encourage our employees to stay fit and practice sports. Employees who come to work by bike are financially rewarded with a bicycle allowance per kilometre. It has been raised from 0.20 EUR to 0.21 EUR. Our ‘Plan S’ is a company-wide initiative to encourage our employees to improve their physical condition. Within the framework of the Sports Plan, we took a number of initiatives for our employees: − We negotiated an agreement with a local fitness centre so that employees enjoy a substantial discount; − We took part in ‘Bicycle day’, an initiative organised by the city of Antwerp to encourage people to leave their car at home and go to work by bike; − All employees of Vanbreda International could go for a swim during lunch break. Whether to stay in shape or to improve their swimming technique, every participant benefited from the advice of a swimming coach. An individual training schedule was drawn up by our swimming instructor. • Cafeteria To support a more comprehensive approach to our employees’ health and fitness, we decided to offer more than just sports facilities. The menu in the cafeteria is both healthy and diverse including fresh fruit every day and fresh soup that are free of charge. Our employees can also choose from a wide variety of salads, sandwiches, pastry and desserts. Mental well-being • Protection of personal integrity In line with international and national law, we have set up a specific procedure to protect employees against violence, bullying and sexual harassment at work which is applicable in our offices worldwide. We included the complaint procedure in our labour regulations, whereas a personal confidant was installed who can be contacted by possibly victimised employees. • Company policies Although we are confident that everyone is aware of the applicable laws and regulations, we have decided to include them in our company policy. Divided into 2 separate documents: compliance and ethics, on the one hand, and travel, expenses, entertainment and gifts policy, on the other hand, our company policy is published on our Intranet for easy access by all employees. Valuing our employees 17 • Sustainable work–life balance “Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay”. 12 In support of this principle, our labour regulations and collective labour agreements allow several possibilities to improve our employees’ work–life balance. Depending on local labour practice, laws and legislation, these include options such as flex time, a choice of part-time packages, and time credit/career breaks. • Social events In order to create a good working atmosphere, we uphold a tradition of organising social events on a regular basis such as company parties, team-building activities, family days and cultural events. This tradition is an integral part of our company identity. 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point of view We endorse the international principles of freedom of association and collective bargaining as described in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights. “Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for the protection of his interests. Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall ensure freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining by protecting the right to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organization concerned, to join organizations of their own choosing without distinction, previous authorization, or interference, for the protection of their employment interests and for other collective bargaining purposes as provided in national legislation and the relevant conventions of the International Labour Organization.” 13 We encourage an open and constructive dialogue between employer and employees. In line with the relevant national legislation 14, our internal regulations describe the composition and duties of the Works Council. 12 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 20. 13 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 9. 14 Bedrijfsorganisatiewet (1948), Royal Decree of 15 May 2003 and of 27 November 1973. Valuing our employees 18 3.3. Aiming to be an attractive and equal opportunity employer “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as provided in the relevant international instruments and national legislation as well as international human rights law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, age – except for children, who may be given greater protection – or other status of the individual unrelated to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of complying with special measures designed to overcome past discrimination against certain groups.” 15 We support international standards on equal employment and remuneration opportunities. Consequently, we aim to provide fair remuneration and growth opportunities, and to foster diversity. A fair and competitive remuneration package for everyone “Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social protection. 16 Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall provide workers with remuneration that ensures an adequate standard of living for them and their families. Such remuneration shall take due account of their needs for adequate living conditions with a view towards progressive improvement.” 17 We apply a remuneration policy based on objective criteria such as responsibilities, skills, expertise, experience and personal performance. We provide a broad package of fringe benefits to all employees. Depending on local legislation and ‘good employer’ practice, this may include group insurance (pension/death), health care benefits and protection against work incapacity. Salaries and fringe benefits are being determined without taking into consideration or discriminating against gender, religion, ethnic background or physical handicap. Every individual staff member is entitled to transparency concerning his or her remuneration package. We will use appropriate means to offer this transparency, such as a correct and detailed employment contract, staff rules, collective bargaining agreements, internal communication vehicles such as an intranet, and personal benefit statements. Training and personal growth Continuous learning opportunities are an important motivator and a condition for job satisfaction. We attach great importance to the professional and personal development of our employees. Each new employee completes a training schedule aimed at acquiring the knowledge and skills required in several fields (commercial, technical, administration, communication). Employees with new responsibilities or in need of developing additional skills receive appropriate internal or external training. All types of training are registered, monitored and evaluated. In 2010, Vanbreda International organised a total of 1,125 training days, which corresponds to 3.07 training days per employee. We especially invested in in-house language courses offered throughout the year (except for the school holidays) during lunch time. Participants can choose between English, French, German and Dutch (for the employees who do not have Dutch as their native language). Apart from language training, PC skills and medical terminology remain important focus points in our training offer. 15 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 2. 16 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. 17 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 8. Valuing our employees 19 The table below shows the total number of hours of training of our headquarters’ staff for the calendar year 2010: Hours per training type 8,329.8 General training 479.7 Study leave Company system 2,645.5 Study leave Legal sytem 273.8 EHBO 73.0 Management training 74.6 Network 62.6 PC training 129.5 Personal coaching 14.8 Seminar / teambuilding 2.5 Language training 2,264.5 Skills 1,227.9 Technical training 1,081.3 Education Savings Account Every academic year, each management staff member receives a credit on his/her personal Education Savings Account, which (s)he can spend on his/her professional development. The balance of this budget can be transferred to the next academic year. Selecting the best people, regardless of nationality, ethnic background, age, gender or physical condition “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as provided in the relevant international instruments and national legislation as well as international human rights law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, social status, indigenous status, disability, age – except for children, who may be given greater protection – or other status of the individual unrelated to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or of complying with special measures designed to overcome past discrimination against certain groups.” 18 • Equal remuneration “Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal pay for equal work.”19 We endorse the collective labour agreement 20 regarding the equal remuneration for male and female employees. This agreement is an integral part of our labour regulations. The principle of equal remuneration implies that for equal work of equal value every difference regarding the sexes is abolished. In practice, this means that we have committed ourselves to making sure that the company’s performance review system does not lead to discrimination. • Fostering diversity We commit ourselves to fostering diversity among our employees and not to discriminate based on gender, age, nationality or ethnic background. At the end of 2010, we employed people of more than 26 different nationalities and origins. Worldwide, 440 people work for Vanbreda International. 18 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 2. 19 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. 20 CAO no 25 of 15 October 1975, modified by the CAO no 25 b of 19 December 2001. Valuing our employees 20 Vanbreda International’s age structure on 30 June 2011 is as follows: Age bracket Number of employees < 20 years 1 20 – 29 years 139 30 – 39 years 181 40 – 49 years 93 50 – 59 years 26 We signed the Diversity Declaration of the Employers’ Platform for Diversity, a collaborative initiative of UNIZO (Flemish Union of Independent Entrepreneurs), VOKA (Flemish Chambers of Commerce) and VKW (Christian Employers’ Organisation). Our company agrees with the basic principles of the Declaration and is making every effort to implement them within the organisation. Specifically, our commitments are as follows: • We seek to make our personnel policy as objective as possible. We achieve this by ensuring that: the recruitment and selection process focuses on the competencies of candidates and offers equal opportunities to everyone; training and developmental opportunities are the same for everyone; the salary policy is non-discriminatory; people of foreign origin, people with a work handicap and older employees, etc. can also apply for jobs and be hired. • We evaluate how we formulate vacancies and which recruitment channels we use to reach a diverse group of candidates. We make the selection interview and the practical tests objective. • We do not comply with discriminating conditions that are imposed by clients or other external parties. • We demand respect for all employees and do not tolerate discrimination between colleagues on the basis of origin, age, gender and sexual preference, etc. • Both inside and outside the company, we make people aware that we are a member of the ‘Employers’ Platform for Diversity’. Valuing our environment 21 4. Valuing our environment “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall carry out their activities in accordance with national laws, regulations, administrative practices and policies relating to the preservation of the environment of the countries in which they operate, as well as in accordance with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, responsibilities and standards with regard to the environment as well as human rights, public health and safety, bioethics and the precautionary principle, and shall generally conduct their activities in a manner contributing to the wider goal of sustainable development.” 21 We comply with the ecological requirements determined by international principles, Belgian environmental legislation and the ‘Welzijnswet’ (Law on Well-being). We have translated this commitment into systems to prevent, minimise and compensate any harmful impact on the environment. This includes initiatives at employee and company level. 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness When joining our company, employees are informed of our environmental policy and their individual responsibility to conform to this policy. These responsibilities are related primarily to sorting waste on the one hand and saving natural resources on the other. Sorting waste We have set up guidelines on how to sort and minimise waste. Separate bins for paper, glass, dangerous waste and organic material are placed within reach of every employee. Saving natural resources Employees are explicitly encouraged to save energy by turning off lights and electrical devices whenever possible, using heating and ventilation moderately, and avoiding waste of water. By means of financial and practical incentives, employees are encouraged to come to work by bike or public transport, or to carpool. The following table displays Vanbreda International’s annual consumption of natural resources: Resource 2010 2009 2008 Electricity 967,000KWh 1,004,500 KWh 935,800 KWh Gas 774,000 KWh 728,600 KWh 698,600 KWh Tap water 3,500 m³ 3,000 m³ 3,800 m3 The increase in gas consumption between 2009 and 2010 is mainly due to the exceptionally hard winter of 2010/2011. In 2010, we managed to bring our electricity consumption down by 4%. The lower temperatures of the summer 2010 account for this decrease as well as our decision to replace regular desktop computers with thin clients from January 2011 on. A thin client is a simple computer terminal that provides the user a graphical user interface while all remaining functionalities are provided by the server. It allows for a quicker start-up and more cost-effective management, as well as energy saving. 80% of our desktop computers have now been replaced, allowing a yearly 7% savings on our global electricity consumption. We provide the Belgian government with an annual environmental report on our performance in terms of waste production as well as emission and energy consumption (Integraal Milieujaarverslag – IMJV). 21 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 14. Valuing our environment 22 Company-wide initiatives Ecology – Vanbreda International receives ‘CO2 Neutral’ Certificate Since 2006, Vanbreda International has implemented an increasing number of measures to live up to its commitment of achieving CO2 neutrality. For the calendar year 2010, we obtained a CO2 offsetting for the compensation of each of the 1,464 tonnes of in-house CO2 emissions. Not only is this certificate the result of our financial support to a CO2-reducing project in Northern India (see project description below), but also by implementing the following green measures: • the promotion of carpooling and the use of public transport and bicycle for commuting; • the installation of an energy-saving warmth regulation system for heating and cooling; • the use of a passive cooling technique with a night cooling system by ventilation; • the installation of automatic lighting timers in the hallways; • the use of green electricity since December 2009, which avoided an amount of 252 tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 2010 (17% of our actual emissions). CO2 offsetting: financing of a CO2-reducing project in Rajasthan, North India Our staff frequently travels by air to visit clients and medical service providers worldwide. Moreover, we create considerable CO2 emissions due to our daily business activities at our offices, our fleet and our employees’ commuting. As a socially responsible company, we decided to offset all our CO2 emissions in 2006 by investing in a CO2-reducing project and are still doing so. Countering our CO2 emissions means that for each ton of CO2 discharged, we invest in a biomass project in India the amount of money needed to produce an equal reduction in CO2 emissions. This project produces renewable energy from sustainably grown biomass from local agricultural products, such as rice husk, cotton stalk and paddy straw. Not only does this conversion generate ‘green’ power, but it also contributes to the local economy. The project creates CO2 emissions reductions of ca 50,000 tons annually. It has received the official UNFCCC 22 certificate. The table below shows the amounts of CO2 compensated since 2008: Year Amount of CO2 compensated (tons) 2010 1,464.00 2009 1,303.70 2008 1,019.30 22 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change: www.unfccc.int Our ethics 23 5. Our ethics We strive to set an example of ethical and transparent business conduct by taking initiatives in favour of ethical conduct of employees, combating money laundering and discouraging insurance fraud. With regard to business ethics, Cigna is at the forefront of implementing and maintaining best corporate practices. It is deeply committed to creating and upholding a culture of ethical behaviour across the company. These efforts are supported by formal procedures as well as regular checks and balances to make sure ethical behaviour is not only a mindset, but also properly secured through a formal system. Both culture and procedures are kept alive through training and awareness actions. Even though Vanbreda International is already strongly aligned with Cigna and has sound policies and procedures, we are currently strengthening our operations even more by introducing Cigna’s best practices and intensifying staff trainings and awareness on these subjects. 5.1. Company code of conduct Our labour regulations describe our general commitment regarding attitude and conduct at work. New employees are clearly informed of these guidelines. 5.2. Combating money laundering We comply with Belgian Anti-Money Laundering Legislation, which complies with the relevant European Union directives. The legislation imposes a number or rules with a view to preventing money laundering. An internal working group received certified training on these legislative requirements. They have drawn up a scenario for primary supervision and provided thorough training for all employees concerned. 5.3. Combating health insurance fraud Health insurance, especially in an international context, is typically prone to fraud. Medical insurance fraud is a serious offence, which leads in the long run to other medical plan members becoming the major victims. Protecting our clients’ financial interests is one of our top priorities. To this end we developed a detailed anti-fraud policy aimed at preventing, detecting, investigating, reporting and recovering fraud. Vanbreda International has been a member of the European Healthcare Fraud and Corruption Network (EHFCN) since July 2009. This international non-profit organisation based in Brussels aims at reducing fraud and corruption in health care throughout Europe. Our membership is evidence to our willingness to enhance our in-house anti-fraud expertise. Preventing fraud and raising awareness We maintain close working relationships with a worldwide network of medical service providers, whom we have thoroughly screened in terms of quality and trustworthiness. In addition, we count on health care plan members’ sense of responsibility to avoid fraudulent activities. We appeal to them to counter malicious practices and to work towards a balanced and financially healthy medical insurance plan. We guarantee strict confidentiality and a thorough investigation of each individual complaint. Our ethics 24 Detecting fraud During the processing of health insurance claims, various checks are performed with the goal of minimising the risk of unjustified reimbursements. We assess each claim on the basis of what is typical, customary and reasonable in terms of treatments as well as costs. Thorough training and geographical specialisation enable our Claims Analysts to recognise possible deviations at an early stage. We will contact the medical service provider directly if necessary. The in-house availability of speakers of various foreign languages as well as a large documentation (databases; rates and tariffs; locally and internationally used codes for diagnoses, treatments and procedures; information on local health care systems; etc.) provide additional instruments for correct claims adjudication, cost containment and fraud control. Investigation by our Fraud Investigation Unit During and after the processing of a claim, a fraud investigation may be opened by our Fraud Investigation Unit. In the case of strong presumption of fraud, special procedures are initiated to obtain written evidence. Created in 2008, our Fraud Investigation Unit plays a vital role in our anti-fraud strategy. Its tasks are to: • continuously update our fraud policy and strategy; • deal with the operational work involved in the thorough investigation of a file once it has been flagged as a potential fraud file; • collect evidence to substantiate suspected fraud cases; • take the necessary actions to recover defrauded money and installs an anti-fraud culture amongst health care insurance plan members; • ensure fraud reporting to the clients; • improve fraud detection mechanisms for retrospective identification of fraudulent cases. The Fraud Investigation Unit role is essential in order for us to increase our knowledge through practical experience of fraud problems tackled and to ensure that future preventive measures are up to date with the reality of the fraud risks that we face. It closely cooperates with the Medical Claims Units where possible fraud monitoring is an important part of the claims handling process as well and where new fraud files often will be initiated. The Fraud Investigation Unit can also rely on international networks to keep informed of all new health care fraud trends and techniques. Cross-reference table 25 Cross-reference table This table contains a cross-reference guide between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and Vanbreda International’s Progress Report 2011. UN Global Compact Principle: Vanbreda International Page Business should … … support and respect the protection of internationally Valuing our clients proclaimed human rights 2/3 1/2 7 – 20 Valuing our employees … ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses … support the elimination of all forms of forced and 3 Valuing our employees 4/5 compulsory labour 11 – 20 … support the effective abolition of child labour … uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Valuing our employees 3 11 – 20 recognition of the right to collective bargaining … support the elimination of discrimination in respect 3 Valuing our employees 6 11 – 20 of employment and occupation … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Valuing our … undertake initiatives to promote greater 4 7/8/9 21 – 22 environment environmental responsibility … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Valuing our clients … work against corruption in all its forms, including 7 – 19 2/3/5 Valuing our employees 10 extortion and bribery 23 – 24 Our ethics
