Chairman’s Message Dear Shareholders, Customers, Partners and Employees, On behalf of the Board of Directors of TFP Solutions Berhad (“TFP” or “TFP Group”), I am pleased to present the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 (“FYE 2010”). 2010 Economic Outlook supported by a steady regional demand. Business Growth Potential Growth was recorded in all sectors of the The world economic recovery which economy with the ICT sector growing by Going forward, the business environment started in 2009, continued into 2010, an estimated 13.4%. However within the will continue to be competitive and accelerating in the first half of the year due ICT sector, growth in the sub-sector that challenging. The projected GDP growth to inventory restocking and the low base the company is engaged in, stagnated. of 5.2% in 2011 and rising to 5.5% in effect before tapering off towards the end 2012, ICT spending growth of 9% as of the year. The world economy expanded Financial Performance estimated by WITSA and PIKOM and by 5% in 2010 led by the strong economic the implementation of the government’s performance of the Asian NewlyFaced with the challenges posed by Economic Transformation Programme Industrialised Economies. However the the ICT sub-sector stagnation and initiatives, present ample business gradual depreciation of the US currency operational cost escalation, TFP Group opportunities for TFP Group to pursue. coupled with the rise in oil and commodity managed to close the 2010 financial year What is required is for the Group to adopt prices have led regional economies to with a revenue totaling RM38.4 million innovative yet flexible business model to experience rising inflationary pressures, compared with RM 61.4 million in the suit the changing needs and requirements resulting in the operational cost of most previous year. Although the revenue was of customers. Operational efficiency enterprises especially in Asia to escalate. comparatively lower, the product gross needs to be continuously monitored, margin was higher improving from 2.8% appropriately addressed and enhanced The Malaysian economy experienced in 2009 to 13.8% in 2010. However, to ensure that the operating margins similar growth trend with a strong GDP the escalation in the group’s business are not severely affected by the rising growth of 10.1% in the first quarter of operation cost structure due to high cost inflationary pressures and escalation in 2010 and slowing down to 4.8% in the of operation severely affected the Group’s cost of operation. fourth quarter. Overall the Malaysian operating margins resulting in the Group economy recorded a growth of 7.2%, recording a net loss of RM2.3 million for Undoubtedly, the year 2011 will continue driven by a robust domestic demand and financial year end 2010. to be challenging. Nevertheless, with the 4 TFP Solutions Berhad right business strategy, right product mix, home. WE firmly believe that education for your full commitment and tireless perseverance and commitment by all, is the root to success and these children efforts working as a team in delivering 2011 can turn out to be a better and more deserved the best. exceptional services to our customers rewarding year for TFP Group. during these difficult times. Our continuous efforts to promote Corporate Social environmental sustainability within the My heartfelt gratitude goes to all our organization are within our set targets. Shareholders for the confidence and trust Responsibility (CSR) Our energy saving and recycling in us over the past years. Please accept campaign where we actively pursue and our assurance that we will sustain and TFP has been actively promoting the promote have resulted in cultivating an move forward in expanding this business United Nations Global Compact corporate environment conscious culture amongst and seize every potential opportunity practices on human and labour rights, the employees. to achieve greater success. We shall the environment and anti-corruption. strive to go beyond our capabilities to TFP continues to be actively involved in shoulder this responsibility. Our sincere making social contributions towards the Acknowledgement appreciation also to our valued business local community especially in Puchong. associates, suppliers and financiers for Since 2009, the Company adopted an I would like to thank my fellow colleagues their support and continued faith in TFP. underprivileged home, “House of Joy”, who served with me on the Board, for their in Puchong under TFP’s CSR community invaluable support, dedication and loyalty To our valued customers, our sincere development project. Since then, we working together as a team charting the thanks for your faith and trust in our have conducted and organized computer way forward in these turbulent times for Group’s capabilities and strength, We and English language tuition classes the Group. hope the strength of this relationship will to these underprivileged children. In be mutually benefiting in the year 2011. addition to that, TFP has donated books To the Management Team and all and stationaries to the underprivileged employees of TFP, my sincere appreciation Dato’ Jamaludin Bin Hassan, Chairman annual report 2010 5 Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 TFP Solutions Berhad’s (TFP) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) core philosophy is based on the United Nations Global Compact principles. As such, our CSR objectives are as follows: • To be a socially responsible organization which promotes charitable cause, community service and a better quality of life • To protect and enhance our environment • To enhance employee wellbeing and better working conditions • To ensure our corporate strategy is ethical and operate honorably. In 2010, TFP has participated in a few CSR projects in accordance with our CSR objectives: 1. TFP is committed to leverage our core competency to bring a positive impact to the society. Since 2009, TFP has “adopted” an underprivileged home, “House of Joy”, in Puchong. House of Joy is a non-proﬁt charitable home that administers shelter, care and training to orphans, children and teens who are underprivileged, abused, abandoned, neglected, poor and/or delinquent. The activities that TFP participated in are: • Launch of PC Lab i. In 2009, TFP set-up a PC Lab in House of Joy ii. Official Launch of House of Joy’s PC Lab by Guest of Honour, Selangor State Senior Executive Councillor YB Teresa Kok on 24 June 2010 iii. TFP invited Dr. Mohd Nasir Bin Ismail from Pantai Hospital Klang as the speaker for The Health Talk during the launch iv. TFP donated Polo T-shirts to all the children and staff of House of Joy • Tuition Classes i. Weekly English Classes – Lena Lee ii. Bi-Monthly Computer Classes – Iskandar, Steve Lim, Helen Xu, Ho Wing Onn, Ng Chin Keong, Simon Chong • Mid Autumn Festival Celebration i. On 24 September 2010, TFP celebrated Mid Autumn Festival with the children of House of Joy at Bukit Jalil Golf & Country Resort ii. Fun games and creative activities were organized and conducted by TFP Sports Club “VGO” – Davinder Singh, Rohayu Binti Mohamed Shahrim, Steve Lim, Helen Xu, Lena Lee, Theresa Lim, Joyce Tan, Khong Cheh Lu iii. TFP donated books and stationery to all children of House of Joy 16 TFP Solutions Berhad Corporate Social Responsibility 2010 (cont’d) • Participation in House of Joy Charity Carnival, 19 December 2010 i. We assisted in the sale of tickets for the carnival amounting to RM3,000 – Lena Lee ii. TFP staff also participated as stall helpers in the carnival – Lena Lee, Chua Soo Wai, Steve Lim, Helen Xu and Dr. Chew Seng Poh & Family 2. To protect and enhance our environment, TFP embarked on an energy saving campaign within its organization since its launch in 2009. The objective of the campaign is to cultivate an energy saving conscious culture in the organization. In 2010, TFP has achieved a 10% reduction in our energy costs within its organization. Our target in 2011 is to reduce our energy saving cost by another 5%. 3. TFP has also embarked on a recycling campaign within its organization. The recycling campaign involves the following activities: • Reusing of printed papers • Installation of recycle bins within the organization • Disposal of recycle waste and e-waste to recycling companies For the year 2010, TFP has recorded an increase of 100% in our recycle waste collection compared to our recycle efforts in the year 2009. The recycling campaign has also resulted in 20% reduction of paper usage in TFP as compared to the previous year 2009. TFP will target to increase our waste recycle collection by another 20% and reduction of our paper usage by another 5%. In our effort to reduce our carbon footprint, TFP will promote IT waste recycling and IT energy saving campaign to our customers and suppliers. 4. To enhance employee wellbeing and better working conditions, TFP organized a 3 days 2 nights trip to Club Med Cherating for all staff on 29 – 31 October 2010. The Global Compact sets out ten principles that address issues of human rights, the labor market, environmental protection, and the battle against corruption. Thus the initiative establishes a framework for economic, ecological and social sustainability. TFP stands by these principles and actively implements them within the scope of its commercial activities. Thereby, TFP will adhere to the principles as stated below: • We will support and respect the internationally declared human rights within our spheres of influence • We will ensure we are not complicit in human rights abuses • We will maintain employees’ right to freedom of association and recognise employees’ right to collective bargaining • We aim to actively fight all kinds of forced labour • We aim to actively fight child labour • We aim to eliminate discrimination in the workplace • We will support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • We will undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • We will encourage the development and diffusion of environmentallyfriendly technologies • We will work against corruption, including extortion and bribery This CSR statement will serve as our COP (Communication On Progress) reporting to the United Nations Global Compact. annual report 2010 17
