GLOBAL COMPACT THE LOGO Communication On Progress JULY 2011 7.7.2011 Statement of Continued Support To whom it may concern I hereby express our continued support for the UN Global Compact initiative. Since our initial spport communication on year ago, the need for the Global Compact initiative has become even more relevant, and we are continuously working to fulfilling the principles of UNGP. As architects designing places of living, working and leisure we have a special focus on the principles regarding the environment. We work continuously with a mindfull approach to environmental challenges when designing. As landscape architects and urban consultants SLA provides landscape services and urban planning services to clients who makes the final decisions. Given the role as consultants our direct responsibility for decisions concerning construction work, labour, construction materials, etc. are limited. However, we always strive to encourage clients to choose solutions that promotes the Global Compact prInciples. We also collaborate with various partners and suppliers on the development and use of environmentally sound technologies and methods. As architects we have special focus on the UN Global Compact Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. SLA complies with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. All contracts with employees are based on agreements with Danish trade unions. The following pages describes actions and outcomes. This report covers the period from July 1st 2010 to July 1st 2011 Best regards Lene Dammand Lund Managing director page 2 Through its practise SLA is constantly enhancing the sustainability and environmental progress of our clients. One example is the urban space ’The City Dune’ in central Copenhagen (completed autum 2010). Using processes previously only known from nature, The City Dune is Copenhagen’s first 100% acclimatized urban space. All rain water is recycled, and the white, folding concrete provides cooling on a micro-climate level, benefiting both client and regular citizens of Copenhagen. page 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. Internally SLA constantly secure that the company live up to the internationally proclaimed human rights with regards to the freedom of religion, the freedom of thought, and the equal rights of all individuals no matter their gender, sexual orientation or race. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks. Externally SLA works to support and secure that human rights are respected by all our clients and collaborators. INITIATIVES 2010-11 SLA has continually elected company safety representatives and made surveys among all employees about physical and psychical aspects of their work. A fair and open process in hiring new employees has been met, with no regards to the job applicants’ race, sex or religion. Furthermore we have engaged with a physiotherapist to ensure the best possible working conditions for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks, as well as keeping up-to-date with clients and collaborators through the UN Global Compact website and newsletters. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses SLA STATE OF ART SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions. When working abroad we constantly strive to secure that no human rights abuses take place by our clients or collaborators. This is acchieved by using official programmes and declarations of the appropriate countries. page 4 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining SLA STATE OF ART: SLA is upholding such a policy for all employees. All contracts with employees are based on agreements with a Danish trade union. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the respect and recoignition of the right to collective bargaining for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour SLA STATE OF ART At SLA all employees have individual contracts stating terms and conditions of service and stating notice of leave. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the respect and recoignition of free labour for all employees. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation which supports the abolition of child labour. Through its membership of the central Danish Architecture Association, SLA actively promotes the elimination of child labour both at home and abroad. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation SLA STATE OF ART: SLA has a recruitment policy that secures equal employment opportunities based solely upon an assessment of relevant qualifications in relation to the core business of SLA. SLA monitors the outcome of the company’s implementation through regular and extended employee talks. page 5 SLA puts great emphasis on employees’ rights. Through regular studio meetings and individual talks a constant dialouge between employers and employees is achieved. The staff choose their own safety repressantive. The right to collective bargaining is actively encouraged and supported by the company. page 6 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges SLA STATE OF ART: SLA continue to implement and develop the work made by the Danish Minister for Environment in her policy for urban policy concerning environmental sustainability. Initiatives 2010-11: SLA has included environmental consideration in all concepts for competition entries and we have invited experts to give lectures. SLA has published several articles and made interviews about environmental sustainability both at home and abroad. SLA has met with several government officials in several European and Asian countries to promote, explain and encourage sustainability and climate issues. SLA participated in the Norweigan Government’s pilot project for a carbon neutral city. The project, which was a parallell competition won by SLA, is the first step to make Norway 100% carbon neutral by 2030. SLA has through extensive R&D worked to include innovative environmental solutions in all its projects. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility SLA STATE OF THE ART: SLA encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in all possible projects where this is in the interest of the client. SLA also on its own initiative develops visions for landscape projects with the aim of taking forward the debate about environmental issues. Initiatives 2010-11 As Principle 7. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies SLA STATE OF ART AND INITITIVES: As Principle 7. page 7 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery SLA STATE OF ART: SLA comply with Danish National Legislation, which meets International conventions.Through our international collaborations we constantly work to seccure that no corruption or other illgal activities take place. page 8 Selected outcomes BRØSET | 100% Carbon Neutral City Location: Trondheim, Norway Client: Municipality of trondheim and The Government of Norway Design phase: 2010-11 Area: 35 ha. Realisation: 2012-17 Brøset is part of the Norwegian government’s ambitious climate goals: to get all Norwegian to go from using more than 14,000 kg of CO2 per year to less than 3000 kg. Brøset will be the prototype of a CO2-neutral city, where environmental sustainability also means social sustainability and quality of life for the individual. Brøset shows how a modern, sustainable urban life include architectural quality, outstanding community spirit and attractive ways to organize one’s everyday life in a sustainable way. The project includes sustainability strategies for landscapes, urban spaces, infrastructure, energy and resources and new forms of densification which combines the qualities of detached houses with the city’s collective services. The City Dune | SEB Bank Urban Space Location: Copenhagen, Denmark Client: SEB Bank Design phase: 2007-10 Area: 35 ha. Realisation: 2010 SEB’s new headquarters in Copenhagen Harbour is a green and welcoming urban space for both bank employees and city residents. The area is built up as a lush Swedish mountain side with a terrain that rises from street level to the second floor. Step and inclined surfaces creates a link between urban space and the two office buildings of different levels and allows for both play and stay. The urban space is Copenhagen’s first 100% acclimatized urban space: the white concrete surfaces reflect the sun, and rain water is collected and used to irrigate plantings and cooling of the urban space in summer. The urban space is the first in the development of the area of the former Copenhagen railroads. As such it is a pilot project for the future sustainable urban spaces of the Copenhagen. PROCESS URBANISM Location: Copenhagen, Denmark & Shanghai, China Realization: 2010-11 Type: Movie, Exhibition and Opinion Articles Modernist and postmodernist urban planning with predetermined and centrally determined functional division and aesthetics have proved to fail in a world in constant change. SLA meets this challenge with a landscape inspired planning method called process urbanism. Process urbanism is a method that uses the same logic as nature’s principles of organization. Nature and the city are not opposites or delimited units. They are diversified systems which combined should be balanced. Knowledge about wind, water, light, energy, circulation, politics, health, urban life, density, sustainability etc. is collected into one urban ecosystem, filled with poetry and surprises. page 9 SLA is dedicated to promote sustainability, eco-friendliness, and healthy living. These principles SLA incorporates in all our projects, wheter it is counseling, city planning or design of landscapes and urban spaces. SLA participates in the national and international debate on the architectural profession’s sustainability and is a leading reference in Denmark on urban climate change, the acclimatization of our cities and future development of the urban context. Through its practise it is SLA’s hope that it will encourage its client, colleagues and competitors to fullfill and promote the values and ideas of the United Nations Global Compact. page 10
