MAKING MODERN LIVING POSSIBLE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Communication on Progress 2010 The Danfoss Group COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2 Facts in brief Company structure Family-owned, global company (privately held) Danfoss is based in Nordborg, in southern Denmark. Number of employees More than 26,000 globally Global Presence 79 factories, 110 sales companies and more than 450 agents and distributors all over the world Certificates We care about the environment therefore all Danfoss’ factories must establish environmental management systems and have them and the most efficient use of resources. Danfoss has a long tradition certified according to the international standard ISO 14001. for a social responsibility towards both employees and the surrounding environment. Danfoss is one of the largest industrial companies in Denmark. The global group is a leader within research, development and producDanfoss has joined the UN Global Compact consisting of ten printion, sales and service of mechanical and electronic components for ciples within human rights, labor rights, environment and antiseveral industries. corruption. Thereby, Danfoss has made a commitment to report Danfoss has a large ownership share in one of the world’s leading annually on the company's progress and activities related to these manufacturers and suppliers of mobile hydraulics, Sauer-Danfoss. principles. This report, Danfoss Communication on Progress, mirrors Danfoss seeks to obtain its goals with a minimal consumption of raw our attitude to social and environmental responsibility issues and the materials and energy, the least possible impact on its surroundings impact of our activities on the surrounding communities. 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Corporate Citizenship at Danfoss Danfoss wishes to play an active role in a sustainable global developEngagement and dialogue ment where social responsibility, environmental and climate considThrough active dialogues with employees, leaders and external erations go hand-in-hand with sound business development. We stakeholders, Danfoss strives to act appropriately and adapt the make it a priority that we not only respond to the circumstances company’s processes and tools within Corporate Citizenship to the which have an immediate effect on the company, but also consider changing situation surrounding us. the trends that outlines the challenges of the future. Entering into dialogues with interested parties and NGOs is part of It is Danfoss’ overall target that the company is regarded in all matthis work and helps ensure that Danfoss is familiar with the basic ters as a responsible company that keeps its own house in good conditions of business operations in the countries where we are order. operating. Knowing about new laws or new initiatives introduced by organizations, or being challenged concerning our stances and poliPriorities and materiality cies, are valuable and necessary elements of the preparedness which Danfoss’ Corporate Citizenship reporting is verified by an external Danfoss constantly maintains in order to be able to meet global chalverifier. lenges. One of the main requirements here is for Danfoss to work with the Danfoss has therefore been one of initiators to establish Danish Busisignificant issues and leave out the minor things and reflect this in ness Network for Human Rights, a network of companies that opethe company’s reporting. Danfoss has, therefore, made an assessrates internationally and face many challenges related to human ment of what is material to us and to our stakeholders. The review is rights. The network is facilitated by the international human rights based on the guidelines of GRI – Global Reporting Initiative and the expert John Morrison from the Institute of Human Rights and Busiinternational standard ISO 26000. ness. Policies, tools and processes A number of internal processes and tools make sure that Danfoss’ policies regarding social responsibility, ethics and environmental issues are communicated and implemented. Danfoss’ Intranet and other internal media are important factors in the dissemination of, for example, the ethical guidelines. In addition, the Danfoss Ethics Hotline, the data collection based on surveys and the Code of Conduct information system provide useful information about adherence to the rules. Please refer to each Global Compact principle in this publication. Ethics Handbook In 2010, Danfoss revised its Ethics Handbook, which incorporates ethical guidelines for employees throughout the Group. In order to make sure that the guidelines in the Ethics Handbook are translated into action, all leaders with employees reporting to them must sign a commitment to fulfill the guidelines and communicate the contents to their employees. The Ethics Handbook was distributed to all of the 17,373 employees The assessment shows that the most important are ”Working envi(excl. Sauer-Danfoss) in mid-December 2010, so it was not possible ronment”, ”Labor practices”, ”Anti-corruption”, ”Supply chain”, ”Societo ensure full implementation before the end of the 2010. However, ty & Community”, ”Products & Services”, ”Recruitment & Retention”, 91% of the leaders have stated that they intend to adhere to the ”Fair marketing & Anti-trust” and ”Climate change” (see chart). guidelines. The remaining signatures will be collected during April Please also refer to the GRI table at the back of the report or to Dan2011. foss’ homepage: www.danfoss.com. 4 Unethical behavior (nine), manipulation of time reporting (one), attempt of bribery (one), It is not possible to assess business ethics just by using the policies deceit in regard to travel reimbursements and other vouchers (four), and declarations of a given company. It is necessary to both ensure conflicts of interest, where the employee’s relations to other compacorrect implementation and, subsequently, measure whether the nies have caused the conflict of interest with Danfoss (12), violation implementation was effective. For this purpose, Danfoss applies of Danfoss’ policies (eight), gross and disloyal conduct (four) and one ‘People Manager Survey’, a questionnaire about business ethics sent case which does not easily fit into any of the above categories. to 2,040 leaders with subordinates. A total of 1,888 leaders, which is 92% of all people managers, responded to the survey. In cases which involve the suspicion of bribery, it is often difficult to lift the burden of proof of the alleged bribery or the attempt thereof, The responses show that 36 employees were dismissed or made the but in spite of such difficulty, the Danfoss Group deems it extremely decision to leave Danfoss due to unethical behavior in 2010. To this important to investigate such matters because of the fact that they should be added four dismissals which were reported only via Danare violations of the Danfoss Group’s indisputable guidelines. foss’ Ethics Hotline, amounting to a total of 40 dismissals. This is an increase compared with 2009, when the number was 29. Furthermore, the cases are criminal cases (in most jurisdictions). When the suspected party is confronted with the suspicion of briThe causes of the 40 dismissals or voluntary resignations due to unbery, the person in question often chooses to hand in his or her noethical behavior are: theft and unethical use of company funds tice. The recorded attempt of bribery took place in Asia. 5 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Our commitment Actions and results We will respect human rights, both in our companies and in our Social responsibility at Danfoss is about treating our employees despheres of interest, such as our suppliers. To live up to this, we will: cently, promoting mutual development and giving support to those • Build human rights competencies in the organization needing it. But it is also about being socially responsible in a global • Assess the human right standard in the countries where we have context. Therefore Danfoss joined the UN Global Compact in 2002. or plan to set up production • Engage in a dialogue of human rights-related issues with our In addition to the central four labor rights, which will be discussed stakeholders later, human rights in a business context cover elements such as a good and safe working environment and respect for the individual, Guiding principles including the right to privacy and equal treatment. • Global Compact • ISO 26000 The most important tools used to ensure that Danfoss does not violate human rights are human rights training for relevant emPolicies ployees, typically leaders and executives. • Ethics Handbook • CSR policy In order to ensure that our commitment is followed in practice, Danfoss puts a lot of resources into monitoring the company’s perControl system formance within human rights, labor rights, environment and antiSince 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about corruption. human rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption of all of the group’s factories and sales companies. The right to privacy Danfoss conducted for the first time in 2009 a survey (People ManDanfoss aims to respect the privacy of employees as it is a fundaager Survey) amongst all managers with direct reports focusing on mental human right. For example, the company encourages the business ethics and compliance to certain legislative requirements. subsidiaries to be very cautious in carrying out health tests on emSelected companies are visited to explore their handling of social ployees and applicants, unless they have to carry out tests in accorresponsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue dance with local laws. Health tests are not allowed to be used for with the local management about Danfoss’ corporate citizenship discriminatory purposes and this is monitored and validated at activities. corporate level. The CSR Survey in 2010 shows that companies use various kinds of health tests, both in connection with new and The Danfoss Toolbox current employees. Often, the health tests are defined in accordance • CSR intranet portal with statutory regulations. • Dilemma game • On-site training in human rights aspects Employees Applicants • Country risk analysis Medical Examination 31 18 • Due diligence X-ray 11 7 Blood test 18 10 Stakeholder engagement Urine test 15 7 • Danish Business Network for Human Rights • Global Compact Nordic Network HIV/AIDS 0 0 • The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish Hepatitis 5 4 Industries • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human The companies using x-ray are from China, Poland and the Philiprights, business ethics and employee’s rights. pines where there is a risk of tuberculosis and in China the tests are 6 reported to be a wish from current employees to protect them and The policy establishes that our business activities must be planned the work place from infection. Danfoss’ chief physician assesses the and executed in consideration of the employee, the working enhealth risk of X-ray to be less than the risk of contracting tuberculosis vironment and the external world. of the lungs, thus the need for having x-ray is justified. The companies in questions have stated that the different health tests are not Around a third of Danfoss’ factories worldwide have been certified used for discriminatory purposes. Several of the companies do not according the working environment standard OHSAS 18001, while have access to the results of the health tests as the health testing is the remaining have incorporated working environment and safety outsourced to a local doctor, who assessed purely whether the apinto their environmental activities in accordance with the ISO 14001 plicant is able to work or not. This reduces the risk of discrimination. standard. As it is prohibited to enforce testing of Hepatitis in China, companies Work accidents must be very cautious when arranging the tests and this has been The number of work accidents has dropped since 1999, when the communicated to all Chinese companies. Further guidelines regardaccident rate exceeded 28. Since 1999, Danfoss has made consideing health tests will be issued during 2011. rable improvements in terms on reducing the number of work reUrine test is predominantly used as drug test in order to ensure a lated accidents. In 2010, the rate was 12.8, compared to 15.5 in 2009. safe working environment. Drug tests are primarily used in USA and The accident rate is defined as the number of accidents per 1 million Mexico. working hours. A safe and sound working life There were 184 accidents in 2010, resulting in at least one day’s abDanfoss has incorporated working environment and safety as elesence. The injured employees were absent for a total of 4,697 days, ments in all of its business activities, ranging from the customers, the which corresponds to an average of 25 days per accident. In 2009, design and product manufacturing processes to the maintenance of the average was 20 days, which means that the accidents taking buildings and plants. Making sure that all employees are thriving and place in 2010 were slightly more serious than those of the year beare not exposed to work-related danger is deeply rooted in Danfoss’ fore. culture. The factories in Glamsbjerg, Denmark, Danfoss Semco A/S in DenEvery company in the group prioritizes working environment and mark and Danfoss LPM in Poland all had an accident rate above 45. safety, as set out by Danfoss’ environmental and working environThe absence rate caused by accidents at Danfoss Commercial Comment policy, which defines the issues and target areas that the busipressors in France was around ten times higher than the overall Danness units must address. foss average (2.6 hours per 1,000 working hours). Specific action will be taken to reduce the accident rate and absence at these factories. 7 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 59% of the work accidents in 2010 were less serious, with less than ten days of absence, which is slightly below the 2009 level. The remaining accidents were more serious with absence rates exceeding ten days, of which 49 accidents resulted in the employee being absent for more than 20 days. Danfoss will intensify its efforts to bring down the number of accidents as well as avoidance of serious accidents. Hands and fingers remain the most exposed to injuries, accounting for 91 accidents. This number equals almost half of the accidents. 11% of the accidents resulted in injuries to the head, whereas the legs/feet and the remaining body parts represented 21% and 19% of the accidents, respectively. These figures are, on the whole, unchanged compared with previous years. For white collar the numbers on accidents are as follows; during 2010 there were 14 work-related accidents among salary paid (white The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation collar) employees. This is a fall by 33 % since 2009. The accidents The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation celebrated its 50th anniveroccurred in 9 companies and were mostly accidents with a few days sary in 2010 to mark its establishment in 1960. The purpose of the of absence. However, two accidents caused 11-19 days of absence foundation is to grant support to charitable projects and has, over and two other accidents caused more than 20 days of absence from the years, granted an amount equal to 356m DKK. The support was work. There has been a fall in accidents with a short absence period. for the most part granted in the local community surrounding headquarters in Nordborg, but as Danfoss expands and globalizes, support has been extended to also include Danfoss’ other sites in and outside Denmark. The foundation provides financial support for training and research, sports, art and culture and different charitable Engagement in local communities associations, among other things. The Havnbjerg windmill, near Nordborg, is operated and maintained Local commitment in the communities where Danfoss operates has via an annual grant. The windmill is open to the public and was origalways been a part of our company’s DNA, primarily in the local inally acquired and restored by Danfoss founder Mads Clausen. communities where the group has it largest operations. Therefore donations are a part of the Corporate Citizenship reporting and also In 2010, the Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation allocated 20.2m of this COP, despite that local commitment in terms of donations DKK to 412 recipients. The 10m DKK was granted to celebrate the from the three Danfoss Foundations is not a part of our Human foundation’s 50th anniversary and the support – of which the smalRights obligations. lest portions were 250,000 DKK – went to local projects within training, health activities, culture and sports. Several children’s and youth Danfoss Employee Foundation institutions received support; two were located outside Denmark. Danfoss Employee Foundation is a social foundation that works to provide consulting and financial support to employees in Danfoss In Slovenia, a center for treating children suffering from respiratory A/S, the Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation, associated companies diseases and psychological problems was granted financial support in Denmark or their Danish subsidiaries. This means that Sauerfor equine therapy, and a school in Mexico for poor children received Danfoss ApS and Danfoss Universe A/S, among others, are included. support for the roofing of an outdoor sports field. In 2010, the Employee Foundation gave financial support amounting to approx. 3m DKK and it dealt with around 300 cases which equals Among other major grants allocated during 2010 was the support the levels of the previous year. Many of the issues were related to for the victims of natural disasters around the world. 200,000 DKK poor financial situations caused by layoffs, divorce or stricter borrowwere given to Haiti and New Zealand, respectively, which were both ing terms at the banks. hit by severe earthquakes, and to Pakistan, which was affected by major flooding in many parts of the country. The Employee Foundation provided legal assistance in 300 cases. 8 double-digit million amounts have been granted for charitable purposes every year. And donations for health, education and research purposes are often the biggest ones. The foundation’s funds amount to around 50m DKK. The annual profit is 3-4m, adding annual contributions from the Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation, which owns almost half of the shares in Danfoss A/S. This means that total annual donations are between 10 and 15m DKK. Donations are granted five times every year to approx. 1,000 applicants, of which 350 receive support. The Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation Even though the Bitten and Mads Clausen Foundation does not receive applications in the normal sense, the foundation whose most important function is to be the owner of the Danfoss Group The Fabrikant Mads Clausen Foundation has made significant contridonates large annual amounts to the southern part of Jutland, in butions to charity in and outside Denmark over the past 50 years. particular. Over the past ten years, the Bitten and Mads Clausen But, there is a major difference between the first, small donations Foundation has granted approx. 800m DKK for projects of varying recorded in neat writing in the very first cash journals and the donasizes. tions amounting to several millions of today. Over the past five years, 9 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 2 Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment • Global Compact Nordic Network We will respect human rights, both in our companies and in our • The Sustainability network within the confederation of Danish spheres of interest, such as our suppliers. To live up to this, we will: Industries • Build human rights competencies • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human • Assess the human right standard in the countries where we have rights, business ethics and employee’s rights. or plan to set up production • Engage in a dialogue of human rights-related issues with our Actions and results stakeholders Responsible supply chain management From a company perspective, human rights also include a good and Guiding principles safe working environment. Having a global reach, Danfoss is not only • Global Compact responsible for its own actions, but also for the parts of our supply • ISO 26000 chain where we have contractual agreements and, as a consequence, exert direct influence. Policies • Ethics handbook Over the past ten years, Danfoss has carried out an increasingly large • CSR policy part of its procurement in low-cost countries. Of course, this places • Code of Conduct for suppliers heavy demands on both Danfoss and its suppliers to ensure a certain environmental and social standard. Control system All suppliers are required to sign the Danfoss Code of Conduct, Danfoss has 4,259 suppliers of goods for production purposes. The which includes rules of social and environmental responsibility, and suppliers are located worldwide and many are operating in areas all existing suppliers must sign the Code of Conduct upon renewal of where respect for human rights and labor rights cannot be taken for their contract or on update of the current version. In 2010, the Dangranted. For this reason, Danfoss has worked systematically over the foss Code of Conduct was signed by 864 suppliers globally. past seven years to raise the standard of the supply chain. Any potential suppliers are also asked to fill in a self-evaluation form which concerns Danfoss’ Code of Conduct. In 2010 Danfoss has strengthened its responsible supplier control organization by setting up two new Code of Conduct offices. At In some countries, the environmental and social standard is lower headquarters in Nordborg, Denmark, a Code of Conduct Compethan elsewhere. The suppliers are thus grouped in a risk-effect matrix, tence Center has been established for the preparation of strategies, where risk concerns a geographic risk level, and the effect concerns consulting and training of the part of the organization which has the the proportion of purchases from the supplier. The rating of the supsupplier contact. The primary task of the Competence Center in 2010 plier in the risk-effect matrix determines how often the audit should was to establish Danfoss’ own Code of Conduct audit office in China. be carried out. The office now has three auditors who have become certified according to the international social responsibility standard, SA8000. The Danfoss toolbox Meanwhile, Danfoss has entered into a close cooperation with an • Purchasing portal on Danfoss’ intranet external audit company specializing in environmental and social • Supplier audits audits. Together with Danfoss’ internal auditing office, the initial task • Training in Code of Conduct issues, i.e. human rights and labour of the external auditors will be to perform audits at suppliers in rights China. • Supplier self-assessment tool • Supplier self-assessment scorecard The new cooperation led to a review of the entire tool kit and related processes during 2010, which, in turn, resulted in more training and a Stakeholder engagement sharper focus on supplier audits in the organization. • Danish Business Network for Human Rights 10 The Danfoss Group’s Code of Conduct information system reveals In certain areas, audits often disclose problems with the wage level that 429 suppliers from high-risk countries, 201 from mid-risk and and too many overtime hours. The level of wage can easily be recti1,508 from low-risk countries have signed the Danfoss Code of Confied, but it is a time-consuming process for the supplier to reduce the duct. Audits were performed at 37% of the suppliers in high-risk number of overtime hours to the level which is in accordance with countries, 17% of suppliers in mid-risk countries and 5% of suppliers current legislation. In order for this to succeed, more employees in low-risk countries. must be hired or the production or processes must be made more efficient. The supplier should be granted time to perform this. Typical problems during audits at suppliers are poor safety precautions (including the lack of emergency exits and fire extinguishing Generally, it can take time to rectify matters which prove not to be in equipment), the lack of personal protection equipment and incorrect order, but the most important thing is that the supplier is willing to treatment and storage of hazardous materials (such as chemicals and solve problems. If this is not the case, Danfoss does not wish to conwaste water discharge). The audits always result in the preparation of tinue cooperating with the supplier. Danfoss decided recently to an action plan which commits the supplier to rectify the matters. stop its cooperation with a major supplier which delayed the comSubsequently, Danfoss follows up to make sure that the improvepliance with our Code of Conduct and did not display a willingness ments have been implemented. If the supplier has not made the to proceed in the same direction as Danfoss. improvements before the agreed deadline, the company in question will cease to be a Danfoss supplier. 11 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Our commitment Selected companies are visited to explore their handling of social We will ensure the freedom of association by: responsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue • Supporting the right to organize freely and the right to collective with the local management about Danfoss’ CSR activities. bargaining. • Danfoss will make sure that the employees can meet with the The Danfoss toolbox management to discuss work-related issues in countries where • CSR intranet portal employees do not have a free choice of union or where an established union system is not feasible Stakeholder engagement • Danish Business Network on Human Rights Guiding principles • Global Compact Nordic Network • Global Compact • The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish • ISO 26000 Industries • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human Policies rights, business ethics and employee’s rights. • Ethics handbook • CSR policy Actions and results The Danfoss CSR survey shows that 96% of the companies allow Control system employees to be members of a union of their own choice. Only four Since 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about companies state that employees do not have the right to be memhuman rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption bers of a trade union of their own choice. among all the factories and sales companies in the group. Instead employees are represented through various alternative foDanfoss conducted for the first time in 2009 a survey (People Manrums e.g. European Information and Consultation Forum, which is a ager Survey) amongst all managers having subordinates. The survey transnational forum to ensure the establishment of information and focuses on business ethics and compliance to certain legislative consultation procedures in matters of importance to Danfoss emrequirements. ployees across borders. 12 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Our commitment Selected companies are visited to explore their handling of social Danfoss does not tolerate forced labor and will work against forced responsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue labor by: with the local management about Danfoss’ CSR activities. • Making sure that all employees have employment contracts or are subject to agreements which determine employment condiThe Danfoss toolbox tions and terms of termination so it is explicit that employment is • Due diligence voluntary. • CSR Intranet Portal Guiding principles Stakeholder engagement • Global Compact • Danish Business Network on Human Rights • ISO 26000 • Global Compact Nordic Network • The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish Policies Industries • Ethics handbook • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human • CSR policy rights, business ethics and employee’s rights. Control system Actions and results Since 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about Danfoss monitors whether the guidelines stated in the Ethics Handhuman rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption of all book regarding overtime work, prison labor etc. is followed. of the group’s factories and sales companies. As of 2009, a survey (People Manager Survey) has been sent to all managers with direct reports focusing on business ethics and compliance to certain legislative requirements. 13 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Prison Labor Overtime work is the most prevalent human rights issues in the ChiThe use of imprisoned labor can constitute forced labor. The pivotal nese labor market, thus it is one of the issues that is reviewed when factor is that the work must be carried out on a voluntary basis and Danfoss performs external Code of Conduct audits at its suppliers. To that the working conditions must live up to the rules regarding immake sure that Danfoss takes its own medicine, the group subjected prisoned labor, for instance regarding wage. One of Danfoss’ factothree of its Chinese companies to a Danfoss Code of Conduct audit. ries in Denmark makes use of imprisoned labor at a supplier. Danfoss Random samples of employees’ work hours showed that the maxivisited the prison and the prison meet the UN rules governing imprimum number of permitted work hours was exceeded at all three soned labor and, so, Danfoss is operating in accordance with the factories: the weekly work hours amounting to 60, 70 and 86, respecGlobal Compact principles. Furthermore, the prison is under surveiltively. All of the random samples were taken during the peak season. lance of ‘Tilsynsrådet’ which is a public authority in Denmark monitoring such agreements. Subsequently, action plans have been prepared for each factory and to make sure that Danfoss is aware of the extent and the causes of As previously reported, Danfoss began employing prison labor in the the problem, the Chinese plant managers, the Danfoss top manUS when taking over the company Chatleff Controls in Texas in 2007. agement in China and Danfoss’ Corporate Citizenship & Compliance The prison is subject to several external audits annually, conducted team met to discuss the issue at the end of 2010. It became clear by the American justice authorities. that due to the complexity of the problem, it was necessary to invesBy the end of 2010, Danfoss closed and moved the production from tigate further a range of other issues. One of these challenges is the Danfoss Chatleff to Danfoss in Mexico, which means that Danfoss no fact that Danfoss grew by 50% after the financial crisis, which also longer employs prison labor in the US. briefly hit China. Working hours in China In spite of the recruitment of close to 1,000 employees between Another aspect of forced labor in a commercial context can be exmid-2009 and the end of 2010, this was not enough to cover the cessive use of overtime. Danfoss has acceded to the UN Global need for staff during the peak season and the recruitment continues. Compact, thereby agreeing to respect the core conventions of the Another challenge is that the possibility of working overtime is a International Labor Organization (ILO) regarding work hours, among parameter for applicants when they search for jobs, especially miother things. grant workers wanting to work overtime so they can earn as much The ILO is a body under the UN and, according to the convention, money and return to their home towns as quickly as possible. employees are only allowed to a work week of a maximum of 48 hours plus 12 hours overtime work over a period of no more than A process has been initiated to make sure that the work hours at three weeks. Danfoss in China comply with the ILO conventions and Chinese law. 14 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor Our commitment Actions and results Danfoss aims to actively fight child labor by: Danfoss monitor whether the company guidelines, built on the ILO • Only hiring children between the ages of 15 and 18, under the conventions on child labor, is followed. conditions of the ILO conventions about child labor. All Danfoss’ purchasers are trained in how to assess these conditions • Companies supplying to Danfoss must follow the same rules at suppliers to ensure that Danfoss has sufficient knowledge of the suppliers handling of child labor. Guiding principles • Global Compact Youngsters at work • ISO 26000 During 2010 no companies have employed children under the age of 15, but 95 juveniles between the age of 15 and 18 were employed Policies and are distributed as follows in Danfoss companies: • Ethics handbook • CSR policy Juveniles between 15 and 18 Total 95 Control system Production 69 Since 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about hereof trainees 33 human rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption of all Adminstration 17 of the group’s factories and sales companies. hereof trainees 8 Danfoss conducted for the first time in 2009 a survey (People ManOther function 9 ager Survey) amongst all managers with direct reports focusing on hereof trainees 1 business ethics and compliance to certain legislative requirements. Selected companies are visited to explore their handling of social One company reported that they do not train juveniles in health and responsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue safety, but they agreed to do this in the future. the future. Apart from with the local management about Danfoss’ CSR activities. this, all the Juveniles worked in accordance with the ILO conventions on Child labor. The Danfoss toolbox • CSR intranet portal Stakeholder engagement • Danish Business Network on Human Rights • Global Compact Nordic Network • The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish Industries • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human rights, business ethics and employee’s rights. 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment alleged discrimination filed against the company. Both complaints Danfoss will avoid discrimination in the workplace by: were wrongful dismissals; one external sales person and one store• Making sure that non-objective discriminatory treatment does man. Neither of the two cases went to court. In both cases mediation not take place in connection with appointments, career changes, was undertaken and in one case a small settlement was paid due to supplementary training, dismissals, etc. procedural discrepancies in the technical way the person in question was dismissed. Guiding principles • Global Compact Health test • ISO 26000 The use of health tests is an area where there is a risk of discrimination. Using health tests when employing people is a widespread Policies practice in a range of countries and 26% of Danfoss’ companies ap• Ethics handbook ply health tests. This is prescribed either by law, requirements deter• CSR policy mined by the insurance company or requirements of the employees (an example of the latter is from China where the employees are Control system tested annually for a particular contagious pulmonary disease). Since 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about The use of health tests involves a risk of discrimination, if particular human rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption of all attention is not paid. Therefore, the companies in the group have of the group’s factories and sales companies. been asked to provide information about why and how they use Danfoss conducted for the first time in 2009 a survey (People Manhealth tests. ager Survey) amongst all managers with direct reports focusing on Furthermore 30% of the companies enquire about the health of new business ethics and compliance to certain legislative requirements. employees. The reason is that special health requirements apply to Selected companies are visited to explore their handling of social some kinds of job. responsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue with the local management about Danfoss’ CSR activities. Recruitment agencies Danfoss has guidelines on how to avoid discrimination in the emThe Danfoss toolbox ployment process. 67% of the companies in the group use agencies • CSR intranet portal for the employment process, and those companies that have not yet communicated Danfoss’ restrictions on e.g. the use of health Stakeholder engagement tests and how to give feedback, have been asked to ensure this in • Danish Business Network on Human Rights the future. • Global Compact Nordic Network • The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish Danfoss working for equality Industries The Confederation of Danish Industries and the Danish Minister for • Annual round table discussions with NGOs are dealing with huGender Equality has put together an ambassador corps made up of man rights, business ethics and employee’s rights. prominent executives who over the next year should work to bring more women into leadership and on boards in Danish companies. Actions and results/cases of discrimination Danfoss CEO Niels B. Christiansen has been appointed as AmbassaDanfoss monitors if the companies in the Group have had any cases dor of equality along with 9 other top executives from business, of discrimination. During 2010, one company has had two cases of police and military. 16 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment We will take initiatives to promote improved environmental responDanfoss is a global company, and takes social and environmental sibility by: responsibility in the countries in which the group is operating. • Increasing the employees’ environmental awareness and commitment. We aim to show caution in relation to environmental challenges by: • Aiming to maintain the environmental standard when produc• Being more restrictive than required by the legislation regarding tion is outsourced. the use of substances and processes which could pose a risk to • Placing environmental demands on the suppliers humans and the environment. • Communicating openly and constructively with the community • Aiming to be one of the most environmentally conscious comabout the environmental activities. panies in the industries in which we operate. • Supporting research which is beneficial to the environment. 17 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS We aim to support the development and distribution of environThe Danfoss Group’s factories must work actively with environmental mentally-friendly technologies through: management. The corporate management requires all factories to • Development of environmentally-friendly products and create and maintain an environmental management system in acprocesses and the assessment of the environmental impact in cordance with the requirements of the international standard of the choice of materials and the consumption of resources. environ-mental management, ISO 14001, and for the system to be • Increasing reuse or the environmentally friendly disposal of macertified. terials. The certification is set to ensure that Danfoss is able to document for • An environmentally sound production. customers and authorities that the activities relating to environmen• Cooperation with authorities about the layout and operation of tal improvements are not random, but are the result of wellplants. considered processes and decisions. • Products which do not pose a risk to humans and the environment when applied correctly. Danfoss carries out environmental evaluations of all potential com• Environmentally responsible transport of products, machines, pany acquisitions before deciding whether a company should join chemicals and waste. the Danfoss Group. The environmental due diligence ensures that Danfoss gets immediate and in-depth information about new comGuiding principles panies’ environmental issues and possible business risks. • Global Compact • ISO 26000 The Danfoss toolbox • Corporate environment intranet portal Policies • Corporate standards and guidelines for environmental reporting • Environmental policy • Danfoss Negative List Stakeholder engagement • Standards and guidelines for environmental reporting • The Confederation of Danish Industries’ Environmental Managers Forum and networking group on climate strategies Control system • The Danish Council for Sustainable Business Development Danfoss carries out internal audits on a regular basis, ensuring that • Global Compact Nordic Network our working methods are compatible with how we aspire to work. • The Danish Government’s Panel of Climate Related Business The parts of the company which are certified according to environInterests mental and work environment management standards are audited • Annual roundtable discussion with major NGOs on climate and by external auditors. environment • The Caring for Climate Initiative The ongoing reporting of resources, waste and other impacts on the environment and working environment ensure that Danfoss has an Actions and results overall view of the handling of environment issues in the global organization. Climate All information forms the basis of the preparing of the Annual ReOur technologies and competencies port’s environmental section which is audited by Det Norske Veritas Danfoss’ three key competencies are the heating of buildings, refrievery year to ensure a true and fair view of the impact that Danfoss geration technology and control of the energy consumption in elecexerts on the environment and the working environment. tric motors. With this as its firm platform, the company is continuously searching for new ways where it can contribute to making the All factories report their environmental performance to the group’s technology of modern life work even more efficiently. District heatannual environmental accounts. Reports are including data relating ing, heat pumps, floor heating systems, solar energy, the cooling of to input in the form of raw materials, energy, water and potentially food in supermarkets, air conditioning and the control and monitorharmful substances, and data relating to output in the form of ing of processes are only a few examples of contemporary business wastewater, heavy metals and waste. areas which originate from our key competencies and where there Other output, in the form of flue gases, is calculated centrally. are potential energy savings to be obtained when using the right solutions. In addition to the above-mentioned environmental data, the factories must provide information about the number and kind of acciAccording to Danfoss’ simple philosophy, money saved today dents and state whether they have exceeded terms included in their through reduced energy consumption is money that facilitates inenvironmental approval or other agreements with the environmenvestment in green technology in the long run. And the solutions for tal authorities. energy savings already exist. 18 With existing and well-proven technology, it is possible to immetons of CO2 and help fight climate change: diately cut the energy consumption in a range of industries and so1 million tons of CO2 are saved every year thanks to Danfoss Turbocietal sectors. cor compressors which have been installed in commercial buildings With the money obtained through savings on hand, we, the society, worldwide. Yet, well below 1% of buildings today have been fitted have the best possible opportunities to move in a greener direction with this specific compressor. 950 million tons of CO2 would be for the sake of the Earth, our children and the continuing prosperity. saved every year, if all commercial buildings in the USA alone had indoor climate control systems with oil-free variable speed compresThe technology that can meet the climate challenge already exists, sors. so there is no reason we should wait. Danfoss is helping other companies save energy and also takes its own medicine. In Europe, 113 million tons of CO2 are saved every year using district Since the foundation of Danfoss in 1933, the company has worked heating systems, which supply 9-10% of the heating. 517 tons of CO2 with the efficient utilization of nature’s resources. Our products save would be saved every year, if Europe doubled its use of district heatenergy, and we have put a lot of care into producing them. But great ing to reach 18-20% and combined it with an increased use of repotential still remains both outside Denmark, where Danfoss’ solunewable energy sources. tions can save billions of CO2 if fully disseminated, and internally in Danfoss, where we aim to improve utilization of the potential. 33 million tons of CO2 are saved today through the use of more than 3.5 million Danfoss frequency converters installed worldwide. 70Danfoss has a wide range of energy-saving solutions for use in, for 80% of new industrial electric motors waste energy, if they are not example, buildings and industrial processes globally. Increased use of controlled using frequency converters, and this number is even such well-proven solutions will lead to the reduction of billions of higher with motors already in situ. 19 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS We aim to reduce carbon emissions foss is working to establish a global platform for the assessment of Danfoss aims to contribute as much as possible to the global reducenvironmentaland climate-related issues related to products, which tion of CO2 emissions from energy-consuming processes and plants. contains a range of the queries made by customers and authorities. Meanwhile, Danfoss’ products must result in energy-savings for the This work was initiated in the fall in 2010 and is set to make sure that customer. we will become a leader within sustainability. We also wish to use our expertise and products to reduce Danfoss’ own emission of greenhouse gases from production and transportaReliable supplies tion. The lack of raw materials and materials, which are unavailable due to weather conditions or other climate-related changes, can potentially Danfoss aims to minimize the company’s CO2 emissions as much as be a challenge for Danfoss and its ability to produce on a global scale possible, taking into account our future competitiveness, the prodcan be affected by dramatic increases in transportation, raw material uct quality and corporate finances. and energy costs. Consequently, Danfoss is monitoring the global Danfoss wishes to take co-responsibility for a sustainable future by trends closely in order to react to these challenges in time. For extaking part in the reduction of global warming. This is to take place ample, we are monitoring the EU’s Raw Materials initiative to prepare via the reduction of the company’s own emissions and through the the company for changes in raw material supply conditions. increased sale of products, solutions and services from Danfoss’ Climate & Energy. Danfoss takes part in The Danish council for sustainable business development. In 2007, initiatives were taken to draw up a charter Climate strategy which – on the basis of principles – places the members under an Danfoss’ climate strategy is referred to as 3x25 and requires that Danobligation to take concrete actions in a number of areas, such as the foss reduce absolute CO2 emissions by 25% and increase the share of management of suppliers, diversity in the workplace and climate CO2 neutral energy by 25% by 2025. changes. The target figures are absolute and are measured with no regard to the fact that Danfoss’ activities are expected to increase substantially In 2010, Danfoss was once again actively involved in various climateover the coming years. The baseline for the reduction is the 2007 CO2 related events preceding and during the UN’s COP16 conference in emissions. Cancún, Mexico, in December 2010. The aim was to accelerate the sale of solutions for the reduction of climate effects. Since 2009, Danfoss has reported on its climate activities and emisDanfoss sponsored the Global Green Growth conference held in Cosions of greenhouse gases to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Supply penhagen and the World Climate Summit, the largest business confeChain Program, where companies having joined the Supply Chain rence under COP16. In addition, Danfoss took also part in Green Soluprogram get a coherent picture of the supply chain’s emissions and, tions, where privately-held leading companies presented their cliat the same time, the emissions are made public for the benefit of mate solutions and exchanged ideas. other companies. By taking part in panel discussions and engaging in dialogues with In 2010, Danfoss reported its climate strategy, greenhouse gas emisleaders from enterprises, governments and the financial sector, Dansions and the challenges that the company expects to face in the foss contributed to highlighting the large untapped potential of course of the coming years. Information about Danfoss’ reporting is existing energy-efficient solutions and what needs to be done to available at www.danfoss.com. make better use of this potential. Danfoss has identified a number of significant climate-related challenges in connection with its reports to the Carbon Disclosure Danfoss’ CO2 emissions Project: An important prerequisite for calculating the group’s total emissions of greenhouse gases are the factories’ recordings of energy sources Carbon footprint labeling of products used in 2010, such as wind, bio-mass or water power. Danfoss is met with an increasing demand from customers and auThis means that Danfoss is able to calculate each factory’s emission thorities to Carbon footprint label the products or provide in-depth of CO2. The calculation is based on the data from the World Reanalyses of the climate effect of products. It can often be difficult to sources Institute as applied in the UN climate panel’s (IPCC) reports. answer very detailed requests adequately because information about the impact of materials and processes on climate is not availaIn 2010, Danfoss sold or shut down some factories in France, Germable throughout the supply chain. ny, Slovenia, Slovakia, China and the USA. Consequently, the base years’ emissions are adjusted for purchase and sale of activities acDanfoss considers it important that we are able to respond to quecording to guidelines in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Therefore, the ries made by external stakeholders who need information about the emissions of the base year are adjusted from 178,000 ton to 121,000 environmental or climate impact of a given product. Therefore, Dantons of CO2. 20 The climate strategy targets an absolute reduction figure of approx. The 2010 emissions exceeded expectations by 21,000 tons of CO2, 1.4% annually, which means that the CO2 Danfoss emitted in 2010 corresponding to 18%, which was caused by a number of elements: was expected to be 4% lower than the emissions in the base year the activity level at especially the Chinese factories increased dramat2007. ically throughout 2010 which made energy consumption increase significantly. A considerable proportion of the energy consumed by In 2010, Danfoss emitted around 137,000 tons of CO2 as a result of the factories in China is produced by coal-fired power plants, where the group’s consumption of electricity and heat. The figure covers there is a high emission per produced kWh. This, in turn, caused the both the direct emission (electricity and heat production at its own CO2 emissions to increase by more than 30% in 2010. plants) and the indirect emissions (electricity and heat from external sources). The activity level at several other factories in countries such as Mexico and the USA, increased by more than the ongoing energy-saving The electricity consumption represents 76% of the group’s total CO2 projects were able to accommodate. So, unfortunately, the concluemissions, corresponding to 105,000 tons in 2010, whereas approx. sion is that the targeted CO2 reduction figure was not by any means 32,000 tons of CO2 were emitted from energy sources used for heatreached in 2010. ing. A committed effort will be made to reduce emissions in the years to come. 21 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Environment Chemical substances We will prevent pollution and will remove any unwanted environDanfoss makes use of a number of chemical substances in products mental impacts, that our activities must result in ongoing and meaand production processes. Some are classified as potentially harmful, surable improvements for the environment and climate, and that we but they are all handled in such as way as to protect employees and show regard for the individual human being, the working environthe environment. ment and the external world. The consumption of CRAN substances (carcinogenic or allergenic, These measures are rooted in a business perspective, so we concenharmful to reproduction or neurotoxic) increased by 35% compared trate our efforts on the activities which translate into the best possito 2009, but the amount is a great deal reduced in comparison with ble results for the company, the customers, the employees and sothat of 2008. The major part of the increase occurred at the factory in ciety in general. Mexico, but since the factory’s consumption of raw materials in 2010 The group’s policies concerning working environment, environment increased by 52% compared to 2009, this is a relative drop in the and social responsibility ensure high managerial focus on the comamount of CRAN substances. pliance of national and international guidelines and declarations. The consumption of organic solvents only increased by 7%, in spite of the general raw material consumption having increased by 31%. Our impact on the environment The most significant indicators of Danfoss’ resource consumption, Products and the environment waste, chemical substances etc. are reviewed below, and comments Potentially harmful substances are substances and materials which are made for the most significant indicators. Please refer to the GRI can pose a risk to employees or the environment. The substances are table and the table of significant environmental parameters at the used in the manufacturing of products and if they are not immediback of the Annual Report for further information about Danfoss’ ately expendable or replaceable, they must be used as efficiently as environmental performance. possible and measures must be taken to protect employees and the environment. Raw materials and auxiliary materials The majority of the raw materials that Danfoss consumes are metals, Danfoss’ Negative List forms the cornerstone of efforts to reduce the plastics, electronics and packaging. use of potentially harmful substances. The Negative List is a vital The group’s total consumption of raw materials has fallen by 35% guideline in the development of products to make sure that uncompared with that of 2009. This was primarily caused by the wanted substances are not applied in the production or filled in divestment of Danfoss Household Compressors, which, in 2009, Danfoss’ products. represented half of Danfoss’ consumption of raw materials. Excluding Danfoss’ Negative List is extended on an ongoing basis and to keep the companies that have been sold, Danfoss’ consumption increased internal and external stakeholders updated on the latest changes by 31%, which reflects the general growth in Danfoss following the and requirements, Danfoss introduced a subscription service in 2010 global financial crisis. on Danfoss’ homepage, which all suppliers are required to subscribe to. A number of auxiliary materials – cutting oils and refrigerants as well as detergents for washing and cleaning items – that are not part of In 2010, the Negative List was published in a version which makes it the finished products are required to produce the products. easier for suppliers and Danfoss’ purchasing and development deIn 2010, 311 tons of cutting oil was used to cool and lubricate metal partments to perform quick searches to look-up and cross-check items during processing. This is an increase of 19% compared to chemicals used either internally or by suppliers. 2009. Suppliers are provided with a short version. Energy Danfoss set up an internal network which aims to make sure that Making up 54% of Danfoss’ total energy consumption, electricity is Danfoss’ products and production comply with the EU's far-reaching the largest energy source. The consumption of electricity increased chemical reform, REACH. Thereby, Danfoss contributes to the by approx. 10% compared to 2009. strengthening of the customer’s business, because the so-called Renewable sources, such as solar, water, wind and bio-mass, ac‘candidate list’ substances will not be present in Danfoss products. counted for 18% of the total power consumption. Electricity from nuclear power plants accounted for 13% of the group’s consumpIt also ensures that timely responses are made to customer aption, whereas the remaining share originated from fossil sources, proaches and that Danfoss does not import chemicals from counsuch as coal, oil, and gas. Coal continued to account for the largest tries outside the EU or manufacture products with intentional release source of the production of electricity, with 45% of the total energy of chemicals. Danfoss’ Corporate Citizenship & Compliance function consumption. offers guidance and training, thereby securing the network’s activi99% of energy consumption for heating stemmed from fossil ties and competencies. sources, of which natural gas represents by far the largest share. 22 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our commitment Stakeholder engagement Danfoss does not tolerate corruption or bribery and will work against • Danish Business Network on Human Rights this: • Global Compact Nordic Network • Employees must not take part in any form of corruption or bri• The sustainability network within the Confederation of Danish bery. If so, this will have consequences on their employment. Industries • Employees must report to their immediate manager when they • Annual round table discussions with NGOs dealing with human receive or hand over gifts of a value of more than 100 USD. In rights, business ethics and labour rights. some countries, the limit is below 100 USD. Actions and results Guiding principles Danfoss does not tolerate corruption or bribery and will work against • Global Compact this. This is clearly stated in the Ethics Handbook, which contains • ISO 26000 ethical guidelines to all employees in the group. The Ethics Handbook was revised in 2010, and among other things, the guidelines Policies regarding the handling of the grey areas of corruption and bribery • Ethics handbook was tightened. • CSR policy In order to ensure that the guidelines of the Ethics Handbook are Control system followed, Danfoss monitors the number of dismissals/voluntary Since 2003, Danfoss has conducted an annual CSR survey about resignations due to unethical behavior. During 2010, there have human rights, labor rights, business ethics and anti-corruption of all been a total of 40 dismissals/voluntary resignations due to unethical of the group’s factories and sales companies. behavior. One of these 40 cases was an attempt of bribery. For more Danfoss conducted for the first time in 2009 a survey (People Maninformation, please see page 5. ager Survey) amongst all managers with direct reports focusing on business ethics and compliance to certain legislative requirements. Anti-corruption training Selected companies are visited to explore their handling of social When visits are paid to companies, training in anti-corruption is a responsibility and to establish and maintain a constructive dialogue fixed part of the visit, usually in the form of a dilemma game which with the local management about Danfoss’ CSR activities. Danfoss has had developed following recommendations from regional sales managers. Similarly, a dilemma game on ethics has been The Danfoss toolbox developed. • CSR Intranet portal • Purchasing intranet portal During 2010 the training effort has been concentrated on China; 71 • Standard contract for third parties leaders, sales persons and purchasers have been trained in anti• Dilemma game on corruption and bribery corruption workshops. 23 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Supporting tables 25 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 26 27 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 28 29 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS The page numbers in the GRI table refer to pages in the Danfoss Annual Report 30 31 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 32 33 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 34 35 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 36 37 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 38 39
