RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT FTSE PUBLICATIONS UN Global Compact Communication of Progress 2011 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 Contents. 1. Introduction by Mark Makepeace, Chief Executive FTSE Group 2. Promoting the UN Global Compact Principles worldwide 2.1 FTSE Group 2.2 Responsible Investment 2.3 The FTSE4Good index sphere of Influence 2.4 The UNGC principles mapped against the FTSE4Good Index criteria 2.5 Environmentally friendly technology (reinforcing FTSE’s support to Principle 9) 3. FTSE Group and Corporate Responsibility 3.1 Demonstrating Corporate Responsibility 3.2 UN Global Compact Principles: Assessment of FTSE Group 4. Appendixes 4.1 GoodCorporation assessment methodology 4.2 Mapping UN Global Compact Principles against GoodCorporation references FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 1. Introduction. In 2006, FTSE pledged its commitment to supporting The launch of FTSE4Good has led us to set standards in the principles of the Global Compact. Our support for the new and often difficult areas, with the aim of developing principles remains strong and in this progress report we a transparent benchmark supported by a comprehensive take a look at how this has been demonstrated across framework of criteria, which challenges companies to improve. the business and within the various services we provide I’m pleased to say that over the last ten years FTSE4Good to our clients. has promoted the take up and support of the UNGC Principles by hundreds of companies around the world. We take these principles on with great enthusiasm across our business and they form a part of our mission and Going forward, I am excited to introduce the next evolution strategic goals. By way of measurement, we provide a of FTSE4Good; FTSE4Good ESG Ratings, a new system report on an independent audit of our internal systems, for quantitatively measuring ESG risk and performance examining our progress against the UN Global Compact characteristics, which will further increase awareness Principles. The assessment of FTSE practices is carried of the importance of ESG risk amongst the global out by the verification specialist; GoodCorporation, who financial community. spend a week at our offices carrying out the assessment by interviewing staff, suppliers, clients, shareholders and It is an interesting time to be at the forefront of Responsible other important stakeholders. The results of this assessment Investment and we hope that this report proves an informative are presented in this report. guide to our achievements in this space and to learning about the importance we place on these responsibilities. FTSE plays a significant role in influencing investment strategies of our clients around the world. It is through We look forward to continuing to lend our support to this our products and services that FTSE can have the greatest initiative and fulfilling our duty as a signatory to both the effect in supporting the shift to a more sustainable global UN PRI and the UN Global Compact. economy. As a founding signatory and contributor to the development of the United Nations backed Principles on Mark Makepeace Responsible Investment, we aim to develop a broad range Chief Executive of tools to help investors consider Environmental Social FTSE Group and Governance (ESG) issues. FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 2. Promoting the 2.3 The FTSE4Good Index sphere of influence UN Global Compact The FTSE4Good Index helps investors identify and invest in companies that demonstrate Principles worldwide. they are meeting globally recognised ESG standards. It is based on Environmental, Social, and Governance factors that in turn have become accepted benchmarks for companies. Over 2,300 companies from 25 countries around the world are assessed against the criteria. The criteria are regularly updated so they remain in line with international standards. The criteria support the UN Global Compact, and in places use participation as a demonstration that a company is meeting elements of the FTSE4Good criteria (see the next section). 2.1 FTSE Group investors worldwide to structure and benchmark their international equity portfolios. FTSE undertakes a global engagement FTSE Group (FTSE) is a world-leader in the programme of ongoing communication with provision of global index and analytical solutions. Exchanges around the world have chosen FTSE companies affected by the introduction of FTSE calculates indices across a wide range of to calculate their domestic indices. These new criteria to help them understand the asset classes, on both a standard and custom include ATHEX, Bolsas y Mercados Españoles, changes they need to make and by when. basis. FTSE indices are used extensively by Borsa Italiana, Bursa Malaysia, Casablanca SE, Guidance and support is also provided as the investors worldwide for investment analysis, Cyprus Stock Exchange, IDX, JSE, LSE, NASDAQ companies work towards meeting the index’s performance measurement, asset allocation, Dubai, NYSE Euronext, PSE, SGX, Stock Exchange evolving standards regarding ESG practice. portfolio hedging and the creation of a wide of Thailand and TWSE. In addition, FTSE works range of index derivatives, funds, Exchange with a variety of companies and associations Traded Funds (ETFs), and other structured In addition to the FTSE4Good Index, FTSE has to deliver innovative index solutions which recently launched the FTSE4Good ESG Ratings products. provide the market with fresh opportunities. Service, where the 2300+ companies are all FTSE has built an enviable reputation for scored on 6 ESG themes. This allows institutional the reliability and accuracy of our indices and 2.2 Responsible Investment investors to monitor and integrate ESG risks related data services. FTSE has a long tradition There has been significant growth of investor into their investment decisions, and provides of listening and responding to the market so interest and incorporation of extra-financial a tool for stewardship and engagement with that it is at the forefront of developing new (environmental, social and governance) factors investee companies. approaches to index design, many of which are into investment management and active now accepted as the market standard. FTSE ownership. FTSE has offered Responsible Further information on FTSE4Good can be prides itself in continuing to invest significant Investment (RI) tools since 2001 when the found on www.ftse.com/ftse4good resource in researching and developing new FTSE4Good Index Series, the innovative index solutions. responsible investment index series, was launched. Since then, as well as developing The foundation for FTSE’s global, regional, further RI products, FTSE has supported country and sector indices is the FTSE global the development of the UN Principles for equity universe, which covers over 8,000 Responsible Investment, and was the first securities in 48 different countries and index provider to become a signatory of captures 98% of the world’s investable the principles. market capitalisation. FTSE’s flagship global benchmark, the FTSE All-World, is used by FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 2.4 The UNGC principles mapped against the FTSE4Good Index criteria The following is a selection of the FTSE4Good criteria. There is a close correlation of principles. The full criteria can be found at: www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE4Good_Index_Series/F4G_Download_Page.jsp UN Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Protection of Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the Example: “A clear statement of support for the Universal Declaration of Human protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights.” In addition “A statement to respect all the ILO core labour standards... alternatively signatories to the UN Global Compact are considered to meet this Principle 2 requirement.” Complicity in Human Rights abuse Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Example: “Guidelines governing the use of armed security guards based on UM basic principle...” LABOUR Principle 3 FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Freedom of association and Collective Bargaining Businesses should Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the convention areas: …Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining...” right to collective bargaining. FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Principle 4 Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core Forced and Compulsory Labour Businesses should uphold the convention areas: Forced Labour...” elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Principle 5 Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core Child Labour Business should uphold the effective abolition of child convention areas: Child Labour...” labour. FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Principle 6 Example: “Adopting an equal opportunities policy and/or a commitment to Discrimination – Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination diversity... Providing evidence of equal opportunities systems…” in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Precautionary Approach Business should support a precautionary Example: “Policy refers to all key issues... Commitment to targets... monitoring approach to environmental challenges. and audit.” Principle 8 FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Environmental Responsibility Business should undertake initiatives to Example: Environmental Management System indicators include promote greater environmental responsibility. “Identification of significant impacts... objective and targets in key areas... audits.” Reporting indicators include “Data... and...performance against Principle 9 targets.” Environmental Friendly Technologies Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Example: Policy indicators include “...product or service impact... and... strategic moves towards sustainability.” ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 FTSE4Good Countering Bribery Criteria Corruption Business should work against corruption in all its forms, Example: Policy indicators include “Prohibits giving and receiving bribes.” including extortion and bribery. Management Systems indicators include “Procedures to remedy noncompliance.” Reporting requires “Policy to be publicly disclosed.” FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 2.5 Environmentally friendly FTSE has set up an independent committee of The global investment community now has a technology (Reinforcing FTSE’s clean technology and investment professionals company classification system with sufficient to govern the research and management. The levels of granularity and precision to define support to principle 9) Chair is Winston Hickox, former Secretary of this growing area and assist in the design of FTSE has developed a range of market leading the State of California Environmental Protection investment products. environmental markets indices, reinforcing its Agency who also designed and implemented support to this principle. the environmental investment mandates for Further information can be found on: the California public employees retirement www.ftse.com/environment FTSE Environmental Markets fund, CalPERS. The series is in collaboration Index Series with the environmental technology specialist, Impax Asset Management who carry out the The FTSE Environmental Markets Index Series research for the indices. measures the performance of companies globally that have significant involvement in FTSE Environmental Markets environmental markets, including renewable Classification System & alternative energy, energy efficiency, water technology and waste & pollution control. The The FTSE Environmental Markets Classification FTSE Environmental Technology index series System (EMCS) is the world’s first comprehensive and the FTSE Environmental Opportunities index global classification system for environmental series require companies to have a significant markets. This unique classification system of proportion (50% and 20% respectively) of their environmental technology that has six sectors, business in the development and deployment and 25 sub-sectors. of environmental technologies, including renewable & alternative energy, energy efficiency, A potential barrier to investment in this area in water technology and waste & pollution the past has been the difficulty in defining this control. This is also underpinned by the FTSE market and understanding its investment Environmental Market Classification System. characteristics. This classification system aims to enable investors globally to clearly identify and measure investment opportunities in environmental markets. FTSE Environmental Market Index Series FTSE Environmental Technology Index Series FTSE Environmental Opportunities Index Series FTSE ET 50 Index (Global) FTSE EO 100 Index FTSE Environmental Opportunities All-Share Index Sector Indices Regional Indices FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO Waste & Pollution Water technology Energy Efficiency Renewable & UK Indices Europe Index US Index Asia Pacific Control Index Index Alternative Energy Indices technology Index Index FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO Waste & Pollution Water technology Energy Efficiency Renewable & Control 30 Index 50 Index Alternative Energy technology Index 50 Index Waste Water Energy FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 3. FTSE Group and Corporate Responsibility. 3.1 Demonstrating Corporate 3.2 UN Global Compact Responsibility Principles: Assessment With our involvement in high profile responsible of FTSE Group investment initiatives it is crucial that, as a The following is extracted from the company, we practice corporate responsibility GoodCorporation Assessment Report: ourselves. So again, this year, FTSE invited GoodCorporation to carry out an independent KEY: Assessment grades as awarded by the annual verification audit and assessment. assessor. They assessed FTSE on its responsibility to employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, • F ail: There is no policy or system, or it has the community and the environment. There largely broken down. are 65 areas of management practice that • M inor non-compliance: There is a policy are assessed, highlighting not only where the and system but it is not always working. company is strong but also highlighting areas • O bservation: There is a policy and system for action and improvement. that works but potential improvements have been identified. GoodCorporation is an assessment organisation founded in 2000 that carries out independent • M erit: The policy and system work well. assessments for clients of how well they • C ommendation: The policy and system are implement in reality their principles of responsible examples of best practice. business management. The GoodCorporation Standard was developed in co-operation with the Institute of Business Ethics through a broad consultation process and was released in 2001 and undergoes a triennial review. Assessments have been carried out in over 40 countries, and the process is overseen by an Advisory Panel. FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 GoodCorporation Assessment Results 2011 GoodCorporation UNGC principle FTSE’s performance Grade reference 1. Businesses should EMP1 – EMP9 FTSE scores mainly merits (and only one observation) on the key Merit support and respect EMP12 – EMP13 GoodCorporation points which relate to human rights. the protection of EMP17 – EMP19 internationally FTSE’s main support of human rights comes through the FTSE4Good proclaimed human index, which puts it in an unusual position to set standards for listed rights companies to strive to attain. Human Rights criteria are also included in the inclusion criteria for the index. The FTSE4Good index has been made more challenging through the creation of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ratings which gives further incentives for companies to improve their performance. 2. Businesses should EMP1 – EMP9 FTSE’s adherence to good human rights practices are embodied in Merit make sure that they EMP12 – EMP13 its ethical and human resource policies and procedures. They were are not complicit in EMP17 – EMP19 assessed by GoodCorporation in June 2011 and there were no findings human rights abuses which indicate violations of human rights. 3. Businesses should EMP5 Freedom of association is expressed in the Ethical Conduct Policy and Merit uphold the freedom FTSE’s support of the UN Global Compact. Employees have little interest of association in joining a union but feel properly consulted by the management. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses EMP18 All FTSE employees have a clear and fair contract. The staff handbook Merit should uphold the also contains clear policies on resignations and retirements. elimination of all forms of forced and FTSE’s adherence to good human rights practices are embodied in compulsory labour its ethical and human resource policies and procedures. They were assessed by GoodCorporation in June 2011 and there were no findings which indicate violations of human rights. 5. Businesses should EMP19 The Ethical Conduct Policy includes a commitment to not using child Merit uphold the effective labour. abolition of child labour 6. Businesses EMP14 The Ethical Conduct Policy and Staff Handbook detail the policy on Merit should uphold EMP17 equal opportunities clearly and thoroughly, and explain each step of the elimination procedures applicable in case of non-compliance. Reports are made to of discrimination senior management regarding the policy. Employees confirm that the in respect of policy works in practice. employment and occupation FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 GoodCorporation UNGC principle FTSE’s performance Grade reference 7. Businesses ENV1 – ENV2 The FTSE Group Environmental Policy statement commits FTSE to Merit should support good environmental performance as ‘a fundamental element’ of their a precautionary corporate social responsibility programme. approach to environmental The annual report on environmental impact and progress covers areas challenges of direct and indirect impact. Progress of targets are compared and targets clearly stated for the next year. FTSE continues to set targets for reducing its environmental impacts and monitors progress with great care. The attitude and action is in stark contrast to many office-based companies who perceive they have ‘no significant impacts’. 8. Businesses should ENV3 – ENV5 The main influence which FTSE can have in promoting environmental Merit undertake initiatives responsibility is through the FTSE4Good index. Environmental criteria to promote greater have always existed but have been strengthened since the beginning. environmental Many companies found the criteria challenging and deadlines were responsibility set for compliance and FTSE engaged with many companies. FTSE has a process of engaging with the companies and timetables are set for improvement. FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 4. Appendix. 4.1 GoodCorporation The GoodCorporation assessment covers The verifier checks Assessment Methodology key stakeholders and the UN Global Compact principles. 1. A policy exists GoodCorporation’s methodology is designed to carry out independent assessments of The assessor: 2. A system is in place to business practices. There are several key • I nterviews key managers in the organisation implement the policy components to achieving this independence: from HR, HSE, sales, procurement, finance, community relations, etc to understand how 3. A record exists to show that • The work is carried out entirely by the system works GoodCorporation staff and associates, practices are supposed to work, reviewing records, documents and system outputs who have no connection with FTSE. as necessary. 4. Stakeholders, when asked, • GoodCorporation supplies no services to agree the system works •S elects and interviews samples of employees, clients other than independent assessment. and is fair customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders, • The report is reviewed by GoodCorporation’s regulators and industry bodies, community 5. Verifier then grades: fail, independent Accreditation Council, which organisations and NGOs, as relevant to assesses the content for robustness, minor non-compliance, the organisation. consistency and appropriateness of observation, merit, or the grading. •U ses all the evidence gathered to evaluate commendation how effectively the practices are working in • The assessment is based on a four-step reality, grading each practice to help monitor process which seeks to establish how and benchmark performance. processes work in practice as well as in principle, involving feedback from internal •M aps the GoodCorporation assessment of and external stakeholders. practices against the UN Global Compact principles • Access can be demanded to any documentation and GoodCorporation selects the stakeholder samples. FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2011 4.2 Mapping UN Global PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make PRINCIPLE 8 – Business should Compact Principles against sure that they are not complicit in human undertake initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. environmental responsibility. GoodCorporation References • E  MP1-EMP7, EMP10, EMP11, EMP16, EMP17 • E  NV4: There is a process to encourage The following was done by GoodCorporation: employees and contractors working on the organisation’s behalf to participate actively PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold in environmental protection. support and respect the protection of the freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed human rights. • C  OM1: The organisation’s plans and effective recognition of the right to • EMP1: There are clear employment terms activities take account of its impacts on collective bargaining. and conditions for all employees. communities. • E  MP5: Freedom of association and • E MP2: There is a process to ensure that the organisation of employee is respected. privacy of employees is respected. PRINCIPLE 9 – Business should encourage • E MP3: There is a clear disciplinary procedure the development and diffusion of that is fairly applied. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold environmentally friendly technologies. the elimination of all forms of forced and • E MP4: There is an effective process to deal • E  NV1: The organisation identifies and compulsory labour. with employee complaints and grievances. measures the impacts of its operations • E  MP1-EMP7, EMP10, EMP11, EMP16, EMP17 and products on the local and global • E MP5: Freedom of association and environment, including climate change. organisation of employee is respected. • E  NV2: The organisation monitors and • E MP6: There are effective employee PRINCIPLE 5 – Business should uphold the continuously reduces its environmental communication and consultation process. effective abolition of child labour. impacts. • E MP7: There is a process to monitor • E  MP17: There are processes to ensure that • C  OM1: The organisation’s plans and compliance with relevant employment laws employment practices for young people activities take account of its impacts on and regulations. follow internationally accepted standards. communities. • E MP10: There is a process to ensure that employees know how and when their pay PRINCIPLE 6 Business should uphold the and benefits are determined. PRINCIPLE 10 – Business should work elimination of discrimination in respect of against corruption in all its forms, • E MP11: Local cost of living and market rates employment and occupation. including extortion and bribery. are taken into account when setting pay and • E  MP12: The organisation encourages benefits. • C  OM5: There is a process to ensure that diversity and recruits, promotes and rewards there are no forms of bribery or corruption • E MP16: There is a policy not to employ employees on the basis of merit alone. in relation to public officials and forced, bonded or otherwise exploited public bodies. labour. PRINCIPLE 7 – Business should support a • C  US12: There is a process to ensure that • E MP17: There are processes to ensure that precautionary approach to environmental there are no forms of bribery or corruption employment practices for young people challenges. in relation to customers. follow internationally accepted standards. • E  NV1: The organisation identifies and • S  UP9: There is a process to ensure that measures the impacts of its operations there are no forms of bribery or corruption and products on the local and global in relation to suppliers and contractors. environment, including climate change. • E  NV2: The organisation monitors and continuously reduces its environmental impacts.
