Communication On Progress COP 2010 Antwerp, March 2011 EVOLUTION, PROGRES, SOLUTIONS & INNOVATION FOR A SUSTAINABLE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN EFICO SUPPORTS THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SINCE 2003 Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 1 operations and in our interaction with our Foreword stakeholders on a voluntary basis. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) CONTENTS OF THIS REPORT The purpose of this report is to give an overall This annual communication report, or view on all the aspects that entail our business, its Communication on Progress (COP) is an influence, and its share in the industry. important demonstration of the Efico Group‟s The main topics of this report are: commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Presentation of the EFICO GROUP As a Global Compact signatories since 2003, we ALL-IN Services we provide are committed to publicly communicate with o Commodities Market stakeholders on an annual basis on our progress in implementing the ten principles with the aim to o Responsible Trade Strategy stimulate and to enhance sustainability and  Commitment  Responsible sourcing transparency with internal and external  Pre-Financing stakeholders.  UN Global CompactCoffee Supplier Audit By reading this report you will find the  Follow-up Audit implemented activities we achieved this year. As  Sustainable Coffee we will explain in detail, our company has greatly  International Relations evolved these last years. Currently, within this o Responsible Supply Chain Management evolution, we haven‟t had the full opportunity to  CO2 reduced and compensated green quantify and measure our progress and results. coffee supply chain  Action plan both in producing and In 2009 we made a first GRI Draft report based on consuming countries 2008 figures. As part of a learning process, this  Efico Foundation report was only internally used. We decided this o Quality Control, Food Safety, Traceability & year to present a more detailed qualitative report Management Systems on how our new Group is implicated in the sector  International Organization for and what we achieved in 2010 for the sector. Standardization  Traceability – Track & Trace system  Customer Facilitator OBJECTIVES OF THIS COMMUNICATION  Future Improvements for Seabridge  ISO 14001, 9001, ISO 22000, inclusive HACCP In presenting our case we hope to be a source of  AEO best practices, and inspire others in providing a new approach towards sustainability for our o Eco-Innovation, Eco-Efficiency & Waste sector. Management o Optimizing Costs and Return We demonstrate how we influence and are influenced by the expectations regarding o Exchange of Product Knowledge and sustainable development. Marketing Support Top-down overview of the Efico Group activities In the general context of sustainable Within the framework of 10 UNGC principles development and, in particular, of moving towards sustainable production and consumption, Stakeholders Involvement economic, environmental and social issues are managed along all stages of the supply chain. We pointed out the activities and the focus points This contributes to maximise and integrate of 2010 to cover our main achievements. In the alongside other aspects of products such as future, the challenge would be the measure our performance, quality and safety. progress and outcomes. Our proposal is to express that Corporate Sustainability is a longTherefore, we include Corporate Social term-commitment embedded into the entire Responsibility (CSR) through integrating social structure of the Efico Group. Our business and environmental concerns in our business activities fully include the UNGC philosophy in our strategies, daily operations, and business culture throughout the entire value chain. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 2 EFICO is characterised by :  Trading 2 commodities, over 287 varieties and blend of green coffee and cocoa worldwide,  Product and Market knowledge,  Ensuring quality of our product at competitive prices,  Aiming to develop stable and long term relationships with a worldwide network of trusted partners in producing & consuming countries including approximately 650 coffee and cocoa industry actors in Europe. ► Vision on sustainable coffee supply chain management and responsible trading. SEABRIDGE PRESENTATION OF THE EFICO GROUP  A European sustainable State-Of-The-Art • Efico is a green coffee and cocoa trading facility centre dedicated to green coffee, house, providing services to the European coffee  Rationalised and automised logistic flow in a and cocoa sector. The headquarters of our sustainable manner for storage, handling, Group are located in Belgium (Antwerp), with product enhancement and distribution offices in Germany, France, Switzerland, according to the highest standards, Guatemala and Ethiopia.  Green Building Certificate & Award: green energy is produced on site and • In March 2003, Efico became the first Belgium measurements are conducted to assures coffee & cocoa trading company in Belgium to efficient energy use , sign the United Nations Global Compact  Waste Management Solution. principles. UNGC provides the basis for our own CSR model. ► Creates added value thanks to innovation & technology in sustainable logistics services. • In 2010, we trade about 60.000 MT. green coffee & ± 4.000 MT. cocoa, with an annual EFICO FOUNDATION growth of 10%. Coffee is our main commodity, and cocoa business has been developed since  Is a private foundation supporting sustainable 2004 primarily at the request of our coffee multistakeholder‟s development projects in customers. producing countries,  Provides a business solution to enhance • Throughout the years we evolved from a small access for the coffee and cocoa community family owned company to a medium sized to a sustainable development that will create Group with more than 70 persons, and with a income generating opportunities and turnover of ± € 166 mio. this year. strengthen economic empowerment,  Works in partnership and seeks support for the sector, EVOLUTION OF THE EFICO GROUP  Is a tool for European coffee roasters to support sustainable production, 2010 was a real transition year, where we were  Implements projects trough NGO‟s or coffee enlarging the scope of our historic activities in organizations. which we were active as a trusted, reputable partner since 1926 (for 84 years) and four ► Achieves structural support on sustainability generations. Each entity of our Group developed from producer to consumer. its own expertise and specification within the same strategies by focussing on quality, Each entity fulfils its own objectives, and sustainability and traceability. contributes to the sustainable development of the group on a stakeholder model which offers all-in services to the sector. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 3 ALL-IN SERVICES Commodities Market • Our team of experienced traders is based in Europe and in producing countries. • They continue to uphold the values of a longstanding family business, existing since 1926, and providing services “With a Personal Touch” while strongly believing and promoting the values of the UN Global Compact principles. • Our traders keep up to the minute with world coffee exchanges in London and New York by offering our clients the best price at the right time. Trading Team in Antwerp The development of the coffee commodity exchange market has created greater swings due to speculation. This leads to an increase in Responsible price volatility. Trade Strategy • Our traders use the futures market to help determine the price for future deliveries. It is used to purchase a contract today to guarantee a COMMITMENT shipment of coffee in the future. More importantly, the futures market for coffee is also • Efico is committed the principles of the UN used to be protect against the wild variations Global Compact and promotes them to partners, that occur due to coffee market speculation. collaborators and business relationships. Internally we have adopted a Code of Conduct which • The effects of coffee differentials as well as provides a clear guidance of good governance. foreign currency exchange rates are 2 other factors which influence the price of our commodities. Coffee Differentials are depending on product quality and the country of origin, a capital gain or capital loss is applied on market prices. • Weather conditions, inventory reserves, fluctuation between supply & demand and market speculation, are the determining factors of price setting. Today, climate changes, and increasing consumption of emerging and producing countries are new components which also lead to a disruption in supply influencing the price setting of our commodities. Board members from left to right: Partick F. Installé, Chairman Efico Group • The value of those additional factors are – Michel Germanès, Managing Director Efico – Marc Beernaert, Managing Director Seabridge, Philip van Gestel, Board member Efico Group. remaining important. The financial aspects of our activity are becoming increasingly important. Celebration of Michel Germanès, Head of Mainly in producing countries, as their financial Trading Department and Managing Director Efico capacities are limited, and the requirement for 25 years services at Efico. substantial external finance is substantial. Therefore, we guarantee our suppliers a fast His vision: “For me, Efico embodied sustainability, long payment, as well as pre-financing possibilities before it became a buzzword. Sustainability has been a (details pg 3). vision since I started. Sustainability means first and In consuming countries, Efico has to cover the foremost the sustainability of Efico. A place with a financing of the margin calls and to optimize our family tradition and a deeply embedded team spirit, liquidity by following up client payments. something that I have never found elsewhere.” Those transactions require strong capitalization on own assets. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 4 risk protection allows us to do business with more RESPONSIBLE SOURCING confidence in all markets around the world. In 2010, we pre-financed more than € 18 mio. • We source our coffee from 36 different countries, the top five being Brazil, Ethiopia, Togo, Volume of Pre-financing of the Coffee & Cocoa Guatemala and Colombia. contracts since 2001 to 2010 JAVA FLORES ROBUSTA BURUNDI UGANDA RWANDA 0,5% MADAGASCAR 0,3% 0,2% 0,2% 0,5% 0,4% KENYA CONGO BALI BOLIVIA INDONESIA DOM REP 0,3% 0,3% 0,1% 0,2% SUMATRA 0,5% 0,4% HAITI SALVADOR SULAWESI 1,2% 0,4% 0,8% 0,1% IVORY COAST MEXICO 1,7% PAPUA NEW GUINEA NICARAGUA 1,8% 0,1% 1,8% VIETNAM PERU 2,0% COSTA RICA 2,6% BRAZIL 2,4% 32,6% CAMEROON INDIA 3,2% 3,3% ETHIOPIA 11,5% HONDURAS TOGO 6,3% GUATEMALA COLOMBIA 9,5% 6,7% 8,1% • Screening suppliers: our trading team builts a strong experience and relationship by travelling to our local partners and visiting the installations • In 2010, Togo and Ethiopia were the 2 African of the supplier. This provides a quick analysis of origins covering more than 76% of the total prethe local situation. financing service. • The active support of our two offices in producing countries helps us to gain effective UN GLOBAL COMPACT COFFEE SUPPLIER AUDIT experience in specific local origins, to assess local situations and to react very quickly on any • We expect from all our suppliers to comply with change occurring on the market, if requested. all local and national laws relating to employment and social issues. • Our trading team initiates each year at least one UN Global Compact Supplier Audit. • In 2004, Efico developed in partnership with Mayacert its own and independent supplier audit based on the 10 UN Global Principles. • Mayacert is an independent and recognised monitoring and certification organisation, which is accredited with regulation ISO 65/EN45011. Its technical standards are equivalent to the Efico Central America team European regulation No. 2092/91. It is supervised PRE-FINANCING by the European control organisation Verein Zur Begutachtung Von Prufstellen (VBP). It has been recognised by the international organic • Pre-financing is a kind of payment in advance certification organisations BCS-OKO Garantie und on the next harvest guaranteeing our deliveries. Naturland. This service is very appreciated, as financial organizations sometimes fail to provide support. • Suppliers subjected to our UNGC Supplier Audit: • Our traders strive to accommodate the needs 2004 Finca El Platanillo & SU Beneficio in and wishes of every seller and/or buyer, including Guatemala all pre-financing needs. 2005 Finca Candelaria in Costa Rica Since 2001 we operate in 2006 Inaginsa in Honduras partnership with Delcredere: 2007 Hacienda Santa Anita in Costa Rica the Belgian Export Credit & 2008 Finca Montecarlo & El Ciprès, Beneficio Insurance Agency against Risk. Tres Rios, Exportadora El Volcàn in Delcredere provides insurance El Salvador & reinsurance coverage against political and 2009 Compañía Jinotegana de Café commercial risks entailed in trading activities. This Jinotega, Nicaragua 2010 Perhusa in Peru Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 5 • During the audit the 10 principles are analysed. Part of the audit is based on: Workers Interviews: with a representative sample of employees by verifying working conditions, employee files, timecards, health and safety records, etc. Management Interview: discussion of management systems, wages paid, working From left to right: Renaud Cuchet Managing Director Efico Guatemala, Emilio Molina Jr. hours, environmental issues, etc. Owner & Worker in the plantation, Christian Meeùs Head of International Relations Efico, Emilio Molina Owner & Managing Director of Compañía Jinotegana de • The audit conclusions are discussed on a Café . confidentiality basis with the concerned parties, including a list of recommendations, which are a base of improvements and inspiration of the SUSTAINABLE COFFEE TRADING management. • According to the State of Sustainability • Suppliers who fail to obtain a satisfying result of Initiatives (SSI) Review 2010, published in the audit disclosures will be penalised; or by November, markets for sustainable products have corrective action to be applied either by removal expanded significantly, compared to from our list of suppliers. conventional products, and constitute one of the few segments of the coffee market presenting • The audit results provide also credibility with sales growth in recent years. stakeholders. Our customers who buy coffee from concerned plantations/beneficios/exporters may • Today, consumers have an increasing interest consult the final conclusion of the audit. and concern about the environmental and social Those audits demonstrate our awareness and the conditions under which the goods are produced. challenges we impose on our supply chain. Therefore, there is a growing need for coffee roasting companies who show the quality of their • Effective audits are possible thanks to the products, the commitment to sustainable preparation work and the close relationship we development, the protection of the environment, have with our supplier through our long term and the good treatment of producers and relationship and our office in Guatemala. plantation workers, by adopting accepted and So far, all our supplier audits were conducted in responsible practices improving the performance Central America where we benefit from the of qualitative production. support of our local office, but also Mayacert‟s active role in that area. • Worldwide, sales of certified sustainable coffee Currently, we analyze the possibilities for such have more than quadrupled over the past five audits on other continents. years, reaching 392,347 metric tons in 2009, up from 73,602 metric tons in 2004. Total sustainable • Our engagement must meet local expectations, coffee represented more than 8 per cent of be realistic, and offer future perspectives in order global coffee exports and 17 per cent of global to succeed and share our concern. production in 2009 (source SSI). FOLLOW-UP UN GLOBAL COMPACT SUPPLIER AUDIT • Coffee is always being ideally suited for ethical trade. It is consumed in large quantities, in Europe and the United States, where demand for • By mutual agreement, an action plan can be sustainable products is growing, by structured developed based on the Audit results. This trade channels. requires a local need and willingness to improve current situations. • Today‟s ethical coffee producers and consumers are challenged to distinguish organic, • Consequently, Efico initiated in 2010, a 4C shade grown, mountain farmed, Rainforest verification program for Compañía Jinotegana Alliance or UTZ Certified, 4C verified fair-traded or de Café, in Jinotega, Nicaragua. Fair Trade coffee, or Bird Friendly coffee in addition to companies‟ private schemes with their respective verification, such as Nespresso's Triple A program, Strarbucks Coffee Practices, .... Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 6 • While the market penetration of certified coffee is still relatively modest, coffee is nevertheless the leading agricultural sector in terms of the number and frequent use of such certifications. These certification initiatives are more responsive to public needs and have become important vehicles for managing or regulating sustainability in coffee. Therefore legislation is trying to establish a legal framework in this matter. • In 2010, the sustainable trade figure of Efico represented 26% of the total traded volume. • Sustainable coffee is part of our commercial offer and is demanded by a certain segment of our clients. The relative importance of the various certification schemes differ from country to country. Business to Business Press Store Check – 1/02/2010 For example, organic coffee is more important in • In order to be able to trade certified products, Germany, while in the United Kingdom and our organization is audited on a regular basis by France, fair-trade is the leading certification. Utz several third parties to ensure that we meet and Certified coffee accounts for 40 percent of the fulfil the special requirements of those programs. coffee market in the Netherlands, which is strongly related to the strong market position of an important local retailer Albert Heijn. RESPONSIBLE SELLING STRATEGY In Belgium and the Nordic countries, its share was • Internal communication workshops: for the first „only‟ 10% in the same year. In Southern Europe, time we organised with the support of external France, Germany and the UK, the market share professionals two workshops, with following of Utz Certified is still much lower. theme: Why to implement CSR? For Rainforest Alliance, Germany, Italy, Japan Challenges and opportunities of CSR for and the United States are the most important our new Group structure. markets. The well-known banana campaigns, of 2005, contribute to boost its awareness. • Sharing experiences and issues with our partners. • Efico is a member of Rainforest Alliance, UTZ Certified, Organic, Flo-Cert & 4C Association. •”Just In Time” deliveries are the basis of our 4C as well as Rainforest Alliance were very active professional relationship. partners this year. Efico is a founding member of the Association and part of the Technical • Assist clients in their product development, Committee on climate changes. For all those marketing, and guarantee a high level of services organisations we fulfil the requested obligations, and a professional management of any which become more and more professional but complaints. also administratively and financially very This maintains the loyalty of our clients, but also demanding. strengthen all stages of our supply chain. • Knowledge sharing: by having regular contacts • Support of sector initiatives: in Belgium, The with the certifying bodies we stay informed about Coffee Federation, among others, organises in changes. This information is then available to our 2011 a business trip in Guatemala, with a Belgian customers. Our consultancy mission is to provide delegation of coffee roasters. Our local office is in advice and analyses on the different programs. charge of this organisation. We also follow the To this end we also inform journalists. activities of the SCAE – Speciality Coffee Association of Europe and of the ICO – International Coffee Organisation. We seek to obtain the right information in newspaper articles where we try to broaden the • Our trading team ensures that banking scope of the presented labels in order to give our transactions are the only means of payment customer roasters complete information that they granted to customers. can disseminate to their customers. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 7 INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS • Coffee is the first agro-export product for many developing countries. Its market share holds mostly a high position in the total export of those countries. It is produced and exported by nearly 8 embassies were present (Belize, Costa Rica, 65 countries and ranks as one of the top cash Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, crops. Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama) and the private actors were Efico, Dredging International, • According to the International Coffee Delcredere/Ducroire, Don Jaime, Jan De Nul and Organization (ICO), world exports of green coffee Port Of Zeebrugge, as well as representatives of amounted to 120.000.000 bags in 2009, valued at European Institutions. approximately US$16.5 billion. (data 2010 n.a. for the moment) • More than a commercial product, the coffee industry is a social, cultural, institutional and political network that has served as a base for the countries‟ development. • Coffee represents the primary activity of the rural communities providing a direct & indirect livelihood to 100 million people and a primary activity on highlands as well as a pillar upon which rural development rests. Assembly on the Euracen 20th Anniversary “Latin America is uncomfortably dependent on • The scope and intimacy of the relationship commodities. In the past decade they accounted for between coffee producers and a host of 52% of the region’s exports, according to the World intermediary institutions along the coffee supply Bank” The Economist – Sep 9th 2010. chain makes the sector of critical importance to sustainable development at local, regional and • Therefore, Efico increases its institutional global levels. In the countries where Efico contacts to facilitate collaboration in targeting operates, this target group is fully part of our the structural challenges of our sector. multi-stakeholder concern. As a private company, Efico focuses on institutional sectorial capacity building, which • In that perspective Efico invites regularly strengthens mutual understanding. several delegation, and participates in ministerial delegations, to visit producing countries. For • On 22 October, Efico participated at the example; Efico imports one third of the coffee organisation of the 20ste anniversary of Euracen: production of Togo, and invested this year in the Chamber of Commerce Europe-Central local infrastructures to guarantee better storage America. conditions for our commodities. • The emphasis was on the association of promotional efforts around trade relations between Europe and Central America. Speech of Christian Meeùs, Head of International Relations at Christian Meeùs, Head of International Relations participated at the Efico & President of Euracen. Belgium delegation in Ivory Cost in June 2010. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 8 Responsible THE ACTION PLAN IN BOTH PRODUCING & CONSUMING COUNTRIES Supply Chain Management • Our concept and action plans are based on CO 2 REDUCED AND COMPENSATED GREEN COFFEE our conviction that the issues on the climate have to be tackled on the place where they occur. SUPPLY CHAIN Emissions in coffee producing countries should be • European consumers are more and more prepared to reduced by activities in producing countries, and buy goods and services that have a reduced the CO2-emissions in Europe should be reduced environmental impact. Producers, service providers, in the same place. We have built our model on and the advertising industry are aware of this trend, and that assumption with partners in the sector and thus seek to respond to clients through the throughout the whole supply chain. environmental benefit of their goods and services. In producing countries • In conclusions to the Sustainable Production and Consumption Action Plan, the Council of the • Millions of coffee growers around the world, as European Union invited the European Commission to well as the coffee industry as a whole, need to be study the possibility of introducing the carbon footprint prepared to face the challenges of climate of products in the existing EU environmental labelling change and ensure the sustainability of their instruments, such as the Eco-label and energy labelling. livelihoods. Taking into account Member States' experience, to start working as soon as possible on common voluntary CABI Bioscience: “even a modest rise of 2°C in temperature over methodologies facilitating the future establishment of the next 50 years would lead to a contraction of the area carbon assessments for organisations and the available for the growing Arabica coffee, because the lowest calculation of the carbon footprint of products. suitable altitude for its cultivation would rise by about 6 meters • By the fall of 2012, the European Commission will a year.’ evaluate whether it is possible to develop a methodology for the ecological footprint. Pilot Project we initiated in producing countries: • “The Climate Friendly Farming Program” • Since 2008, Efico analysed the CO2 Footprint of allows certification of good environmental the green coffee supply chain based on the practices by developing an extra module in the Green House Gas Protocol set up by the WBCSD existing SAN standards to validate climate friendly (World Business Council on Sustainable farming in coffee production. Development). It allows the Group to reduce its consumption where necessary. The analyse With the support of ANACAFE, Universidad de la pointed out the consumption of each phase of Valle, the Fundacion Interamericana de the green coffee supply chain. Thus, we learned Investigacion Tropical of the Guatemala that growing countries have a significant share of Sustainable Agriculture Network, the SAN Green House Gas emission. Standard was analysed to see what else farmers could do to mitigate and adapt to climate THE 9 STEPS OF THE GREEN COFFEE SUPPLY CHAIN change. This will be the proposal of the Climate Module of the Rainforest Certification Program. To be actively involved in each phase of our The module will be launched in February 2011. supply chain, we launched a concept of CO2 reduction and compensation of the green coffee supply chain. Factsheet of the project edited by Rainforest Alliance Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 9 the reduction of GHG emissions in coffee supply • Certified farmers are already reducing their chains, and farmers being more prepared for emissions, and preparing for climate change. climate risks and extreme wether events. Many Farmers can also volunteering to accept the of our partners in producing countries mention extra challenge of meeting the Climate Module that they are still affected by climate change, criteria. In addition, some coffee roasters want to and the incidence on production quantities and motivate farmers to mitigate and adapt to qualities is indisputable. climate change. More information available on: • This project will promote the reduction of Green House Gases in farms, as well as carbon stock in Film: to share the projects experience, soil and biomass. It will stimulate adaptation and we realised a film available to everyone: risk management strategies in a context of http://www.youtube.com/eficogroup#p/u/1/gbUvFPZ MCyE climate change and extreme weather events and create awareness about climate change in Projection of this film at Cancun, United Nations addition to create added value for the producer. Conference on Climate Change (COP 16): This project is one of the Efico Foundation projects. 4 December on the Cancun film festival. On the Efico Foundation website: http://www.eficofoundation.org/projects/promotionRenaud Cuchet presented climate-friendly-practices-coffee?page=video this project at Sintercafé in Costa Rica – November 12, 2010. Powerpoint presentation: This event reassemble more than 500 participants. http://www.eficofoundation.org/sites/default/files/proje http://www.sintercafe.com/en/pages/18 ct_13_powerpoint.pdf Factsheet available on the Rainforest Alliance or Efico 15 April 2010 – Renaud Cuchet also presented the websites: project at SCAA Annual Exposition, all details page 23. http://www.agricultureday.org/presentations/Rainforest -Alliance_Climate-Friendly-Farming.pdf • Market Climate Friendly Coffee will promote or coffee growing in valuable agroforestry systems, http://www.efico.com/sites/default/files/climate_projec t_fact_sheet.pdf Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 10 Our action in consuming countries • Meanwhile, in the consuming country we have developed our own sustainable logistic service centre. Katrien Delaet, Head of Sustainable Projects at Efico was pleased to receive this Award. • Seabridge is equipped with a highly efficient system to maintain a constant temperature and humidity, and to control air ventilation and sterilization to guarantee the optimal storage conditions for green coffee. Our energy efficiency is mainly attributed to appropriate construction materials and an on-site green energy production by photovoltaiques panels. Spread out over a period of 30 years, this project will enable the suppression of 20.610 Tones of CO2 emissions, Those two measures result in a total compared to a standard modern-day building. energy efficiency increase of 73% compared to the Belgian Building Code. • In 2009, we received the GreenBuilding Certificate from the European Commission, and In 2010, we produced 981.676 kWh green energy in 2010 we were proud to receive the Green at the Seabridge equal to an average yearly Building Award which confirms the enhanced electricity consumption of ± 300 families. energy efficiency of our building. • The Green Building program is a voluntary scheme that invites private and public organizations to reduce their energy consumption in buildings through several measures, such as thermal insulation, efficient heating and cooling, intelligent control systems, renewable energy production, etc. • The award ceremonies took place in Frankfurt on April 13 and 14 April during the “Improving Energy Efficiency in Commercial Buildings” Conference (IEECB‟10). A total of 24 participants (selected from 700 participants from all over Europe) received awards in this 2010 edition for their results or their innovative projects. Decisions were based on their energy savings, technology use, and the sector they belong to; public buildings, retail, offices…. • The quality conditions of Seabridge are of high performance. Seabridge was awarded as one of the • Some coffee producers associations already most “ambitious projects” in decided to storage most of their European stocks the Category Special Acknowledgement. at Seabridge. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 11 This results in reinforced spiritual, political, social EFICO FOUNDATION: and economic strength of individuals and communities. • The Efico foundation acts on several Goals of the Millennium Development Goals; 1 – 2 – 3 – 7 – 8. Although we have no project directly related to health care, the impact of certain projects to incidence on welfare recipients and thus the health of producers. So we have an indirect impact on their health and therefore on those goals. The project‟s activities are aiming to improve the conditions of the coffee production, by Pupils in El Duraznito renovated school processing it in all three dimensions of sustainability (social, ecological and economic). The Efico Foundation is Efico‟s private foundation, established in 2003 for the promotion of Type of projects we supported: sustainable development in coffee & cacao producing countries. It operates as a facilitator  micro-credit, for European Coffee Roasters and the coffee  scholarships, sector who are willing to support sustainability on  school construction, a large responsible scale.  coffee or sustainable education, • The financial means of the foundation are  operating a water source, generated by:  protecting biodiversity, the sales of labelled Efico Foundation coffee  capacity building by training sessions or regrouping 46 European coffee roasters, certification programs, the annual transfer of Efico of at least € 50.000,  launching or relaunching agricultural private and/or public donations. production in difficult areas, Each of these categories contribute to about one  improving working and living conditions, third of total financial resources. as well as income of farmers, The diversification of its revenues ensures the  income diversification, durability of the foundation‟s means.  promotion of agroforestry systems and food safety, • The Efico Fund is a corporate fund, within the  improving infrastructure, King Baudouin Foundation, which manages,  providing wastewater treatment, finances and selects the projects on the basis of  product quality improvement, pre-determinated criteria, through an  efficiency methods of sustainable independent jury of experts. production, • 100% of the financial resources go directly to  know-how transfer to small scale farmers, development projects. A unique and strong  raise climate awareness model with a complete guarantee of and create added value in the chain. transparency, and a 100% money allocation to projects. • Strengthening the producing community. Efico Foundation is committed to contribute to sustainability and responsible corporate citizenship based on the universal principles of the United Nations Global Compact. It fully fulfils the Efico commitment in producing countries . By reinforcing empowerment in producing countries, we contribute to increase the mutual influence, the distribution of power, the sharing of knowledge and responsibilities, the democratic decision making, the investment in learning An example: Water Management Source processes, and the development of local Exploitation in Guatemala – Water for the Village. confidence in own capacities. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 12 • Through our foundation we support a lot of • The potential impact of adaptation to sustainable production programs. sustainable measures can be summarized as follow: One third of our projects are related to certification programs, while all projects must Planet/ecological: comply with our sustainable criteria. In 2004, we started with our first certification in  creation of capacity building, Guatemala. In 2006 we started a three-year 4C  upgrading of agricultural responsible verification program in Colombia. practices,  enhancement of environmental protection, • The realized verification/certification projects  recovery management of natural resources; were not the most easiest projects. We initiated wood, water, land, air, biodiversity, those programs for the first time in those countries. ecosystem, … Examples: the first Rainforest Alliance program in Ethiopia in People/social 2006 & 2007 and this year in Bolivia.  good organizational development • The difficulty we often met is the lack of existing the width learning‟s program provides structure. We also had a hard time transmitting upgrading in field expertise, technical transfer the experienced agencies‟ auditors. Efico had to educations opportunities, and selfrecruit a local agricultural engineer to unblock assessment within the communities, the project.  achieving better social conditions and reaching a considerable number of coffee • We also supported a three-year UTZ-certified farmers and their families, program in Honduras, and for the moment we  social welfare, safe drinking water, the continued a project in RD Congo. This project improvement of life and labour standards of was delayed due to the civil war in RD Congo. coffee growers and workers in coffee This new timing requests the approval of Efico cultivation and production processes, Foundation‟s Jury, within the King Baudouin  increase of social cohesion & better Foundation. organization of communities, Profit/economic:  higher financial & qualitative product value,  reduction of costs and higher productivity,  improvement of the market access.  scholarships, management practices, languages, computers, exchange experience,  reduction of poverty, and a real benefit for the communities,  presence and positive action in rural regions where a lot of well-known international development organizations are absent. • The difficulties are almost always the same. Important precision: there is no commercial While the choice of the certification program is obligation between the beneficiary of a Efico very clear, the marketing of labelled production is Foundation project & the Efico trading activity. mostly a challenge, because the market is new Collaboration can be provided only on the for these producers and in many cases supply request of a beneficiary of a project. exceeds demand. On the other hand, our experience has shown that these types of programs require a long-term engagement of minimum two to three years. If Efico Foundation doesn‟t charges the audits‟ costs, producers are not able to bear these financial cost, meaning that they mostly stop with those programs. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 13 We believe that a selective collaboration with trusted and qualitative partners is preferable to a large number of projects. • In December 2010, a meeting of the board was scheduled to select future projects. This year we received 86 projects, distributed as follows;  40 coffee related projects  31 cocoa related projects  7 coffee & cocoa related projects  8 projects out of scope, without any coffee or cocoa link Coffee producers in the plantation Those projects are originating from: Cameroon 17 projects Results Assessment: DR Congo 8 projects Through our multistakeholder approach we are Uganda 8 projects confident that our projects create leverage Ghana 7 projects opportunities around their sphere of influence. A Indonesia, Ivory Cost 5 projects snowball effect results mostly in the region of the Colombia 4 projects project, which occurs by adopting Bolivia, India, Burundi 3 projects complementary actions around the main project. Ethiopia, Rwanda, Peru, Honduras, Ecuador : • The gained experience will contribute to the 2 projects per country future development of those regions. The Laos, Nigeria, Liberia, The Philippines, Brazil, modification of behaviours of those communities Nigeria, Mexico, Cuba: 1 project per country. will better prepare them to propose a sustainable response to future challenges. Consequently, • The number of projects increased by 35%, they become real sustainable actors in their issues. compared to last year. • A pre-selection allowed the Jury to retain 11 Since its inception, projects that met to our quality criteria. These Efico Foundation supports assessments were reviewed by all members of the Jury who realise the ranking of the best project. 34 sustainable multistakeholder This is submitted to the Board that, in function of development projects available budgets, gave its support to four new in 12 coffee & cocoa producing countries projects knowing that we still have six projects under way at the moment. Our foundation amounting to ± € 1.281.060. cannot complete all projects due to a lack of available resources. Our search for new funding or partnerships is an on-going process. • Our partners in implementation & finance are: • What makes a good project? After 5 years of activities the shortlisted projects by Efico Foundation have certain things in common:  They demonstrate a high potential for transfer and replication.  Results and methodology are clearly reflected.  They are innovative and help us to bridge • Our vision: The various predefined criteria used structural support to sustainability. in the selection of our project assure us of  They are constructed on a participative qualitative projects in order to create an model and involve a maximum of trusted key effective partnership with the coffee communities. partners. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 14  They create clear and substantial environmental benefits, such as reduced emissions, waste, hazardous substances, and improved resource efficiency.  They are economically viable and will have a future after receiving support.  On the micro-level level, the projects are improving competitiveness, capacity building, infrastructures, the quality of labour and the social cohesion. The added value contributes to enhance the livelihoods of producers.  On a macro-economic level, the project‟s benefits influence the framework of the development of future policies of land use, agriculture, forestry, education, ... Mr. & Ms. Caron, French coffee roaster, the El Duraznito Team & Efico Central America visiting the beneficio of the plantage Finally, all projects contribute to facilitate the transfer of ideas & knowledge. When obstacles • This year, and for the first time, a world leader arise, proactive proposed solutions are manufacturer of coffee machines, providing encourage and appreciated by the Jury. professional‟s solutions for gastronomy, catering and office, Franke GmbH granted an allocation First visit of a coffee roasting company to the two to the Efico Foundation, instead in offering Efico Foundation projects it co-finances. Christmas gifts to its clients & partners. • From December 1 to 3, Sylvain and Chantal Caron travelled to El Duraznito Jalapa in Guatemala. This was a unique event, as they are the first coffee roasters to pay a visit to the projects they supported in the coffee producing countries. Franke Christmas Communication • During our first contact we immediately discussed the possibility for Franke to become UNGC member since they are implicated in CSR. What a surprise when they confirm their willingness and intention to be member in 2011. The Efico membership was a real added value for Franke when they selected the organization they Sylvain and Chantal Caron (owners of the French coffee wished to support. roasting company Caron Service Automatique) surrounded by pupils . Our foundation always tends to be a vector in our sector stimulating dynamic public-private • In 2009, Caron first co-financed a primary partnerships in favour of sustainable developschool renovation project (budget: € 11. 186). ment in the South. This sustainable Christmas Besides this school project, they defray the costs activity achieved its goal. of the construction of a pipeline to introduce drinking water in the Duraznito community and Efico Foundation created emulators; two of our to provide clean water for coffee processing customers have decided to create their own (budget 2010 & 2011: € 21. 000). foundation; Peeze Foundation in the Nederlands, and Colruyt with the Collibri Foundation in • Our Office in Central America welcomed our Belgium. Both, supporting our projects. guests and guided them during this trip. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 15 INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR STANDARDIZATION Quality Control, Food Safety, Traceability & Management Systems • Over the years we have built a solid network of • In 2003, Efico became the first coffee trader in reliable suppliers. Our goods are shipped with the Europe to be ISO 9001 certified. greatest care and are traceable at any time. The Quality Management System has been • A range of standard and rigorous tests are certified by Lloyd‟s Register Quality Assurance. carried out on all our goods to ensure quality and This ISO certification has several implications on all food safety at every stage of the supply chain. our activities, as well as on the implementation of We require the highest standards for all our our corporate social responsibility approach. operations, and do utmost to meet and exceed our buyers‟ demands and expectations. • Since July 2008, the Efico Food Safety Management, and the traceability procedures • Off every coffee lot that we buy, we receive a have also been ISO 22000 certified by Lloyd‟s pre-shipment sample, and on arrival minimum 1 Quality Register. Our HACCP plan is an integral sample per lot. Next to this, offer samples are part of the Food Safety Management System. analysed to discover new possibilities for coffee sourcing. All samples are analysed in our coffee laboratories. SEABRIDGE QUALITY IMPROVEMENTS The emergence of new technologies allows us to improve our operations. • The storage area is temperature and humidity controlled, the air is filtered and sterilized to remove and prevent development of dust, moulds, yeasts, moulds and micro-bacteria. • We are equipped with a high-tech machinery park for green coffee reception, cleaning, grading on screen and density, blending, drying, Coffee cupping laboratories in Zeebrugge & Antwerp color sorting, s and packaging. The machinery is fully automized in a foodsafe environment. • SeaBridge uses a state-of-the-art warehouse management system (WMS), which runs on Microsoft Dynamics NAV Platform. • By using this WMS, we can maintain a high standard of excellence and provide the best customized services. • With this pioneering technology we can increase inventory accuracy, reduce reception times, optimize control mechanisms and products' locations, in order to exceeding our customers‟ expectations up to „Just In Time In 2009, Efico was delighted to have the Vice World Cupper in Deliveries‟. its team. In 2010, Bart Van Sanden is Vice Champion of Belgium. • From the receiving dock to the shipping dock, this WMS directs and tracks every stock movement into, within and out of the warehouse. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 16 2. CONTROL OF POTENTIAL HAZARDS IN FOOD TRACEABILITY TRACK & TRACE SYSTEM PRODUCTION BY A HACCP-PLAN • HACCP stands for Hazard Analysis and Critical • Through our tailor-made Enterprise Resource Control Point. These are guidelines to ensure that Planning (ERP) all our goods are carefully tracked food remains free of contamination by making and traced from the coffee suppliers/exporters, sure that all food operations are safe and the producers, on the ship, on the road, in the hygienically executed . warehouse, and to final delivery. During the implementation of the HACCP system, potential hazards are identified, and control • All marks, on bags, containers or trucks, are measures are run at specific moments in the registered and linked to a unique barcode supply chain to prevent and control risk providing the ID of the goods. occurrence. • Through this unique bar coding and scanning 3. CUSTOMER FACILITATOR system, goods in storage areas and portals can instantly be identified and located. The Memorandum Of Understanding (MOU) for Drugs Prevention settles the partnership between • Shipping documents, test results, and handling the customs authorities and the history are registered in the system, and can be coffee trading companies with the purpose of consulted on screen upon simple request. reducing Drug and Precursors trafficking. Efico initiated this as a pilot project, and is • A recall or withdrawal can be organized currently being used by the authorities. immediately by simply clicking on a button. • Using wireless scanners, all barcodes can be FUTURE IMPROVEMENTS scanned quickly and efficiently, leading to an accurate stock management. Seabridge will operate with an integrated package of management systems. Norms, • Full tracking from warehouse to pallet level with standards and framework in which we will lot or pallet information is stored in a database operate, and tender to realise in the coming and can be consulted per lot. years: 1. QUALITY 1 FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS During the next years we will be very active in obtaining the ISO 9001 & 22000 certifications for Seabridge. 2. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES • ISO 14001 which addresses various aspects of environmental management 3. CUSTOMER FACILITATOR CURRENT FRAMEWORK • AEO „Authorised Economic Operator‟ is a status that companies can acquire and which 1. BUILDING & FACILITIES FASFC APPROVED indicates to Customs that the company is reliable in the fiscal and security domain. • The Seabridge building & facilities are approved by the Belgian federal agency for the The advantage of the AEO-status is that facilities safety of the food chain (FASFC) which is a are less physically controlled by Customs. Control federal executive agency with authority over the of goods are announced in advance and the whole Belgian territory. It lays down the company has priority at these controls. operational standards applicable to businesses, Furthermore, data can be supplied later and less and integrates all official control and inspection data is needed for the Customs declaration. This services for the food chain. In the port of accelerates the handling of our goods. Zeebrugge we benefit of a Border Inspection Post (BIP). It‟s a One-Stop-Shop where control of goods is bundled with a customs logistics process providing a very fast service to our company. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 17 • Logistics in Flanders is strengthened through a resources, promoting Rail Transport and Waste unique collaboration between service providers/ Management solutions. companies and customs authorities. We have always experienced fluid and flexible 2) new technologies and processes: clean flows in our commodities. We can provide our production, full automatisation and activities European customers in a continuous way. covered by green energy. REASON FOR THIS REQUIRED FRAMEWORK ECO-EFFICIENCY • ACTING FOR THE COMPANY: Eco-Efficiency is a focal action point of the Certification of our management systems by an Group. Since we realised our first footprint analysis, independent and accredited party enables our in 2008, and took measures to decouple our group of companies to receive a recognition of economic growth from our environmental impact. the quality of our services. • One of those measures was to choose a • ACTING FOR THE SECTOR: suitable location for Seabridge. The port of In the past, we experienced that by Zeebrugge shares our same sustainable vison and professionalizing our working methods other allows us to optimize the use of seaand rail industry players followed us steps. By extending transport. our pro-active behaviours on these best practices others were inspired and provide a benchmark for analysis of performance. • Our self-evaluation process is reinforced by our continuous improvement with respect to laws, norms, codes, performance standards, and voluntary initiatives. • In these challenging times, demonstration of clear and structured processes have never been more important for most of our clients as today. Eco-Innovation, • Storage and handling activities are centralized Eco-Efficiency & in one location. Waste Management • Seabridge holds the European Commission‟s “Green Building” Certificate and Awards thanks From the moment we want to be integrated in a to unsound environmental building concept. responsible supply chain, each stage and each stakeholder is concerned. To become a full actor, • During the construction energy efficient the Efico Group integrates sustainable and long building and isolation materials were used. term investments. These specific measures are also part of our „Environmental Policy‟. We • Green energy is produced from the 4 600 provide solutions and sustainable services to our photovoltaic panels located on the roof, with a customers who are also concerned in promoting capacity of a 1 MW Peak. all environmental dimensions. To achieve this eco-performance, and make the right decisions in new areas, we constantly consult our stakeholders to challenge all opportunities. ECO-INNOVATION Eco-Innovation globalise our 1) new services : ie. CO2 concept, New Product with an as low as possible impact on the environment and optimal use renewable • Climate change is our concern (more info pg 6-7). Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 18 By monitoring emissions in the coffee supply chain and taking action to reduce our CO2 footprint, SeaBridge aims to limit its impact on the environment, and create a sustainable coffee chain by working closely with all actors in chain, in order to create win-win partnerships. • Direct Rail transport to the SeaBridge site enables us to replace lorries by trains, reducing road traffic and the CO2 emissions . Containers are removed from the rail by Reach Stacker “As from mid October 95% of the incoming cargo will • The aim of SeaBridge is to incorporate find its way to Seabridge by train, while more than 50% economic, social, and environmental issues into of the outgoing cargo will also leave Seabridge by train. its business model to obtain economic growth The remaining being dispatched per truck to more than without harming the environment. 300 coffee roasters throughout Europe who are not all rail connected. It can be conservatively estimated that WASTE MANAGEMENT for the twelve months ahead about 8000 containers will be transported by train to and from Seabridge and will • Our waste management system is based on the therefore decrease the congestion on local, national cradle-to-cradle concept. Through a unique waste management system, we sort and recycle and international roads.” waste and re-allocating it as input for making Explained Patrick F. Installé during the new materials. This solution is proposed to clients inauguration event of Seabridge. who adhere to this concept. Jute bags & paper are apart sorted Front part of the building with railroad • In Seabridge, a special area is dedicated to Transports optimization, time and fuel efficiency, store these materials. By loading goods customers guaranteed loading & unloading time, and direct can unload their waste. This simple system rail connection on site have a positive green provides a real sustainable solution to our impact on our activities. partners for waste. • All types of reception and delivery are proposed on our new logistics site; bulk, big bags, containers or normal bags. The flexibility of the packaging possibilities and optimal loading offers also a new way towards more eco-efficiency. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 19 • The appreciation of this model is very Optimizing Costs and concluding, it enables both partners to change their approach and forces new considerations. Return • Some of our partners even inform us before investing in new machines, buildings or material NEW BUSINESS APPROACH to be sure they do not duplicate with our possibilities. • With the new structure of our Group we have the opportunity to optimize and create a new PERFORMING BUSINESS ACTIVITIES customer approach. • In performing its business activities, Efico Based, and mainly inspired provides information about sustainable or by „The Power of TWO”, we emerging topics to various stakeholder groups. developed a new strategy in Nowedays, more topics must be managed, and which we share all the research is becoming equally important. services we are able to provide to our clients, set-up • With the extension of our services, corrective under the best cost analyse. measures are still applicable while Seabridge is already operating at full capacity. The road The authors are: construction to our site, extreme weather Carlos Cardon & Thomas conditions (the first heat of the summer, the first Vollmann, 2008. Both of them snow, ...), introduction of work force from the port are teachers of the IMD Business School in of Zeebrugge,... Finally, all these new factors Lausanne. require special attention and constant improvement of our organization. • „Our focus is on TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) providing a new focus for collaboration: all costs, direct and indirect – to both customer and supplier – are seen as a targets for elimination or significant improvement. The underlying assumption is that they only can be improved together.‟ • We segment our clients‟ portfolio, and manage each interested client separately in a tailor-made way to determine which service proposal is best suited for a win-win situation. • To apply this model Trust & Transparency are perhaps the most important, the hardest to • In addition, we increase efficiency by maintain, and the least obvious to assess. combining purchasing, logistics, and investments in a new user-friendly software package for registration and reporting. All processes from purchase at origin to delivery at final customer are fully supported by Microsoft Dynamics NAV. The weighing, assigning of a lot number, labelling, production, making delivery notes, occurs with an integrated system. Today, the processes are much more efficient than ever before. The manual input of data is reduced to a minimum and risk of data-errors are reduced to a minimum. Reporting and analyses are automised. • Periodic analysis of cost structures have also been simplified. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 20 STRENGTHENS COMMUNICATION SKILLS Exchange of Product • Having a thorough understanding of our Knowledge and Marketing products and services allow us to use different Support techniques and methods in presenting them to our customers. SHARING PRODUCT KNOWLEDGE Our trading team‟s strong communication skills are reinforced by tailormade PowerPoint presentations for each type of customer. • Knowledge is power. Product knowledge is difficult to summarise. Many factors and subjects • 2010 was a challenging year on are part of the job, it requires a long training and communication level. We achieved formation period. On a daily base our trading team tastes each pre-shipment and arriving 1. the restyling of our brands by developing coffee sample. In addition they regularly travel to new communication material and digital producing countries to evaluate local situations communication, and maintain or establish long term relationships. 2. the launch of an internet and intranet Those experiences are shared with our clients. website, 3. a presence on Social Media, • ”Efico Coffee Selection” File. 4. a participation at several events and It is easier to effectively offer a special product to exhibitions, a coffee roaster with all the available information. 5. an active participation at several We developed our own tool, and most of the interesting conferences, products we propose are accompanied by a 6. participation in the UN Global Compact complete description, summarized on one page. Steering Committee from the Belgium Network, 7. numerous press activities. • Of course, we continued to highlight the introduction of Seabridge and we also provide visual information to the sector about producing countries. • In 2009, we edited a first photo book about coffee and cocoa producing countries. We received a lot of questions about that project. Consequently, we allowed the services of a full time journalist to develop audio visual material. This didactic material provides illustrations of coffee production in countries of origin, and explain the different stages of the supply chain. 1. NEW COMMUNICATION MATERIALS & WEBSITES Our new and up-to-date branding allows us to present the new structure as an integrated Group. Home Page of our Group Website ▼ • Assistance to the development of new products is another function of this shared information. • Internal meetings with our partners and offices contribute to share and feed experiences on our products. Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 21 3. SOCIAL MEDIA • Our communication tools are useful for our stakeholders. It‟s important that they know us To increase awareness of our profession and our better and are aware about our concern for both activities to a larger audience, we decided to be our suppliers and our customers who have an present with our digital material in social media intimate relationship with our Group. networks, such as Facebook.. • We are convinced that our motto „With a Personal Touch‟ is more than ever applicable. For that reason we encourage tailormade PowerPoint presentations which allow us to directly check if our message is correctly understood. • Dr. J. Edward Deming, a famous quality guru, provided a simple, yet highly effective technique that serves as a practical tool to carry out continuous improvements on the workplace. This technique is called PDCA Cycle, or simply Deming Cycle. PDCA is acronym of Plan, Do, Check and Action. As a specialist pointed out in a recent article*: The famous “Deming cycle” of quality “social networking inside the enterprise is not only management and business process improvement, inevitable, it is essential. Used correctly, social that we used for the launch of Seabridge, can media can help your company solve problems, easily be applied to communication: burnish its public image, recruit top talent, and Plan: Build a consistent communication plan. generate ideas. Implemented poorly – or worse, Do: Execute the plan towards all the different ignored – it can create a world of pain.” stakeholders and the internal layers of the * Dan Tynan: Should you block access to Facebook, company. Twitter at work? in InfoWorld, October 23d 2010 Check: Verify that the message is coming 4. PARTICIPATION ON SEVERAL EVENTS/EXHIBITIONS through correctly. Act: Analyze why the message is not well • 26 to 28 February 2010 World Coffee understood and communicate again to rectify Conference in Guatemala. the deficiencies. 2. NEW INTRANET WEBSITE The Conference was organized by Anacafé, in close cooperation with the International Coffee Intranet provides a large range of information to Organization (ICO). It was chaired by the our colleagues all over the world ; such as President of Guatemala with main theme : performance of each department, participation “Coffee for the future: Towards a sustainable to events, profile of collaborators of the Efico coffee sector”. Group and presentation of people in producing A lot of Efico‟s suppliers were also present. countries, clients activities, news, updates of the Group website ... Every week a new message is posted. This frequency keeps the whole organisation informed about internal & external developments. Our team from left to right: Thorsten Hammersen, Managing Director Efico GmbH, Partick F. Installé, Chairman Efico Group, Nelson Garcia, trade support in Central America, Katrien Delaet, Head of Sustainable Projects, Renaud Cuchet, Managing Director Central America. Example of the diversification information available on our intranet page Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 22 • 15 March 2010 Lecture about Seabridge for drink hot beverages. With nearly 3,000 trade Zeehaven Brugge vzw by Patrick F. Installé. visitors from 25 countries, the international trade show and its accompanying conference gave Facing an important audience, including information and insights into the innovations and Portuary & Regional authorities. Patrick F. Installé developments in the coffee, tea and cocoa presented the new company – Seabridge. markets. This brilliant beginning underscored COTECA Hamburg‟s positioning as a high-calibre platform for the whole value chain of the three industries, from raw commodities to finished products. It featured presentations of products and services from more than 100 companies from 17 countries at the Hamburg Fair site. • 15 April 2010 – The Specialty Coffee Association of America‟s (SCAA), 22nd Annual Exposition & Symposium, Anaheim, California. Patrick F. Installé & Michel Germanes welcome our hosts on the Renaud Cuchet attended as speaker and stand. presented our Climate Friendly project. For this event we used a recycled cardboard stand. At “The Event,” thousands of international coffee professionals from more than 40 countries converge at the Anaheim Convention Center to focus on specialty coffee, sustaining the industry and farmer‟s livelihoods, and the latest and most innovative trends and products in the coffee marketplace. SCAA is the world's coffee authority and largest coffee trade association. More information on: http://greenboarddesign.wordpress.com/decor-exhibitions/ • 18 June 2010 Seabridge Open Day Clients were invited to experience hightechnology features of our European SustainableLogistics Center, which is dedicated to storage, handling, and distribution of green coffee • 4 to 6 June Hamburg. located in the Port of Zeebrugge. Coteca is Europe‟s first specialty coffee, tea and Clients who couldn‟t attend to this event got the cocoa exhibition, covering the whole tea, cocoa opportunity to arrange another visit. and coffee chain from raw materials to ready-toEfico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 23 • 10 September 2010 Inauguration of Seabridge • 28 & 29 October European trends in CSR development. As an Advisor member of the new The Efico Group was very pleased to welcome a UN Global Compact Network Belgium Steering large number of ambassadors, many partners Committee, Efico participated to the coand suppliers, as well as Belgian, Foreign, Portuary, organization of this successful event in Brussels. and Customs authorities, ... The assembly visited the site, and there were several speeches by prominent guests, such as Nestor Osório Londoño, Executive Director of the ICO (International Coffee Organization), Joachim Coens (President of MBZ Port Authority of Zeebrugge) and Patrick F. Installé, who talked about the unique, state-of-the-art coffee distribution centre, as well as the port and the general issues in the coffee world. UN Global Compact Belgium Steering Committee surrounding Soren Petersen – UNGC Senior officer in New York. “Collectively, 15 coffee producing countries are officially represented here, responsible for more than • 12 November 2010 24° Edition of Sintercafé in 75.000.000 bags of green coffee production, on a Costa Rica. yearly basis, the equivalent of 62,50% of coffee grown Renaud Cuchet, Managing Director of Efico worldwide.” said Patrick F. Installé. Central America was a guest speaker (details pg 8). • 25 November 2010 Event Voka West Flanders The Flemish Network for Entrepreneurs received more than 50 ambassadors, or their representatives, assisting at the closing event of the Week of International Business' in the port of Zeebrugge. Several hundreds of business leaders were able to meet in the presence of ambassadors, or their representatives. From left to right: Joachim Coens (President of MBZ Port During that closing session Joachim Coens of the Authority of Zeebrugge), Nestor Osório Londoño, Executive Port of Zeebrugge (President of MBZ) presented Director of the ICO (International Coffee Organization)and the performances of the port. Also Patrick F. Partick F. Installé, Chairman Efico Group Installé had the opportunity to present Seabridge. Both have focused their speech on corporate • 8 October Coffee Dinner in Geneva responsibility and sustainability within the international logistics environment. The Swiss Coffee Trading Association organised this first edition. A large delegation of our colleagues represented our Group, and had the opportunity to meet a lot of key players of the coffee industry. They commented the upcoming challenges and issues. • 19 October Gouden Portafilter 2010 Fifth edition of the Belgian Cuptasting The assembly surrounded Patrick F. Installé Championship. Bart Van Sanden obtained the second place, Vice Belgium Champion, after 2010 was enriching year for our Group, as we being Vice World Champion in 2009. mobilised all our people to organise all previous described changes and activities. • 22 October 20th anniversary of Euracen Every time we participate to an event Efico participated at the 20th anniversary of the we noted that the number of visits to Chamber of Commerce Europe Central our website significantly increased. America (details pg 5 & 6). Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 24 5. PARTICIPATION AT SEVERAL CONFERENCES recognition to continue developments on sustainability. Kauri events KAURI is the Belgian multi-actor More Press Clipping available on: learning network and knowledge center on www.sebridge.eu Corporate Responsibility and NGO Accountability. 12/01/2010 Workshop Sustainability Reporting (GRI) 05/02/2010 KAURI Speed-dating 11/05/2010 Workshop Business & Human Rights 23/09/2010 Workshop Social Profit Financial Responsibility IMD – Business School Lausanne 30/11/2010 Sustainable Supply Chain Dialogue 4C Association 24/02/2010 Technical Committee in Guatemala 15/04/2010 Trade & Industry UNGC – Network activities “ EFICO’s Seabridge Logistics sets the standard” 6. PARTICIPATION IN THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT STEERING COMMITTEE FROM THE BELGIUM NETWORK. • As an active member of the UN Global Compact since 2003, Efico always promotes UN Global Compact in Europe and in coffee and cocoa producing countries. All communication material refers to our commitment to the principles of the UNGC. Also in interviews, speeches, and presentations we refer to our membership.(see press clipping on this page). Since 2009, a dedicated person of our team, assisted as Advisor to the several meetings of the UNGC Belgium Network in order to organise events, the framework of the network, and the internet communication strategy of the network. We followed those events: 06/05/2010 COP Workshop: Getting your COP started 06/07/2010 Debriefing Leaders Summit@KBC 29/10/2010 European trends in CSR development 7. PRESENCE IN THE PRESS • Being mentioned in the press or invited to conferences, and presented as the „Pioneer in Sustainable Supply Chain Management” is a nice Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 25 THIS TOP-DOWN OVERVIEW GIVES A PICTURE OF THE EFICO GROUP ACTIVITIES WITHIN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE 10 UNGC PRINCIPLES Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 26 proactivity, innovation, and a sustainable Stakeholders Involvement business approach with a long term vision. • This tradition helps us to create added value PARTNERSHIP, A REAL CONCERN focussing on quality standards and food safety, traceability and sustainability. • In 2010, as you discovered in this report we SKILLS AND EXPERIENCES IN ACHIEVEMENT participated to a lot of events and presented the activities of our Group (see pages 22 to 25). Thereby we also exchanged our experience • By focussing on the different concerns and and skills with institutional bodies. needs of the stakeholder groups on various emerging topics, the performance of Efico‟s • Another example: on 30 March 2010, Patrick business and activities significantly improve. F. Installé was invited by FICA (Flemish International Cooperation Agency) to present • The key stakeholders of Efico, Seabridge, and his point of view about PARTNERSHIP. the Efico Foundation are almost different. We The title chosen for his presentation was: aim to work in close partnership with all of them. „PARTNERSHIP IS A MUST!‟. He explained the importance of clear working frameworks • Maintaining an active dialogue with these between partners, who exchange expertise in stakeholders assures us that we act according order to achieve professional partnerships in a to their request. We appreciate any exchange changing environment. Presentation available in point of views and appreciate their interest on internet, where is also mentioned our UNGC and concern in the evolution of our activities. involvement: http://www.vvob.be/vvob/files/20100330_present_efico.pdf SHARING THIS COP REPORT WITH STAKEHOLDERS • This detailed report illustrates on how we work with our various stakeholders, and which projects we conducted in 2010. THE STARTING POINT BEHIND PARTNERSHIP This report will be shared with all partners mentioned in this report, and the UN Global • Our long history and strong family tradition, Compact internet address will be figuring on including 4 generations of expertise, allows us to each Efico PowerPoint presentation. build stable relationships between stakeholders See example below: of the coffee and cocoa business. • Building on the past, we benefit from strong assets, which are reputation, service orientation, Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 27 Other Communication Support available on: http://www.efico.com/communication-material Efico Group – UNGC COP 2010 – Last Update 21 March 2011 28
