Communication on Progress 2010 United Nations Global Compact www.forensic-pathways.com Statement of Support It gives me great pleasure to reinstate Forensic Pathways Ltd (FPL) support for the UN Global Compact and to further reinstate my commitment as Deputy Director of the UK Global Compact Network. If Forensic Pathways was to give 2010 a theme it would be as our title states: People, Planet, Profit, Principles. Over the past year we have continued to invest in our people providing training, support, mentoring and opportunities to grow which has ensured that they continue to develop skills, knowledge and confidence, all of which has led to an extremely successful year. 2010 has been a turning point in Forensic Pathways’ evolution. Over the 9 years its focus has been on investment in research and development, building new technologies and new software for the criminal and business intelligence market. 2010 has seen those technologies reach fruition and the exploitation of this R&D is now beginning to be realised. If I were to add one more word to the list of words within our title, that word would be ‘investment’. 2010 has been a year of investment, not only in terms of our product and service development, but in terms of our people, our infrastructure, our clients and our maturity as a company. As we move into 2011, Forensic Pathways’ 10th Anniversary, I am confident that this investment will continue to grow and the benefit will be felt not purely by the company, but by the wider community. Our principles remain strong, our commitment to the Global Compact constant and as in all years previously, those principles are promoted and shared with our colleagues, suppliers, clients and the community at large. This commitment was further reinforced with my attendance at the Global Compact Summit in New York, along with numerous presentations to other organisations promoting the positive impact the Compact has had upon Forensic Pathways, year on year. 2010 has been a good year. We look forward to 2011 with optimism and with the belief that it will be exceptional. DEBORAH LEARY, FRSA, OBE Chief Executive Officer Principle 1 & 2 Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Ensure non-complicity of human rights abuses THE COMPANY Forensic Pathways (FPL) is an award winning international company providing advanced data analytics, forensic intelligence, forensic products, training and consultancy. FPL’s expertise lies in offering unique data analysis solutions in the area of criminal intelligence, due diligence/risk and business intelligence and is internationally recognised for taking a lead in the development of forensic products/services. Its products and services focus on the protection of people, companies and organisations. PRODUCTS, SERVICES & PROJECTS FPL’s previous Communication on Progress outlined the launch of new projects and products all aimed at assisting in the prevention of terrorism and the abuse of human rights in addition to developing unique techniques for the management of data. This included: Forensic Phone Analyser (FPA) A technology enabling law enforcement to use Telecoms and Mobile Phone Data to identify suspected criminal organised groups without engaging in collateral intrusion on the privacy of law abiding citizens. Many law enforcement agencies globally extract data from mobile phones confiscated from suspected criminals, but too date have been unable to quickly analyse that data to make critical decisions due to the sheer volume of data. Using FPA this inability to make time critical decisions has now been eliminated, at the same time as protecting the rights of the innocent. Forensic Image Analyser (FIA) & the DIVEFor Project Having undertaken the development of a technology which allows investigators to identify which camera or mobile phone took a particular image, particularly critical for paedophile, terrorism, and industrial espionage cases, FPL is now actively promoting this technology. An example of its application and success is that it has been used by a particular law enforcement agency within the UK, whereby 600,000 images were processed, taken from a suspect accused of abusing children and circulating images of them on the internet. Previously this had been impossible for any agency to achieve. In addition FPL has now entered into a European project entitled ‘DIVEFOR’: Digital Imaging and Video Forensics Project. This is a 36 month project. Working with the University of Warwick, University of Rome and XLab in Slovenia the purpose of the project is to build on current technologies in signal processing, both of which are subject to international patent applications, namely:A. Forensic Image Analyser FIA (Identifies images to cameras/mobile phones etc) B. Forensic Image Classifier FIC (Identifies images with other images). This technology is a world first in the ability to uniquely identify which camera or device took an image and whether 2 or more images were taken by the same source. Odyssey – Pan European Project As reported in our 2009 Communication Progress, FPL is working with partners in Europe to develop a new method of managing and sharing information about gun crime across the EU. Partners in the project include EUROPOL, New Scotland Yard, European Network of Forensic Science Institutes, Royal Military Academy in Belgium, the EU Commission and a number of Universities. This project has major implications for managing and sharing crime and ballistics data across borders to help combat crimes against people, especially those vulnerable to the impact and poverty created by crime involving the use of firearms. The project is due for completion April 2011. Videntifier™ Forensics In collaboration with the company Videntifier™, based in Iceland, FPL now provides a unique software, Videntifier™ Forensic, a service that recognises video material on seized storage devices, assisting law enforcement in speeding up their investigations and lowering their costs. Critically it also assists in improving working conditions for those involved in working in departments such as High Tech Crime. The trauma cannot be underestimated for those who are involved in the investigation of child pornography, abuse, or any violation of human rights. Officers have until now had to look through many hours of video in order to build the necessary evidence to secure a conviction. Through the use of Videntifier™ Forensics, this is now no longer the case. This technology provides law enforcement with an automatic and easy-to-use video identification system. A single mouse click is sufficient to automatically scan an entire hard drive for suspicious and illegal video material. With its speed, Videntifier™ Forensic saves investigators precious time, which they can spend on other more challenging tasks, rather than inspecting thousands of video files manually. At the end of each scan Videntifier™ Forensic returns a summary report, listing which videos have been identified. Videntifier™ Forensic performs its identification based on the actual content of the videos. The service can detect even severely modified or truncated versions of the same video, which easily fool checksum-based systems. The identification process itself is extremely efficient, even for very large video collections. Even in full accuracy mode Videntifier™ is capable of identifying a whole hour of video in under a minute. By offloading repetitive and stressful manual work to the computer, we can now focus our effort on other more demanding tasks where a human really is needed” Stefán Eiríksson, Head of the Icelandic police Targets for 2011 FPL had set a number of targets for 2011 with regards to its technology. 1. Ensure the roll out of Forensic Phone Analyser and Forensic Image Analyser 2. Continue to work towards the successful completion of the Odyssey Project FPL is pleased to report that both Analysers have been through a period of trials with a number of law enforcement agencies and negotiations are taking place for implementation during 2011. The Odyssey Project has been an outstanding success and the Project is on target to be completed by April 2011. A full report will be given in FPL’s 2011 Communication on Progress. SUPPORTING OUR STAKEHOLDERS Through our sophisticated internal processes both through monitoring and through proactive Due Diligence and through the induction and contractual processes we set, Forensic Pathways has to date not had an instance where it has found to be complicit in abuse of human rights. Stakeholders are monitored to ensure that there are no breaches reported and this is achieved via web alerts. We acknowledge that we have a duty to ensure that all stakeholders are informed of our stance on the protection of human rights and that should any instances be found that they are reported immediately. As a signatory to the Compact and to the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights all stakeholders are made aware of FPL’s reporting policy. The policy is reviewed annually and is promoted to stakeholders in a variety of formats:  Interview and induction process  Employee Handbook  Contracts of Employment/Contracts for Service/Distributor & Agent Agreements/Partnership Agreements  ISO9001 Documentation  Communication on Progress Global issues relating to human rights are also monitored via the Ethical Insight fortnightly update. Information is sent direct to FPL from Ethical Insight fortnightly, and should any areas be identified that have a direct bearing on FPL’s commitment to the protection of human rights, they are brought to the attention of all stakeholders and appropriate action taken. With regards to Forensic Pathways target for forming a Foundation for Advanced Research in Science and Technology, the company is still in the process of bringing this fully together and it is anticipated that completion on this will be mid 2011. In the interim, FPL continues to run its People Invest Programme, please see Principle 6. NATIONAL & INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS/SPONSORSHIP Forensic Pathways and members of its team are committed to providing support to a number of charities and social enterprises. It’s CEO and MD are both committed to a variety of unpaid Board Memberships in order to support a range of organisations, particularly those focussed on areas relating to discrimination. This is covered under Principle 6. Roofie Foundation This Foundation seeks to support victims of drink spiking, drug rape and sexual abuse and lobby on their behalf. During 2010 Forensic Pathways supported the Foundation by providing a drugs testing service for victims of suspected drink spiking and provided advice on the Roofie Foundation Forum, giving advice to alleged victims. Child Victims of Crime Forensic Pathways continues to support this charity, through either straight donations or through providing support for events, sponsoring stands. Child Victims of Crime aims to provide material support for any child victim up to and including the age of 16 years who has been a victim of, or traumatised by crime. The children are nominated to the charity by serving police officers. The Charity was formed in 1994 as a result of an act of terrorism which took place in Warrington, UK killing two young boys. Young Vic Theatre, London Forensic Pathways’ CEO is a Development Council Member of the Young Vic Theatre, based in London and this role aims to provide support, contacts, sponsorship and a wider awareness nationally and internationally of the work of the Young Vic. The Young Vic is a world renowned theatre focussed on supporting young actors, directors and playwrights as well as ensuring that the theatre is accessible to all. It is an independent not-for-profit theatre company with the responsibility of having to seek funding of £1m every year to maintain its current level. Much of its work is focussed on the community and therefore it runs a number of programmes aimed at making the theatre accessible to people who otherwise would never see inside a theatre or understand the power of language. Their ‘Taking Part’ programme enables 10,000 young people and local residents to see productions and to participate in a range of workshops, performances and training schemes. Their work is focussed on three key areas: schools and colleges, young people (aged 8 to 25) and two projects for local residents. It also gives away 10% of its seating to those who wouldn’t otherwise be able to afford to attend the theatre. The Young Vic also runs the Director’s Programme, the only scheme of its kind in the UK, providing support and opportunities for young directors. Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining It is FPL’s policy that all employees have the right to undertake collective bargaining and may join a Trade Union of their choice. Employees are actively encouraged to join Professional Organisations as part of their professional and personal development and membership fees are covered by FPL if the area is directly related to the employee’s employment or FPL consider that it is of value to their personal professional development. Employees are also encouraged to develop social media networks and join professional groups within social media such as LinkedIn. This can provide opportunities for learning, mentoring, developing strategic business connections. Employees are also encouraged to volunteer for any community initiatives, locally, nationally or internationally. PERSONNEL PROVIDER Within our 2009 Communication on Progress a target was set for 2010 to appoint a new Personnel & Health & Safety Provider, particularly as it was felt the Appraisal process was too inflexible, and not easily managed for either reviewer or reviewee. This target was met and a new provider now in situ. A review of contracts are to be completed 2011 to run alongside the Appraisal process. Targets for 2011 To further develop a proactive LinkedIn Business Page and Twitter Account in order that all employees can build connections, search for relevant resources both from a company and personal development viewpoint. Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labour Forensic Pathways operates a full Due Diligence/Business Intelligence service for its clients, both nationally and internationally. It is therefore to be expected that this service is also applied to our own business model and processes. Full Due Diligence is completed on every company with which we engage. Web alerts are set against our suppliers, clients in order that we can track any changes or issues which might affect the credibility of our supply chain or our clients. In 2010 we can report that we have been unaware of any issues connected with our business that relates to forced labour. We have continued to promote the principles of the Compact to our new employers, our suppliers, clients, and our agents/distributors and have been clear that these principles lie at the heart of the company and must be respected. Should anyone or any company connected with Forensic Pathways be found to be breaching these principles it is viewed as immediate gross misconduct with regards to employees and in terms of suppliers, agents/distributors, clients, contracts would be terminated with immediate effect and those responsible reported appropriately. We continue to build on purchasing from fair-trade organisations and continue to use data from Ethical Insights to act as a further alert to any points of concern in countries in which Forensic Pathways operates. Principle 5 Support Abolition of Child Labour As with Principle 4, Forensic Pathways Ltd monitors its employees, clients, supply chain, agents and distributors in order to ensure compliance. In the event of an incident being reported, a full investigation would be undertaken and if found to be substantiated appropriate action would be taken, which ultimately would lead to the rescinding of contracts. All stakeholders are made fully aware of FPL’s commitment to the Global Compact Principles via Induction material, employee contracts, handbooks, distributor/agency agreements, partnership agreements and contract for services, as well as though the company website and other media. Any employee that is expected through their job role to travel internationally is briefed concerning any new market they may be visiting. WORK EXPERIENCE We continue to support local and European Work Experience Programmes. These programmes are fully supported by local schools, colleges, universities and European Community organisations. FPL never commits to a work placement unless we receive contact view the school or placement organisation, or by the parent/guardian. Tom Loveland (Far Left) Work Tom Loveland with Richard Leary, MD Tom Loveland, Richard Leary and Experience Student and Giulietta Forensic Pathways Ltd Guilietta Tragni th Tragni (4 from left), European Exchange student from Italy via European Training Services, with members of the FPL Team Any child or young person coming for work experience goes through a formal interview where all necessary documentation is completed including health and safety and insurance. They are also made aware of Forensic Pathways commitment to the UN Global Compact and what that means for their experience whilst with the company. No child is allowed to undertake work experience without evidence from the school or college. Students are only allowed to work between 9 am and 5 pm and must take regular breaks. Principle 6 Support the Elimination of Discrimination Forensic Pathways continues to be a fully accredited ISO9001 company ensuring continued improvement in process and standards across the company and demonstrating an overall commitment to ethical behaviour. INTERNAL COMMITMENTS People Invest Programme FPL’s People Invest Programme continues to be a success, providing continuous professional and academic development to its employees, as well as the opportunity for knowledge transfer. FPL also continues to be an accredited WEConnect Company. WEConnect is the leading UK supplier diversity initiative. It is the UK’s leading advocate of women-owned businesses as suppliers to global and national corporations and government bodies. www.weconnect.org.uk Deborah Leary, FPL, CEO (third from right) with Sue Lawton, Deborah Leary, FPL, CEO receiving WEConnect Certification WeConnect Europe (fourth from right) with other from Elizabeth Vazquez, CEO and Co-Founder of WEConnect accredited members – WEConnect Conference WEConnect International 2010 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS ICT CLUSTER Forensic Pathways (Richard Leary, MD) has continued his commitment to providing the ICT & Digital Sectors with a ‘Business Cluster’ designed to meet their needs in the 21 st Century. As part of this work Forensic Pathways has delivered a new Global Business Support Technology called “Technology Hive”. The aim of this technology is to ensure that SME’s have full access to opportunities for partnership, development of I.P. and critically access to tender opportunities that otherwise they might be unaware of. Many SME’s are unaware of potential tender opportunities as they are limited on time and resource in order to conduct adequate searches. Also many tender alert services charge significant amounts in order to forward opportunities to the business concerned and this in itself is prohibitive. Technology Hive is about the promotion of opportunity for business, not matter what its size. A New Global Business Support Technology – Technology Hive Boosting Private Sector Enterprise & Growth The competiveness of the private sector is increasingly dependent upon the innovation generated by SMEs employing fewer than eleven members of staff and therefore not easily identifiable. The need to increase the innovation potential of British businesses can best be measured by reflecting that China alone has a student population four times greater than the entire population of the United Kingdom. Helping Public Sector to Support Enterprise & Growth Each year the public sector engages with thousands of businesses to procure goods and services as well as to provide support through funded programmes. In respect to the latter, it is estimated that since 1997 more than one million businesses will have benefited from more than £10 billion of public sector funding. Despite this substantial level of support and engagement no attempt has been made to use this interaction to either collect data intelligence on these businesses or to provide additional stimulation to the economy. Technology Hive – “A Facebook for Businesses” HIVE (High Impact Virtual Enterprise) addresses both of the above by collecting and storing in a central depository, relevant data intelligence as well as providing to registered businesses:  visibility of the local and regional business community across the global stage  a virtual B2B trading environment  commercial opportunities across the UK  access to 100 tender websites across 40 European countries  sources of partners for collaboration  access to EU funded IP and innovation  access to investors and financial advice  routes to market for public initiatives  an infrastructure to support sector/market related initiatives Hive provides the above via a cloud based service utilising a combination of geomapping, interactive databases, tender feeds, and semantic search tools. HIVE is designed to foster economic growth by stimulating and engaging with a dynamic self-sustainable network of businesses across 26 sectors, each sector defined by an accurate, rich set of business criteria which generates data intelligence, tender feeds and collaborative opportunities. By registering on HIVE businesses have access to free tender opportunities from both the public and private sector. To create a greater degree of impact HIVE is negotiating with both public and private sector organisations to require contractors in their supply chain to advertise tenders in HIVE. This not only has the benefit of attracting new innovative suppliers but will reduce the size of tenders to a level appropriate to the SME community. More entrepreneurial and innovative businesses will also be attracted by the opportunities being provided in accessing IP, collaboration and other services. Figure 1 Technology Hive – Example: Search for Companies in Forensic (Basic User Level) Figure 2 Technology Hive – Example: Selecting One Company Listed (Basic User Level) In this example the User has selected the company called Forensic Pathways and is beginning to ‘drill down’ into details about the company. A range of data is available about the company which can help identifying: What the company is involved in;  Can the company supply the User with products and services of interest;  Can the User offer this company products and services of interest;  Are there Supply Chain opportunities;  Are there investment opportunities;  Awards and Accreditations  Are there partnering opportunities to meet Tenders;  The REGISTERED USER can gain access to even more information. See Figure 3 below. Figure 3 Technology Hive – Example: Extended Search (Registered User Level) Note: The Red Circled locations in Figure 3 show selected fields of information about the company, Tender Opportunities and other sources of data. It is intended that this technology will continue to be heavily promoted and strategic partnerships found in order to ensure that the optimum number of business, both corporate and SMEs benefit from this level of connectivity. Forensic Pathways is a member and its CEO is the Chair of the Midlands World Trade Forum. The MWTF is a support network to businesses within the Midlands region who are involved in international trade at all levels. The Forum particularly provides support to those who are new to export, providing advice and guidance on international trade strategy including issues relating to cultural awareness and diversity, and the management of Distributors and Agents, with particular emphasis on issues relating to bribery. www.mwtf.org.uk British Association of Women Entrepreneurs (BAWE) and FCEM World Association of Women Entrepreneurs In January 2010, FPL’s CEO Deb Leary became National President of the British Association of Women Entrepreneurs with the mandate to develop this support network and to continue to support the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs (FCEM) at an international level. BAWE is an Affiliate of Les Femmes Chefs d’Entreprises Mondials (FCEM), one of sixty affiliated countries from five continents. BAWE works closely with the commercial section of all the embassies. www.bawe-uk.org Members speak and represent British Women Entrepreneurs at conferences all over the world and participate in training programmes in the third world. The Association is now 50 years young and has established itself as a recognised source of information on entrepreneurship and British women business owners. The Association primarily supports women who have been in business for three years plus, but also takes 10% of its membership from start-up businesses and 10% from women in corporates. The Association offers an online business community where members can create business connections, partnerships and gain peer group support. Training and networking events are also provided focussing on issues as Finance, Non-exec Directorships and Presentation Skills. During 2010 a ‘No Limits’ Conference was organised to launch BAWE’s ‘Aspiration 2011’ programme of training and networking. In October 2010 Deb Leary attended the FCEM World Congress Meeting in Florence in her capacity as National President of the British Association of Women Entrepreneurs in order to present her National Report. A range of recommendations were agreed on including the mentoring and training of young women entrepreneurs and to further reinforce lobbying and advocacy for capacity building for women entrepreneurs associations. The full recommendations can be found at www.fcem.org European Network of Women in Leadership Women in Leadership (WIL) was formed to provide executive women a platform to network, to get support and identify opportunities. WIL’s ultimate objective is ‘to promote gender equality and the advancement of women in Europe.’ As a member, Deborah Leary contributes to WIL’s on-going success and actively promotes the network to other women and other organisations. The organisation holds two biannual meetings with top level European political and business leaders and focussed events for members in their respective regions. It also provides a mentoring program providing support to young women across Europe. Full details of WIL can be found at www.wileurope.org Provision of Support to Students and Graduates Forensic Pathways has continued its work in the provision of support to students and graduates by: Provision of Mentoring to students at Birmingham University & Birmingham City University;  Partnering with Staffordshire University in seeking research and development projects for students. COMMUNITY PRESENTATIONS/EVENTS Doing Good Business (January 2010) Presentation by Deborah Leary, CEO Forensic Pathways to Metro Business Partnership on the relevance and importance of Corporate Responsibility to the SME community. http://www.metrobusinesspartnership.co.uk/ Women on their Way (February/March 2010) Part of judging panel for Women on their Way Network http://www.networkofaspiringwomen.com/ The Why, the What and the How of CSR (April 2010) Presentation by Deb Leary CEO Forensic Pathways to Regional Business Relationship Managers, for Midlands Chambers of Commerce on behalf of Advantage West Midlands. Deborah Leary was asked to present to each of the 8 relationship managers all of whom had different perceptions of CSR. The purpose of the presentation was to provide them with one over-arching concept to bring a common vision to the team and help them disseminate CSR more effectively, promoting the UN Global Compact as the standard. Forensic Pathways supported ‘Your Big Year’ (as part of Global Entrepreneurship Week) a global competition intended to encourage entrepreneurship, global citizenship and social responsibility. Support was given in terms of promoting competition to FPL’s wider networks, attending events, and promoting the competition via websites. www.yourbigyear.com UN Global Compact Summit (June 2010) FPL’s CEO Deborah Leary attended the Summit held in New York, in her role as CEO of FPL and Deputy Director of the UK UN Global Compact Network, reporting back to both the UK Network and FPL on the current status of the Compact and plans moving forward. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon gives Opening Georg Kell, Executive Head, addresses delegates at Address to delegates at the Global Leaders’ Summit, the Global Leaders’ Summit, New York, 2010 New York, 2010 Of particular interest to Forensic Pathways was the focus on Anti-corruption and Bribery, in the light of the Bribery Act due to be enforced in 2011. Merchant Taylor’s School (November 2010) Keynote Speech and Prize Giving Deborah Leary, FPL’s CEO had the pleasure of presenting the prizes at Merchant Taylor’s Girls Prize Giving Ceremony at Liverpool’s Philharmonic Hall and delivering a keynote speech. The Prize Giving ceremony marked the success that the Girls' School has achieved over the last academic year. Deborah’s speech focussed on turning dreams into reality and the importance of dispelling limiting beliefs. http://www.merchanttaylors.com/seniorgirls/prize-giving-2010.html WhyNotChange North West Enterprise Day (November 2010) Keynote Speech In November 2010 Deborah Leary was asked to present the Keynote Speech on behalf of WhyNotChange as part of North West Enterprise Day. The presentation focussed on ‘Challenges Not Barriers’. http://www.whynotchange.co.uk/ West Midlands Association for Women in Policing (November 2010) In December 2010 FPL supported the West Midlands Association for Women in Policing Awards, by providing both sponsorship and a key note speech by FPL’s CEO, Deborah Leary. The Association is open to female and male police officers, special constables, PCSOs and staff with the aim of ensuring continuous professional development of all employees, particularly concentrating on the female perspective. In its role, it seeks to raise debate and create awareness of the issues faced by women within the organisation and share information and develop networks nationally. Deb Leary, FPL’s CEO (Right) presenting Jenni Jones with a Special Recognition Award at the West Midlands Association for Women in Policing Awards 2010 Principle 7 & 8 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges and Initiatives to Promote Environmental responsibility FAIRTRADE CONSUMABLES It is Company policy that we prevent as much landfill as possible by adopting a green procurement process. This will form part of the consideration along with packaging and delivery when making purchasing decisions, or agreeing supplier contracts, along with engaging in the purchase of fair-trade products whenever possible. It is the duty of purchasing team to ensure that this is being adhered to and that they encourage our supplier to also adopt their own environmental practice. FPL is committed to only purchasing recycled paper products for general office use, recycling glass bottles, cans and all cardboard and paper waste. Further initiatives include:  Fully utilising electronic banking.  Encouraging use of our website to promote information as opposed to brochures  Recycle all postage stamps to the RSPB  Use energy efficient light bulbs where possible  Ensure computers are switched off when not in use  Working towards reducing the impact of business vehicle omission and encouraging car-sharing initiatives  Have available information on local public transport arrangements  Setting a measurement reduction for utilities and energy consumption. REVIEW OF OFFICE ENERGY CONSUMPTION Utilities consumed are carefully monitored for consumption trends and any increase identified and root course identified (See targets for 2011 and Principle 9) CARBON FOOTPRINT Skype continues to be used as a method of communication in order to reduce the need for travel, including full teleconferences. In addition, FPL has now introduced web-based technologies to allow it to demonstrate its products (technologies) via the web rather than travel to initial client meetings nationally and internationally. Targets for 2011 Forensic Pathways has set itself the target to work towards ISO 1401 Environmental Management in 2011 and to be fully compliant by 2012. In addition it aims for a Reduction of Energy of 5% within 12 months. Carbon off-setting still remains a target Principle 9 Encourage Environmentally Friendly INTERNAL SOLUTIONS As mentioned in Principle 8, FPL continues to use Skype to reduce travel, along with the introduction of webinars for demonstrating its products to initial client meetings. FPL is also involved in a research and development programme looking at the potential of a ‘cloud based’ communal communications systems utilising hardware and software as a service for the delivery of products, services, training & meetings. This will be made available to other businesses as well as Forensic Pathways. EXTERNAL SOLUTIONS As previously reported in the Communication on Progress in 2009, many of Forensic Pathways’ solutions focus on the ability to share information and data that would ordinarily have required extensive personal collaboration requiring clients to travel extensively to ensure security. This ability to share disparate data and to communicate it effectively has a significant impact in reducing cost to client and also contributes to reducing the client’s carbon footprint. By using data sharing techniques there is also a significant reduction in paper. Forensic Pathways is becoming one of the early adopters of cloud based technologies for the management of office technologies. In this way the company will de-commission several high powered, energy intensive servers that leave a heavy carbon footprint. All staff will be using cloud based office services accessible anywhere on the globe but without the carbon outputs it was formerly leaving. Principle 10 Anti-Corruption and Bribery INTERNAL COMMUNICATION All employees, contractors, distributors and partners are advised within their Contracts that it is viewed as a fundamental breach of trust if they align themselves and therefore FPL with organisations who engage in corrupt or improper procurement practices. A full policy has been introduced which not only seeks to make clear the Bribery Act, our commitment to the Compact and the Company’s general stance on Bribery and Corruption, but also gives scenarios that employees might encounter. The policy explains the legislation and reporting rules, along with a clear outline of what procedures to follow should there be a violation. EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION Forensic Pathways provides Due Diligence services to its clients internationally. This service allows clients to undertake Due Diligence on the credibility and integrity of third parties they are considering doing business with. The business practices, operational policies and other indicators of integrity can be checked via a database operated by Forensic Pathways. The Company offers both covert and overt Due Diligence investigations for clients. The process enables a client to investigate the appropriateness of mergers and acquisitions, procurement opportunities, request for business negotiations. This Communication on Progress is available on www.unglobalcompact.org, along with Forensic Pathways Ltd own website www.forensic-pathways.com In addition it will be communicated to all stakeholders directly ie employees, clients, suppliers, agents and distributors and all networks directly associated with Forensic Pathways Ltd. It will also form part of all presentations undertaken by the company in the course of its day to day operations. Unit 3 Ninian Park Ninian Way Tamworth Staffs B77 5ES Tel: +44 (0)1827 255170 Fax: +44 (0)1827 261022 Email: enquiries@forensic-pathways.com www.forensic-pathways.com twitter/forensicpathway LinkedIn: Forensic Pathways NB: All images not directly related to Forensic Pathways Ltd are attributed to ‘Dreamstime’ www.dreamstime.com
