ATEA DELIVERSANNUAL REPORT2010 Atea Annual Report 1 2010 In Atea we work hard in order to deliver through combining growth and profitability. This is characteristic of Atea and we will continue to do so going forward Rune Falstad, CFO Atea ASA OPERATING REVENUES EBITDA 2006 – 2010 2006 – 2010 (Amounts in MNOK) (Amounts in MNOK) 800 20,000 16,000 600 12,000 400 8,000 200 4,000 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 KEY FIGURES Group (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Operating revenues 17,131.2 14,588.6 14,767.8 13,210.3 8,747.0 Contribution 4,002.2 3,592.1 3,525.6 2,956.2 1,976.6 Contribution margin (%) 23.4 24.6 23.9 22.4 22.6 EBITDA 648.3 501.4 540.9 491.4 266.8 EBITDA-margin (%) 3.8 3.8 3.7 3.7 3.1 EBIT 474.4 334.1 401.4 388.2 -43.4 Earnings per share continued operations (NOK) 5.29 4.16 4.59 4.50 -0.83 Diluted earnings per share continued operations (NOK) 5.23 4.15 4.58 4.45 -0.83 Net interest-bearing debt position -337.3 -214.1 -678.0 -541.9 -781.0 Liquidity 1,533.9 1,536.5 1,176.1 846.2 933.6 Equity ratio (%) 34.8 39.3 34.5 31.2 27.2 Number of employees (continued operations) 5,418 4,380 4,571 3,608 3,127 Atea Annual Report 2 2010 ATEA DELIVERS RESULTS. PROFIT.GROWTH. ADVANTAGES. BENEFITS.COST SAVINGS.COMPETITIVENESS. Content Page CEO Comments 4 Market Update 6 Norway 9 Sweden 10 Denmark 11 Finland 12 The Baltics 13 Unified Communication 14 Atea7 design 18 eSHOP 21 Financial Services and Logistics 22 Print and Copy 25 Green IT and Virtualization 26 Corporate Social Responsibility 29 Board of Directors’ Report 30 Financial statements and Notes Atea Group Financial statements and Notes 38 Atea ASA Financial statements and Notes 81 Auditors’ Report 94 Corporate Governance 95 Atea Annual Report 3 2010 Atea Annual Report 4 2010 ATEA DELIVERS PROFITABILITY 2010 was an outstanding year for Atea, with strong growth and solid profitability. Atea has utilized the financial crisis very well. We said we would attack, and we did. Large market shares have been won in all individual markets. We experience great momentum. The increase in revenue and profitability has never been stronger during my time as CEO. At the same time we are winning record market shares. Frankly, it shows that Atea delivers. Atea delivers. Throughout the entire value chain. New cusmaintain the momentum going forward. This will create a tomers are won and strategically important acquisitions solid foundation, not just for 2011, but also for 2012 and 2013. are executed. These are some of the explanations why Atea At the same time Atea has delivered very solid financial redelivers. With operational focus and a record cash flow, we sults the last three years. This allows the Board of Directors, work to secure growth. Now we are continuing our attackfor the third consecutive year, to suggest a payment of diviing approach to deliver yet further growth and profitability dend. Like last year, the suggested payment of dividends has based on the company’s strategy 20:11:1. This means NOK increased. In addition, the positive share price development 20 billion in revenue this year (2011) with a profit of MNOK has continued throughout the year, giving you as a sharehold1 billion (EBITDA) based on local targets for growth and er an additional return on investment. We are pleased with profitability. This was a very ambitious target when it was this development, and it shows that Atea delivers. announced during the deepest phase of the financial crisis in early 2009. With a clear strategy, we have been in attack Without parallel. It is as natural for us in Atea to deliver, as mode throughout the financial crisis. Just the way we like to it is to share the same winning instinct. Together we work be. The willingness and ability to execute on this offensive to make the day-to-day operations easier for our customstrategy has paid off, and it shows that Atea delivers. ers through implementation of new technology. I would especially like to thank all of Atea’s employees for their Quite simply. Thanks to a series of new frame agreededication. This apply to both existing and new employees ments, good acquisitions, a dedicated customer focus and who have joined us this year. You deliver and live up to our great employees, 2010 quite simply turned out to be a fanvalues. 2010 turned out to be a great year for all of us. We tastic year for Atea. The trends in technology are working have shown that there are great possibilities, especially for for us. The advantages of choosing the leading supplier will winners, even though times have been tough. We said we increase further. This makes Atea a preferred partner for would turn that to our advantage, and we delivered on it. IT divisions and decision-makers in both private and pubThe momentum achieved through organic and structural lic sectors. Atea’s position as market leader has never been growth is being utilized. Meanwhile Atea’s blue box grows, clearer. In the past years Atea has won large market shares, encompassing everything we deliver in terms of products and is approaching 15 per cent of the total Nordic market and services within IT infrastructure. Increasingly more for IT infrastructure, which is estimated at approximately products and services are entering into our value chain. MNOK 117 billion in total. A year ago, I wrote in this CEO In total, this provides good conditions for winning further comment that the conditions for attaining a 15 per cent market shares. We believe it is possible for us to increase market share were good. The results proved us right. This our market share in the Nordic and Baltic regions to over means that there is still ample opportunity for growth in 20 per cent in the next few years. These are exciting times. our home markets. Still, Atea is the third largest supplier We continue to pursue further growth and profitability. The of IT infrastructure in Europe. We are growing faster than possibilities will be realized as Atea continues to deliver. almost everyone else, which shows that Atea delivers. A record year. 2010 became a record year in several areas. 17 March 2011 The conditions for 2011 are also very good. Atea’s financial robustness is great. This creates great opportunities. A healthy focus on cost control and good understanding of the business environment strengthens the robustness. Now, after the financial crisis, we stand stronger than after any previous recession. We began seeing a clear trend related to furClaus Hougesen ther topline growth in the second half of 2010. We expect to CEO Atea Annual Report 5 2010 ATEA DELIVERS GROWTH Atea has succeeded remarkably well with the attacking strategy in the past years. The result is strong growth and a significantly improved market position in all individual markets. As the decidedly largest supplier of IT services and infrastructure in the Nordic and Baltic regions, Atea pursues further success and growth. The attacking approach will continue. 2010 turned out to be a very good year, both in terms of revenue With a broad offering of products, services and solutions, the Group and profit, with very strong growth and a series of acquisitions. contributes in strengthening the customers’ competitiveness. At the The second half stands out with phenomenal growth, as all countries same time, Atea’s size contributes to the Group’s competitiveness and delivered a minimum of 20 per cent growth in revenue measured in the ability to offer very favorable prices. The solid financial strength constant currency, compared to 2009. This shows great momentum contributes to the Group’s central role in the ongoing consolidation going into 2011. This is a situation Atea intends to make the most of, of IT infrastructure markets, both in individual markets and across as part of the strategy for further growth and profitability. national borders. Historically, Atea has been involved in several of the largest acquisitions in the industry, and the consolidation is expected According to IDC (International Data Corporation), the Nordic IT to continue due to the current market conditions. Atea has never infrastructure market, which constitutes Atea’s blue box, grew by before conducted as many acquisitions as in 2010. Meanwhile, Atea’s 4.7 per cent in 2010. In comparison, Atea delivered a growth in well-known winning spirit and high motivation is preserved. the Nordic and Baltic regions of 17.4 per cent, or 20.9 per cent in constant currency. The Group’s organic growth came in at 13.3 per The record-high number of acquisitions in 2010 forms a solid cent in constant currency, meaning that Atea won large market shares foundation for further growth in 2011, which will have an especially in all individual markets. IDC’s updated analyses of the Nordic IT strong impact in Norway and Sweden, where it is expected that the infrastructure market estimate it to approximately NOK 117 billion, local growth targets as a part of the overall growth strategy 20:11:1 representing a total market increase of 4.7 per cent in 2010. Again, will be surpassed within the year. The number of acquisitions is Atea grew many times faster. Thus, going into 2011 Atea’s total market expected to be somewhat less in 2011, compared with 2010, but the share in the Nordic region can be estimated to be nearly 15 per cent, growth is expected to continue. representing a strong increase just during the last two years, up from approximately 13 per cent in 2009, and approximately 11 per cent in Acquisitions in 2010: 2008. The Group is working determinedly in order to maintain this Umoe IKT…………………………………………IT infrastructure growth rate. IDC expects the Nordic IT infrastructure market to grow Dropzone ASA………………………E-trading for the SMB market by 4.4 per cent in 2011. Atea expects to grow more than twice as fast. Impact Europe Norge AS………………………Video/AV solutions Benzler Group AB…………………………………IT infrastructure Atea is a complete and integrated supplier of hardware, application Portal AB…………………………………………IT infrastructure products and related consultancy services within IT infrastructure. Impact Europe AB……………………………Video/AV solutions The Group’s total offering can be described as Atea’s blue box. It Office i Värmland AB…………………………………Print/Copy consists of an integrated range of products and services within IT COB Document i Borås AB……………………………Print/Copy infrastructure. Categorized in four areas, based on technological Office Document og Data i Södermanland AB………Print/Copy and market affiliation, it includes products, services and solutions Office Document i Mälardalen AB……………………Print/Copy mainly focused on [1] clients like PC’s, printers and cell phones etc, Belle Balance A/S…………………………Flexible benefit solutions [2] computer centers with virtualization, operations, servers, storage Calamus Danmark A/S………………………Video/AV solutions and catastrophe solutions etc, [3] communication like broad band, Ten of Ten Oy…………………………………………Virtualization networks, telephony and video [4] Unified Communication is interDatawest Oy………………………………………IT infrastructure action and a single interface for communication through presence, PALnet Oy………………………………………Network solutions video, split screen, chat, telephony, e-mail etc. However, it doesn’t stop there. In reality Atea’s blue box constitutes even larger proAtea has shown that it is beneficial to be large, offensive and customer duct and service offerings. Technology trends ensure that the blue friendly. This is something the competitors have noticed, as it also box and the related market potential are growing. At the same time, has provided Atea’s customers with substantial benefits. Atea is once the advantage increases when selecting one supplier to solve all IT again well positioned to grow faster than the market in 2011. Further infrastructure needs. growth and profitability are Atea’s focus going forward. Atea Annual Report 6 2010 20:11:1 Atea’s short-term strategic objective is to achieve operating revenues of NOK 20 billion and EBITDA of NOK 1 billion in 2011 (20:11:1). Late in 2009, it was announced that Atea would deliver organic growth of 7 per cent in 2010 as a part of the strategy, while it was expected to be carried out acquisitions contributing with revenue of NOK 3 billion in total in 2010 and 2011. The result shows that the organic growth in 2010 was almost twice as strong, as it came in at 13.3 per cent, while it at the same time was carried out acquisitions contributing with approximately NOK 2.7 billion in revenue. This means that Atea is a long way towards the goal already, even before taking into account the expected organic growth of 9 per cent in 2011. Adjusted for the effect of acquisitions in 2010, this means that it is only necessary to deliver organic growth of 6 per cent in 2011, which would be well below half of the organic growth rate that Atea delivered in 2010. Thus, it is likely that Atea will achieve more than NOK 20 billion in revenue in 2011. The long-term strategy is to achieve further growth and stable profitability through strengthening of the Group’s position within Atea’s blue box. Atea Annual Report 7 2010 Local targets 20:11:1 Norway: MNOK 5,000 : 11 : MNOK 250 Sweden: MSEK 6,400 : 11 : MSEK 300 Photo: Mikael Colville-Andersen Denmark: MDKK 6,000 : 11 : MDKK 300 Finland: MEUR 260 : 11 : MEUR 9 The Baltics: MEUR 50 : 11 : MEUR 4 Atea Annual Report 8 2010 2010 was good and following the acquisition of Umoe IKT we are now pursuing further growth and increased profitability Steinar Sønsteby, Man. Dir. in Atea AS NORWAY DELIVERS STRONG GROWTH IN REVENUE, PROFITS AND MARKET SHARES Other acquisitions in 2010 include Impact Europe Norge AS and Highlights and key figures 2010 Dropzone ASA, both of which were acquired in the 2nd quarter. For the fourth consecutive year, Atea once again managed to The acquisition of Impact Europe Norge in May 2010 strengthened deliver strong growth in revenue and profits Atea’s ability to supply AV and video conferencing solutions in NorRevenue: MNOK 4,213.0 (3,566.3 i 2009) way. The acquisition is expected to generate annual operating reveEBITDA: MNOK 170.3 (130.9 i 2009) nues in Norway totaling MNOK 50, with an EBITDA of MNOK 1. Offices: 20 In June 2010 Atea assumed ownership of the Norwegian e-commerce 24,5%* company Dropzone, which strengthened Atea’s web-based sales and Employees: 1,411 Focus areas: UC, Windows 7, hardware marketing activities toward small and medium sized businesses. Atea and software sales as well as service contracts continues to focus on e-commerce through this acquisition of an * of the Group’s total operating revenue established company within the segment of Ateadirect. This acquisition is expected to generate annual operating revenues totalling Atea has delivered solid growth and gained increasing market shares MNOK 170, with an EBITDA of MNOK 5. The enterprise value in Norway throughout the last four years. In 2010 the revenue came for Dropzone was MNOK 29.2. in at MNOK 4,213.0, up 18.1 per cent from 2009, while EBITDA ended at MNOK 170.3 for the year. This gives a margin of 4.0 per In addition, Atea entered into several important agreements in 2010. cent, up from 3.7 in 2009. As for the rest of the Group, the second Several large public contracts were won in the first half of the year, half of 2010 represented especially strong growth. By comparison, including a frame agreement for the supply of IT equipment and the Norwegian IT infrastructure market, which comprises Atea’s blue services to the Norwegian regional health authorities. The contract is box, grew by 2.0 per cent according to IDC. This shows that Atea for two years, with the possibility of an optional two-year extension. gained large market shares with a strong top line growth of 18.1 per The annual total value is estimated at MNOK 400, divided between cent. Atea’s leading position in Norway, with focus on Unified Comthe chosen suppliers. In the 3rd quarter, the Armed Forces (FLO/IKT) munication and Atea 7 Design as well as knowledge-based processes renewed their frame agreement with Atea, for another two years, with and consultancy, continues to have a very good impact. the possibility of an optional two-year extension. The agreement has an estimated annual value of MNOK 300. Additionally, Atea entered The acquisition of Umoe IKT, a Norwegian IT infrastructure into an agreement with Kongsberg Gruppen in the 3rd quarter for the company, in the 4th quarter stands out as a core event in 2010. delivery of IT equipment as well as logistics and consultancy services. The acquisition of Umoe IKT, with 384 employees and offices in The agreement is for three years, with the possibility of an optional 16 Norwegian cities, has strengthened Atea’s position in the Nortwo-year extension, and has an estimated annual value of MNOK 100. wegian market. Umoe IKT’s solid competence within telephony, Other significant agreements made in 2010 include deliveries to NAV Unified Communication, outsourcing and IT operations, provides (The Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration) and TOTAL a strategic and operational contribution to Atea’s already compeE&P NORWAY as well as continued supplies of student PCs to sevetent Norwegian organization. The acquired company is expected ral Norwegian counties. In addition, Altibox expanded its cooperation to generate operational revenues of MNOK 850-900 in 2011, with Atea beyond the seven-year frame agreement which was made with an EBITDA margin of approximately 5-6 per cent following in November 2009 with an estimated value of NOK 4.1 billion. With the integration. Umoe IKT is not included in Atea’s accounting an increased backlog following several important contract signings, and figures for 2010, with the exception of a few days at the end of the advantageous strategic investments in 2010, Atea is ready for further year, as the acquisition formally took place just before year-end. The growth in Norway in 2011. purchase price (equity value) of all shares in Umoe IKT was 4.0 million shares in Atea ASA, corresponding to an enterprise value The goal is to win further market shares focusing on UC, Windows7, of MNOK 154.8 (based on a share price of NOK 51.0 at the time increased hardware and software sales as well as new service contracts of agreement). in 2011. Atea Annual Report 9 2010 Due to several acquisitions and strong organic growth, Atea is likely to strengthen its market position further in 2011 SWEDEN Lars Pettersson, Man. Dir. Atea AB DELIVERS GROWTH AND ACQUISITIONS WITH IMPROVED MARGINS AND FAST INCREASING MARKET SHARES the 4th quarter Atea acquired the Swedish IT infrastructure company Highlights and key figures 2010 Benzler Group AB, which has a strong market position in the GothenAtea delivers strong revenue growth in Sweden burg region. The acquisition was made based on an estimated entercombined with several acquisitions prise value of MNOK 53.1. In the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011, the Revenue: MNOK 5,238.3 (3,965.3 i 2009) company is expected to generate operating revenues of MNOK 262, EBITDA: MNOK 200.0 (132.5 i 2009) with EBITDA of MNOK 10.6. Additionally, in February 2011, Atea Offices: 28 acquired the business activities of Malux Data AB, which supply IT Employees: 1,691 products and services in northern Sweden. This acquisition is expected 30,5%* Focus areas: UC, print/copy, student PCs, to generate revenues of MNOK 16.9 and EBITDA of MNOK 1.8 in Device Lifecycle Management (DLM), the fiscal year ending August 31, 2011. as well as hardware and software sales * of the Group’s total operating revenue Several important contracts were signed in 2010, including several of small and medium size, which has contributed to the strong growth. Atea delivers very strong growth in the Swedish market. In 2010, opeIn the 2nd quarter, several contracts were signed within the public rating revenues came in at MNOK 5,238.3, which is up 32.1 per cent, sector, three of which were frame agreements with Kammarkollegiet or 29.4 per cent in constant currency. EBITDA came in at MNOK (The Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Agency). The 200.0 for the year. This gives a profit margin of 3.8 per cent, up from individual frame agreements comprise different deliveries, and each 3.3 per cent in 2009. As for the rest of the Group, second half of 2010 agreement was awarded Atea along with 6-8 other suppliers, meaning represented an especially strong development, particularly due to inthat the specific assignments will be distributed following bidding creasing revenues throughout the year following Swedish acquisitions. processes within the given contract structures. Each frame agreement According to IDC, the Swedish IT infrastructure market grew by 4.3 with Kammarkollegiet has a possible total value of MSEK 200 to per cent in 2010, while Atea delivered a total growth of 29.4 per cent. SEK 2 billion over a period of up to five years. In addition, Atea This shows that Atea gained large market shares in Sweden, which entered into two frame agreements with Kommentus in the 2nd quarconstitutes the largest individual IT market in the Nordic region. Atea’s ter, including supply of Microsoft software to several municipalities leading position, combined with the acquisitions made in 2010, is and municipal enterprises. Atea was also awarded the responsibility expected to provide further growth. for 4000 IT workplaces, including network and support, in a frame agreement with Kooperativa Förbundet (The Swedish Cooperative 2010 represented strong structural growth for the Atea Group, with a Union) with an estimated total value of approximately MSEK 200 total of 15 acquisitions. Half of the acquisitions were made in Sweden. over five years, with an optional two-year extension. In the 2nd quarAtea’s Swedish acquisitions include several business areas. In the 1st ter Atea also signed several other contracts, including one with the quarter of 2010, Atea acquired four companies in the Swedish Office fitness chain SATS, for the modernization of the chain’s network chain, which has consolidated Atea’s position within print and copy. resources, servers, clients and licenses covering the entire Nordic region. The acquisitions were expected to generate operational revenues Atea signed a Nordic IT contract with the insurance company If, for totalling MNOK 163.1, with EBITDA of MNOK 12.4 in 2010. the supply of client operations, UC and IT products for the next five Total enterprise value for all four companies was MNOK 38.5. The years covering the entire Nordic region. Further, in the 4th quarter, acquisition of Impact Europe AB in May 2010 has strengthened Atea’s Atea signed an agreement for the supply of student PCs to 1000 ability to supply AV and video conferencing solutions in Sweden. The children in the municipality of Ale. An additional series of smaller total enterprise value of Impact Europe’s businesses in Norway and contracts were signed during the year within several areas of Atea’s Sweden was MNOK 40.9. The acquisition is expected to generate annublue box. With significantly increased backlog due to a series of large al operational revenues in Sweden totaling MNOK 108, with EBITDA contract signings and several acquisitions, Atea is well positioned for of MNOK 5. The largest single Swedish acquisition was made in further growth in Sweden in 2011. August 2010 when Portal AB was aquired. Portal was one of Sweden’s strongest and fastest growing companies within IT infrastructure in The goal is to gain further market shares through delivery of increased the SME segment, and was acquired based on an estimated enterprise revenue and strengthened profitability, focusing on UC, print/copy, value of MNOK 115. The acquisition is expected to generate annual student PCs, additional responsibility for new functionality (DLM) as operating revenues of MNOK 644 with EBITDA of MNOK 20. In well as increased hardware and software sales in 2011. Atea Annual Report 10 2010 We gained further market shares in 2010, following good underlying growth in product sales Peter Trans, Man. Dir. i Atea A/S DENMARK DELIVERS HIGH PROFIT MARGIN WITH GROWTH AND INCREASING MARKET SHARES as part of The Free Choice (Det Frie Valg), as it is called in Denmark. Highlights and key figures 2010 During the last years Atea has gradually increased its revenue in Following several years of revenue growth and this segment, now totalling close to MNOK 450 on an annual basis, continued strong profit margins, Atea managed and this development is expected to continue in 2011, partly due to to deliver even further growth the acquisition of Belle Balance. The acquisition of Belle Balance Revenue: MNOK 5,569.2 (5,259.6 i 2009) is expected to generate revenues of MNOK 85.2 and EBITDA of EBITDA: MNOK 234.3 (262.8 i 2009) MNOK 10.7. The business was acquired based on an estimated Offices: 8 transaction value of MNOK 47.9, with an estimated enterprise value 32,5%* Employees: 1,401 of MNOK 44.2. The Free Choice has grown to become a significant Focus areas: The Free Choice, Windows 7, market segment for Atea in Denmark, especially strengthened by the UC, Ateadirect and interaction / network solutions trend of consumerization, where employees choose IT equipment * of the Group’s total operating revenue and services like mobile phones, laptops, and broadband themselves. The experience so far is that sales nearly triples when for example Atea has delivered growth and continuously gained increasing mobile units are acquired based on the choice of the employees. This market shares in Denmark throughout the last four years. Revenue portrays some of the potential associated with The Free Choice. At in 2010 came in at MNOK 5 569.2, an increase of 5.9 per cent the beginning of 2011 Atea has about 430 000 potential users of from 2009, or 15.5 per cent in constant currency. EBITDA ended flexible benefit solutions in its customer base. at MNOK 234.3 for the year. This gives a profit margin of 4.2 per cent, down from a record high of 5.0 per cent in 2009. Denmark In the 1st quarter of 2010 Atea Denmark signed a global agreestill delivered the highest profit margin within the Group. Especially ment with UNICEF with an estimated value of MNOK 300 for the product sales experienced growth in 2010. Service and consultancy contract period of three years. The agreement was effective from sales in Denmark saw a flat development, whereas sales of clients, March 1, 2010, and comprise among other things, hardware deliservers, networks and mobile equipment contributed to the growth. veries to UNICEF’s field offices from Atea’s international customer This explains the overall development, with growth in revenue and centre, including desktop and laptop computers, servers, printers, a somewhat reduced profit margin. Numbers from IDC show that networking solutions and accessories. The agreement may be exAtea still is winning considerable market shares in Denmark, as the tended with two years. Atea entered into several large agreements Danish IT infrastructure market, which comprises Atea’s blue box, within the public sector in the 4th quarter of 2010. This includes, grew by 5.4 per cent in 2010, while Atea delivered a revenue growth among others, a four-year agreement for service and IT operations of 15.5 per cent in constant currency. This is despite the fact that related to 11 000 PC workplaces in Århus municipality. The agreeAtea only made two acquisitions in Denmark in 2010. According ment has a total estimated value of MNOK 75 and includes new to IDC, the general Danish market decline was 9.6 per cent. This technology within several areas, which will streamline the technomeans that the growth which Atea has delivered throughout the last logical platform of Denmark’s second largest municipality. Atea few years is continuing, and that Denmark still constitutes the largest also signed a significant contract with the Danish State in the 4th individual market for Atea. It also means that Atea’s leading posiquarter, when Atea was chosen as the main supplier of Microsofttion in Denmark has been strengthened further. related services in 2011 and 2012 along with four other suppliers. This frame agreement can optionally be extended for 1 + 1 year In 2010 Atea made two acquisitions, Calamus Danmark A/S was and comprise IT consultancy associated with Microsoft software on formally taken over in the beginning of January, while Belle Balance different platforms. The contract has an estimated total value of A/S was acquired in the 3rd quarter. Calamus Danmark, which proMNOK 420-460 throughout the four year period, of which Atea’s vides AV solutions and video conferencing, was estimated to provide share is estimated to approximately MNOK 211. revenues of MNOK 251.5 with an EBITDA of MNOK 18.3 in 2010. The enterprise value was estimated to MNOK 101.3. Through The goal is to deliver continued growth and further improved the acquisition of Belle Balance, Atea strengthened its already leading profitability, which is something Atea has succeeded with in Denmark market position as supplier of flexible benefit solutions for employees, during the last years. Atea Annual Report 11 2010 Going forward we shall take advantage of our unique position as the trusted advisor in IT infrastructure Juha Sihvonen, Man. Dir. i Atea Oy FINLAND DELIVERS INCREASED PROFITABILITY FOLLOWING ACQUISITIONS AND GROWTH IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR acquired based on an enterprise value of maximum of MNOK Highlights and key figures 2010 46.0 whereof MNOK 10.8 is to be paid in 2012 based on the perAtea delivers growth and increased market shares formance in 2010 and 2011. In fourth quarter Atea acquired both in Finland after several acquisitions Datawest Oy and Ten of Ten Oy. Datawest is an IT infrastructure Revenue: MNOK 1,716.6 (1,501.4 i 2009) company in the Southwest of Finland. This acquisition strengthens EBITDA: MNOK 34.3 (12.5 i 2009) Atea’s existing local business through new customers in the Offices: 11 medium size company segment and within the public sector. The 10,0%* Employees: 309 acquired business is expected to generate revenue of MNOK 57.0 Focus areas: UC, virtualization, Windows 7, and EBITDA of MNOK 1.6 in the fiscal year ending May 2011. Device Lifecycle Management and eSHOP Datawest was acquired in October based on an enterprise value of * of the Group’s total operating revenue MNOK 5.7. In November Atea acquired Ten of Ten Oy providing a range of virtualization services throughout Finland. Virtualization Atea has delivered growth and gained increasing market shares in is expected to be one of the fastest growing technologies in Finland throughout the last years. In 2010 the revenue came in at coming years. This is a trend Atea is well positioned to benefit from MNOK 1,716.6 – which is up 14.3 per cent – or 24.7 per cent in with strong technological know-how as well as an already estabconstant currency. EBITDA for the year ended at MNOK 34.3, lished and long-term customer base within both the private and representing a margin of 2.0 per cent, up from 0.8 per cent in 2009. public sector. Ten of Ten strengthens Atea´s integrated offering The growth in 2010 is partly a result of the acquisition strategy. The to Finnish customers through increased synergies and benefits last couple of years, Atea has delivered continuously increasing revewhen building IT infrastructure solutions. The acquired business nue growth in combination with margin improvements. According is expected to generate revenue of MNOK 11.4 and EBITDA of to IDC the Finnish IT infrastructure market grew by 7.3 per cent in MNOK 2.6 in 2011. Ten of Ten was acquired based on an enter2010. At the same time, Atea delivered growth of 24.7 per cent in prise value of MNOK 13.0. constant currency. As a comparison, the Finnish market fell by 9.7 per cent in 2009 according to IDC, while Atea delivered a growth of 4.3 Atea won two large contracts in the public sector in 2010. This is a per cent. Thus, Atea is solidly surpassing the general market growth result of Atea’s strong position as a preferred IT provider for public in Finland and still gaining substantial market shares. Even though customers. In July Atea was chosen for a frame agreement covering Atea’s Finnish business was hit by the financial turmoil, resulting in Microsoft software licenses and services to KL-Kuntahankinnat, a temporarily flat growth in 2008, the business picked up its pace in joint procurement company for Finnish municipalities. The number 2009 and 2010. With both increased profitability and gained market of PC clients covered by the contract can reach 100,000 during the shares, Atea experience good pace in the beginning of 2011. Still, four years period and the total value is estimated to approximately Atea has a great potential in Finland both in terms of further growth MNOK 103 if all municipalities participate. In November Kela, the and increased profitability going forward. Atea’s strategy (20:11:1) Social Insurance Institution of Finland, chose Atea for its Windows implies increased growth and profitability in Finland, which is a core 7 migration covering the replacement of more than 7,000 workfocus in 2011. stations as well as lifecycle services related to maintenance, service and support of the workstations. The estimated total value is In February Atea acquired PALnet Oy, a leading supplier and MNOK 63.8 during 4 years, with optional 2 years. service provider within network and data security solutions. This has already resulted in accelerated growth within IT solutions. In 2011 Atea aims to benefit from the positive momentum as The acquired business was expected to generate revenue of customer´s trusted advisor within IT infrastructure. MNOK 104.7 and EBITDA of MNOK 11.3 in 2010. PALnet was Atea Annual Report 12 2010 Despite a remarkable year with rapidly increasing market shares, we are ready to deliver even further growth Arunas Bartusevicius, Man. Dir. UAB Atea THE BALTICS DELIVERS RECORD MARKET SHARE WITH IMPROVED PROFITABILITY AND PUBLIC SECTOR GROWTH Atea’s business in the Baltic region relates to the acquisition of Sonex Highlights and key figures 2010 Group in January 2008. Following this acquisition, sharp decline in Atea delivers substantially increased market market growth and financial turmoil with special impact on the Baltic shares in the Baltic region yet again region put a hold on potential new acquisitions. At the same time, the Revenue: MNOK 401.2 (299.5 i 2009) development during the last years shows that Atea is able to deliver on its EBITDA: MNOK 14.6 (9.5 i 2009) acquisition strategy as businesses acquired even during especially tough Offices: 12 times create value for the Group with solid profits and stable growth. 2,5%* Employees: 344 Focus areas: UC, computer centres In March 2010 Atea signed new contracts with the Ministries of Eduand networks as well as systems integration cation in Lithuania and Latvia for modernization of the IT equip* of the Group’s total operating revenue ment in schools across the two Baltic countries. The agreements were partly EU funded and had a total value of MNOK 33.8. As a part of Atea delivered record breaking growth in the Baltic region during 2010 the deliveries, Atea has provided a set of IT infrastructure, including after being hit hard by the financial turmoil in 2009. In 2010 the revedesktop computers, monitors, interactive smart boards and printers nue ended at MNOK 401.2, which is up 34.0 per cent, or impressive to 280 schools in Lithuania and 222 schools in Latvia. The deliveries 46.1 per cent in constant currency. EBITDA came in at MNOK 14.6 were initiated and completed during 2010. On a general basis, Atea for the year, representing a margin of 3.6 per cent, up from 3.2 per cent experienced increased interest for IT solutions that save time and rein 2009. The growth in 2010 is mainly driven by EU funded public duce costs. Solutions influencing employee productivity is attractive as projects. Atea delivered improved profitability and rapid growth in enterprises and governmental institutions pursue increased efficiency the Baltic region during 2010 even though the market conditions were through IT investments. Unified Communication (UC) is another quite tough during most of the year. However, signs of an economic area that is picking up the pace in the Baltic region. A new customer recovery could fuel additional impressive growth going forward taking within this field in the Baltics is UAB Švyturys-Utenos Alus, which is into account that Atea has outperformed the competitors during the a part of Carlsberg. Increased investments in UC will probably fuel financial turmoil and established itself as the truly market leader within further growth in the region as Atea already is the leading provider of IT infrastructure and related services across the Baltic region. Even such solutions and services across the Nordic countries. though the market share is high, and rapidly increasing, the total size of the market in terms of value is still limited. However, the Baltics Further EU funds are expected to finance additional IT projects in the could become a region of growth for several years as IT investments public sector going forward. Atea holds a strong position within this are expected to increase both within the private and public sector. Atea area, having won most governmental contracts in the Baltics during the is well positioned to benefit from such a market development. At the last years. During this period Atea has further strengthened its position same time, the business model has proved to be robust as cost control as market leader within IT infrastructure within the public sector in the and good operational execution have secured stable and impressive Baltic region. With headquarters in Vilnius, Lithuania, and regional margins even during times of sharply reduced revenue. Thus, it is clear offices across the region, Atea is the only significant provider of IT that Atea has formed a scalable and flexible business model making infrastructure with operations in all the Baltic countries. it possible to benefit from market fluctuations as well as expected increasing investments from private enterprises in the region during Following a couple of years with substantial fluctuations and unstable the years to come. Atea’s financial performance rebounded despite market conditions in the Baltic region, Atea focus on utilizing the continued tough market conditions in 2010. Hence, Atea sets out record high growth rate going into 2011. Atea is well positioned to to take advantage of the leading market position as the conditions benefit from an expected further increase in IT investments based on gradually are expected to improve throughout 2011. its leading market position in the Baltics. Atea Annual Report 13 2010 CASE: CARLSBERG IN THE BALTICS CARLSBERG GOES FOR UNIFIED COMMUNICATION IN THE BALTICS Following several years of strong growth – We have invested in this solution to cut tation of the UC solution has led to signifiin the Nordic region, the interest for Unicosts, and actually, we got a full return on cantly fewer physical meetings for Carlsberg fied Communication (UC) is picking up investment for the entire solution already the in the region. in the Baltic region. In 2010 the number first month, says Seitumer Čurlu, IT director of Baltic users of Microsoft Office Comof UAB Švyturys-Utenos Alus, which is a part – The system is very easy to use, and does not munication Server (OCS) exceeded one of Carlsberg. require training. The integration with Microsoft thousand when Atea implemented the soExchange simplifies the daily communication lution on behalf of Carlsberg Baltic. The number of international meetings and busiand increases productivity, says Čurlu. ness trips for the employees at Carlsberg Baltic OCS integrates systems for business comhave been reduced, providing substantial cost Atea was the first company to introduce Mimunication, such as phone calls, voice mail, savings. A meeting in the Baltic region normally crosoft OCS in the Baltic region. In general, e-mail and video conferencing. One of the imply costs in the range of approximately NOK Atea is experiencing an increased interest in benefits is one user identity across all plat2,000–5,000, while online meetings are free of IT solutions that save time and reduce costs in forms and clients. cost, and do not incur travel time. The implementhe Baltic region. Atea Annual Report 14 2010 DELIVERS THE FUTURE THROUGH UNIFIED COMMUNICATION With a series of leading solutions within Unified Communication (UC), Atea delivers the future to employees and businesses. Atea has signed a number of new agreements within UC during the last year and an increasing number of deliveries have been made throughout the Nordic and Baltic regions. For customers, the benefits and costs savings are clear when Atea is given the opportunity to deliver the technology and communication solutions of the future. Unified Communication is one user interface for manapreference of purchasing all IT and telecommunicaging all communication activities, making it possible tion services from one single supplier is increasing to maximize the user’s ability to benefit from synergies among businesses. Such convergence between IT and between technology and the individual need of effitelecommunication contributes to new and exciting ciency. It also provides freedom to choose where and market opportunities for Atea. For the users the opporhow the work is carried out. For Atea that means comtunities are gathered in the PC or mobile phone. plex deliveries where e-mail, telephone and video conferencing, voice mail, chat, presence, IP telephony and Atea realized early the advantage of UC solutions for mobile telephony are integrated and made available businesses and has invested in building competence through one single interface. As a result, it becomes within this area. Atea is the company that has carried easier to communicate independent of location. out most UC projects in the Nordic countries. This is an advantage for our customers. UC solutions increase With UC solutions from Atea, substantial integration efficiency, provide flexibility to the users as they are benefits can be realised by the customers, both interable to work wherever they prefer. In addition, it pronally within the businesses and externally towards the vides reduced costs with regard to communication and outside world. The technology enables travel as well as making it possible to choose a benefitial Atea continues to a fusion of the various units within IT means of communication (chat, video, IP telephony, benefit from its leading and communication, so that speech, video, chat, e-mail and telephony split-screen-functionality or phone call) which gets the job done. Reduced travelling saves the environment. position within are gathered in integrated solutions. All the advantages cause expectations of increased UC as the trend picks There are many efficiency increasing demand and growth in the coming years, which is why benefits and the employees experience Atea has targeted focus on Unified Communication up further easier access to available contacts as in all markets. In 2010 an increasing number of UC well as shortened response time on projects were carried out throughout the Nordic and both telephone and e-mail. Chat replaces e-mail and Baltic regions, and with more than 25 000 customers, is a tool for quick clarifications. At the same time, this the potential is great going forward, as it is expected creates better overview through increased availability that an increasing number of businesses, including the with profiles of the individual employees who can be smaller ones, will take advantage of the same benefits accessed on video both internally and externally. This in the future. contributes to a more lively communication. In addition, travel time and costs are saved, while providing With Atea’s UC solutions customers achieve reduced corresponding benefits for the environment. In short, travel expenses, increased flexibility related to the utithe benefits are many. lization of the workforce, and greater flexibility with regards to where and when work can be carried out. In The leading provider of UC short, Unified Communication allows businesses and Atea’s solutions within UC are market leading and employees to work in a modern way, adapted to the represent an important focus area for the Group. The needs and expectations of the future. Atea Annual Report 15 2010 CASE: ATEA DELIVERS UC TO IF THROUGHOUT THE NORDIC REGION For the next five years Atea will deliver IT and communication solutions to If in all the Nordic countries. The work is already well on its way. – We recommend Atea to everyone. availability status for the users (presence), easy newal of PC equipment, with recycling through access to functions like instant messaging, appliAtea’s LOOP concepts. The deliveries related to This is the clear judgement of the insurance cation sharing, telephony and video conferencing. Unified Communication and the clients are two company and Svein Ivar Larsen, IT Solutions separate projects, but If quickly identified synerResponsible for Collaboration Solutions at If. – We still meet customers primarily on the phone. gies in having the same supplier also deliver the If threw a wide net when they were looking for It is incredibly important that customers can platform the communication solutions runs on. suppliers of IT products. After assessing several easily get a hold of us. Our communication alternatives, Atea was chosen. solutions therefore have to be up and running all – Atea showed that they were skillful here as the time, otherwise we can’t help our customers, well, and they presented a project we had faith – Atea had a new way of thinking, with good prosays Larsen. in. When we had the opportunity to run these two ject plans and an appearance that made us projects so closely together, it suited us very well, choose them. We have different needs in the difA common platform says Larsen. ferent Nordic countries, and since Atea is present The UC solution from Atea makes it possible for in all of them they have an understanding of both If to gather information from several platforms and One of the reasons why If chose Atea was the our overall and local needs. present it in one image. This enables the individual ability Atea has to deliver new products and user to view everything more cohesively and, in solutions based on old platforms. Insurance Want to become more provident addition, resources are used more efficiently. applications are often heavy, and custom built to Historically, If used to be several companies Unified Communication provides employees and suit a specific purpose, which can make it difficult that were merged together, with many different management with more functionality, which is to move them to new platforms. solutions for communication and computers. This important to If. has given If great challenges, and that is one of – Atea has good processes related to testing out the reasons why If chose Atea’s new integrated – With Unified Communication from Atea we get old applications, which makes it easier for us to communication platform. a modern platform we can expand on in the future. move from an XP platform to a Windows 7 platWe wanted everything gathered in a single, good form. They deliver standardized products that – Atea has also helped us define what kind of solution, and that is what Atea has helped us with, make it easy for us to take a big step forward. We strategies we should have within communisays Larsen. need help to move on, and that is what Atea has cation. If we had not been able to establish a shown that they can give us. new communication platform that gave us more – Employees can tell if others are busy, and they flexibility, we would never be able to satisfy the get telephony solutions on their PCs. If’s NorA breath of fresh air needs both customers and co-workers have wegian employees can tell if the Finnish ones are – Atea has shown that they have the ability to with regards to communication. Atea has shown occupied in the mobile, on their landlines, and put together a complete solution for us and at that they do not solely focus on selling services, they can send each other messages via chat. the same time making it a standardized solution. but also offer well-founded advice. We want Employees throughout the Nordic region can Everything will be delivered as a plug-and-play to modernize our business and become more form closer relations without having to travel. With service. Atea takes a Unified Communication provident. Atea advice us on why and how we this solution, we have the opportunity to have our platform with many different components and inteshould focus on leading IT and communication coffee-break-talk with our Nordic colleagues, says grates it in such a way that everything is delivered solutions, says Larsen. Larsen. as one integrated service. This is just what we wanted, explains Larsen. Modern technology is necessary Many employees are excited about the possiAs a Nordic company, If engages in a lot of bilities it offers, and the amount of time they save. The insurance market is tough, and requires that If cross-border communication activities. When They engage in a video meeting instead of having to is present and can turn quickly. With Atea on the working in projects where close cooperation is travel, which saves time and money, as well as the team it gets a little easier to maintain the important elementary, modern communication solutions environment. competitiveness. If is so pleased with Atea that are necessary. Employees have a need to give they are considered more as a partner than as a each other messages, talk to each other and – I can sit in my home office and have a videosupplier. see each other on video. It should be simple conference with colleagues. That gives us a and it should be available at any time. The closer relationship and better flexibility. I really – Atea was a breath of fresh air. It is a partnercontract with If has a value of approximately appreciate that. Now, if employees are out travelship where we challenge each other and where MNOK 300 and comprise about 7,000 users in ling, they are available on all applications as long Atea has come up with new solutions and shown all the Nordic countries. as they have access to If’s network, says Larsen. an ability to understand our day-to-day business. They deliver solutions we need now, but which Atea is responsible for Unified Communication Modernization and rejuvenation are also geared towards the future. This is a (UC) and the supply of hardware and software Atea also delivers new clients to If as part of the good match with If´s strategy. We recommend to the company. The UC solution enhances the company’s offering in relation to Device Lifecycle Atea to others, and we are very pleased with our cooperation and communication internally and Management. This also entails, among other cooperation, says Svein Ivar Larsen at If. externally by providing, among other things, things, operation, ongoing replacement and reAtea Annual Report 16 2010 Svein Ivar Larsen, ISR Collaboration Solutions at If Atea Annual Report 17 2010 DELIVERS COST SAVINGS WITH ATEA7 DESIGN Atea delivers cost savings through self-service, automation and efficient software deployment. The Atea7 design concept creates savings for the customers. This has really paid off in 2010, as integrated software deliveries often bring with them other deliveries within Atea’s blue box. Efficient deployment with Atea7 design of businesses in the private and public sectors already have taken The close cooperation between Atea and Microsoft grew even closer advantage of since the end of 2009. At the same time, many busiwith the launch of Windows 7 towards the end of 2009. At the same nesses continue to approach Atea to take advantage of the concept time, the foundation for several deliveries in 2010 and 2011 was set. within their business organization. The goal is that Atea and MicroWith its own concept, Atea7 design, Atea has made it easy for businesses soft together will implement 2 million licenses of Windows 7 in the to modernize their IT solutions through upgrading to Windows 7. next few years throughout the Nordic and Baltic regions. At the end of 2010, the companies were halfway there. 2010 was characterized by upgrades and related deliveries in connection with Windows 7 through Ateas self-developed concept, Atea7 deSoftware packaging in Riga sign. The concept has simplified and streamlined the implementation Atea Service Center in Riga is an integrated part of Atea’s supply of Windows 7 for several hundred thousand employees in Nordic and chain to Nordic and Baltic customers. This makes it possible for Atea Baltic businesses in 2010. This focus continues in 2011, as there are to offer efficient deployment and implementation of new software, still many who want efficient and streamlined services related to implewhich the Group’s large and international customers in particular mentation of Windows 7. To highlight Atea’s focus on Atea7 design, make use of. The implementation from Riga is automated, with direct country specific websites like www.atea7.com were launched early, distribution to the user clients, like PCs, laptops and mobile phones. with an overview of the concept and related benefits. On the websites, With ongoing packaging and digital distribution of new updates and customers have been able to calculate the potential savings related to software from Atea, customers achieve substantial benefits and cost choosing Atea’s concept for the implementation of the new operating savings. system. Atea’s concept covers the customers’ entire value chain, so that the deployment of Windows 7 is straight forward, with tools for Atea is leading within this area in the Nordic and Baltic regions, which administration and self-service as well as a range of related services. is a big advantage in relation to efficient deployment of Windows 7 to customers throughout the Nordic and Baltic regions. Coupled Integrated deliveries with Atea’s local presence and Atea7 design, a complete solution is It is expected that many will take the opportunity to upgrade their offered for the deployment of Windows 7, with ongoing follow-up to hardware in connection with the deployment of a new operating safeguard customer needs in relation to upgrades and maintenance. system, also in 2011, just as many did in 2010. For Atea, software The employees at Atea Service Center in Riga are available 24/7, and hardware deliveries are often related. The implementation of and play an important role in the deployment of Windows 7 and Windows 7 is often followed by hardware and service sales. In addiMicrosoft Office 2010 to customers and users in all markets. More tion, Atea’s centre of expertise for software packaging in Riga is often and more companies choose to outsource their internal software involved, which shows how Atea, generally and within specific areas, packaging and distribution to Atea. This gives Atea competitive deliver real added-value to customers throughout the Nordic and Baladvantages in all markets, as it often leads to further deliveries in other tic regions. With packaging in Riga and centralized deployment, in areas. Atea Service Center is ITIL-certified (ISO 20 000). cooperation with the customer, and with Atea’s local consultants on location at 79 locations throughout the Nordic and Baltic regions, the Atea Spintop process is painless. Atea7 design is an important focus area as a leading With Atea Spintop, IT deliveries are optimized through automation concept for deployment of Windows 7. and self-service. At the same time, this helps support the business goals that motivate IT investments. Atea Spintop has developed products Upgrading operating systems across businesses used to be hard, and solutions that automate manual tasks while giving the user access time-consuming and expensive. With Atea7 design, which among to a self-serviced IT environment. other things uses tools like Atea Jumpstart and Accelerator, these processes are carried out much faster. Atea Jumpstart includes By taking advantage of standard applications, Atea Spintop offers several smart solutions for efficient client operations. Atea improves solutions that increase the efficiency and quality of customers’ IT inspeed and reduces costs, but additionally, not all upgrades have to vestments. This gives users a significantly faster response, and a more be made at once, which enables a gradual deployment. These are flexible workday. At the same time, businesses achieve reduced costs benefits to Atea7 design that nearly 1.2 million users and thousands and increased productivity. Atea Annual Report 18 2010 CASE: JOTUN SUCCESSFUL DEPLOYMENT FOR JOTUN WITH ATEA7 DESIGN In 2010 Atea developed a unique de– It has been important for us in Jotun to get a partexceptional service, with quick updates. Atea ployment concept for the Norwegian ner that delivers a complete solution. Atea does not was chosen based on the totality, and the propaint producer, Jotun, based on Atea7 just offer local presence and project anchoring, cess that included Atea7 design. design. The result of the first phase is but also leading expertise within the deploythat the colour mixing process being ment of this kind of projects. The combination of – Even though this is something Atea is very run on 1,400 computers in Norwegian Atea’s expertise in Riga and the company’s local good at, we have still challenged them in new stores is now carried out much easier. expertise in Larvik has been an optimal solution for ways. A specific test solution had to be built The next step is giving the deployment us. The project is developed in Norway, but has to for this project, to make sure they had the right concept a global outreach. The project function in all the countries Jotun is represented expertise to deliver to our demands. It has is already saving Jotun and their cuswith the Multicolor concept, which is no less than been a great process of cooperation, where tomers a lot of work, and contributes 75 countries, says Bjørn Haavaldsen in Jotun. both parties have accumulated knowledge to the commercial development of one about these kinds of solutions, which has of the world’s leading producers of Jotun has roughly 1,400 PCs spread all over Norbeen beneficial to both Atea and Jotun, says paint. The project is executed by Atea’s way, which now utilize Microsoft’s tool System Bjørn Haavaldsen in Jotun. Service Center in Riga, Latvia, in close Center Configuration Manager (SCCM) as well as cooperation with Atea’s local office in Atea’s own tool Application Manager. It is in this Larvik, Norway. process that Jotun has really challenged Atea’s deployment expertise. The goal is to include more – Atea Service Center in Riga has delivered countries as the project develops. One demand is fantastic competence, and created a very that the implementation of Windows 7 on the local good technical solution for us in Jotun. 80 PCs should be fully automated, and done by the percent of the work was carried out in Riga, stores’ own employees, who often have little or no which has been advantageous in several IT competence. In the course of the deployment ways. First and foremost because they have process, backup of important data is taken, while very solid expertise connected to the buildthe PCs are enrolled in the SCCM online. All PCs ing of Images and packaging of applications can therefore be controlled and maintained centralbased on Atea7 design. At the same time, the ly, after being loaded with a new Image. This is zero improved possibilities of Windows 7 are used touch deployment in practice. Or Atea7 design. to standardize configurations and deliver finished application setups to the local The advantages lie in the client operation, where clients, says Bjørn Haavaldsen in Jotun. the focus is always on users and clients getting Atea Annual Report 19 2010 CASE: COPENHAGEN eSHOPs LICENSES WITH ATEA Overview, control, cost savings and flexibility are keywords in Atea’s new license portal. Atea’s eSHOP solution makes it easier for Copenhagen municipality to purchase licenses as well as IT equipment. – The license portal is a fantastic tool. I would say which has created impressive results. Everything With the license portal, Atea wishes to offer the that this is the way to go for everyone who wants to happens online and without delay, says Bo, before best procurement and administration solution availstreamline and digitalize the workflow. The portal he quickly demonstrates how easy buying licenses able. Customers receive automated messages in makes purchasing licenses quicker and easier. A can be with a few keystrokes. the portal, and are informed along the way when quick search, and you get a list of relevant versions, they reach new levels. A complete overview of the before the correct version is ordered. It is all user Streamlining and flexibility company’s licenses is also offered, with, among friendly and efficient, says Bo Jelved, head of pro– We have centralized the administration of softother things, the date of purchase. curements on behalf of Copenhagen municipality’s ware in order to control and standardize the softcentralized IT center. ware deployment to the municipality’s PC clients. Second largest supplier We also use Atea’s license portal to purchase extra – I firmly believe that we are going to use the Copenhagen municipality is Denmark’s largest licenses for individual users, as there is often a need license portal more and more. The eSHOP workplace, with 50 000 employees. They are for employees to run other programs in addition to has a much larger selection of different license among the very first to keep track of all their licenses the ones that are a part of the specific department’s versions, which is invaluable to Copenhagen through Atea’s license portal, and with the help standard software package, says Bo Jelved. municipality. In addition, we buy everything, of Atea’s Software Asset Management solutions. from printer cartridges and mice to monitors With all the municipality’s software licenses available – The license portal covers our needs, as it makes and PCs through Atea’s eSHOP. We’ve spent through Atea’s eSHOP, implementing new PCs it easy to order licenses and find what we need. around MDKK 35 annually there alone. We and users on a day-to-day basis has become We also keep track of our ongoing license procurealso are assisted with license management for efficient and painless. Through Atea’s license ment, which gives us a good overview. I have a conapproximately MDKK 10-15. In total, our coportal they find the license products quicker, and tract manager who deals exclusively with license operation with Atea in 2010 has included at the right price. Going forward, this will also be management in cooperation with Atea, and they purchases of MDKK 116. offered to other businesses pursuing good make sure we make even better use of our licenses, overview and a broad product range related to and that we get the right upgrades. Fascinated by Atea in Riga procurement of software and licenses. Atea is also an important part of Copenhagen The Software Asset Management solution from municipality’s plan for the future. – To be completely honest, it’s just like online Atea and the license portal, which Copenhagen banking. The license portal is a wonderful way to municipality has helped develop, complement each – We consider Atea as an important and strategic buy licenses. It’s simple, it’s easy and it works. In other well. partner. We are now developing the idea of outthe future, I think we will have a lot more users with sourcing our software packaging to Atea in Riga, digital access, and it will be even more critical to – The Software Asset Management solution assists which has impressed us a lot. Atea can probably have an efficient and centralized overview of the in telling us which licenses we have, which ones do this more efficiently. It comes down to taking municipality’s software licenses. The license portal we are using and, even more importantly, which advantage of standardization. To the extent we go saves us a lot of time, and allows us to run fewer ones we are not using. We can move the licenses through with this, it will free up resources that can software packages locally. There are two-three around, which is what we call license pooling, and be used to serve the people of Copenhagen. We of us who use the system, and already the portal this increases the degree to which we utilize those have already utilized Atea’s consultancy expertise. has made it possible for us to reallocate resources same licenses. This reduces our consumption of Still, the most important thing to us is that Atea quite focusing on other and more important tasks, licenses, streamlines, and creates cost savings. simply delivers, says Bo Jelved. Atea Annual Report 20 2010 DELIVERS ADVANTAGES THROUGH ATEA’S eSHOP More and more customers prefer Atea’s e-commerce solutions, eSHOP and Ateadirect, which simplifies the ordering process for both Atea and the customers. This way, customers in all markets get easy access to information about more than 100 000 products – with price, availability and delivery time. Several acquisitions were made in 2010, which all in Nordic enterprises both in private and public all strengthens Atea’s ability to further benefit from its sectors. In comparison, Ateadirect and corresponding already leading market position within e-commerce e-commerce portals like Dropzone focus on sale of IT in the Nordic region. Atea acquired the Norwegian equipment to smaller businesses and their employees. e-commerce company Dropzone in 2010, including its customers, primarily comprising small and With Ateadirect it is easy for small and mediummedium-sized businesses within both sized businesses to purchase IT equipment online or the private and public sector. The through e-mail and phone. In this way, Atea has tarAtea continues acquisition is an important step in geted a customer segment comprising businesses with to gain substantial the establishment and development 20 to 100 employees, which represents further pomarket shares and of leading e-commerce solutions, tential. The goal is to win an increasing share of this like eSHOP and Ateadirect, in all market in the Nordic region. Atea is in the position demonstrates the Atea’s markets. It also supports Atea’s of benefiting from being one of the Nordic region’s superiority of its various sales and marketing activities largest IT buyers, with annual purchases surpassing eSHOP solution comtowards the SME segment. In total, NOK 10 billion, in combination with the company’s these initiatives have strengthened leading capacity within storage and distribution. bined with targeted Atea’s focus within this area. sales activities The main priority behind Atea’s eSHOP and AteadiOnline shopping is increasingly rect is to offer all kinds of IT infrastructure, easy and popular. Atea’s eSHOP offers better availability, cost-effective, so that customers can shop around the good product overview and significant savings clock, wherever they are. Atea’s e-commerce solutions related to the ordering and sales process. With yet shall be the natural choice when purchasing harda long list of suppliers and products, Atea’s eSHOP ware, software and IT supplies. Based on the largest offers efficient and customer friendly distribution of product inventory in the Nordic Region and attracIT products with limited transaction costs. tive e-commerce platforms in each individual market, Atea sets out to utilize the benefits of building close Ateadirect for small and and effective customer relations. As a part of this, medium-sized businesses Atea offers tailor-made solutions where customers The focus on Ateas eSHOP continues parallel to can make their own product catalogs with their own the establishment of Ateadirect in yet new markets welcome pages. following its launch in Denmark in 2009. Atea’s eSHOP has an established customer base among Atea Annual Report 21 2010 DELIVERS FLEXIBILITY AND INCREASED COMPETITIVENESS Atea delivers increased competitiveness to its customers through good logistic services and configuration solutions, as well as flexible financing solutions. Financing more popular Growth within logistics, configuration and recycling The demand for Atea’s leasing and financing solutions continue to Atea’s center for logistics, configuration and recycling services in grow, and this part of the enterprise has delivered continued growth Växjö, Sweden, is experiencing steadily increasing revenues and since it was established in 2007. Atea offers financing of customers’ delivered a growth of 24 per cent compared with 2009. The center IT investments through its financing companies in Norway, is unique in the Nordic and Baltic regions, and constitutes an imporDenmark, Sweden and Finland. The trend continues to build, even tant role supporting Atea’s ability to deliver in all markets. Through after the financial crisis. combination of logistics and configuration, Atea has established a valuable competitive advantage related to the overall product and Atea had a collected leasing and financing portfolio of NOK 1.5 service offering in all countries. The center was involved in a sebillion at the end of 2010 due to increased demand for financing ries of PC deliveries to the public sector in 2010, particularly to services. In comparison, it was NOK 1 billion at the beginning of schools throughout Scandinavia, as in 2009. In total 350 000 PC the year. The growth in 2010 triggered a corresponding staff inclients have been delivered in 2010, compared with 300 000 in crease within Atea’s leasing and financing enterprise. The market 2009, whereas 165 000 comprised configuration services in 2010, for these kinds of services is growing, as more businesses prefer to compared with 150 000 in 2009. At the same time, Atea recycled finance their IT investments based on monthly installments. Atea as many as 180 000 PCs, matching the number of recycled clients accommodates financing for its customers with underlying finanfrom the previous year. A third of Atea’s total hardware deliveries cing from banks and financial partners. With a 3-year down payare handled by the logistics center. The product range constitutes ment period and external financing, the risks are very low for Atea. 4 000 high-volume products that are a part of Atea’s total portfolio On average, sales of IT infrastructure with associated financing of approximately 150 000 products. provide much faster payments, which in turn have a positive affect on the operating cash flow related to the sales activities. The internal revenues related to Atea’s center for logistics, configuration and recycling services totaled NOK 3.0 billion, with an inRoughly 4 percent, or MNOK 750, of Atea’s total sales revenue is creased profitability due to improved efficiency. In the coming years, carried out with associated financing services. The long-term goal is Atea expects growth both in product deliveries as well as configurato provide financing related to 15 per cent of the total sales, which is tion and recycling services, resulting in improved profit margins. As expected to yield solid profits due to the robust scalability. In a stabipart of the focus on green IT, an easy and efficient recycling process lizing financial market, Atea Financial Services delivered EBITDA is implemented for the customers. Through goITloop and goITof MNOK 14.5 in 2010, compared with MNOK 9.0 in 2009. green customers save the environment, money and energy. Atea Annual Report 22 2010 Leif Aarthun Ims, CEO of Altibox CASE: ALTIBOX ATEA DELIVERS TO ALTIBOX AT A BLAZING PACE Altibox is building Fiber to the homes. symmetric uploading and downloading speeds Unique cooperation With Atea as logistics partner, Altibox close to 10 times as fast as the fastest VDSL ofTo unite around their ambitions, Altibox and offers broadband and alarms, as well as fer out there. This offers our customers unique Atea have established a joint development content like TV and telephony, everything opportunities, not to mention user experiences. fund. This way, Altibox and Atea will stay ahead delivered through fiber. The deployment High-resolution pictures and video create an inof the development, and contribute to the creaand success in Norway has come at a creasing demand for higher bandwidth. Faced tion of new products and services that, in turn, blazing pace. Lots of customers want with this growth, and looking ahead, there is no create growth and profitability for both Atea Altibox delivered by Atea. doubt that fiber is in a class of its own. and Altibox. This aspect of the cooperation is quite unique in the sense that players unite in Fiber to the homes is well known in Europe and Altibox focus on developing concepts that intefocusing on the future. worldwide. Now, it is rapidly being rolled out in grate the different services that are offered, in Norway and the Nordic region. As supplier of addition to launching additional services for the Atea’s cooperation and deliveries to Altibox and logistics services to Altibox and their partners, Altibox platform. To succeed, the customer has to their partners involve large parts of the Atea Atea assists in the deployment of broadband be taken seriously. Altibox must succeed in two Group’s Norwegian enterprise. Additionally, and alarm products to Altibox’s fiber customers. ways, through partners succeeding in their resthere is a close cooperation with Atea’s logisAt the same time, Atea will also be delivering pective local markets, and by understanding and tics center in Växjö, where the IT and commucommunications infrastructure, servers and meeting the needs of the end-users. In connection nications equipment is prepared and shipped consulting services related to Altibox’s fiber with this it is important to have a good logistics from. network expansion in Scandinavia. Both Atea and technology partner, who creates stability in its and Altibox keep up the pace, with establishdeliveries, and in that way create good customer – Atea has been a good, important partner to ment of ultrafast fiber connections to yet an experiences. This makes Atea a very important Altibox for several years. Through our cooperaincreasing number of new homes. partner to Altibox. tion we have come to know Atea as reliable, efficient, and staffed with skilled profession– With an aggressive growth strategy, Altibox dis– To Altibox it has been important to find a supplier als. Atea’s nationwide outreach was a core tributes and connects communication boxes, dewho meets the requirements related to good and aspect in our choice of partner for the supply of coders and alarm equipment in the homes. Soon efficient logistics. It is decisive for us to cooperate communications equipment, servers, and conclose to 250 000 customers are online across the with the leading technology suppliers available. sulting services for the expansion of the fiber country. The question is no longer whether fiber There are many ways to build infrastructure, and network to customers throughout Norway and is preferred or not, but how far out in the network our ambition has been to build the most solid fiber Scandinavia. However, the company’s impresyou can get fiber connectivity, says Leif Aarthun network in Norway and Scandinavia. This is why sive logistics center in Växjö was what tipped Ims, CEO of Altibox, and adds; Atea is an important player, and our experience is the scale. Atea knows logistics. With an overall that the partnership we have with Atea provides approach to our cooperation, we get exactly – To us it is not a compromise; we deliver figood logistics and efficient deployment of our what we need in order to grow, says Leif Aarber access all the way into the living room, with products, says Leif Aarthun Ims. thun Ims. Atea Annual Report 23 2010 CASE: From left: Leif Elken, Mads Darling and Rasmus Heide at TDC ATEA IS TDC’s FREE CHOICE In 2010 Atea experienced an increasing demand for the Danish concept “The Free Choice”, where multimedia products are delivered through a pretax benefit scheme for employees. One of the enterprises taking advantage of this offer from Atea is TDC. – As an employee in a Danish business the advantAfterwards they get an e-mail with an order – If you are weighing two businesses against ages are many, as procurement of employee beneconfirmation and estimated time of delivery. each other, a pretax benefit scheme like “The fits such as multimedia products are subtracted Free Choice” can make a difference. It’s an from the wage before taxes, and thereby reduces – I recently ordered an iPad through the portal, and obvious bonus for employees, and it offers the the income tax. I have ordered products through that went really well. It was quick, easy and precise. business clear competitive advantages related the scheme myself, and I am very happy. On a And, I’m a very critical consumer, so I can absoto the ability of attracting labour, says Leif Elken. scale from 1 to 10, I give Atea’s concept “The Free lutely recommend this solution, says Mads Darling, Choice” a solid 9. It is quite simply impressively who works with the intranet and communication – In addition, it is very important to TDC that it good, says Leif Elken, HR Consultant for TDC. activities in TDC. is easy for employees to utilize new technology. Among other things, we offer telephony and On January 1, 2010, the new multimedia tax – Atea’s portal for “The Free Choice” which is broadband services to our customers, and it’s was introduced in Denmark. It made “The Free available on TDC’s intranet is almost like being good for the business that our employees use Choice” the fastest growing business area for in a candy shop. It’s exciting to come in and the same services every day. Still, we primarily Atea in Denmark in 2010. In the course of the year choose from all the products Atea offers. We can use the scheme as an employee benefit, makAtea generated sales of close to MNOK 450 in choose exactly what we want, and get the newest ing it possible for them to purchase products at pretax benefits related to multimedia products in products delivered right on our door step, Mads better prices and terms. We contribute in conDenmark, and TDC was the largest customer. Darling continues. necting our employees to the new technologies Compared to 2009, the sales figures doubled available, and thereby get a more updated staff, many times over. Free Choice on the intranet with better IT expertise than other businesses The portal used to order from Atea was made that don’t offer this kind of scheme. That is why – “The Free Choice” from Atea is an offering to accessible through seamless integration with more businesses should make use of “The Free employees who, through the scheme, are able to TDC’s intranet. Choice” from Atea, says Rasmus Heide. purchase PC equipment, mobile phones, broadband services and other employee benefits. The – When employees get the opportunity to order New cooperation increases the offering benefits are paid for by subtracting their cost from technology products in such an easy way, and pay The multimedia tax covers pretax purchases of the employees’ wages before tax. The scheme is for them through a pretax scheme, they get a much technology products such as mobile phones, very attractive in TDC. As part of the last round of closer connection with their workplace. Not to menPC equipment, iPhones, iPads, data commuorders we took, more than half our staff of 10,000 tion that it contributes to more satisfied employees, nication services and other employee benefits, employees ordered products through “The Free and that is beneficial for the business, says Rasmus such as health benefits and commuter cards. Choice”. This shows how popular the scheme has Heide, Media Editor in TDC. Thanks to a new cooperation with TDC, on the become. other hand, Atea can now also offer all busi– During the last round of orders, things were crazy nesses broadband and telephony services from First-rate user interface at the office, and several people commented that it TDC through “The Free Choice”, in addition to Atea has, with its new portal for ordering felt like Christmas Eve, says Mads Darling. the pre-existing IT and technology products on products, facilitated simple administration on offer. There are many businesses that make use behalf of the business, and an easy ordering Gives clear competitive advantages of Atea’s offer in the same way as TDC. Atea process for the employees. The portal offers According to Elken, the scheme from Atea could administrates around 430,000 employees’ preemployees a good presentation of the product make a difference both in recruiting processes tax benefit schemes for more than 6,000 busiprice, as well as how the purchase will affect and when existing employees are offered new nesses through “The Free Choice”. their individual pretax wage and tax deduction. positions internally. Atea Annual Report 24 2010 ATEA DELIVERS BENEFITS THROUGH PRINT AND COPY As part of the focus on individual areas within Atea’s blue box, Atea has focused on print and copy in 2010. This is anchored in the ongoing customer investments related to hardware and infrastructure with corresponding services. The customers benefit from reduced costs within print and copy. Atea’s focus on print and copy resulted in, among other things, the For Atea it is not just about the short-term hardware sales, or the acquisition of four Swedish companies within the Office chain in overall operation and financing, with the corresponding running 2010. The acquisitions of the Swedish companies Portal and Benzler, sales of print supplies. Isolated it is interesting, but the print and which also offers print and copy solutions, have also contributed to a copy deliveries at the same time open up for further business strengthened position. This has made Atea one of the largest players potential for a supplier such as Atea. Atea’s deliveries within within print and copy in Sweden, with local presence across the print and copy maintain an open and ongoing dialogue with the country. Atea’s focus within print and copy is on integrated deliveries customers, often yielding deliveries in other areas. Through the of hardware, services and financing related to modernization and role as a preferred partner, it is easier to achieve cross-over sales ongoing operational assistance. For the customers this means that and relationship sales to the existing customer portfolio. This they get a flexible and efficient solution that covers all their needs means that many customers end up placing additional orders within print, copy and scanning at predictable and affordable costs. with Atea. An area that stands out in relation to print and copy Correspondingly, customers achieve savings related to technical is Atea’s competitive financing solutions, an enterprise that is operations and running costs. This is possible because Atea, among increasingly involved in the financing of an increasing part of other things, analyze the needs and optimize the customers’ print Atea’s total hardware sales, giving Atea good margins, and the and copy functions accordingly. Full service and maintenance with customer great flexibility. Still, the biggest rewards for customers complete financing solutions are a part of Atea’s integrated offering, within print and copy are reduced costs and better stability. which is preferred by an increasing number of customers. Many businesses are surprised by the benefits and savings Atea offer. CASE: ÅMÅL MUNICIPALITY NEW PRINT AND COPY SERVICES FOR THE ENTIRE MUNICIPALITY Multifunctional printers are taking complete and flexible solution, with a flexible cost of a municipality. This goes for us in Åmål, over, and that goes for Åmål municistructure and no procurement costs up-front. but probably for others as well. It yields lower pality in Sweden as well, who chose an costs and better functionality, says Pontus integrated agreement comprising print, The agreement applies to the entire municiKarlsson. copy and scanning from Atea. It reduces pality, including administrative units, schools, costs and improves functionality. preschools and kindergartens. The municipality has reduced the number of traditional printers, – We are very happy with Atea as a partner, and replacing them with multifunctional printers that very pleased that everything worked well in the both copy and scan, as well as print in black/ deployment phase. We are also saving a lot of white and colors. The municipality has implemoney with this agreement, both in variable and mented approximately 70 new all-in-one fixed costs, but also through having large parts of printers purchased from Atea. This gives us low our hardware portfolio merged, giving us fewer and predictable printing expenses throughout products that meet more demands, says Pontus the municipality. Karlsson, Head of IT for Åmål municipality. – In addition, we buy software licenses from Atea Finance provides finance services reAtea. I have a solid belief in this kind of agreelated to the hardware, giving the customer a ments, as it’s a great way to organize the needs Atea Annual Report 25 2010 DELIVERS GREEN IT AND VIRTUALIZATION Atea was a frontrunner with its various customer-friendly concepts within Green IT. Through its goITgreen-concepts, Atea still leads the field in the Nordic region. Atea was a frontrunner with its various customer-friendly Virtualization saves the environment concepts within Green IT. Through its goITgreen Virtualization is expected to be one of the fastest concepts, Atea still leads the field in the Nordic region. growing technologies in the coming years. This is a trend Atea is well positioned to benefit from, with The awareness and focus on environmentally friendly strong technological expertise as well as an estabsolutions are increasing, creating new demands and lished and long-term customer base in both private expectations for all players in the market. As market and public sectors. leader, Atea takes a particular responsibility through the company’s targeted and dedicated focus on Green Virtualization is all about making use of IT resources IT, both in relation to its customers, but also as a part of more efficiently. This is done by, among other things, the Group’s focus and own measures in this field. running several systems on a single server or PC. During the last year, Atea has virtualized a series Through Green IT, investments in IT equipment and of customers, especially in Finland, where Atea acsolutions can contribute to reduced environmental quired the virtualization company Ten of Ten Oy emissions, while at the same time economic and comduring the 4th quarter of 2010. mercial benefits are achieved. Examples are video conferencing solutions, energy efficient IT solutions and reVirtualization creates real rewards and savings through cycling. Through the implementation of the goITgreen more efficient utilizing of the infrastructure. It has been and goITloop concepts Atea has played an active role like that for some time, however, the in promoting and supporting the implementation of trend continues, as an increasing numGreen IT for a wide range of customers in 2010. ber of businesses are pursuing new Virtualization is benefits related to even better IT opexpected to be one Recycles for the environment erations. At the same time, virtualizaof the fastest growing Atea’s logistics center in Växjö, Sweden, plays a key tion is a part of Green IT, as the savings role in the Group’s environmental focus. Green IT is on a larger scale are significant, just in technologies in a long-term focus which Group will maintain in the futerms of the reduced power expendicoming years ture, and it is expected to result in commercial benefits ture in the server rooms. In addition, it within several areas, including cost reductions and CO2 creates greater flexibility, since new PCs and servers can reductions. Atea is leading the field in this area, through be set up immediately through virtualization, without its wide range of customized and standardized solunew hardware having to be purchased and installed as it tions. Looking ahead, it is expected that the demand for runs on existing infrastructure. On this basis, Atea convalue-adding IT services will contribute to a larger part tinues to focus on virtualization as part of the commerof the Group’s total sales, which would be in line with cial offering of flexible solutions to its customers, and as the trend and development throughout the latest years. a contribution within Green IT. CASE: ATEA VIRTUALIZES FINLAND NORTH KARELIA UNIVERSITY CLEANS THEIR DESKTOP The most important IT innovation Pioneers in cooperation but this is about to increase to 350. At the same during the last decade is probably North Karelia University of Applied Sciences time, operation and maintenance are combined virtualization of workstations. North was one of the first universities to focus on in the same location, and the life cycles of the Karelia University of Applied Sciences virtualization. It all began through the establishclients are extended. in Finland has taken advantage of this, ment of a test environment using solutions from as Atea has delivered solutions that Citrix. Atea was chosen because the university – Almost all our customers with more than 100 have virtualized their workstations. wanted a project partner with solid expertise workstations are considering or already testing For the university, virtualization has and broad experience with different virtuaout virtualization of workstations. So far, virtuaenabled virtual studies, remote work lization technologies. lization has primarily been utilized by customers capability and client-independent user within the public sector, but now the private experiences. The goal is to expand the system further. It cursector is catching up, says Olli Kinnunen, rently supports a total of 200 simultaneous users, Account Manager for Atea Finland. Atea Annual Report 26 2010 Atea’s logistics and recycling center in Växjö CASE: THE HOSPITAL OF NORDLAND SAVES COSTS AND THE ENVIRONMENT WITH ATEA Good security, environmental benefits and equipment we are getting rid of. It is almost Atea’s LOOP concept utilizes market leading appreciated revenues are three factors unbelievable. It is perhaps a cliché, but this methods and the most modern applications the regional Hospital of the county of specific case truly portray a win-win-situation, available, based on the standards of ISO Nordland in Norway focus on as a part of not the least for us as a customer, says Trond 14001 and ISO 9000 to guarantee that the Atea’s LOOP concept for recycling of used Kristiansen, advisor at the regional Hospital of data is 100 per cent deleted. IT equipment. For the hospital it results in the county of Nordland in Norway. cash payments even at the last stop within In addition to this, Atea is a trustworthy supplier the lifecycle of the used equipment. It was With approximately 3 000 employees, there is a within several other areas, among others within not like that before. Through goITloop need for about 2 000 computers, and of these 1/4 telecommunications and videoconferencing. Atea offers solutions for recycling, reuse needs to be replaced every year. This means that During recent years, we have implemented and resale of IT products. At the same several PCs are replaced every day. Atea’s goITnew solutions on a regular basis within Unified time, it yields environmental benefits. loop concept has also offered a new structure reCommunication. Atea has contributed to higher lated to implementation, modernisation and shredquality and better functionality within this area Good security, environmental benefits and ding of IT equipment, providing great benefits for through new communication solutions related appreciated revenues are three factors the the Hospital of Nordland. to medicine and administration. regional Hospital of the county of Nordland in Norway focus on as a part of Atea’s LOOP conIn general it is not cheap to replace such a numcept for recycling of used IT equipment. For the ber of expensive PC clients, however, through hospital it results in cash payments even at the Atea’s LOOP concept we actually are paid quite last stop within the lifecycle of the used equipa lot for the equipment we otherwise would need ment. It was not like that before. Through goITto pay someone in order to get rid of. Getting rid loop Atea offers solutions for recycling, reuse of equipment used to be really expensive, partly and resale of IT products. At the same time, it since it is very important that the data is erased yields environmental benefits. properly, something which has been expensive. In our case, Atea also carries out this part of the We get a lot of benefits. The concept has process, according to the same procedures for all prolonged the lifecycle of our IT products kinds of IT equipment that they recycle. This is through an optimized process related to especially important as some of the clients are modernisation and exchange of the equipused to access patient specific data through ment. We contribute to create environmental secure databases. Atea has been able to deliver a benefits, and at the same time it provides us solution that solves all necessary security aspects, with an appreciated bonus through payments, while saving us a lot of work, and at the same since Atea actually pays us for the used IT providing good security, says Trond Kristiansen. Atea Annual Report 27 2010 CASE: AALBORG MUNICIPALITY WITH ATEA THE IT DISPOSALS TURNS INTO MONEY AND NEW EQUIPMENT Accountability, green IT and security is Atea offers four different LOOP concepts. LOOP4 Atea does, says Niels Rygaard, representing core aspects that give meaning to Atea’s is especially meaningful if the company at the same the department providing care and associated GoITIoop concept according to the Group’s time is ordering new hardware. Aalborg Municipality services to elderly and disabled in Aalborg customers. Through LOOP4 it is possible to is looking ahead and they have standardised their Municipality. receive new, configured and plug-and-play processes related to purchases, deliveries and equipment at the same time as getting rid disposals of IT equipment. For Atea the concept of recycling also of the old. In Aalborg Municipality this is represents commercial value, as it pays to handle highly appreciated, and they have tested Through the process of modernizing IT products, it used IT equipment, as it still has a value. It also the solution in regards to a replacement of is also critical that the disposal of used hardware is pays for the customers, who receive payments 500 computers. carried out in a secure manner, and this is something for the old equipment. Atea Annual Report 28 2010 ATEA DELIVERS CSR In 2010 Atea Group joined the UN Global Compact thus supporting its 10 key principles of human rights, labour, environment and business corruption – with main focus on principles regarding environment. Environment and green initiatives • Atea Logistics have made an agreement with the transport partner BRING, where BRING will deliver School PCs by train, a Climate reports cost and environmental efficient solution where both Atea and All Atea companies have climate reports, developed targets and the customers save money and reduce CO2 emission. goals for reducing the Group’s own environmental impact and are certified according to the ISO 14001. To ensure constant • Atea also donated funds to the environmental initiative called focus, external audits and status on internal CO2 emission in “Keep Sweden Tidy”, that carries the motto “Combat litter, Atea are conducted. The climate reports make it easier to identify promote recycling and encourage a sustainable development”. and implement necessary actions to lower the Group’s total CO2 emission. The Atea Group’s goal is to reduce the CO2 emission by Other initiatives within Corporate Social Responsibility 25% per employee by 2015 (based on a 2007 level). All countries have developed a gender and diversity plan and policy. Atea believes that all are equal and should have equal chances also Internal infrastructure when it comes to career. One of the ways to reduce the CO2 emission in Atea is by improving the internal infrastructure. This is done via the One Infrastructure Atea yearly supports the child support organization BØRNEproject which was implemented in Denmark and Finland in 2010 fonden. In 2010 Atea held a mountain bike race for employees and and will be implemented in the remaining countries through 2012. customers which raised NOK 276,000 for BØRNEfonden. Atea also contributed to the association BRIS (Children’s Rights) and The Atea One Infrastructure project will merge IT infrastructures together with Astra provided a number of schools with computers. in seven different Atea countries into one. One infrastructure will Furthermore in 2010 Atea donated computers to a children clinic not only bring more flexible and effective working conditions to at a local hospital in Sweden. The computers are intended for the employees and remarkable economical savings but also many benesick children and their parents to give them joy and pleasure and fits to the environment: perhaps some education as well, during serious times. • Energy efficient data centers and desktop virtualization technoIn addition Atea wanted to take tangible actions to relieve the situation logies will help to reduce energy consumption of the disadvantaged. Atea organized a project (supported by Microsoft, IBM and Onsight) where a Sharepoint 2010 intranet solution was • One domain enhances further possibilities to Unified Communication. donated to Hope Association. Hope is an association that helps famiEspecially video conferencing remarkably reduces the need to travel. lies in crisis in many practical ways. With the Sharepoint 2010 intranet solution Hope will be able to better organize its aid to the families and Recycling of IT equipment make sure that their help is channeled to the right persons. On the external side Atea is continuing to grow the IT-loop business and thereby saving the environment substantial amounts of On a global level Atea donated money to the organization MédeCO2 by recycling IT equipment on behalf of customers. The cins Sans Frontières to help people in need worldwide. goITloop concept grew with 33% during 2010, in number of recycled units, which is now more than 200.000. This helped saving both the environment and customer’s money. Other external and UN Global Compact’s 10 principles local environmental initiatives include: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and • An Atea Green Guide for employees, this has the purpose to Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour involve employees in the green effort and is a simple and down Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association to earth guide with hints and tips on how to save energy, make and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, energy conscious choices, reduce travelling, prolong the life cycle Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour, and of equipment and reduce and recycle waste. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment • A local green car policy, stating that employees should choose Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to more environmentally friendly company cars. In 2010 the environmental challenges, Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental average CO2 emission from company cars in Atea Finland was responsibility, and 164 g/km versus 168 g/km in 2009. The policy will have greater Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. effect over time as new cars will replace the old ones. Further Atea Anti-Corruption has promoted a carpooling site on the Atea Denmark intranet. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its The site facilitates co-driving among colleagues when going to forms, including extortion and. other Atea office. The initiative saves money as well as CO2. Atea Annual Report 29 2010 BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT 2010 Atea delivered a very good year in 2010 both in terms of revenue contribute NOK 2.5 billion in revenue. In comparison, 5 acquisitions and profit, with very strong growth and more acquisitions than any were made in 2009. The resolute work in gaining further market shares previous year. In the first half of 2010 the macroeconomic conditions continues with full focus in 2011. With the growth strategy 20:11:1 Atea were still influenced by the financial turmoil, with lower growth in the has an objective to achieve operating revenues of NOK 20 billion and first six months of the year, but then the market conditions improved EBITDA of NOK 1 billion in 2011. It is the opinion of the Board at quickly. The Group experienced a strong growth rate in the second the beginning of 2011 that Atea is well positioned to achieving this goal. half of 2010, with correspondingly good results. It is especially gratiWith an expected organic growth of 9 per cent in 2011 in addition to fying that all countries delivered a minimum of 20 per cent revenue revenue of NOK 2.5 billion from acquisitions, it is the Board’s opinion growth measured in constant currency in both the 3rd and 4th quarthat Atea is likely to surpass NOK 20 billion in revenues within the ter of 2010 compared with those quarters in 2009. This shows good year. With a firm focus on cost and EBITDA margin Atea maintains its momentum going into 2011. Atea will continue to combine organic ambition to reach NOK 1 billion in EBITDA. growth with growth through acquisitions, as Atea has the financial strength and a defined objective to continue to play an important part Atea is primarily a complete provider of hardware and software in the ongoing market consolidation. This strategy has proven parproducts as well as related consulting services within IT infrastructicularly robust and successful. In 2010 new and large market shares ture. Through a range of market leading technologies from selected have been won for the Nordic region’s largest, and Europe’s third suppliers, combined with value-adding services and a focus on the largest supplier of IT infrastructure and services. individual customer’s needs, the company contributes to strengthening the customer’s competitiveness and helps customers achieve their 2010 gave a strong increase in revenue. The Group delivered signifistrategic goals. A focused IT infrastructure strategy combined with cantly better profitability and a slightly strengthened margin. EBITDA, cost management and a local presence has created a solid foundation excluding stock option costs and acquisition costs, came in at MNOK for profitable growth. The Atea Group has 79 offices in the Nordic 675.2, representing an increase of MNOK 124.9 from 2009. This and Baltic regions. The several local offices, well distributed in the represents an earnings growth of 22.7 per cent. Revenue was MNOK Nordic and Baltic countries, enable a close and large focus on the 17,131.2, compared with MNOK 14,588.6 in 2009, which gives a customers’ needs in all individual markets. At the same time, common growth of 17.4 per cent, and 20.9 per cent when measured in consresources, such as Atea’s eSHOP, software packaging in Riga, Latvia, tant currency. The Group generated a positive operational cash flow of client management tools from Spintop, financing services with comMNOK 564.4 for the year, down from MNOK 726.5 in 2009, when mon structure in all individual markets, as well as common services extraordinarily high advance payments from public contracts came in linked to the logistics centre in Växjö, Sweden, are offered. Atea’s the 4th quarter of 2009. Based on the Group’s solid results, the Board commitment to green IT through the concepts goITgreen and goITrecommends paying a dividend for the third consecutive year. For 2010 loop has continued to be a key focus area in 2010 – and the focus the dividend is recommended at NOK 2 per share, up from NOK 1.25 continues with undiminished force – both within Atea and towards in 2009 (NOK 1.00 in 2008). At the same time, significant shareholder the company’s customers. value has been created throughout the last two years. Share price has increased by over 250 per cent from the beginning of 2009 to the end Goals and strategy of 2010, reflecting Atea’s positive development. Atea’s short term objective includes a revenue of NOK 20 billion with EBITDA of NOK 1 billion in 2011 (20:11:1). The long-term strategy Good profitability and strong cash flows substantiate the company’s is to achieve further growth and stable profitability by strengthening financial solidity in combination with net debt of only MNOK 337.3 the Group’s position within Atea’s blue box, which describes the by year-end. 2010 saw the completion of no less than 15 acquisitions Group’s integrated range of product and service offerings within IT in strategically important business areas in growth, which is expected to infrastructure. Atea’s blue box includes sales of products, services and Atea Annual Report 30 2010 solutions within four primary categories based on technological and The financial crisis created challenging marketand macroeconomic market affiliation. Mainly, Atea’s blue bux is oriented around clients conditions from the autumn of 2008 until spring of 2010. However, (PCs and mobile phones), computer centre (virtualization, managethis struck the competition the hardest, as Atea used the recession ment, servers and storage), interaction (effective communication and well. Even though Atea has delivered growth throughout this period good networks) as well as Unified Communication (video and web with very good results, it shows that IT investments are to a large exconference, IP telephony, mobility and chat). At the same time as Atea tent cyclical, with a correlation between the level of investments and gains market shares within the Group’s primary business activities, the macroeconomic climate in general. The financial crisis caused a the total business potential increases, with new trends and needs for reduction of previous estimates for general market and investment efficiency contributing to creating new and related business areas, increase within IT in the Nordic and Baltic regions. Despite this Atea naturally affiliating with Atea’s blue box. This will probably cause an has upheld the Group’s revenue and profit, which means the Group increase in product and service demand, and a growth in several areas has consolidated its position considerably during this period, and is therefore expected in the future. shown robustness in the face of recession. Market development and trends According to IDC the Nordic market for IT infrastructure will grow by According to the IDC analysis institute, the Nordic IT infrastructure 4.4 per cent in 2011, while the Board expects Atea will experience an market which constitutes Atea’s blue box, grew by 4.7 per cent in organic growth of 9 per cent. In addition, the effects of acquisitions are 2010. In comparison, Atea delivered a growth in the Nordic and estimated to NOK 2.5 billion. Based on the full year effect of acquisiBaltic regions of 17.4 per cent, or 20.9 per cent in constant currency. tions in 2010, Atea’s pro forma revenue was MNOK 18,876.0 in 2010. The company’s organic growth peaked at 13.3 per cent in constant currency, meaning that Atea is winning large market shares in inHardware sales in particular picked up speed in 2010, increasing dividual markets. IDC’s updated analysis of the Nordic IT infrathroughout the year. Measured in constant currency, Atea delivered structure market is estimated to be around NOK 117 billion. This an 8.6 per cent increase in hardware sales in the 1st quarter, 21.4 per represents an increase of 4.7 per cent in 2010 after the total market cent in the 2nd quarter, 36.5 per cent in the 3rd quarter and no less fell by around 8 per cent during the financial crisis in 2009. At the than 43.7 per cent in the 4th quarter of 2010. Of the increase in the same time, Atea has produced a strong growth in revenue and pro4th quarter, over half, 24.7 per cent, was organic growth. For comfits, which means that the Group has won large market shares locally, parison, the Nordic market for hardware grew, according to IDC, nationally, and throughout the entire region. Atea’s total market share by 8.7 per cent in all of 2010. Collectively Atea produced a growth in the Nordic region can thereby be estimated to be nearly 15 per in constant currency of 28.8 per cent with total hardware profits cent, representing a strong increase in just the last two years, up from coming in at MNOK 10,262.7. This clearly demonstrates how Atea around 13 per cent in 2009, and around 11 per cent in 2008. has outclassed market growth at an increasing rate throughout the year. Even though a part of this growth can be attributed to the many Based on Atea’s strong development in recent years, further growth is acquisitions, the underlying development in product sales is also very expected in the Nordic and Baltic markets. This has already been enpromising. Market growth in this area is expected to continue in 2011. sured to a large extent through a series of acquisitions in 2010 which According to IDC the growth in the hardware segment is estimated to will come into full effect in 2011. The Nordic and Baltic IT infrastrucbe 5.9 per cent, which the analysis institute claims will be the highest ture markets are still fragmented, even though Atea has contributed segment growth within Atea’s blue box. to significant consolidation in recent years. Atea is the decidedly largest player among smaller national players. With an increasingly clear Services sales had a corresponding development throughout the position as market leader, it is the Board’s opinion that the conditions year, with significant increase from quarter to quarter in 2010. The are favourable for further growth. Group’s revenue in the service segment was MNOK 3,350, up from Atea Annual Report 31 2010 Ib Kunøe (b. 1943) Kristine M. Madsen (b. 1961) Board Chairman (since March 2006) Board member (since April 2008) Line Officer, B. Com (HD). Cand. Jur UiO 1988. Current position: Current position: Owner and Chairman of Attorney at Law, partner in Bull & Co Consolidated Holdings A/S. Lawfirm AS Previous experience: Previous experience: Founder of and board member / Different positions in several boards co-owner of many companies. of companys and organizations Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. MNOK 3,121 in 2009. This represents an increase of 7.3 per cent, ximately 5-6 per cent post integration. The buying price of Umoe or 11.4 per cent measured in constant currency compared with IKT was settled in a combination of Atea shares and cash payment. preceding years. After a slow beginning, with a decrease of 2.2 per cent in the 1st quarter of 2010, service sales picked up. In constant The Board will continue to combine organic growth with growth currency the growth landed at 8.2 per cent in the 2nd quarter, 12.7 through acquisitions, but fewer acquisitions are expected in 2011 per cent in the 3rd quarter, and ended the year with a growth of compared with 2010, which saw a record number of acquisitions. 23.4 per cent in the 4th quarter of 2010. This entails that Atea has succeeded in maintaining a good development in its consultancy, the tough market conditions of 2009 and early 2010 taken into account. Acquisitions in 2010: There is reason to expect an increasing demand for the Group’s consultant and services deliveries, as their correlation with growth in Norway: product sales are commonly high. Umoe IKT…………………………………………IT infrastructure Dropzone ASA……………………E-trading for the SMB market Software sales particularly increased in the last half of 2010. Atea’s Impact Europe Norge AS……………………Video/AV solutions growth for the year in this area ended up at 11.4 per cent measured in constant currency, compared with a general market growth of 3.6 Sweden: per cent in 2010. Atea’s software sales amounted to MNOK 3,519 Benzler Group AB………………………………IT infrastructure in 2010, up from MNOK 3,265 in 2009. After a good start, with an Portal AB…………………………………………IT infrastructure increase of 12.8 per cent in constant currency in the 1st quarter of Impact Europe AB…………………….……Video/AV solutions 2010, growth stopped temporarily in the 2nd quarter with a decrease Office i Värmland AB………………………………Print/Copy of 1.1 per cent. However, growth resumed already in the 3rd quarter, COB Document i Borås AB…………………………Print/Copy with an increase of 12 per cent in constant currency, before rising Office Document og Data i Södermanland AB……Print/Copy to 23.7 per cent in the 4th quarter of 2010. In total, this provides Office Document i Mälardalen AB…………………Print/Copy good development in the software business. Simultaneously, Atea is strengthening its efforts in this area through an integrated license porDenmark: tal for the Group’s customers associated with the existing eSHOP. AdBelle Balance A/S………………………Flexible benefit solutions ditionally, strong growth is evident within Windows 7, the new operatCalamus Danmark A/S……………………Video/AV solutions ing system from Microsoft that was launched in the autumn of 2009. Finland: The Group is seeing good development within business areas such Ten of Ten Oy………………………………………Virtualization as Unified Communication, virtualization, mobility, Software Asset Datawest Oy………………………………………IT infrastructure Management, Client Lifetime Management and Self Service AutoPALnet Oy……………………………………Network solutions mation, print and copy as well as safety and surveillance. The Group’s market position in these areas has been strengthened by acquisitions Net cash payments of acquisitions in 2010: made in the last few years. Local acquisitions form a key part of the MNOK 321.3 (MNOK 30.1 in 2009 and 218.0 in 2008) company’s growth strategy, which also facilitates cost synergies and increased geographic presence. The customers typically request the Competitive situation employees’ specialist expertise. Atea has high ambitions as an employer, At the end of 2010 the Group had more than 25,000 customers and a with an objective of providing an attractive work place where the best solid leading position within IT infrastructure in the Nordic and Baland most innovative specialist expertise in the industry join forces in the tic regions. Atea is present in the largest cities in Norway, Denmark, best interests of customers, so allowing for professional and commercial Sweden, Finland, Lithuania, Estonia and Latvia. The IT infrastrucdevelopment across businesses, departments and markets. ture market is strongly fragmented. Because of that Atea often meets competition from several small players often specializing in niches, Atea completed a series of acquisitions in several markets in 2010. but not having the same broad product range as Atea. Atea has, with In the 4th quarter Atea acquired the Norwegian IT infrastructure its 79 locations in the Nordic and Baltic region, a strong local precompany Umoe IKT, with 384 employees and offices in 16 cities in sence, supported by highly qualified consultants, good partnerships different parts of the country. The company has strong expertise within and the Group’s many certifications. At the same time, Atea’s size the areas of telephony, Unified Communication, outsourcing and gives an increased competitive force and ability to offer favourable IT operation. The acquired company is expected to generate reveprices on products and services. It is expected that new and existing nues of MNOK 850-900 in 2011, with an EBITDA margin of approcustomers will consider Atea’s size and financial solidity as favourable, Atea Annual Report 32 2010 Morten Jurs (b. 1961) Sigrun Hjelmquist (b. 1960) Board member (since April 2010) Board member (since April 2008) Master of Science in Bus. and. Ec. / M.Sc & Lic.Tech, Physical Engineering MBA from University of Wyoming. from RIT, Stockholm. Current position: Current position: Board member in CEO of Pronova BioPharma ASA. a number of companies, Chairman in C2SAT AB. Previous experience: CFO in a Previous experience: Business exec. number of companies, experience in telecom industry, board positions in a from start-ups and growth companies. number of companies and organizations Attended 4 of 8 board meetings in 2010. Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. as it provides stronger bargaining power with IT suppliers, and MNOK 498.6 (compared with MNOK 382.4 in 2009 and MNOK thereby competitive terms for Atea’s customers. Atea’s solid financial 432.6 in 2008). strength contributes to the Group’s central role in the ongoing consolidation of IT infrastructure in both individual markets and across Atea ASA, which is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange, is the holding country borders. Historically the Group has been involved in several company for the Group and includes the Group’s top management of the largest acquisitions in the industry, and the consolidation is with associated staff functions, with a total of ten employees. expected to continue due to the current market conditions. The company’s financial accounts from 2010 show an operating loss of MNOK -17.1 (compared with MNOK -20.8 in 2009 and Atea works closely with the most important international IT players, MNOK -10.0 in 2008). This mainly represents costs related to the some of which are Microsoft, Cisco, HP, IBM, Lenovo, WMware, holding function. The year’s profit was MNOK 9.2 (compared with Citrix, Symantec and EMC. In the last few years the partnership with MNOK -280.6 in 2009 and MNOK 557.5 in 2008). The profit for several of these suppliers has intensified and further developed to opthe year was positive due to financial income and currency effects. timize the business potential for all parties. For Atea this means an inUnrealized currency effects associated with the company’s longcreased focus from suppliers, with generally increased support in conterm loans to subsidiaries in 2010 account for MNOK -30.2 nection with focus on their solutions in the Nordic and Baltic regions. (MNOK -297.6 in 2009 and MNOK 326.7 in 2008). Net unrealized currency effects in terms of the loans are MNOK -11.9. On that basis the Board considers Atea, with its unique position in the Nordic and Baltic IT infrastructure market, to be well positioned The Board of Directors proposes that the profits of the parent comto meet the expected market conditions and competitive situation in pany, Atea ASA, of MNOK 9.2 is transferred to retained earnings. 2011 and the years ahead. Unrestricted equity, which can be distributed as dividends, totals MNOK 711.8 as of December 31, 2010. The Board is proposing a Research and development activities payment of dividends of NOK 2 per share, totalling MNOK 192.5. Atea has no significant activities related to research and development, as the Group’s business operations mainly include resale, impleEquity, financing and cash flow mentation and consulting related to hardware, software and solutions developed by others. Equity and debt financing In the opinion of the Board of Directors, the Financial Statements for Financial results 2010 give an accurate and fair view of the company’s and the Group’s Both in terms of operating revenues and profits there is a clear trend. financial position as of December 31, 2010, of the profit of the year After some influence by the financial crisis in 2009, Atea once again and cash flows, as well as the changes in equity during the accounting delivered the strongest results in the company’s history. In 2010 the year. The annual accounts for the company and the Group were preGroup had consolidated operating revenues of MNOK 17,131.2 (compared on the basis of the going concern assumption, and the board pared with MNOK 14,588.6 in 2009 and MNOK 14,767.8 in 2008). of Directors confirms that the necessary conditions have been met. This is equivalent to a growth of 17.4 per cent from the previous year. Corrected for acquisitions, the underlying organic development The Group’s equity, including non-controlling ownership interests shows an increase of 13.3 per cent in constant currency. The Group’s at the end of the year, was MNOK 3,355.2 compared with MNOK operating profit before depreciation, option expenses and acqui2,813.0 the previous year (MNOK 2,858.2 in 2008). The equity rasition costs is MNOK 675.2 (compared with MNOK 550.3 in 2009 tio at the end of the year was at 34.8 per cent (compared with 39.3 and MNOK 547.5 in 2008). Including option expenses and acquiper cent at the beginning of the year and 34.5 per cent in 2008). This sition costs, the operating profit before depreciations is MNOK 648.3 is due to increased operating revenues with associated balance sheet (MNOK 501.4 in 2009). The Group’s operating profit is MNOK 474.3 effects in the form of increased short-term receivables and short-term (compared with MNOK 334.1 in 2009 and MNOK 401.4 in 2008). payables. The equity has substantially strengthened in the last years as a result of the positive earnings in 2010, 2009 and 2008. In 2010 net financial items totalled MNOK 25.3 (compared with MNOK 55.0 in 2009 and MNOK 66.7 in 2008). Profit before tax Holdings of cash and cash equivalents totalled MNOK 404.0 from continued operations was MNOK 449.2 (compared with compared with MNOK 194.5 as of December 31, 2009 (MNOK MNOK 279.1 in 2009 and MNOK 334.7 in 2008). The Group did 568.2 in 2008). The unused portion of short term drawing facilities not have any discontinued operations in 2010, 2009 or 2008. After amounted to MNOK 1,130.4. Including unused drawing facilities positive tax effects of MNOK 49.4 (compared with MNOK 103.3 in and after the deduction of restricted funds, the Group had liquidity 2009 and MNOK 97.9 in 2008) the net profit for the year came in at reserves of MNOK 1,533.9 at the end of the year, compared Atea Annual Report 33 2010 Sven Madsen (b. 1964) Marthe Dyrud (b. 1979) Board member (since April 2008) Board member (since Dec. 2009) HD (R) & cand.merc.aud. Electrical & Electronic Engineering HiO, Master in Bus. Studies JMU Liverpool. Current position: Current position: Project manager CFO, Consolidated Holdings A/S. integration (Umoe IKT into Atea AS). Previous experience: Previous experience: Sales manager Auditor in number of auditing firms, public sector and Manager of Service CFO and Finance Director in a and Maintenance Contracts in Atea number of companies Region East, been in multiple trainee programs in Atea AS. Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. with MNOK 1,536.5 a year earlier (MNOK 1,176.1 in 2008). In previous recorded restructuring provisions of MNOK 9.6 addition, at the end of 2010, the Group had drawn MNOK 465.4 (MNOK 27.5 in 2009 and MNOK 76.7 in 2008). Ordinary i on a factoring facility of MNOK 1,452.3 provided by Nordea. nvestments totalled MNOK -125.1 in 2010 (MNOK -135.7 in 2009 The amount available for borrowing under the facility will vary and MNOK -151.3 in 2008). Net cash flow in 2010 was MNOK depending on the accounts receivable. The maximum financing 181.5 (MNOK -311.4 in 2009 and MNOK 112.3 in 2008). available under the facility based on the size of the accounts receivable at year end was MNOK 1,429.6. As of December 31, 2010, Financial risk an additional MNOK 254.0 had been drawn on short-term loan The Group’s risk management is the responsibility of the central facilities from Nordea. finance department in compliance with guidelines approved by the Board. It comprises specific areas such as currency risk, interest risk, Net interest-bearing debt increased in 2010 by MNOK 123.2, totalling credit risk, use of financial derivatives and investment in excess liMNOK 337.3 as of December 31, 2010, compared with MNOK quidity. The Group’s finance department identifies, evaluates and 214.1 a year earlier (MNOK 678.0 in 2008). The operational debt ratio secures financial risk in close cooperation with the respective opermeasured by net interest-bearing debt divided by EBITDA for the ating units. entire year was 0.5, up from a record low of 0.4 the previous year, which still indicates a solid financial position for the Group. The Group manages the capital in order to ensure continuous operations of the Group’s companies and to maximize shareholder value. In the opinion of the Board of Directors, the Group has adequate This is achieved through the balance of debt, equity and profit. The financing at the end of 2010, and consequently no additional external Group’s goal is to have equity ratio in excess of 20 per cent as well as an financing needs in 2011. Thus, payment of dividends of NOK 2 per operational gearing (net interest bearing debt divided by EBITDA) of share is proposed, as both the Group’s financial and liquidity position a maximum of 2.5. At the end of 2010 the Group reported an equity enables this in combination with continued investments in order to ratio of 34.8 per cent and an operational gearing of 0.5. generate further growth and solid profits. Market risk Cash flow and working capital The company is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations, especially For several years the Group has focused on keeping a low level of Swedish Kronor (SEK) and Danish Kroner (DKK), US Dollars working capital tied up, which is the total of accounts receivable, non(USD) and Euros (EUR), since part of the company’s revenues and interest bearing short-term receivables and inventories, after the depurchases of goods are in foreign currencies. The company’s policy is duction of accounts payable and other current liabilities. that any significant committed stock or loan transaction with foreign currency exposure is to be hedged with forward contracts. The comThe working capital ratio was 0.7 per cent at the end of 2010, which pany is also exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, since the comis marginally higher than at the end of 2009 (0.5 per cent). The stable pany’s debt has variable interest rates. low working capital ratio can mainly be attributed to a successful focus on the cash flows with a lower amount of overdue accounts In the aftermath of the financial crisis and associated experiences linked receivables. The marginal increase from last year can be related to to market fluctuations and businesses’ financial solidity, it is still some significant advance payments from public contracts in the 4th quarter uncertainty regarding the demand for the Group’s products in some of of 2009, as well as some extraordinary refunds, among other aspects the countries Atea operates in, as it also is for comparable companies. including taxes. As of December 31, 2010, the working capital was MNOK 158.6 (86.8 in 2009). According to the Group’s focus on Credit risk growth, acquisitions totalling MNOK 371.6 have been paid in cash Historically the Group has seen very few losses on receivables. In in 2010. In addition, net cash payments amounting to MNOK 70,1 spite of the strained macroeconomic situation, especially in 2009, were made in connection with dividends and sales of own shares. the Group has not experienced greater losses on receivables in 2010 By the end of the year the parent company’s holding of own shares than before. No agreements relating to offsetting claims or other constituted 3 601 shares. financial instruments have been established that would minimize the company’s credit risk; however the Group has a high focus on The Group’s cash flow from operations in 2010 was MNOK 564.4, collecting receivables. down from MNOK 726.5 the previous year (MNOK 501.3 in 2008). The decrease is due to increased work capital, which in turn Liquidity risk is due to the strong increase in operating revenues as well as a partial The company considers its liquidity to be good and the company increase in customer-specific inventory. This includes the payment of has no external financing needs in 2011. The Group has established Atea Annual Report 34 2010 Jørn Goldstein (b. 1953) Karin S. Løkke (b. 1964) Board member (since April 2007) Board member (since April 2007) Finance degree from BI Oslo, master The Data Logic School (Cap Gemini), degree from Norwegian School of Sport Datahøyskolen. Sciences Current position: Current position: Business Manager, Atea AS. Leader BID & Project division, Atea AS. Previous experience: Previous experience: Manager in IT-related businesses. Many years of experience in tech. busiAthlete leader on both national and nesses as IT Manager, Project manager local level. and Consultant Attended 8 of 8 board meetings in 2010. Attended 7 of 8 board meetings in 2010. a common cash pool system for Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Key figures, the Atea share: Finland to manage cash flows in the Group as efficiently as possible. • After a very positive increase in share value in 2009 by over 200 per cent, the increase continued in 2010. Atea’s shares increased by Shares and shareholders 16.5 per cent in 2010, from NOK 50.00 to NOK 58.25. The objective of the Board is to offer shareholders competitive returns through high payout levels on dividends. Based on solid pro• The year’s high was listed on the last two trading days, fits over an extended period of time, on 20 October 2010 the Board December 29, and December 30, 2010 with a price of NOK resolved to change dividend policies by increasing the payout ratio 58.25. The share’s lowest listing was on July 1, 2010 with a price from 10-40 per cent of net profits to 40-60 per cent of net profits of NOK 37.00. adjusted for normalized tax. • In 2010, 78,103,245 shares in Atea were traded (compared with As of December 31, 2010 the registered share capital was NOK 77,339,809 in 2009 and 123,093,054 in 2008), totalling NOK 3.7 962,950,220, divided into 96,295,022 shares with a par value of billion (NOK 2.1 billion in 2009 and NOK 3.9 billion in 2008). NOK 10. In 2010, the Annual General Meeting was held on April 29, with 52.34 per cent of the total share capital represented. In this • Each share was on average traded 0.8 times in 2010 (0.8 in 2009 connection the Board’s proposal to pay dividends of NOK 1.25 per and 1.3 in 2008). share was approved, with a total dividend distribution of MNOK 119.4 to the company’s shareholders (this includes a dividend related • The minimum trading unit is 500 shares. to Atea ASA’s 1,616,601 own shares). The Atea ASA share was traded exclusive of dividend rights as from April 30, 2010. • At year-end the number of shareholders was 9,126, down from 10,166 at the beginning of the year. The Board’s authorization given at the Annual General Meeting in 2009 to buy back company shares in Atea ASA with par value of Employees up to MNOK 70 was extended until the Annual General Meeting As of December 31, 2010 the Group had a total of 5 418 employees, in 2011. a net increase of 1038 from the beginning of the year. The increase is mainly the result of Atea’s many acquisitions and strong organic In addition the General Assembly Meeting gave the Board authorigrowth. The cost reduction program that was introduced in 2009 to zation to expand the share capital by up to MNOK 30 by issuing up adapt the operations and scale the cost base in relation to the reduced to 3,000,000 shares at NOK 10 in connection with the company’s will to invest in IT and infrastructure during the financial crisis made stock option plan. August 9, 2010 it was announced that the Board it necessary to increase the number of employees somewhat in 2010 had established a stock option plan for management and key as part of the offensive focus on growth. Along the way Atea has personnel in line with adopted guidelines. The option allocation is succeeded in maintaining the good team spirit and decisive winner a step towards limiting increases in wages and bonuses. All stock instinct that has shaped its company culture the past few years. As options must be redeemed within three years after entering into a knowledge-driven business, it is important to create value through the option plan. One third of the allocated stock options can be effective development and utilization of the company’s competence. redeemed a year after the allocation, a third after two years, and a This places special demands on the management as well as the comthird after three years. pany as such, which is why the development of management resources is a key focus area throughout the Group’s businesses with During 2010 Atea ASA has sold 3,062,568 company shares at an management trainee programs. A great deal of importance is still ataverage price of NOK 45.09 per share (compared with a net sale of tached to the development of all employees. Individual meetings with 889,066 company shares in 2009 at an average price of NOK 28.23 the employees are carried out regularly in order to form goals and per share). The share sales have been conducted with connection to support the individual development in addition to employee surveys. the exercise of employee options and as compensation in the acquisition of Calamus Danmark and Umoe IKT. The average number of man-year equivalents employed by the Group in 2010 was 4,660, compared with 4,366 in 2009 and 4,289 in Atea ASA has a broad shareholder structure, with 9,126 share2008. Registered sick leave for the Group was 2.6 per cent, up from holders. The company’s largest shareholder is Chairman Ib Kunøe, 1.7 per cent in 2009 and 2.0 per cent in 2008. The sick leave is still who through Consolidated Holdings A/S, System Integration ApS, considered to be low compared with other companies. For the parent direct ownership as well as close associates, controlled 29.53 per cent company the registered sick leave was 0.8 per cent in 2010, down of shares at the end of 2010. from 1.0 per cent in 2009 and 1.0 per cent in 2008. Atea Annual Report 35 2010 Number of employees Percentage women/men as of 31 desember 2010 – Nordic overview 2010 Norway: 1,411 Sweden: 1,691 Women: 19.4% Denmark: 1,401 Men: 80.6% Finland: 309 The Baltics: 344 Shared services: 262 The Group’s employees have not suffered any accidents or injuries The Group’s key managers: in connection with the company’s activities in 2010. The Group’s Claus Hougesen………………………………CEO of Atea ASA businesses have worked systematically with health, safety and enviRune Falstad………………Chief Financial Officer of Atea ASA ronment (HSE) and use HSE tools, while systematic efforts have been Peter Trans…………Managing Director of Atea A/S, Denmark made to follow up on absence due to sickness. Lars Pettersson………Managing Director of Atea AB, Sweden Steinar Sønsteby………Managing Director of Atea AS, Norway In a modern knowledge-based work environment diversity and equality Juha Sihvonen…………Managing Director of Atea Oy, Finland are important aspects. This is also important to Atea, as diversity Arunas Bartusevicius...Managing Director of UAB Atea, The Baltics contributes to a better foundation for decisions and improves innovativeness. The Group regards it as essential to stimulate diversity in Environmental measures the organization and take advantage of this – academically, culturally The physical products that the Group sells are developed and and commercially. Atea’s goal is for groups at all levels to represent manufactured by international technology companies. The Group different experiences, age, gender, and other backgrounds. At the end and the company do not produce any physical products, and the of 2010, the percentage of women among the Group’s employees distribution is largely outsourced to distribution partners. Hence was 19.4 per cent (compared with 20.2 per cent at the start of the year there is little pollution connected with the Group’s own operaand 20.6 per cent in 2008). In the parent company the percentage tions compared with other companies and other industries. The of women has been steady at 20.0 per cent the last three years. The Group’s businesses still participate in measures required by law to Group is working systematically to recruit more women at all levels. protect the environment, including return arrangements for obsoIn addition, an effort is being made to ensure that women stay in the lete ICT equipment. company. At the same time, efforts are made in order to be compliant with the principle of equal opportunities and rights as well as preAtea’s clear focus on Green IT was set out early through several venting discrimination based on ethnicity, national origin, ancestry, customer concepts, like www.goitgreen.com. The continuous colour of skin, language, religion or belief. The Group is focused on focus on Green IT makes Atea a leader in the Nordic promoting equal rights and preventing discrimination according to Region. There is still a high demand for Atea’s recycling concept, the purpose of the Anti-Discrimination Act. As a part of this, targeted www.goitloop.com since its launch in 2008. The concept has measures and assessments are carried out related to facilitating the facilitated the disposal of used IT equipment in a safe, ecophysical conditions so that the different tasks and functions of the nomically and environmentally responsible manner. Atea has business can be performed by as many as possible. developed a model for calculating environmental return on investments to illustrate the specific savings for the customers. Of the shareholder-elected board representatives, 2 of 5 were The calculation shows how much CO2 the customers save the enwomen as of December 31, 2010. The Board of Directors consists of vironment when implementing new IT solutions and equipment. 4 female representatives and 4 male representatives. This has made it clear that Atea’s green concepts represent great value for both customers and Atea, as a company, as well as for Change in number of employees 2010 the environment. Employees as of December 31, 2009………………………4,380 Increase through acquisition of companies……………………916 The Group’s involvement in Green IT is well ingrained in all of Increase in employees……………………………………………122 the individual Atea companies, as a business concept and as a way Employees as of December 31, 2010…………………………5,418 of carrying out work on a day to day basis. All Atea companies participate in Atea Green Community with local resources in Board of Directors and corporate management charge of Atea’s environmental program. This ensures green activities and realization of Atea’s environmental target on a social The Board of Directors of Atea ASA consists of: level. Atea also participates in several national and international Ib Kunøe….……………………………………Board Chairman activities, all carefully chosen and recognized. Atea’s objective is Morten Jurs…………………Shareholder-elected board member to reduce CO2 emissions by 25 per cent per employee by 2015 Kristine M. Madsen………Shareholder-elected board member (based on levels from 2007). Sigrun Hjelmquist…………Shareholder-elected board member Sven Madsen………………Shareholder-elected board member Corporate governance Jørn I. Goldstein………………Employee-elected board member The annual report includes a separate statement from the comKarin S. Løkke………………Employee-elected board member pany regarding the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Marthe Dyrud…………………Employee-elected board member Governance. Key principles in the Group’s policy are: Atea Annual Report 36 2010 Net interest-bearing debt position Contribution 2007 – 2010 (MNOK) 2007 – 2010 (MNOK) -800 4000 -600 3000 -400 2010: -337.3 2000 2010: 4,002.2 2009: -214.1 2009: 3,592.1 -200 1000 2008: -678.0 2008: 3,525.6 0 2007: -541.9 0 2007: 2,956.2 07 08 09 10 07 08 09 10 • Open information while in this same period Atea experienced an organic growth of • Equal treatment of all shareholders 13.3 per cent measured in constant currency. IDC’s prognosis for • Board of Directors consisting of outside members who are not 2011 is a total market growth of 4.4 per cent. Important techassociated with the company’s operations. nological trends like Unified Communication, mobile infrastruc• Use of steering committees ture solutions, virtualization, Software Asset Management, Device • Good internal controls Lifecycle Management, Windows 7, consumerization and Green • Offering shareholders competitive returns through high payout IT are areas that Atea has strongly influenced through organic levels on dividends measures and acquisitions in 2009 and 2010, and these will also be driving forces behind IT investments in the time ahead. Atea Corporate social responsibility is therefore once again well positioned to grow faster than the The annual report includes the company’s account of guidelines market in 2011. The Board expects Atea will win further market and measures in relation to corporate social responsibility. Atea shares in the course of the year. supports UN Global Compact 10 principles for human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption, with primary An organic growth of 9 per cent is expected for the Group in 2011. focus on the principles related to the environment. Combined with expected revenues of NOK 2.5 billion from acquisitions made in 2010, Atea will most likely surpass NOK 20 billion Outlook for 2011 in revenues for the year collectively. There will still be some inteThe development in the last few years has shown that it pays to be gration costs, but important synergies will be achieved already in big, offensive and customer friendly. Atea has put this knowledge 2011. With a strong continued focus on cost, and an expectation of to good use. According to the IDC, the entire Nordic IT infraimproved EBITDA margin, the ambition of 1 billion in EBITDA in structure market that Atea targets grew by 4.7 per cent in 2010, 2011 is maintained. Oslo, 17 March 2011 Ib Kunøe Sigrun Hjelmquist Morten Jurs Kristine M. Madsen Claus Hougesen Chairman of the Board CEO Marthe Dyrud Jørn Irving Goldstein Karin S. Løkke Sven Madsen Atea Annual Report 37 2010 ATEA GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Content Page Group Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 39 Consolidated statement of financial position 40 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 41 Consolidated statement of cash flow 42 Notes 43 Atea Annual Report 38 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 2008 Operating revenues 5 17 131,2 14 588,6 14 767,8 Goods consumed 13 129,0 10 996,5 11 242,2 Employee compensation and benefit expenses 19 2 697,0 2 496,6 2 387,6 Depreciation 7, 8 173,8 167,3 139,5 Other operating expenses 642,3 561,8 597,1 Acquisition costs 14,7 Non-Core 32,3 Operating profit/loss 474,3 334,1 401,4 Financial income 120,8 90,3 151,1 Financial expenses 146,1 145,2 217,7 Net financial items 21 -25,3 -55,0 -66,7 Profit/loss before tax from continued operations 449,2 279,1 334,7 Taxes on continued operations 16 -49,4 -103,3 -97,9 Profit/loss from continued operations 498,6 382,4 432,6 Profit/loss from discontinued operations 6 -0,0 Profit/loss for the year 498,6 382,4 432,6 Other comprehensive income Currency translation differences after tax -16,3 -452,4 379,6 Forward contracts 8,3 Currency translation differences on financial investments -0,1 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 8,5 83,3 -112,7 Total other comprehensive income 0,3 -369,1 266,9 Total comprehensive income for the period 498,9 13,3 699,5 Profit/loss for the period attributable to: Shareholders of Atea ASA 497,4 382,3 431,0 Non-controlling ownership interests 1,2 0,2 1,6 Profit/loss for the year after shareholder distributions 498,6 382,4 432,6 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to: Shareholders of Atea ASA 497,7 13,2 697,9 Non-controlling ownership interests 1,2 0,2 1,6 Profit/loss for the year after shareholder distributions 498,9 13,3 699,5 Earnings per share (Amounts in NOK) earnings per share for the entire operations 22 5,29 4,16 4,59 diluted earnings per share for the entire operations 22 5,23 4,15 4,58 earnings per share for continued operations 22 5,29 4,16 4,59 diluted earnings per share for continued operations 22 5,23 4,15 4,58 Atea Annual Report 39 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 7 157,9 115,1 Deferred tax assets 16 469,8 318,0 Goodwill 8 2 757,7 2 324,3 Other intangible assets 8 341,2 230,9 Retirement benefit funds 17 4,1 1,5 Other long-term receivables 9 46,2 55,7 Non-current assets 3 777,1 3 045,6 Inventories 10 496,6 393,4 Trade receivables 9 4 367,8 3 211,4 Other current receivables 9 573,3 310,0 Other financial assets 15 27,2 31,1 Cash and cash equivalents 11 404,0 194,5 Current assets 5 869,0 4 140,2 Total assets 9 646,1 7 185,8 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital and premiums 12 1 574,8 1 524,4 Other unrecognised reserves -3,3 -3,7 Retained earnings 1 782,7 1 288,5 Equity attributable to shareholders of Atea ASA 3 354,1 2 809,3 Non-controlling ownership interests 27 1,1 3,7 Equity 3 355,2 2 813,0 Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 14 20,5 12,4 Other long-term liabilities 15 64,4 49,5 Retirement benefit obligations 17 13,1 0,9 Deferred tax liabilities 16 165,1 73,7 Non-current liabilities 263,1 136,5 Trade payables 13 3 120,3 2 162,2 Interest-bearing current liabilities 14 721,3 403,9 Tax payable 16 37,2 10,4 Other provisions for obligations 18 170,4 144,4 Other current liabilities 13 1 977,7 1 515,1 Other financial liabilities 0,8 0,2 Current liabilities 6 027,7 4 236,2 Total liabilities 6 290,7 4 372,7 Total equity and liabilities 9 646,1 7 185,8 Oslo, 17 March 2011 Ib Kunøe Sigrun Hjelmquist Morten Jurs Kristine M. Madsen Claus Hougesen Chairman of the Board CEO Marthe Dyrud Jørn Irving Goldstein Karin S. Løkke Sven Madsen Atea Annual Report 40 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Other Share capital unrecognised Retained and premiums 1) reserves earnings Equity NonShare Currency Option attributable to controlling Share premium Forward translation progRetained shareholders ownership Total (Amounts in MNOK) capital reserve contracts differences rammes earnings of Atea ASA interests 2) equity Equity as of 1 January 2009 917,2 598,3 365,4 38,4 935,5 2 854,8 3,5 2 858,2 Other comprehensive income -369,1 -369,1 -369,1 Profit/loss for the period 382,2 382,2 0,2 382,4 Change in treasury shares 8,9 15,9 24,8 24,8 Employee share options, value of employee contributions 8,3 8,3 8,3 Dividends -91,7 -91,7 -91,7 Non-controlling ownership interests from acquisitions Equity as of 31 December 2009 926,1 598,3 -3,7 46,7 1 241,9 2 809,3 3,7 2 813,0 Equity as of 1 January 2010 926,1 598,3 -3,7 46,7 1 241,9 2 809,3 3,7 2 813,0 Other comprehensive income 8,3 -8,0 0,3 0,3 Profit/loss for the period 497,4 497,4 1,2 498,6 Change in treasury shares 29,1 -0,2 102,6 131,5 131,5 Issue of share capital 7,7 13,8 21,5 21,5 Employee share options, value of employee contributions 12,9 12,9 12,9 Dividends -117,3 -117,3 -117,3 Non-controlling ownership interests from acquisitions -1,4 -1,4 -3,8 -5,1 Equity as of 31 December 2010 962,9 611,9 8,3 -11,7 59,5 1 723,1 3 354,1 1,1 3 355,2 1) See Note 12. 2) Non-controlling ownership interests, see Note 27. Atea Annual Report 41 2010 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss before tax 487,2 279,1 334,7 Taxes paid -0,5 -5,7 -1,8 Profit/loss from discontinued operations -0,0 Depreciation 202,9 167,3 139,5 Options 12,8 16,6 7,0 Gains/losses on the sale of subsidiaries -0,0 Change in inventories -43,2 -19,1 -20,6 Change in trade receivables -1 181,9 91,7 48,2 Change in trade payables 1 140,5 155,8 -104,3 Change in other accruals -53,5 40,8 98,5 Net cash flow from operational activities 564,4 726,5 501,3 Acquisition of subsidiaries/businesses 26 -321,3 -30,1 -218,0 Payments related to acquisitions in previous years -50,3 -15,3 -34,6 Sale of subsidiaries/businesses 2,0 8,0 Proceeds related to sales in previous years 1,7 Purchase of tangible/intangible fixed assets 7, 8 -127,6 -135,7 -151,3 Sale of tangible/intangible fixed assets 2,4 0,2 0,4 Net cash flow from investment activities -496,7 -177,2 -395,4 Purchase/sale of treasury shares 25,8 17,8 -70,6 Proceeds from new issues 21,4 Dividend distributions -117,3 -91,7 Proceeds from raising loans 212,3 77,0 Repayment of loans -13,3 -786,8 Net cash flow from financing activities 128,9 -860,7 6,4 Net change in cash and cash equivalents for the year 196,5 -311,4 112,3 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 11 194,5 568,2 383,9 Currency translation differences on cash held in a foreign currency 13,1 -62,3 72,0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 11 404,0 194,5 568,2 Atea Annual Report 42 2010 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The Atea Group is the leading supplier of IT infrastructure products and Atea had 5,418 employees as of 31 December 2010, an increase of 1,038 services in the Nordic Countries and Baltic States. Measured by revenue employees during the year, primarily as a result of business acquisitions the Atea Group is number three in Europe in its field. Atea is present (916 employees at the time of the acquisition). in seven countries – including Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. The principal activities for the Group’s various business areas are described in greater detail in Note 5 – Segment information. The group offers hardware and software products, consulting services and service agreements in the IT infrastructure area. Through a range of Atea AS is a public limited company that is registered and domiciled in market leading technologies from leading suppliers, combined with valueNorway. The office address is Brynsalleen 2, Oslo. Atea ASA is listed on added services and a focus on individual customer needs, the company the Oslo Stock Exchange and had 9,126 shareholders as of 31 December contributes to strengthening the customers’ competitiveness and helps 2010, compared with 10,166 shareholders at the beginning of the year. customers achieve their strategic goals. The company’s largest shareholder is Ib Kunøe through the companies Consolidated Holdings A/S and System Integration ApS. Ib Kunøe, who The group has a total of 79 offices, which allow Atea to be close to the is also the Chairman of the Board of Atea ASA, controls 29.9 per cent of needs of our customers. One of the Group’s competitive advantages is the shares together with related parties. the ability to use local customer needs as our point of departure and adapt our offerings accordingly. Each country has access to the Group’s comAtea ASA reports its consolidated and company accounts in accordance mon resources, such as eSHOP, financing services and an advanced with the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS). These logistics centre in Växjö, Sweden. The Group’s e-commerce system, consolidated accounts were approved by the Board on 17 March 2011. eSHOP, provides easy access to detailed information on over 100,000 The Board of Directors will suggest to the General Assembly that a products, including price comparisons, inventory and delivery times. Over dividend of NOK 2.00 per share shall be distributed for 2010. 80 suppliers are affiliated with eSHOP. The group’s primary focus shall continue to be IT infrastructure, and our strategy is to reinforce our already Note that there may be figures and percentages that do not always add up leading market position in the Nordic Countries and the Baltic States. correctly due to rounding differences. NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES 2.0 Basis of the consolidated financial statements In such cases the controlling and non-controlling interests’ book value The consolidated financial statements of Atea have been prepared in shall be adjusted so as to reflect the changes in their relative interests in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the subsidiary. Any differences between the amount of the adjustment of as determined by the EU, and include Atea ASA and subsidiaries the non-controlling interests and the fair value of the consideration that is in which Atea ASA, directly or indirectly, has a controlling interest paid or received shall be recognised directly in equity and attributed to through ownership interests or agreements. The consolidated financial the parent company’s owners. This means that there will not be any adstatements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, justments recognised in goodwill nor any entries in the income statement and modified by any revaluation of assets and liabilities at fair value or other income and expenses (comprehensive income). There will only through profit or loss according to the policies for the relevant areas. be entries between the controlling and non-controlling interests’ equity. All the figures are presented in NOK and rounded to the closest whole The Group has applied IAS 27 (revised) for this year’s increase in the NOK 1000. Notice is given of any exceptions. ownership interest in Sonex (Baltic States). IFRS 8 – Operating segments, which entered into force as of 1 January 2.1 Adoption of new and revised International Financial 2009, and specifies the “management approach” as the only criterion Reporting Standards (IFRS) for both the identification of operating segments and the reporting of information related to these segments. a) Important amendments to published standards and interpretations that entered into force in 2009/10: IAS 1 (Revised) – Presentation of Financial Statements, which entered into force as of 1 January 2009. The Group has adopted a new IAS 7.56 – Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (as specification format, which entails, for example, a separate specification part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2009). Investment activities of other income and expenses (comprehensive income). in the cash flow analysis only reflect intangible assets that are recognised under intangible assets on the balance sheet. Some of the development of IFRS 3 8.28 c) d) (Revised) – Business Combinations, which enintangible assets that is recognised in the income statement is included in tered into force as of 1 July 2009 In the revised standard the conditional the cash flow statement as cash flow from operational activities. settlement of the purchase price is measured at fair value on the takeover date. Subsequent adjustment of a conditional settlement will be IAS 27 (revised in 2008) Consolidated and Separate Financial posted directly against goodwill only in cases where the change reflects Statements – The application of IAS 27 (revised 2008) has entailed better knowledge of the fair value on the takeover date and the adjustchanges in the accounting principles for changes to the ownership of ment takes place within the measurement period (12 months from the subsidiaries. Changes to a parent company’s ownership interests in a takeover). All other subsequent adjustments will be reported through the subsidiary that does not entail a loss of control are accounted for as equiincome statement. In the revised standard costs related to the acquisity transactions (i.e. transactions with owners in the capacity of owners). tion must be recognised in the income statement and can no longer be Atea Annual Report 43 2010 accounted for as part of the purchase price for the acquisition. These Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transacchanges have had an impact on Atea from 1 January 2010. tions between group companies are eliminated. The accounting principles for subsidiaries are amended as required in order to be consistent The following standards, interpretations and amendments entered into with Atea’s accounting principles. force in 2010, but they are not considered relevant to the Group: 2.2.3 Discontinued operations IFRS 5.44E Amendments to IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held In connection with the sale or winding-up of operations, revenues, exfor Sale and Discontinued Operations (as part of Improvements to penses and gains/losses related to the discontinued operations are IFRSs issued in 2009) reported separately from the Group’s other income items. Income elements, gains/losses and tax expenses for discontinued operations are IAS 1.139D Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial presented net on one separate line in the income statements. The criteria Statements (as part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2009) for this accounting presentation is that a binding sales agreement has been signed for assets that can be attributed to the operations in quesIFRS 7.44L Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: tion, or the operations are made available for sale by decision-making Disclosures (as part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2010) bodies, actively marketed for sale and it is highly probable that a sale will be carried out within one year. The Group has chosen not to implement early adoption of the following revision of standards: 2.3 Comparative figures IAS 1.139F Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Comparative figures for previous years are changed in the event of Statements (as part of Improvements to IFRSs issued in 2010) significant changes in accounting principles. If changes are made in classifying and grouping accounting items, the 2.2 Consolidation principles comparative figures are changed accordingly. This also applies when presenting discontinued operations on separate lines in the income statement 2.2.1 Critical accounting estimates (the corresponding figures for the balance sheet are not changed). The preparation of accounts in accordance with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. In addition, the Historical figures are not restated in the event of changes in group comapplication of the Atea’s accounting principles requires that the position or the acquisition of subsidiaries. management exercise judgement. Areas that contain a high degree of such discretionary assessments, or a high degree of complexity, or areas where the assumptions and estimates are of significance 2.4 Segment reporting to the consolidated accounts are described separately. This applies Atea’s primary reporting format is the geographical segments. General in particular to the depreciation of fixed assets, valuation of goodbusiness or economic planning and follow-up performed by the Group’s will, valuations associated with acquisitions, valuation of deferred tax decision-makers (CEO/CFO) takes place in geographical segments as assets, pension liabilities. and other accounting provisions. Changes well as separate units that deliver products and services internally to to accounting estimates are included in the accounts for the period in other geographical segments. A geographical segment is engaged in which the change occurs. providing products or services within a particular geographical area that are subject to risks and returns that are different from other geographi2.2.2 Subsidiaries cal segments. Subsidiaries are all the units where Atea has influence over the unit’s financial and operational strategy, normally through ownership of more Atea’s secondary reporting format is the business segments. A segment than half of the voting capital. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the is a portion of the business operations that delivers products or services point in time when control is transferred to the Group and eliminated that are subject to a risk and return that are distinct from that of other from consolidation when such control ends. business areas. In the segment reporting, the internal sales between the various segments are eliminated. Atea uses the purchase method of accounting to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries. Consideration for the acquisition of subsidiaries is measured at the fair value of the transferred assets, obligations assumed 2.5 Foreign currency translation and equity instruments issued. The fair value of any assets or obligations that are contingent on the agreement is also included in the consideration. 2.5.1 Functional and presentation currencies Identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value on the acquiItems included in the financial statements of each of the Atea Group’s ensition date. Non-controlling interests in the acquired entity are measured tities are measured primarily using the currency of the primary economic every time at either fair value or the proportionate share of the entity’s environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The acquired net assets. From 1 January 2010 expenses related to business consolidated financial statements are presented in Norwegian kroner combinations will be recognised when they are incurred. Correspondingly, (NOK), which is the functional and presentation currency of Atea ASA. if there were to be a discrepancy between the estimated fair value based on the conditional settlement and fair value, and this cannot be attributed 2.5.2 Transactions and balance sheet items to new information on the fair value or more than 12 months passing from Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional curthe takeover, the difference shall be recognised in the income statement. rency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement Non-controlling interests are included in Atea’s income statement, and of such transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates they are attributed to the shareholders of Atea AS and non-controlling inof monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are terests. Correspondingly, non-controlling interests are included as part recognised in the income statement. If the foreign currency position is of Atea’s shareholders’ equity and are specified on the balance sheet. considered cash flow hedging or hedging of net investments in foreign Atea Annual Report 44 2010 entities, the gains or losses are entered directly under other income and (iii) Vehicles, 3-5 years expenses (comprehensive income). (iv) Office furnishing/fittings, 3-10 years 2.5.3 Group companies The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date. An asset’s carrying amount The results and financial position of all the group entities (none of which is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy) that have a functional carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. currency different from the presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Repair and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. (i) Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount. (ii) Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates 2.7.2 Financial leases The Group leases certain operating assets. Leases for property, plant (iii) All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate and equipment, where most of the risk and control rests with the Group component of equity are classified as financial leases. At the start of the lease term financial leases are accounted for in the financial statements as assets and liabiliOn consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation ties, equal to the lowest of fair value of the operating asset or the present of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other value of the minimum lease payments. currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments are entered directly under other income and expenses (comprehensive inEach lease payment is allocated between an instalment and an interest come). When a foreign business is sold, the associated exchange difpayment, resulting in an interest cost on the remaining lease liability. ference is entered directly under other income and expenses (compreInterest costs are accounted for as a financial profit/loss item. Lease hensive income), through profit and loss as part of the gain or loss on liabilities, excluding interest costs, are presented as either other curthe sale. rent liabilities or other long-term liabilities. Fixed assets acquired through financial lease agreements are depreciated over the lease’s term or the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a depreciation period for equivalent assets, whichever is shorter. foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a financial lease, any gain will be postponed and recognised as revenue over the period of the lease. 2.6 Classification 2.7.3 Operating leases Assets are classified as current when intended for sale or consumption Leases for which most of the risk rests with the other contracting party in the normal operating cycle, or held primarily for the purpose of being are classified as operating leases. Lease payments are classified as traded, or expected to be realised within twelve months, or classified operating costs and recognised in the income statement during the as cash or equivalents. All other assets are classified as non-current. contract period. Liabilities are classified as current when expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle, or held primarily for the purpose of being traded, If a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating lease and it is or due to be settled within twelve months, or there are no unconditional clearly stated that the transaction has been carried out at its fair value, any rights to defer settlement for at least twelve months. All other liabilities gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement when the transacshall be classified as non-current. tion is carried out. If the sales price is less than the fair value, any gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement directly at the time of the transaction, apart from in situations when this leads to future lease 2.7 Property, plant and equipment payments that are below the market price. In such cases, the gain/loss is amortised over the lease period. If the sales price is above the fair value, 2.7.1 Recognition the excess price is amortised over the asset’s estimated period of use. For the years that are presented, Atea does not own any land or buildings. Computer equipment, office machines, vehicles and office furnishings / fittings are stated at historical cost less depreciation. 2.8 Intangible assets Historical cost includes expenses that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the items. 2.8.1 Recognition Intangible assets are recognised on the balance sheet if it can be Costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a proven that there are probable future economic benefits that can be separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future ecoattributed to the asset, which is owned by Atea; and the asset’s cost nomic benefits associated with the item will pass to Atea and the cost of price can be reliably estimated. the item can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are recognised at their cost price. Intangible assets with Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate their indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but impairment losses are recogcost over their estimated useful lives as follows: nised if the recoverable amount is less than the cost price. (i) Computer equipment, 3-5 years 2.8.2 Business combinations and goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair (ii) Office machines, 3-5 years value of Atea’s share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subAtea Annual Report 45 2010 sidiary/associate at the time of the acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions value through profit or loss. Financial instruments at fair value through of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets. Goodwill on acquisitions profit or loss are classified as current assets, and are carried at fair value of associates is included in investments in associates. Goodwill is tested at the balance sheet date. Changes in the fair value are recognised in annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment the income statement and included in the net financial income/expenses. losses. Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating units for Derivatives are also classified under this group when not part of a hedge the purpose of impairment testing. Each of those cash-generating units according to IAS 39. represents the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows. Gains and losses on the sale of business interests include 2.10.3 Financial assets available-for-sale the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold. All other financial instruments, with the exception of loans and receivables originally issued by the company, are classified as available 2.8.3 Other intangible assets for sale. Financial instruments that are available for sale are presented as current assets if the management has decided to sell the instruments Computer software and rights within 12 months of the balance sheet date. Available for sale financial Acquired computer software licences are recognised on the balance instruments are carried at fair value at the balance sheet date. The gain sheet on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use or loss resulting from changes in the fair value are recognised directly the specific software. These costs are amortised over their estimated under other income and expenses (comprehensive income) until the useful lives. Costs associated with maintaining computer software investment has been disposed of. The accumulated gain or loss on finanprogrammes are recognised as an expense as incurred. Costs that cial instruments that has previously been recognised under other income are directly associated with the development of identifiable and unique and expenses (comprehensive income) will then be reversed, and the software or system solutions controlled by the Group, which will gain or loss will be recognised in the income statement. probably generate economic benefits related to the asset that will pass to Atea and can be measured reliably, are recognised as intangible 2.10.4 Hedging assets. Computer software costs/solutions and rights recognised Before a hedging transaction is carried out, the Group’s finance departon the balance sheet are amortised over their estimated useful lives, ment assesses whether a derivative (or another financial instrument in normally 3-7 years. the case of a foreign currency hedge) is to be used as: Contracts and customer relationships i) a fair value hedge of a recognised asset, liability or a fixed commitIn connection with business combinations, contracts and customer ment, relationships are recorded at fair value on the opening balance sheet in the Group. The depreciation period for contracts and customer relationii) a cash flow hedge of a recognised asset or liability, a future transships is 4-5 years, based on the period they are estimated to generate action identified as very probable or, in the case of foreign currency risk, cash flows. a fixed commitment, or Expenses related to research activities are recognised in the income iii) a net investment hedge in a foreign entity. statement as they are incurred. The Group’s criteria for classifying a derivative or other financial instrument as a hedging instrument are as follow: 2.9 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisai) The hedge is expected to be very effective in that it counteracts changes tion and are tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to in the fair value of or cash flows from an identified object – and the amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes efficiency of the hedge is expected to be within the range of 80-125 %, in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asii) the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, set’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value iii) adequate documentation is established when the hedge is entered in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into, showing, for example, that the hedge is effective, at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units). iv) for cash flow hedges, that the forthcoming transaction must be highly probable; and 2.10 Financial instruments v) the hedge is evaluated regularly and has proven to be effective. Atea classifies financial instruments in the following categories: Fair value hedges 2.10.1 Held-to-maturity Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are assessed at fair Financial instruments with fixed or determinable cash flows and a fixed value and changes in fair value are recognised in the profit and loss acmaturity that the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold to count. Correspondingly, a change in the fair value of the hedged item atmaturity are classified as held-to-maturity investments. Financial instrutributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the profit and loss account. ments that are held to maturity are included in the non-current asset unless the maturity date is less than 12 months after the balance sheet Cash flow hedges date. Investments held to maturity are carried at a discounted value The effective components of changes in fair value for a hedging in(amortised cost). The interest element is disregarded if it is insignificant. strument will be recognised in the accounts under Other Comprehensive Income. The ineffective part of the hedging instrument is 2.10.2 At fair value through profit and loss recognised on an ongoing basis in the income statement. When the Financial instruments that are held with the intention of making a gain on expected transaction is subsequently accounted for, the associated short-term fluctuations in prices are classified as financial assets at fair accumulated gain or loss from the equity is eliminated and included Atea Annual Report 46 2010 in the income statement or the balance sheet item in question that is (i) Goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax purposes. hedged. If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, any previously accumulated gains or losses on the hedging instru(ii) Temporary differences relating to investments in subsidiaries, ment that have previously been recorded directly against equity will associates or joint ventures when the Group decides when the tempobe recognised in the income statement. rary differences are to be reversed and this is not expected to take place in the foreseeable future. 2.11 Inventories Goods purchased for resale are valued at the lower of historical cost or In the case of recent losses, deferred tax assets are recognised when net realisable value. The net realisable value is the estimated sales price there is convincing evidence that Atea will have a sufficient profit for tax under ordinary operations less the cost of sales. The historical cost is purposes to utilise the tax assets. On each balance sheet date, Atea calculated by means of the first-in, first-out principle (FIFO). reviews its unrecorded and unrecognised tax assets. Atea recognises deferred tax assets on its balance sheet when the conditions for recogniAtea also keeps inventory to cover the spare parts needed in connection have been met. Correspondingly, Atea will reduce its deferred tax tion with service agreements. The spare parts inventory is recognised at assets if they can no longer be utilised. cost price less accumulated, straight-line depreciation over the average duration of the contracts. Deferred tax and deferred tax assets are measured on the basis of the current tax rates and laws applicable to the companies in the Group 2.12 Trade receivables where temporary differences have arisen. Trade receivables, including accrued, uninvoiced income, are recognised at a discounted value. The interest element is disregarded if it is Deferred tax and deferred tax assets are recognised at their nominal insignificant. Provisions for losses are accounted for when there are obvalue and classified as a non-current asset or a long-term liability on the jective indicators that Atea will not receive settlement in accordance with balance sheet. the original terms and conditions. 2.17 Employee benefits The provisions represent the difference between the nominal and present value of cash flows that are expected to be received. The 2.17.1 Pension obligations change in the provisions for the period is accounted for in the income Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are statement. generally funded through payments to insurance companies. Atea has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. A defined benefit 2.13 Cash and cash equivalents plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an Cash includes cash in hand and at bank. Cash equivalents are shortemployee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more term liquid investments that can be converted into cash within three factors such as age, years of service and compensation. A defined conmonths and to a known amount, and which contain insignificant risk eletribution plan is a pension plan under which Atea pays fixed contributions ments. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities to a separate legal entity. Atea has no legal or constructive obligations on the balance sheet. to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current 2.14 Share capital and premiums and prior periods. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, The liability recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefrom the proceeds. Costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares fit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation related to an acquisition of a business, are included in the cost of acquiat the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together sition as part of the purchase consideration. with adjustments for unrecognised actuarial gains or losses and past service costs. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by inWhere any group company purchases the company’s own shares, the dependent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present consideration paid, including any directly attributable costs (net of invalue of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the come taxes,) is deducted from equity attributable to Atea’s shareholders estimated future cash outflows. Actuarial gains and losses arising from until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, in excess of the greater of 10% of the value of plan assets or 10% of the defined Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any considerabenefit obligation, are charged or credited to income over the employees’ tion received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs and the expected average remaining working lives. Changes in the pension plan related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to Atea’s benefits are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the shareholders. changes that the new pension plan represents are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (contribution 2.15 Borrowings period). In this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straightBorrowings are recognised at fair value when the loan is disbursed, net line basis over the vesting period. of the transaction costs incurred. Transaction costs are charged as an expense over the term of the loan (effective interest rate). Borrowings For defined contribution plans, Atea pays contributions to publicly or are classified as current liabilities unless there exists an unconditional privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contracright to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the tual or voluntary basis. Atea has no further payment obligations once balance sheet date. the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. 2.16 Income tax Income tax consists of the tax payable and changes to deferred tax. 2.17.2 Share-based compensation Deferred tax/tax assets are calculated on all taxable temporary Employee options at Atea represent rights for employees to subscribe differences, with the exception of: to shares in the company at a future date at a predetermined subscripAtea Annual Report 47 2010 tion price (subscription right). Subscribing normally requires continued Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the annual financial stateemployment. ments. Significant contingent liabilities are stated, with the exception of contingent liabilities where the probability of the liability occurring is The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the remote. A contingent asset is not recognised in the annual financial allotment of options is recognised as an expense. The total amount to statements, but is stated if there is a certain level of probability that a be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the benefit will accrue to Atea. fair value of the options allotted. On each balance sheet date, the company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to For contingent consideration recognised as a liability in connection with become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original the acquisition of business, see Note 2, Section 2.1, and Note 26. estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period. The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share 2.20 Revenue recognition capital and share premium when the options are exercised. Revenue comprises the fair value for the sale of goods and services, net of value-added tax, rebates and discounts. Intercompany sales are elimi2.17.3 Termination benefits nated. Revenues are not recognised unless the customer has accepted Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before the deliverance and collectability of the related receivables is reasonably the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary assured. Revenue is recognised as follows for Atea’s different types of redundancy in exchange for these benefits. Atea recognises termination revenues: benefits when it is demonstrably committed to either: terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan 2.20.1 Products without possibility of withdrawal; or providing termination benefits as a Sales of goods are recognised when Atea has delivered products to result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. the customer. Products channelled directly from the distributor to the customer are at Atea’s own risk and expense, and therefore presented 2.17.4 Bonus plans as gross sales in the income statement. Atea recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. 2.20.2 Consulting services Consulting services billed on an hourly basis are recognised as income 2.18 Provisions when Atea has delivered the services to the customer. Provisions are recognised when Atea has a valid liability (legal or constructive) as a result of events that have taken place and it can be proven 2.20.3 Fixed price projects probable (more probable than not) that a financial settlement will take Fixed price projects include both fixed price consulting projects and place as a result of this liability, and that the size of the amount can be combined consulting and product deliveries. Project revenue and costs measured reliably. Provisions are reviewed on each balance sheet date related to earned revenue are recognised according to the stage of and their level reflects the best estimate of the liability. When the effect completion of the project. The stage of completion is determined based of time is insignificant, the provisions will be equal to the size of the on the accrued cost related to services delivered compared to total expense necessary to be free of the liability. When the effect of time is estimated cost for the project. Earned revenue for the period is earned significant, the provisions will be the present value of future payments to revenue at the balance sheet date, less earned revenue in prior periods. cover the liability. Costs related to earned revenue are total estimated costs multiplied by the degree of completion. Costs related to earned revenue for the Restructuring provisions only include direct expenses linked to the actual period are increases in the amount from prior periods. Any expected restructuring that is necessary and which is not part of the day-to-day total project costs that exceed the total project revenue are recognised operations. Restructuring provisions are recognised when the company as a liability in the period they are identified. has a detailed restructuring plan in which the business area is identified; the premises and type of departments that will be affected, the 2.20.4 Service contracts number of employees who will be compensated for dismissal, the type of expenses that will be incurred and when the restructuring is to begin Service contracts include time-limited service & support and outsourcing have been clarified; and the restructuring plan has been commenced contracts, or contracts running until termination by either party. Service or communicated to those who will be affected by it. Provisions are not revenues are recognised in the accounting period in which the services recognised for future operating losses. are rendered, and such revenues are normally allocated linearly over the length of the contracts. Costs related to earned service revenues are recognised according to the stage of completion. The stage of 2.19 Contingent liabilities and assets completion represents recognised revenues compared to total revenues Contingent liabilities are defined as: for the contract. (i) Possible obligations resulting from past events whose existence depend on future events (ii) Obligations that are not recognised because it is not probable that they will lead to an outflow of resources (iii) Obligations that cannot be measured with sufficient reliability Atea Annual Report 48 2010 NOTE 3 FINANCIAL RISK AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 3.1 Financial risk factors The Group’s activities cause different financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk, liquidity risk and floating interest rate risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Risk management is carried out by Corporate Staff (Group Treasury) under policies approved by the Board of Directors. Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Group’s operating units. The Board of Directors provides principles for overall risk management, as well as policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess liquidity. 3.1.1 Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk in multiple foreign currencies. This risk is particularly relevant with respect to the Swedish krona (SEK), Danish krone (DKK), Euro (EUR), Latvian lat (LVL), Lithuanian litas (LTL), and US dollar (USD). Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. To manage foreign exchange risk arising from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities, entities in the Group use forward contracts. Foreign exchange risk arises when future commercial transactions or recognised assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. Group Treasury is responsible for managing the net position in each foreign currency by using external forward currency contracts. The table below illustrates the outstanding forward currency contracts as of 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2009. Forward currency contracts 2010 2009 Average Local Contract Fair Average Local Contract Fair exchange rate currency value value exchange rate currency value value Full value MLOC MNOK MNOK Full value MLOC MNOK MNOK Sell currency NOK Less than three months 0,9923 104,4 103,6 -0,8 0,9890 30,0 29,7 -0,3 Sell currency DKK Less than three months 1,0665 146,5 156,3 2,7 1,1350 32,0 36,3 0,6 Purchase currency EUR Less than three months 7,9756 2,2 17,7 -0,2 8,4230 1,5 12,3 -0,2 Sell currency EUR Less than three months 8,0104 0,6 4,8 0,1 8,4230 1,6 13,6 0,2 Purchase currency USD Less than three months 5,9472 29,6 176,0 -2,4 5,7180 9,1 51,8 0,3 Three to six months 6,0252 1,0 6,1 -0,2 5,8560 0,4 2,1 -0,0 Sell currency USD Less than three months 5,9018 4,7 27,6 0,2 5,6790 1,6 8,9 -0,1 Three to six months 5,7910 0,4 2,1 0,0 The company has investments in foreign subsidiaries, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. 3.1.2 Credit risk Atea has for years had modest losses on trade debtors. New customers must be approved before they are granted credit. The responsibility for granting credit is decentralised to each operating unit. Credit insurance is used only to a small extent. The group has no significant concentrations of credit risk, since the customer base is large and unrelated. Derivative counterparties and bank deposits are limited to high-credit-quality financial institutions. 3.1.3 Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available. Atea Annual Report 49 2010 3.1.4 Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk As of 31 December 2010 the Group had a net negative interest-bearing position of MNOK 337.3 (MNOK 214,1 in 2009). The interest rates on deposits and loans have a term of less than 12 months. As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s interest rate risk arises from borrowings. Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group is not actively managing its cash flow interest rate risk. 3.2 Accounting for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses hedge accounting to account for the fair value of financial instruments for cases where the requirements in accordance with IAS 39 are satisfied. The carrying amount of financial contracts that are temporarily entered under other income (comprehensive income) totals MNOK -0.1 as of 31 December 2010 (no forward contracts were subject to hedge accounting in 2009). The fair value of other financial instruments is entered immediately in the income statement. For all financial instruments the carrying amount is equal to the fair value. The nominal value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. 3.3 Capital management The Group manages its capital to secure the ongoing operations of the companies in the Group and to maximise the shareholders’ return. This is accomplished through a healthy balance between liabilities, equity and earnings. Atea assesses its operational gearing (net interest-bearing liabilities/operating profit before depreciation) and the Group’s equity ratio on an ongoing basis. The Group’s target is to have an equity ratio of 20% or more and maximum operational gearing of 3.5. At the end of 2010 the Group had an equity ratio of 34.8% (39.3% in 2009) and operational gearing of 0.5 (0.4 in 2009). 3.4 Sensitivity analysis The Group has identified market risk (foreign exchange risk, primarily with respect to SEK, DKK, EUR, USD, LVL, LTL and EEK) and adjustable interest rate risk as the two most important risk factors they are exposed to. The tables below illustrate how fluctuations in these two risks will affect the Group’s earnings and equity after tax. Sensitivity analysis 2010 – MNOK Interest rate risk Foreign currency risk + 200 bp 1) 200 bp 1) + 10 % 10 % Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Amount on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on Amount on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on affected loss equity loss equity affected loss equity loss equity Financial assets 2) NOK -58,8 -1,2 1,2 -113,2 -11,3 11,3 SEK 321,7 6,4 -6,4 653,6 0,7 64,7 -0,7 -64,7 DKK 107,6 2,2 -2,2 786,8 -15,5 94,1 15,5 -94,1 EUR -26,5 -0,5 0,5 227,2 3,9 18,8 -3,9 -18,8 USD 34,8 0,7 -0,7 189,3 18,9 -18,9 LTL 19,5 0,4 -0,4 LVL 4,6 0,1 -0,1 EEK 1,0 0,0 -0,0 Effect on financial assets before tax 8,1 -8,1 -3,3 177,6 3,3 -177,6 Tax expense (28 %) -2,3 2,3 0,9 -49,7 -0,9 49,7 Effect on financial assets after tax 5,8 -5,8 -2,4 127,9 2,4 -127,9 Financial liability items 3) NOK 184,6 -3,7 3,7 SEK 238,2 -4,8 4,8 DKK 186,2 -3,7 3,7 EUR 129,1 -2,6 2,6 LTL 1,4 -0,0 0,0 LVL 2,2 -0,0 0,0 EEK 0,1 -0,0 0,0 Effect on financial liability items before tax -14,8 14,8 Tax expense (28 %) 4,2 -4,2 Effect on financial liability items after tax -10,7 10,7 Total increase/reduction -4,9 4,9 -2,4 127,9 2,4 -127,9 1) Basis points 2) Consists of cash and cash equivalents, loans and derivative contracts (forward currency contracts) 3) Consists of liabilities and derivative contracts (forward currency contracts) Atea Annual Report 50 2010 Sensitivity analysis 2009 – MNOK Interest rate risk Foreign currency risk + 200 bp 1) 200 bp 1) + 10 % 10 % Effect Other Other Effect Other Effect Other Amount on profit/ effects on Effect on effects on Amount on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on affected loss equity profit/loss equity affected loss equity loss equity Financial assets 2) NOK -235,7 -4,7 4,7 -45,9 -4,6 4,6 SEK 556,6 11,1 -11,1 606,5 0,5 60,2 -0,5 -60,2 DKK -134,5 -2,7 2,7 961,8 -4,2 100,4 4,2 -100,4 EUR -34,6 -0,7 0,7 247,7 2,2 22,5 -2,2 -22,5 USD 22,3 0,4 -0,4 65,2 6,5 -6,5 LTL 18,0 0,4 -0,4 LVL 1,9 0,0 -0,0 EEK 1,6 0,0 -0,0 Effect on financial assets before tax 3,9 -3,9 0,4 183,1 -0,4 -183,1 Tax expense (28 %) -1,1 1,1 -0,1 -51,3 0,1 51,3 Effect on financial assets after tax 2,8 -2,8 0,3 131,8 -0,3 -131,8 Financial liability items 3) NOK 88,4 -1,8 1,8 SEK 287,7 -5,8 5,8 DKK 7,7 -0,2 0,2 EUR 22,0 -0,4 0,4 LTL 6,6 -0,1 0,1 LVL 4,3 -0,1 0,1 EEK 0,5 -0,0 0,0 Effect on financial liability items before tax -8,3 8,3 Tax expense (28 %) 2,3 -2,3 Effect on financial liability items after tax -6,0 6,0 Total increase/reduction -3,2 3,2 0,3 131,8 -0,3 -131,8 1) Basis points 2) Consists of cash and cash equivalents, loans and derivative contracts (forward currency contracts) 3) Consists of liabilities and derivative contracts (forward currency contracts) NOTE 4 CRITICAL ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING THE ENTITY’S ACCOUNTING POLICY When applying the entity’s accounting policies the management make judgements that have significant effects on the amounts recognised in the financial statements. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results can differ from estimates. The main estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are specified below. Important and critical judgements in applying the entity’s accounting policies are also specified. Uncertainties related to estimates of provisions are described in Note 18, including provisions for restructuring. Impairment of goodwill/intangible assets and other fixed assets The most important estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are related to impairment assessment of goodwill and other fixed assets. The book value of goodwill as of 31 December 2010 is MNOK 2,757.7, other intangible assets is MNOK 341.2, and property, plant and equipment is MNOK 157.9. The management has used best estimates when determining the depreciation period for intangible assets and other depreciable assets. Goodwill has an indefinite useful life and is tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The assessment of impairment for 2010 indicates that even with the use of conservative estimates with regard to future cash flows and discount rates, the book value of any of the assets will not exceed the recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts of cash-generating units are determined based on judgements of fair values less costs to sell or value-in-use estimates. Atea Annual Report 51 2010 Deferred tax The recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities requires that judgement be exercised. Atea recognises deferred tax assets on its balance sheet when it has been deemed adequately probable that the operations in the individual country will generate a taxable profit that the tax loss carryforward can be used to offset. Taking into account the historical losses and cyclical nature, future earnings are not deemed probable until the individual company has actually reported a taxable profit for a period. In calculating the tax asset that is to be recognised, the expected profit is only taken into account for a limited future period. This period has been defined as 5 years for 2010. At the end of 2010 deferred tax assets and liabilities of MNOK 469.8 (MNOK 318.0 for 2009) and MNOK 165.1 (MNOK 73.7 for 2009), respectively, were recognised. Revenue recognition The Group uses the percentage-of-completion method in accounting for fixed-price projects and service contracts. Use of the percentage-ofcompletion method requires the Group to estimate the services performed to date as a proportion of the total services to be performed. Trade receivables There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers spread across several countries. Accounting provisions In connection with accounting provisions, the Group uses estimates for (1) how probable settlement of the obligation is and (2) the size of the provisions to reflect Atea’s risk arising from the transaction. NOTE 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION I – GEOGRAPHIC MARKETS Atea’s primary reporting format is geographic markets. Atea had operations in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and the Baltic States in 2010. Other activities include common/Group functions. The geographic division is in conformity with the Group’s legal organisation and the internal management reporting. Thus the distribution of revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities to different countries follows the Group’s legal structure. Below is a summary of the key financial figures for the various countries. The financial items in the various countries include large intercompany balances. Financial items and interest-bearing liabilities have thus not been allocated to the countries. Norway delivered operating revenues of MNOK 4,213.0 for the full year 2010, up by 18.1% from the previous year. EBIT totalled MNOK 135.1 (3.2%), compared with MNOK 95.3 (2.7%) for the full year 2009. During 2010 Atea AS acquired the companies Impact Europe Norge AS, Dropzone ASA and Umoe IKT AS. Sweden delivered operating revenues of MNOK 5,238.3 for the full year 2010, up by 32.1% from the previous year, 29.4% in constant currency. EBIT totalled MNOK 181.0 (3.5%), compared with MNOK 116.2 (2.9%) for the full year 2009. During 2010 Atea Holding AB acquired 4 Office companies, Impact Europe AB, Portal AB and Benzler Group AB. Additionally, Malux Data AB was acquired February 2011. Denmark delivered operating revenues of MNOK 5,569.4 for the full year 2010, up by 5.9% from the previous year, 15.5% in constant currency. EBIT totalled MNOK 144.0 (2.6%), compared with MNOK 175.8 (3.3%) for the full year 2009. During 2010 Atea A/S acquired the companies Calamus Danmark A/S and Belle Balance A/S. Finland delivered operating revenues of MNOK 1,716.6 for the full year 2010, up by 14.3% from the previous year, 24.7% in constant currency. EBIT totalled MNOK 17.6 (1.0%), compared with MNOK -0.5 (0.0%) for the full year 2009. During 2010 Atea Oy acquired the companies PALnet Oy, Datawest Oy and Ten of Ten Oy. The Baltics delivered operating revenues of MNOK 401.2 for the full year 2010, up by 34.0% from the previous year, 46.1% in constant currency. EBIT totalled MNOK 6.3 (1.6%), compared with MNOK -0.1 (0.0%) for the full year 2009. Shared services mainly consists of Atea Logistics in Växjö in Sweden, together with the software packaging and distribution centre in Riga in Latvia and the software company Spintop in Sweden. Shared services delivered operating revenues of MNOK 3,098.1, up by 27.1% from the previous year. EBIT totalled MNOK 23.6 (0.8%), compared with MNOK 15.5 (0.6%) for the full year 2009. Other/eliminations consists of Group expenses and eliminations. Atea Annual Report 52 2010 2010 Other/ Baltic Shared elimi(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services nations Total Operating revenues 4 213,0 5 238,3 5 569,4 1 716,6 401,2 3 098,1 -3 105,3 17 131,3 Operating expenses, excl. depreciation 4 042,7 5 038,3 5 335,1 1 682,3 386,6 3 070,6 -3 072,6 16 483,0 Non-Core Depreciation 35,2 18,9 90,3 16,8 8,3 3,9 0,3 173,8 Operating profit/loss 135,1 181,0 144,0 17,6 6,3 23,6 -33,1 474,4 Net financial items -25,3 Profit/loss before tax from continued operations 135,1 181,0 144,0 17,6 6,3 23,6 -33,1 449,2 Non-controlling ownership interests 0,3 0,6 0,5 -0,0 -0,2 1,2 Profit/loss before tax 448,0 Employees in continued operations as of 31 December 1 411 1 691 1 401 309 344 252 10 5 418 2009 Other/ Baltic Shared elimi(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services nations Total Operating revenues 3 566,3 3 965,3 5 259,6 1 501,4 299,5 2 438,3 -2 441,9 14 588,6 Operating expenses, excl. depreciation 3 435,4 3 832,9 4 996,8 1 488,9 289,9 2 417,1 -2 406,1 14 054,9 Non-Core 32,3 32,3 Depreciation 35,6 16,3 87,0 13,0 9,6 5,8 167,3 Operating profit/loss 95,3 116,2 175,8 -0,5 -0,1 15,5 -68,1 334,1 Net financial items -55,0 Profit/loss before tax from continued operations 95,3 116,2 175,8 -0,5 -0,1 15,5 -68,1 279,1 Profit/loss from discontinued operations Non-controlling ownership interests 0,4 0,3 0,1 -0,0 -0,6 0,2 Profit/loss before tax 278,9 Employees in continued operations as of 31 December 887 1 320 1 300 332 319 213 9 4 380 2008 Other/ Baltic Shared elimi(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services nations Total Operating revenues 3 507,0 4 284,2 5 090,9 1 440,2 454,4 2 483,6 -2 492,4 14 767,8 Operating expenses, excl. depreciation and unusual items 3 342,4 4 123,8 4 872,5 1 441,0 434,0 2 480,3 -2 467,2 14 226,8 Non-Core Depreciation 28,8 18,8 69,7 6,1 7,7 8,4 139,5 Unusual items Operating profit/loss 135,8 141,7 148,6 -7,0 12,6 -5,2 -25,2 401,4 Net financial items -66,7 Profit/loss before tax from continued operations 135,8 141,7 148,6 -7,0 12,6 -5,2 106,1 334,7 Profit/loss from discontinued operations -0,0 -0,0 Non-controlling ownership interests -0,1 -0,1 -0,2 0,0 -1,2 -1,6 Profit/loss before tax 333,1 Employees in continued operations as of 31 December 922 1 375 1 371 301 386 205 11 4 571 Atea Annual Report 53 2010 2010 Other/ Baltic Shared elimina(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services tions Total Assets 2 897,2 3 050,3 3 222,6 605,9 263,9 604,9 -998,9 9 646,1 Liabilities 1 535,7 2 767,8 2 926,1 709,0 111,8 441,7 -2 201,3 6 290,7 Investment expenses 13,8 6,3 85,9 6,9 5,5 5,6 0,9 125,0 2009 Other/ Baltic Shared elimina(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services tions Total Assets 2 236,2 2 119,5 2 885,1 443,5 297,0 433,6 -1 259,4 7 155,5 Liabilities 857,0 1 994,1 2 604,5 597,9 139,1 264,1 -2 114,0 4 342,5 Investment expenses 26,2 1,2 85,5 12,1 3,4 7,3 135,7 2008 Other/ Baltic Shared elimina(Amounts in MNOK) Norway Sweden Denmark Finland States services tions Total Assets 2 520,4 2 297,1 3 321,3 503,6 391,1 379,2 -1 130,6 8 282,1 Liabilities 1 309,0 2 228,9 3 178,1 659,0 205,9 212,6 -2 365,5 5 428,0 Investment expenses 31,0 5,1 81,8 12,4 17,6 3,3 151,2 II – BUSINESS AREAS Atea’s secondary reporting format is the business areas distributor and resale. The distribution units in the Atea Group are Atea Logistics in Sweden, the Software Packaging and Distribution Centre in Latvia and Atea Spintop. The units for resale are all the other sales and delivery units in the five countries. Below is an allocation of key figures to the business areas: Operating revenues (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Distributor 3 098,1 2 438,3 2 483,6 Resale 17 138,5 14 592,1 14 776,6 Group/eliminations -3 105,3 -2 441,9 -2 492,4 Total 17 131,3 14 588,6 14 767,8 Assets (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Distributor 604,9 433,6 379,2 Resale 10 040,0 7 981,3 9 033,5 Group/eliminations -998,9 -1 259,4 -1 130,6 Total 9 646,1 7 155,5 8 282,1 Total assets are allocated based on where the assets are located. Investments (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Distributor 5,6 7,3 3,3 Resale 118,4 128,4 147,9 Group/eliminations 0,9 Total 125,0 135,7 151,2 III – ANALYSIS OF OPERATING REVENUES BY CATEGORY (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Consulting and services revenues 3 349,9 3 121,4 2 932,7 Product revenues 16 968,3 13 975,2 14 426,6 Eliminations -3 187,0 -2 508,0 -2 591,5 Total operating revenues 17 131,3 14 588,6 14 767,8 Atea Annual Report 54 2010 NOTE 6 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Below is a summary of transactions reported as discontinued operations in the past two years. The net profit from these businesses is presented on a separate line in the income statement. The net profit consists of two profit and loss elements: (1) profit/loss for the year for discontinued operations and (2) gain/loss for discontinued operations. 2010 No discontinued operations were reported in 2010. 2009 No discontinued operations were reported in 2009. NOTE 7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Vehicles Buildings & office Furniture Computer (Amounts in MNOK) & land machines and fittings equipment Total Acquistions Accumulated value as of 1 January 2009 5,0 63,5 140,3 275,0 483,8 Additions Ordinary 0,6 5,1 6,1 25,3 37,0 Business combinations (see Note 26) 3,9 -1,1 4,7 7,4 Disposals 1) -2,9 -4,5 -5,7 -13,1 Currency translation differences -0,6 -9,9 -10,9 -38,1 -59,5 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 3,8 70,0 129,2 262,6 465,7 Additions Ordinary 0,2 9,2 9,2 62,2 80,8 Changes from prior years 6,0 0,4 -3,5 2,9 Business combinations (see Note 26) 25,2 2,2 27,4 130,8 185,6 Disposals 1) -7,7 -1,9 -21,4 -31,0 Currency translation differences -0,2 -3,6 2,2 -11,3 -12,8 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 29,1 76,1 166,6 419,4 691,2 Depreciation and write-downs Accumulated value as of 1 January 2009 -0,2 -37,9 -108,8 -188,2 -335,0 Changes from prior years -0,4 -9,1 0,2 -1,0 -10,2 Depreciation 0,2 -8,4 -9,8 -39,8 -57,8 Business combinations (see Note 26) Disposals 1) 1,8 3,7 5,3 10,9 Currency translation differences -0,3 5,8 10,2 26,1 41,7 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 -0,7 -47,8 -104,4 -197,5 -350,5 Changes from prior years -0,1 -2,1 -0,6 -0,6 -3,2 Depreciation -0,2 -8,3 -10,2 -38,2 -56,8 Business combinations (see Note 26) -18,2 -0,0 -21,4 -113,8 -153,5 Disposals 1) 3,6 1,4 16,8 21,8 Currency translation differences 0,2 2,4 -1,9 8,4 9,0 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 -19,0 -52,2 -137,1 -325,0 -533,3 Cost 3,8 70,0 129,2 262,6 465,7 Depreciation and write-downs -0,7 -47,8 -104,4 -197,5 -350,5 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 3,1 22,2 24,8 65,1 115,2 Cost 29,1 76,1 166,6 419,4 691,2 Depreciation and write-downs -19,0 -52,2 -137,1 -325,0 -533,3 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 10,0 23,9 29,5 94,4 157,9 1) Gain/loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment accounted for insignificant amounts in 2009 and 2010. Atea Annual Report 55 2010 Financial leases: Computer equipment acquired through financial leases, where all the risk and control rests essentially with the Group, includes the following: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Accumulated cost – capitalised on financial leases 50,7 66,6 Accumulated depreciation -49,7 -61,4 Currency translation differences -0,2 -0,7 Book value as of 31 December 0,8 4,5 Vehicles acquired through financial leases, where all the risk and control rests essentially with the Group, includes the following:: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Accumulated cost – capitalised on financial leases 6,7 12,9 Accumulated depreciation -3,2 -5,1 Currency translation differences -0,1 -0,5 Book value as of 31 December 3,5 7,3 The maturity of the financial leases are presented in Note 14. Operating leases: The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Maturity Maturity after more 2010 within 1 year 1-5 years than 5 years Payment for leased premises (gross) 81,9 188,6 Subleasing of premises 5,1 6,9 Net payments after deduction of subleasing 87,0 195,6 Other leases 51,1 68,3 Total future lease payments 138,1 263,9 Maturity Maturity after more 2009 within 1 year 1-5 years than 5 years Payment for leased premises (gross) 23,9 30,2 Subleasing of premises -0,2 Net payments after deduction of subleasing 23,6 30,2 Other leases 22,1 12,1 Total future lease payments 45,7 42,3 Atea Annual Report 56 2010 NOTE 8 GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS Contracts Computer Total other and customer software intangible (Amounts in MNOK) Goodwill 1) relationships and rights assets Acquistions Accumulated values, 1. january 2009 2 540,1 256,2 218,0 474,2 Additions Ordinary 98,7 98,7 Changes from prior years 15,5 -10,9 17,7 6,8 Business combinations (see Note 26) 34,4 27,0 0,8 27,8 Disposals 2) -0,3 -0,3 -0,3 Currency translation differences -265,4 -30,1 -24,8 -54,9 Accumulated values, 31 December 2009 2 324,3 242,2 310,0 552,2 Additions Ordinary 44,1 44,1 Changes from prior years 6,8 15,5 15,5 Business combinations (see Note 26) 463,2 124,1 71,8 195,9 Disposals -15,5 -15,5 Currency translation differences -36,6 -4,6 -10,6 -15,2 Accumulated values, 31 December 2010 2 757,7 361,7 415,4 777,1 Depreciation and write-downs Accumulated values, 1 January 2009 -0,1 -122,6 -103,8 -226,4 Changes from prior years 0,0 -17,3 -17,3 Business combinations (see Note 26) Depreciation -54,9 -48,8 -103,7 Disposals 2) -0,8 0,0 -0,8 Currency translation differences 15,2 11,6 26,8 Accumulated values, 31 December 2009 -0,0 -163,1 -158,2 -321,3 Changes from prior years -3,1 0,2 -2,9 Business combinations (see Note 26) -0,0 -15,4 -15,4 Depreciation -56,3 -58,4 -114,7 Disposals 2) 7,9 7,9 Currency translation differences 3,0 2,3 5,3 Accumulated values, 31 December 2010 -0,0 -216,5 -219,3 -435,9 Cost 2 324,3 242,2 310,0 552,2 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs -0,0 -163,1 -158,2 -321,3 Book value, 31 December 2009 2 324,3 79,1 151,8 230,9 Cost 2 757,7 361,7 415,4 777,1 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs -0,0 -216,5 -219,3 -435,9 Book value, 31 December 2010 2 757,7 145,2 196,0 341,2 1) Goodwill and other assets are allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units identified according to country of operation (segment). Recoverable amounts for cash generating units are estimated based on calculating the asset’s value in use. Liquidity forecasts are used based on the budget for revenues, product/service mix, profit margins, costs and capital employment for 2010, as well as a year-over-year revenue growth corresponding to 0.4% to 4.0% *) depending on the geographical market for the period from 2011 to 2015. Cash flows beyond the five year period are derived from estimated growth rates (depending on the geographical area) of 2.5 to 3.5% for an indefinite period. Risk is taken into account through a discount rate that reflects the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) for the individual cash-generating units. The calculations did not result in any write-downs of assets in 2009 or 2010. It is assumed that the goodwill that arises from the acquisitions is related primarily to expectations of synergies (market power, buying power, cost savings, etc.) for the new combined business. It is also assumed that the remaining goodwill that arises is related to excess value (employee value etc.) in the acquired businesses. In order to realise synergies quickly the acquired companies are generally integrated quickly into the acquiring units. It has not been found to be practically feasible to quantify the effect of the acquired companies on the profit for the period of time they have been owned by Atea. * Determined primarily by external market analyses 2) Gain/loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment accounted for insignificant amounts in 2009 and 2010. Atea Annual Report 57 2010 Allocation of goodwill 2010 (Amounts in MNOK) Distributor Resale Total Norway 914,4 914,4 Sweden 66,1 586,4 652,5 Denmark 935,1 935,1 Finland 129,4 129,4 Baltic States 126,4 126,4 Total 66,1 2 691,6 2 757,7 2009 (Amounts in MNOK) Distributor Resale Total Norway 685,7 685,7 Sweden 61,5 407,1 468,5 Denmark 944,3 944,3 Finland 91,2 91,2 Baltic States 134,5 134,5 Total 61,5 2 262,8 2 324,3 Acquisitions made in 2010 are described in Note 26. The Group does not have any significant research and development (R&D) expenses. NOTE 9 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Provisions for bad debts as of 1 January -26,4 -35,9 Additional provisions -8,6 -6,1 Used provisions 5,0 8,1 Amount written off as uncollectable 0,8 1,1 Amount collected during the year 5,1 2,9 Currency translation differences on bad debts 0,3 3,6 Provisions for bad debts as of 31 December -23,8 -26,4 Trade receivables 4 391,7 3 237,8 Provisions for bad debts -23,8 -26,4 Book value of trade receivables 4 367,8 3 211,4 Prepaid expenses 306,3 188,3 Advances to suppliers 2,2 4,1 Other current receivables 264,9 117,5 Other receivables 573,3 310,0 Total trade receivables and other current receivables 4 941,3 3 521,4 Other long-term receivables 1) 46,2 55,7 Total other long-term receivables 46,2 55,7 1) Concerns postponed compensation for the sale of the consulting business in Denmark in 2006. Atea Annual Report 58 2010 There is no concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables, as the Group has a large number of customers spread across several countries. Maximum exposure to receivables corresponds to MNOK 4,367.9 (MNOK 3,211.4 in 2009). The Group has a maximum limit of MNOK 1,452.3 (MNOK 1,465.6 in 2009) through a factoring agreement. As of 31 December 2010 the Group has drawn a total of MNOK 465.4 (MNOK 162.9 in 2009) from this facility. All trade receivables have been pledged as security for this facility. See Note 14 for additional information. The Group has recognised income of MNOK 4.5 related to the reversal of provisions for expected losses on trade receivables in the income statement for 2010 (losses of MNOK 2.9 were recognised in the income statement in 2009.) See otherwise Note 3.1.2 with regard to credit risk. Maturity analysis for trade receivables not due 2010 2009 Maturity < 30 days 3 928,4 2 803,4 Maturity 31-90 days 112,8 55,4 Maturity > 91 days 0,3 Total MNOK 4 041,2 2 859,1 Maturity analysis for trade receivables due 2010 2009 Maturity < 30 days 268,2 325,6 Maturity 31-90 days 59,8 23,2 Maturity > 91 days 22,5 30,0 Total MNOK 350,5 378,7 NOTE 10 INVENTORIES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Provisions for write-downs as of 1 January -4,8 -6,0 Additional provisions -1,7 -3,3 Used provisions 1,8 4,2 Currency translation differences on inventory write-downs -0,1 0,3 Provisions for write-downs as of 31 December -4,8 -4,8 Cost price of inventories 454,0 373,6 Accumulated provisions for write-downs -4,8 -4,8 Book value as of 31 December 449,3 368,7 Cost price of spare parts inventory 65,6 40,4 Accumulated depreciation -18,3 -15,8 Book value as of 31 December 47,3 24,6 Net inventory in the balance sheet 496,6 393,4 Write-down of inventories and depreciation of spare parts inventory, recognised as an expense and included in cost of goods sold amounted to MNOK 2.6 (MNOK 10.3 in 2009). Inventory of spare parts are written-down over the average length of service contracts. Cost of sales for the full year 2010 was MNOK 13,129.0 (MNOK 10,996.5 in 2009). Atea Annual Report 59 2010 NOTE 11 LIQUIDITY RESERVE (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents Cash in hand and on deposit 404,0 194,5 – of which restricted funds -0,5 -0,6 Unrestricted cash 403,5 193,9 Unutilised short-term borrowing facilities 998,4 1 210,6 Short-term overdraft facility 132,0 132,0 Liquidity reserve 1 533,9 1 536,5 Loan facilities Short-term overdraft facility (see Note 14) 132,0 132,0 of which utilised Short-term loan facility (see Note 14) 288,2 225,9 of which utilised 254,0 225,9 Available through factoring agreement (see Note 14) 1 429,6 1 373,5 of which utilised 465,4 162,9 NOTE 12 PAID-IN EQUITY, OPTIONS, SHAREHOLDERS Number of shares Share capital Treasury Treasury Share Total paidOption (Amounts in MNOK) Issued shares Issued shares premium in equity programmes As of 1 January 2009 95,5 -3,8 955,1 -37,9 598,3 1 515,6 38,4 Employee share option programmes, value of employee contributions 8,3 Change in treasury shares 0,9 8,9 8,9 Issue of share capital As of 31 December 2010 95,5 -2,9 955,1 -29,0 598,3 1 524,4 46,7 As of 1 January 2009 95,5 -2,9 955,1 -29,0 598,3 1 524,4 46,7 Employee share option programmes, value of employee contributions 12,9 Change in treasury shares 2,9 29,0 29,0 Issue of share capital 0,8 7,8 13,5 21,4 As of 31 December 2010 96,3 -0,0 963,0 -0,0 611,9 1 574,8 59,5 The total number of outstanding ordinary shares in Atea ASA as of 31 December 2010 was 96,295,022 shares with a par value of NOK 10 per share (95,527,022 in 2009). Treasury shares During 2010 Atea ASA bought 167,000 own shares and sold 3,062,568 at an average price of NOK 45.09 per share. The sales of shares have been made in connection with exercise of employee options and as compensation regarding the purchase of Calamus Danmark and Umoe IKT. As of 31 December 2010 Atea ASA holds 3,601 own shares. During 2009 Atea ASA sold 889,066 own shares at an average price of NOK 33.00 per share. The acquisitions of own shares have been completed as part of a share buyback program approved by Atea ASA’s General Annual Meeting 29 April 2010. According to the approval the lowest and highest price payable is NOK 10 and NOK 200 respectively. Share options Share options have been allotted to the management and selected employees. Each share option allows for the subscription of one share in Atea ASA. The fair value of the options is calculated when they are allotted and expensed over the vesting period. A cost of MNOK 12.8 has been charged as an expense in the income statement in 2010 relating to the share option programmes (MNOK 8.3 in 2009). In addition, National Insurance contribution expenses reversal of MNOK 0.5 were recognised in 2010 (MNOK 8.3 was expensed in 2009). Atea Annual Report 60 2010 Movement in outstanding options Weighted average Number of Weighted average Number of exercise price in NOK options exercise price in NOK options per share 2010 (thousand) per share 2009 (thousand) As of 1 January 27,15 3 690 28,35 4 129 Allotted 40,04 3 047 20,34 356 Exercised 30,16 -1 879 27,41 -573 Lapsed/terminated 23,17 -73 44,31 -38 Rejected 28,40 -24 Expired 31,61 -184 As of 31 December 34,78 4 761 27,15 3 690 Of which fully vested 27,62 1 206 29,25 2 391 Exercise price in 2010 2009 Expiration date Allotment date NOK per share (thousand) (thousand) 31.05.2010 01.06.2006 28,40 3 31.12.2010 01.08.2005 13,79 100 31.12.2010 01.06.2006 28,40 2 1 086 31.12.2010 06.11.2006 28,40 70 31.12.2010 05.01.2007 32,00 358 31.12.2010 22.02.2007 42,00 30 31.05.2011 01.06.2006 28,40 378 17 31.05.2011 06.11.2006 28,40 40 31.05.2011 05.01.2007 32,00 85 31.05.2011 16.08.2007 43,50 145 31.05.2011 07.03.2008 32,40 51 100 31.05.2011 14.03.2008 32,80 50 150 31.05.2011 03.04.2008 32,40 167 175 31.05.2011 20.08.2008 32,50 17 50 30.11.2011 01.06.2006 25,00 8 30.11.2011 16.08.2007 25,00 142 158 30.11.2011 26.02.2008 36,50 33 30.11.2011 01.04.2008 20,00 100 100 30.11.2011 30.04.2008 25,00 67 200 30.11.2011 17.11.2008 19,20 296 518 30.11.2011 17.11.2008 25,00 150 100 30.11.2011 01.04.2009 19,20 125 253 30.11.2012 17.06.2009 25,00 24 36 30.11.2012 06.11.2009 38,90 10 10 30.11.2011 14.01.2010 47,90 16 31.05.2013 03.03.2010 50,75 60 31.05.2013 27.05.2010 44,10 50 31.05.2013 08.06.2010 44,70 25 30.11.2013 19.07.2010 40,64 2 716 01.03.2014 20.09.2010 25,00 165 02.03.2014 21.09.2010 25,00 15 Sum 4 761 3 690 The conditions for the utilisation of the different share option programmes are set for each programme on an individual basis. The fair value of options allotted, calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, was MNOK 34.8 in 2010 (MNOK 1.2 in 2009). Atea Annual Report 61 2010 Most important variables used in the calculations in 2010: Variables in the model for the allotment of options in 2010 Weighted average share price at the time of allotment 39,11 Weighted average exercise price 40,04 Weighted average fair value 11,43 Weighted average volatility 46,00 % Weighted average risk-free interest rate 2,38 % Weighted average expected life (years) 2,46 Share price at the allotment date The share price is set equal to the market price at the allotment date (NOK 39.11) Exercise price per option As illustrated above. Volatility Volatility measured at the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of the share price performance. The expected volatility has been set, therefore, at 46.00%. Option’s duration Up to 3.5 years. Dividends The calculations for 2010 assume a dividend of NOK 1.00 annually in the years to come. Risk-free interest rate Assumed risk-free interest rate is 2.00% 3.09% (varies in relation to the duration and allotment date). Principal shareholders 10 largest shareholders as of 31 December 2010*: Shares % Systemintegration APS ** 28 438 490 29,53 State Street Bank & Trust Co. Ref: OM80 *** 6 076 452 6,31 Goldman Sachs Int. Equity *** 3 802 939 3,95 State Street Bank & Trust Co. Ref: OM06 *** 3 715 805 3,86 Bank of New York Mellon *** 2 411 743 2,50 Umoe AS 1 780 000 1,85 VPF Nordea Kapital 1 466 417 1,52 State Street Bank & Trust Co. Ref: OM04 *** 1 319 605 1,37 SHB Stockholm Clients Account *** 1 261 077 1,31 Vital Forsikring ASA *** 1 224 972 1,27 Other 44 797 522 46,52 Total number of shares 96 295 022 100,00 * Source: Norwegian Central Securities Depository (VPS) ** Includes shares owned by Ib Kunøe *** Includes client accounts Atea Annual Report 62 2010 Shares and options owned by key employees Maturity date and board members as of 31 December 2010: Shares 1) Options for options Key employees in the Group Claus Hougesen President and CEO of Atea ASA 411 490 500 000 30.11.2013 Rune Falstad Executive Vice President and CFO of Atea ASA 74 500 350 000 31.05.2011-30.11.2013 Peter Trans Managing Director of Atea A/S (Denmark) 397 494 700 000 31.05.2011-30.11.2013 Juha Sihvonen Managing Director of Atea Oy (Finland) 150 000 31.05.2011-30.11.2013 Lars Pettersson Managing Director of Atea AB (Sweden) 3 000 306 667 31.05.2011-30.11.2013 Steinar Sønsteby Managing Director of Atea AS (Norway) 1 500 333 334 31.05.2011-30.11.2013 Arunas Bartusevicius Managing Director of Atea UAB 50 667 31.05.2011 President and CEO of Atea ASA Ib Kunøe Board Chairman 28 756 190 Morten Jurs 2) Member of the Board Cathrine Foss Stene 2) Member of the Board Kristine M Madsen Member of the Board Sven Madsen Member of the Board 117 500 Sigrun Hjelmqvist Member of the Board 1 000 Karin S. Løkke Member of the Board (employee elected) 3 700 Marthe Dyrud Member of the Board (employee elected) 1 500 3 334 30.11.2011 Jørn Goldstein Member of the Board (employee elected) 500 1) Direct and indirect ownership. 2) Cathrine Foss Stene resigned from her position on the Board at the General Meeting of 29 April 2010. Morten Jurs was elected as a new member of the Board at the same time. Change for the year and description of the share options owned by key employees in the Group are as follow: Share option allotment, exercise Holdings Allotment Exercise Holdings Exercise and holdings for key employees (thousand) 01.01.10 in 2010 in 2010 31.12.10 price (NOK) Claus Hougesen 240 500 -240 500 28,40 Rune Falstad 250 200 -100 350 13,79 Peter Trans 200 500 700 Lars Pettersson 137 200 -30 307 28,40 Juha Sihvonen 150 100 -100 150 32,80 Steinar Sønsteby 200 200 -67 333 28,40 Arunas Bartusevicius 100 -49 51 32,40 NOTE 13 TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Trade payables 3 120,3 2 162,2 Debt to related parties Total trade payables 3 120,3 2 162,2 Government withholdings and taxes 517,9 347,2 Advances from customers 509,4 432,4 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 950,4 735,6 Total other current liabilities 1 977,7 1 515,2 Total trade payables and other current liabilities 5 098,0 3 677,4 Maturity analysis for trade payables 2010 2009 Maturity < 30 days 2 893,3 2 066,5 Maturity 31-90 days 226,0 95,2 Maturity > 91 days 1,0 0,5 Total 3 120,3 2 162,2 Atea Annual Report 63 2010 NOTE 14 BORROWINGS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Long-term loans Long-term interest-bearing loans 18,0 7,1 Financial leases expiring more than one year in the future 2,5 5,3 Total long-term loans 20,5 12,4 Short-term loans Short-term loan facility 254,0 225,9 Factoring facility 465,4 162,9 Short-term interest-bearing loans 4,3 First year instalments for financial leases 1,9 10,8 Total short-term loans 721,3 403,9 Total loans 741,8 416,3 Borrowings include secured liabilities of MNOK 719.4 in 2010 (MNOK 393.1 in 2009). Short-term loan facility As of 31 December 2010, the Group had drawn MNOK 223.3 on a short-term facility provided by Nordea Bank Danmark A/S. The facility was structured as an overdraft facility that was used to finance the purchase of the shares in Atea Holding AB in 2006. Amounts drawn on the facility are classified as short-term debt. In addition, the Group had drawn MNOK 30.7 as of 31 December 2010 on various smaller credit facilities taken over through the acquisition of companies. The Group is in process of terminating these facilities in order to streamline the company’s financing further. Factoring facility The Group has a factoring facility agreement with Nordea Finans in Norway, Sweden, Finland and Denmark for the factoring of the Group’s trade receivables. The Group can borrow up to a maximum of 80% of the outstanding trade receivables through this agreement. In 2008 the factoring limit in Norway was raised from MNOK 250 to MNOK 350 and the factoring limit for the Group as a whole was MNOK 1,452.3 as of 31 December 2010. The actual drawdown available based on this agreement is dependent of the size of the trade receivables. As of 31 December 2010 the total drawdown available under this facility was MNOK 1,429.6, and MNOK 465.4 of this had been utilised. Drawings on the facility are classified as short-term debt. All trade receivables in Atea AS, Atea Sverige AB, Atea Finland Oy and Atea A/S are pledged as security for the facility. The facility has standard terms and conditions for this type of financing. Overdraft facility The Group has an overdraft facility of MNOK 132.0 provided by Nordea Bank Norge ASA. None of this facility had been utilised as of 31 December 2010. Amounts drawn on this facility are classified as short-term debt. Atea ASA’s shares in Atea Danmark Holding A/S, Atea AS, Atea Holding AB and Atea Finland Holding OY have been pledged as security for the short-term loan facility, factoring facilities and overdraft facility. Atea Danmark Holding A/S, Atea A/S, Atea AS, Atea Holding AB, Atea Sverige AB, Atea Finland Holding OY and Atea Finland OY have also furnished a guarantee as security for the loan facilities. The facilities have standard terms and conditions. The Group is exposed to interest rate changes with respect to loans based on the following repricing structure: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 6 months or less 720,3 398,5 6-12 months 1,0 5,4 1-5 years 20,5 12,4 Over 5 years Total 741,8 416,3 Atea Annual Report 64 2010 Interest on the date of the balance sheet was as follows: 2010 2009 Long-term interest-bearing loans 2,6 % 1,6 % Payments after 2010 for financial leases 2,7 % 2,4 % Short-term loan facility 3,7 % 3,6 % Factoring facility 2,7 % 2,4 % Short-term interest-bearing loans 1,9 % First year instalments for financial leases 2,7 % 2,4 % Average interest rate 3,0 % 3,1 % Maturity analysis for loans 2010 1) Less than 1-3 3 months 1-5 1 month months to 1 year years Total Financial leases 0,6 0,7 0,7 2,7 4,7 Short-term loan facility 263,3 263,3 Factoring facility 468,5 468,5 Other interest-bearing loans 19,4 19,4 Total 0,6 469,2 263,9 22,1 755,9 1) Includes interest payable Maturity analysis for loans 2009 1) Less than 1-3 3 months 1-5 1 month months to 1 year years Total Financial leases 3,6 3,6 3,7 5,7 16,7 Short-term loan facility 234,1 234,1 Factoring facility 163,9 163,9 Other interest-bearing loans 4,4 7,5 11,8 Total 3,6 167,5 242,2 13,2 426,5 1) Includes interest payable NOTE 15 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2010 (Amounts in MNOK) Loans and receivables Amortised cost Fair value 1) Financial assets Trade receivables 4 367,9 4 367,9 Other receivables 2) 264,9 264,9 Financial assets 5) 26,9 26,9 Derivative contracts 0,1 0,1 Cash and cash equivalents 404,0 404,0 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 20,5 20,5 Other long-term liabilities 3) 64,4 59,9 Trade payables 3 120,3 3 120,3 Interest-bearing current liabilities 721,3 721,3 Derivative contracts 0,8 0,8 Other current liabilities 4) 1 665,2 1 665,2 1) Book value is a reasonable estimate of fair value in cases where these numbers are identical. 2) Less prepaid expenses 3) Interest not charged, discounted amortised cost at 3M NIBOR as of 31 December 2010 assuming an average repayment period of 2 years. MNOK 12.8 is related to forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic. 4) Less provisions for restructuring and other provisions 5) Forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic Atea Annual Report 65 2010 2009 (Amounts in MNOK) Loans and receivables Amortised cost Fair value 1) Financial assets Trade receivables 3 211,4 3 211,4 Other receivables 2) 117,3 117,3 Financial assets 5) 30,3 30,3 Derivative contracts 1,0 1,0 Cash and cash equivalents 194,5 194,5 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 12,4 12,4 Other long-term liabilities 3) 22,9 21,4 Trade payables 2 162,2 2 162,2 Interest-bearing current liabilities 403,9 403,9 Derivative contracts 0,6 0,6 Other current liabilities 4) 1 264,9 1 264,9 1) Book value is a reasonable estimate of fair value in cases where these numbers are identical. 2) Less prepaid expenses 3) Interest not charged, discounted amortised cost at 3M NIBOR as of 31 December 2009 assuming an average repayment period of 2 years. MNOK 26.6 is related to forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic. 4) Less provisions for restructuring and other provisions 5) Forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic NOTE 16 TAXES Specification of income tax expenses (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Tax payable 29,1 14,6 Change in deferred tax -78,6 -117,9 Total income tax expenses -49,4 -103,3 Of which associated with continued operations -49,4 -103,3 Of which associated with discontinued operations Calculation of income tax expenses (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Profit/loss before tax 449,2 279,1 Tax calculated at the applicable tax rates in the respective countries 1) 120,1 74,3 Tax effect of the following items: Non-tax-deductible expenses/income 2) 30,8 7,0 Mergers/restructuring debt -140,1 Change in write-down of off-balance-sheet deferred tax assets -60,2 -184,7 Correction of tax expenses from previous years 0,0 Total income tax expenses -49,4 -103,3 Atea Annual Report 66 2010 2010 Book Recognised in Business value as of Recognised comprehensive Recognised combinations/ Book value 01.01.10 in P/L income in equity disposals Other 31.12.10 Tax effect on temporary differences Property, plant and equipment 45,1 -3,0 42,1 Inventories 10,4 -1,1 9,3 Long-term receivables -25,6 8,5 -17,1 Receivables 4,6 -2,5 Provisions and accruals 5,7 -6,2 Retirement benefits 0,3 0,3 Capital gain/loss account 15,7 27,0 42,7 Accruals reserve 3,3 -16,3 -13,0 Tax loss carryforward 3) 1 065,7 -60,8 53,5 1 058,4 Other differences -40,8 -6,3 -47,1 Total deferred tax assets 1 124,9 -103,5 8,5 47,2 1 077,1 Deferred tax assets not recognised on balance sheet -806,9 199,6 -607,3 Deferred tax assets recognised on the balance sheet 318,0 469,8 Intangible assets 5) -73,4 23,3 -45,0 -95,1 Other financial liabilities / Other differences -0,3 -40,8 -28,8 -69,9 Total deferred tax liabilities 6) -73,7 -17,5 -73,8 -165,1 Net deferred tax assets recognised on balance sheet 244,3 304,8 2009 Book Recognised in Business value as of Recognised comprehensive Recognised combinations/ Book value 01.01.09 in P/L income in equity disposals Other 31.12.09 Tax effect on temporary differences Property, plant and equipment 73,8 -30,2 1,5 45,1 Inventories 9,9 0,5 10,4 Long-term receivables -109,0 83,3 -25,6 Receivables 7,8 -3,2 4,6 Provisions and accruals 27,3 -21,6 5,7 Retirement benefits 0,8 -0,8 Capital gain/loss account 11,7 4,0 15,7 Accruals reserve 4,6 -1,3 3,3 Tax loss carryforward 3) 1 660,6 147,4 -742,3 1 065,7 Other differences 0,2 -0,2 Total deferred tax assets 1 687,7 94,6 83,3 -740,8 1 124,9 Deferred tax assets not recognised on balance sheet -1 468,8 -806,9 Deferred tax assets recognised on the balance sheet 218,9 318,0 Intangible assets 5) -90,7 24,2 -6,9 -73,4 Other financial liabilities / Other differences -0,9 0,6 -0,3 Total deferred tax liabilities 6) -90,7 23,3 -6,9 0,6 -73,7 Net deferred tax assets recognised on balance sheet 128,2 244,3 1) Nominal tax before deductions by country: MNOK 50.0 in Norway (28% tax rate); MNOK 45.6 in Sweden (26.3%); MNOK 1.0 in Finland (26.0%); MNOK 22.3 in Denmark (25.0%); and MNOK 1.2 in the Baltic States (0-15.0%), including the Riga office (15.0%). 2) The non-deductible expenses for the year include expenses that are not tax deductible pursuant to the Danish rules. 3) Tax loss carryforward as of 31 December 2010 totals MNOK 3,809.7 (calculated deferred tax assets total MNOK 469.8). 4) Atea recognises deferred tax assets on its balance sheet when it has been deemed adequately probable that the operations in the individual country will generate a taxable profit that the tax loss carryforward can be used to offset. Taking into account the historical losses and cyclical nature, future earnings are not deemed probable until the individual company has actually reported a taxable profit for a period of time, and when calculating tax assets that are to be recognised, the expected profit is only taken into account for a limited future period (normally limited to a maximum period of 5 years). 5) Primarily intangible assets from acquisitions. 6) Deferred tax liability recognised on the balance sheet as of 31 December 2010 totals MNOK 165.1. This liability is related primarily to depreciable excess values from business combinations,as well as deferred tax liabilities that can not be set off against corresponding deferred tax assets. Atea Annual Report 67 2010 The Group's tax loss carryforward expires as follows: 2014 No expiration Total (Amounts in MNOK) 2011 2012 2013 or later deadline 31.12.2010 Norway 3 517,2 3 517,2 Sweden 8,6 100,5 4,9 113,9 Denmark 107,3 107,3 Finland 47,1 8,2 55,3 Baltic States 15,9 15,9 TOTAL 8,6 100,5 52,0 3 648,6 3 809,7 NOTE 17 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A portion of the Group’s employees in Norway are covered by pension plans entitling them to defined future pension benefits. The pension benefits are mainly dependent on the number of contribution years, wage level upon reaching retirement age and the size of the social security benefits. Almost all of the foreign subsidiaries have pension plans that are contribution plans. The pension agreements for the Norwegian companies in the Group are financed through group insurance plans with two life insurance companies. The Group’s obligations cover 295 employees as of 31 December 2010. Pension obligations are based on the following economic assumptions: (%) 2010 1) 2009 2008 Discount rate 3,9 4,4 3,8 Expected return on plan assets 5,3 5,6 5,8 Annual expected wage inflation 4,0 3,0 3,0 Adjustment of statutory basic amount 3,8 4,0 3,8 Future increase in pension benefits 1,2 1,3 1,5 1) The Group’s choice of pension assumptions are according to the Norwegian Accounting Standards Board’s recommended pension assumptions NRS (V). Net pension costs are determined as follows: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Present value of pension benefits earned during the period 13,2 11,5 9,6 Interest cost of pension obligations 7,7 7,0 7,9 Expected return on plan assets -7,6 -7,9 -7,0 Employer's social security tax Recognised effect of plan changes 1) -9,4 Recognised effect of actuarial gains or losses 2) 20,0 3,1 1,1 Pension costs, defined benefit plans 23,9 13,6 11,5 Pension costs, defined contribution plans 139,0 122,6 100,4 Pension costs for the year (see Note 19) 162,9 136,3 112,0 1) Impact of curtailment arising from issue of paid-up policies to disability-, widow /childand retirement pensioners in Atea AS, at 31 December 2010. 2) Impact of curtailment according to footnote 1). Relative part of actuarial losses are carried simultaneously with issue of paid-up policies. Increased pension cost is also due to reduction of discount rate and changed predictions for expected annual salary growth. Atea Annual Report 68 2010 Actual pension obligations and net pension obligations: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Gross pension obligations 162,0 180,6 195,6 Plan assets at market value 1) 109,9 151,8 145,7 Net pension obligations at market value 52,1 28,9 49,9 Unrecognised effect of actuarial gains and losses -43,1 -29,4 -47,0 Employer's social security tax Net pension obligations 9,0 -0,5 2,9 Of which recognised on the balance sheet as plan assets (long-term receivables) 2) 4,1 1,5 Of which recognised on the balance sheet as pension obligations (long-term liabilities) 2) 13,1 0,9 2,9 1) Plan assets at market value are not allocated to any main category/asset class. This is due to the fact that the Group's pension plans are fully insured (100% insured plan) with Storebrand Kapitalforsikring. 2) The group has two defined benefit plans, each of which report net pension assets and net pension liabilities that cannot be offset. Movement in net obligations recognised on the balance sheet: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 As of 1 January -0,5 2,9 -0,5 Change due to divestment of businesses Change due to acquisition of businesses 4,0 Total expenses, see above 23,9 13,6 11,5 Premiums paid -18,4 -17,0 -8,1 As of 31 December 9,0 -0,5 2,9 All new employees are enrolled in the defined benefit plan. The agreement covers all employees over age 20 who work at least 20% of a full-time position. The defined contribution plan corresponds to 2% of wages between 1 to 12 times the National Insurance basic amount. The contributions are managed by Storebrand Kapitalforsikring. NOTE 18 PROVISIONS Losses on Profit-sharing Discontinued Legal and tax fixed price (Amounts in MNOK) Restructuring and bonuses operations claims contracts Total As of January 2010 38,5 103,3 2,6 144,4 Recognised during the year: Additional provisions during the year 35,6 329,9 1,2 366,7 Unutilised provisions reversed 0,7 0,8 1,5 Currency translation differences -0,6 1,9 0,0 1,3 Reversed, unutilised provisions from last year Used during the year -25,8 -313,9 -3,8 -343,5 As of December 2010 48,4 121,9 0,1 170,4 Losses on Profit-sharing Discontinued Legal and tax fixed price (Amounts in MNOK) Restructuring and bonuses operations claims contracts Total As of January 2009 66,0 118,6 2,7 187,3 Recognised during the year: Additional provisions during the year 17,9 325,8 1,1 344,9 Unutilised provisions reversed -5,3 -5,3 Reversed, unutilised provisions from last year Used during the year -36,3 -331,0 -1,1 -368,4 As of December 2009 38,5 103,3 2,6 144,4 Atea Annual Report 69 2010 Provisions are recognised when Atea has a valid liability and it can be proven probable that a financial settlement will take place as a result of this liability, and that the size of the amount can be measured reliably. Provisions reflects the best estimate of the liability at the balance sheet date. All provisions booked at year-end 2010, except provisions for empty office space, are expected to be utilised in 2011. Provisions for empty office space (MNOK 48.4) will be utilised over the remaining term of the corresponding lease agreements (2011-2014). When provisions for empty office space are made the cost according to the leasing agreement is compared with expected rental income (price and timing of subleasing). The judgements involve uncertainty and represent the management’s best estimate at the balance sheet date. Restructuring The costs are mainly related to costs for empty office space that are not linked to revenues in future periods. Discontinued operations Includes provisions towards the buyer and the divested entity undertaken in connection with discontinued operations. Legal and tax claims Atea has been sued by Sydbank A/S, Krone Kapital A/S and Danske Bank A/S in connection with disputes related to invoiced licences. Atea considers the claims to be unfounded and has contested them in their entirety. If the dispute ends nevertheless with a negative outcome, Atea is insured and no provisions have, therefore, been set aside in the accounts for this matter. Profit-sharing and bonuses Includes provisions related to profit and revenue related bonuses to management and employees. Fixed-price loss contracts Any expected excess of total contract costs over total contract revenue is recognised as an expense (liability) when identified. NOTE 19 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSE AND REMUNERATIONS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Wages and salaries 2 025,3 1 882,5 1 805,8 Employer's social security tax 321,9 312,2 293,7 Option plans for management and employees 12,3 16,6 8,5 Pension costs (see Note 17) 162,9 136,3 112,0 Other personnel expenses 174,6 149,0 167,6 Total employee compensation and benefit expenses 2 697,0 2 496,6 2 387,6 Average number of employees (continued operations) 5 198 4 366 4 289 Salaries and remuneration to management in the Group President and CEO of Atea ASA Claus Hougesen received a salary of KDKK 2,946 in 2010 (KDKK 2,838 in 2009), as well as a option gain of KDKK 4,242. The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KDKK 132 (KDKK 156 in 2009). The President and CEO is not entitled to any special compensation upon the termination of his employment. Executive Vice President and CFO of Atea ASA Rune Falstad received a salary of KNOK 2,318 in 2010 (KNOK 2,223 in 2009), as well as a performance-based bonus of KNOK 1,000 (KNOK 789 in 2009) and an option gain of KNOK 3,081. The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KNOK 219 (KNOK 217 in 2009), and the annual defined benefit pension earned (service cost) was KNOK 102 (KNOK 102 in 2009). Managing Director of Atea A/S (Denmark) Peter Trans received a salary of KDKK 2,296 in 2010 (KDKK 1,983 in 2009). The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KDKK 23 (KDKK 74 in 2009). Managing Director of Atea Sverige AB Lars Pettersson received a salary of KSEK 3,279 in 2010 (KSEK 3,153 in 2009), as well an option gain of KSEK 674. No bonus in 2010 (KSEK 1,500 in 2009). The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KSEK 93 (KSEK 121 in 2009). Benefits related to a defined contribution pension scheme totalled KSEK 716 (KSEK 825 in 2009). Atea Annual Report 70 2010 Managing Director of Atea AS (Norway) Steinar Sønsteby received a salary of KNOK 2,278 in 2010 (KNOK 2,278 in 2009), as well as an option gain of KNOK 1,227 and bonus of KNOK 500 (KNOK 500 in 2009). The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KNOK 237 (KNOK 154 in 2009), and the annual defined benefit pension earned (service cost) was KNOK 53 (KNOK 72 in 2009). Managing Director of Atea Finland Oy Juha Sihvonen received a salary of KEUR 177 in 2010 (KEUR 160 in 2009), as well an option gain of KEUR 184 and a bonus of KEUR 16. The value of payments in kind for 2010 was KEUR 42 (KEUR 37 in 2009). Managing Director of Atea UAB Arunas Bartusevicius received a salary of KLTL 237 in 2010 (KLTL 258 in 2009) and payments in kind of KLTL 7 (KLTL 5 in 2009). Option gain of KLTL 349 in 2010. Shares and options owned by key employees are described in Note 12. Board of Director’s declaration and guidelines in accordance with Section 6-16a of the Norwegian Public Limited Companies Act for the General Meeting’s approval. In accordance with Section 5-6 of the Norwegian Public Limited Companies Act, the General Meeting must consider the Board of Directors’ declaration regarding salaries and remuneration of the executive management. The General Meeting shall conduct a consultative vote on the Board of Director’s proposal for guidelines for salaries and remuneration of the executive management, and the guidelines for benefits as mentioned in Section 6-16a of the Norwegian Public Limited Companies Act, first paragraph, item 3, shall be approved by the General Meeting. The Board of Directors has given the following declaration: 1. Salaries and other remuneration of the executive management in the previous financial year The Company has a special Compensation Committee that submits a recommendation to the Board of Directors with regard to the level of salary and other benefits for the Company’s executive management. In accordance with the guidelines established by the company’s Board of Directors, the salary and other remuneration payable to the President and CEO is determined by the Board of Directors, while salaries and other remunerations payable to other members of the executive management (group’s senior managers) are determined by the President and CEO in consultation with the Board Chairman. To obtain the management that the Board of Directors finds to be satisfactory, salaries and other remunerations are determined based on the principle that the overall compensation package for each individual shall be competitive and adapted to the market conditions. The variations that exist in the various countries and the size and complexity of the businesses are taken into account when establishing the terms. Compensation of the executive management is based on a fixed salary plus a performance-based bonus. In addition, members of the executive management receive certain benefits in kind, including company cars, telephone/Internet and journals/newspapers. The type of pension scheme that members of the executive management are members of varies. Some of them are members of the pension scheme that applies to the company they are employed in, while others receive special compensation. The terms of employment for the executive management vary with regard to their entitlement to severance or termination payments in connection with the termination of their employment. All the members of the executive management have received share options earlier. A more detailed description of what compensation was paid in 2010 can be found in Note 19 to the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The Board of Directors believes that the effect on the company and the shareholders of the compensation agreements that were entered into or amended in accordance with the description above in the previous financial year has been positive due to the fact that the company has been able to hold on to and attract the human resources that are required to fulfil the company’s objectives. 2. Guidelines for salaries and other remuneration to the executive management in the coming financial year The Board of Directors shall determine the salary and other remuneration paid to the President and CEO. Salaries and remunerations payable to other members of the executive management shall be determined by the President and CEO in consultation with the Board Chairman based on the Compensation Committee’s recommendation. The combined salary and remuneration payable to individuals shall be competitive and adapted to the market conditions. In addition to a salary (with the addition of ordinary benefits in kind such as company cars, telephony/IT, journals, etc.) and pension scheme, which shall in general be in accordance with what has been paid in earlier years, it shall be possible to award bonuses and share options. The management’s fixed salary will not be adjusted for 2011 according to plan, and motivation of the management will be based instead on the bonus system and options to buy shares in the Company. The management’s incentives will accordingly be more consistent with the interests of the shareholders. Share options shall be allotted based on the following principles: i) The share options shall be used in connection with recruitment and to hold on to key managers and employees. The allotment shall be made by the President and CEO in consultation with the Board Chairman. Atea Annual Report 71 2010 ii) Unless the Board Chairman consents otherwise in special cases, a vesting period shall be established for the share options. As a rule the total number of options that are allotted to individual employees shall be earned over a period of three years, with one-third of the options being earned each year. iii) The exercise price shall not be set lower than the market price of the share at the time of allotment.. Remuneration to the Board of Directors of Atea ASA KNOK 1,200 was paid in fees to the Board of Directors of Atea ASA in 2010 (KNOK 1,058 in 2009). Fees to the Chairman of the Board amounted to KNOK 300, fees to the employee representatives amounted to KNOK 100 each and the rest of the Board of Directors received a fee of KNOK 150 each. Shares and options owned by the Board of Directors are described in Note 12. Loans to employees of group companies Employees have loans from group companies totalling KNOK 448 as of 31 December 2010. Audit fees The table below shows Deloitte’s total charges for auditing and other services in 2010. All amounts are exclusive of VAT. (Amounts in NOK 1,000) 2010 2009 Audit fees 5 948 6 141 Attestation services 996 859 Tax advisory services 934 819 Other non-audit services 3 415 1 301 11 293 9 121 NOTE 20 CORPORATE STRUCTURE OF THE ATEA GROUP Local Voting rights / From date currency ownership (%) Primary activity Atea ASA NOK Listed Holding Eterra AS NOK 100,00 % Dormant Merkantildata AS NOK 100,00 % Dormant Norway Atea AS NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Impact Europe Norge AS 20.05.2010 NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Dropzone AS 09.06.2010 NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Umoe IKT AS 21.12.2010 NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Computerland AS NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Portal Norge AS NOK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Finans AS NOK 90,10 % Financial services Sweden Atea Holding AB SEK 100,00 % Holding Atea AB SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Borås AB 12.02.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Karlstad AB 18.02.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Eskilstuna AB 17.02.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Västerås AB 17.02.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Store Karlstad AB 18.02.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Impact Europe AB 21.05.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Portal AB 09.08.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Dropzone AB 01.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Benzler Group AB 13.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Benzler Data AB 13.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Benzler Finans AB 13.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Benzler Konsult AB 13.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Benzler Invest AB 13.12.2010 SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Gøteborg AB SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Information Management AB SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Topnordic AB SEK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Finans AB SEK 90,10 % Financial services Atea Annual Report 72 2010 Denmark Atea Danmark Holding A/S DKK 100,00 % Holding Atea A/S DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Kompetencecenteret A/S DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure dmsave A/S DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure DTK A/S 05.01.2010 DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Belle Balance A/S 19.08.2010 DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Topnordic Danmark A/S DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Ementor Consulting A/S DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Danmark A/S 01.11.2010 DKK 100,00 % IT infrastructure Atea Finans A/S DKK 90,10 % Financial services Finland Atea Finland Holding Oy EUR 100,00% Holding Atea Oy EUR 100,00% IT infrastructure Datawest Oy 25.10.2010 EUR 100,00% IT infrastructure Ten Of Ten Oy 15.11.2010 EUR 100,00% IT infrastructure PALnet Oy 17.02.2010 EUR 100,00% IT infrastructure Topnordic Finland Oy EUR 100,00% IT infrastructure Atea Finans Oy EUR 90,10% Financial services Baltic States etc. UAB Atea Baltic LTL 79,15% Holding UAB Atea Lithuania LTL 100,00% IT infrastructure UAB Tetraneta Lithuania LTL 100,00% IT infrastructure UAB Solver Lithuania LTL 100,00% IT infrastructure AS Alarm Est Estonia EEK 100,00% IT infrastructure SIA Sonex Tech. Latvia LVL 100,00% IT infrastructure SIA Atea Softex Latvia LVL 100,00% IT infrastructure Atea Logistics, Atea Service Center and Spintop AB Atea Logistikk AB SEK 100,00% IT infrastructure Atea Spintop AB SEK 100,00% IT infrastructure Atea Service Center SIA LVL 100,00% IT infrastructure NOTE 21 NET FINANCIAL ITEMS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Interest income 1) 47,1 37,8 64,0 Other financial income 73,8 52,5 87,1 Total financial income 120,8 90,3 151,1 Interest costs on loans 1) 68,9 74,5 125,9 Interest costs on financial leases 1) 0,3 0,5 0,7 Other financial expenses 76,9 70,2 91,1 Total financial expenses 146,1 145,2 217,7 Total net financial items -25,3 -55,0 -66,7 Currency translation differences recognised as an expense/income in the income statement as follows: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Included in operating profit/loss 2) -2,0 3,9 -6,0 Included in net financial income 2) 73,4 52,1 84,6 Included in net financial expenses 2) 73,3 56,3 84,4 Total -1,9 -0,3 -5,9 1) Interest paid in 2010 totals MNOK 69.2 (MNOK 75.0 in 2009 and MNOK 126.6 in 2008). Interest received in 2010 totals MNOK 47.1 (MNOK 37.8 in 2009 and MNOK 64.0 in 2008). 2) Currency translation differences are related to short-term asset and liability items. Atea Annual Report 73 2010 NOTE 22 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year. (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss from continued operations, less non-controlling interests 497,4 382,3 431,0 Profit/loss for the year from discontinued operations -0,0 Group's profit/loss for the year 497,4 382,3 431,0 Weighted average number of outstanding shares (in millions) 94,1 91,9 93,9 Basic earnings per share for continued operations (NOK) 5,29 4,16 4,59 Basic earnings per share for discontinued operations (NOK) -0,00 Basic earnings per share for the entire operations (NOK) 5,29 4,16 4,59 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. The Company’s dilutive potential ordinary shares are share options issued. A calculation is done to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value (determined as the average annual market share price of the Company’s shares) based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options. The number of shares calculated as above is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming the exercise of the share options. (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss from continued operations, less non-controlling interests 497,4 382,3 431,0 Profit/loss for the year from discontinued operations -0,0 Group's profit/loss for the year 497,4 382,3 431,0 Weighted average number of diluted outstanding shares (in millions) 95,1 92,2 94,2 Diluted earnings per share for continued operations (NOK) 5,23 4,15 4,58 Diluted earnings per share for discontinued operations (NOK) -0,00 Diluted earnings per share for the entire operations (NOK) 5,23 4,15 4,58 NOTE 23 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND ASSETS Ordinary course of business The Group has contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. It is not anticipated that any material liabilities will arise from the contingent liabilities. The Group has given guarantees in the ordinary course of business amounting to MNOK 8,466.3 (MNOK 8,131.2 in 2009) to external parties (see Note 24). Legal disputes Atea has been sued by Sydbank A/S, Krone Kapital A/S and Danske Bank A/S in connection with disputes related to invoiced licences. Atea considers the claims to be unfounded and has contested them in their entirety. If the dispute ends nevertheless with a negative outcome, Atea is insured and no provisions have, therefore, been set aside in the accounts for this matter. Atea Annual Report 74 2010 NOTE 24 COMMITMENTS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Guarantees to financial institutions 1) 7 747,3 7 382,2 Guarantees to business associates 2) 589,7 588,3 Bank guarantees 3) 88,2 134,6 Residual value obligations related to leasing activities 4) 41,2 26,1 Total guarantees 8 466,3 8 131,2 1) The major subsidiaries in each country (including the logistics company) have issued guarantees in favour of Nordea Bank and Nordea Finans as security for the short-term facility, factoring facility (see Note 14), cash pool facility and overdraft facility. 2) As part of the ordinary operations, parent company guarantees are furnished to suppliers and partners on behalf of subsidiaries. 3) As a regular part of operations, guarantees are given for fulfilment of contracts, advances from customers and lease matters. Such guarantees usually involve a financial institution issuing a guarantee as security for the customer. In addition, this amount includes MNOK 36.0 in tax withholding guarantees. 4) The leasing companies have a residual value obligation of MNOK 41.2 (MNOK 26.1 in 2009) on the outstanding leasing contracts. No losses have been incurred as a result of this, and the risk of incurring losses is considered to be low. It is considered improbable (i.e. < 10%) that Atea ASA will incur any charges as a result of guarantee liabilities the company has incurred on behalf of the subsidiaries. Since the financing companies were established in 2007, no losses have been incurred with respect to the residual value of leasing activities. Pledged assets As security for the Group’s credit facilities (see Note 14), Atea ASA has pledged the shares of all the major subsidiaries in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The Group’s book equity for these entities totals MNOK 3,971.5 (MNOK 3,437.8 in 2009). All trade receivables in Atea Norge AS, Atea A/S, Atea Sverige AB and Atea Finland Oy are pledged as security for the factoring facility (see Note 15). The book value of trade receivables pledged as security totals MNOK 4,367.8 (MNOK 3,211.4 in 2009). NOTE 25 RELATED PARTIES The Group’s related parties are owners and management (see Notes 12 and 19). Gross intercompany sales were MNOK 3,105 (MNOK 2,442 for 2009), and are eliminated at the Group level. MNOK 2,995 of this revenue represents sales from Atea Logistics to other Group companies. The transactions are generally carried out on ordinary commercial terms. NOTE 26 BUSINESS COMBINATIONS In 2010 the Group acquired 15* companies. Most of the entities were integrated into various units of the Atea Group during the year. This means that it is not appropriate or practical to show revenues and earnings for the sum total of the acquired units for the period from the date of acquisition to year-end 2010. The name of the acquired companies by country can be found in the Board of Directors’ report, Note 5 and the table below. * Impact Europe Norge AS and Impact Europe AB are announced to the Stock Exchange as one acquisition. Similarly, Dropzone AS and Dropzone AB are announced as one acquisition. Atea Annual Report 75 2010 Breakdown of the acquired net assets and goodwill is as follows: 4 Office Impact Calamus print/copy Europe Impact (Amounts in MNOK) Danmark A/S companies PALnet Oy Norge AS Europe AB Acquisition date 05.01.10 12.02.10 17.02.10 20.05.10 21.05.10 Country Denmark Sweden Finland Norway Sweden Voting rights/ownership interest 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% Acquisition cost: Consideration 2) 34,8 25,5 42,9 1,2 29,2 Adjustment of cost price 0,6 -3,2 Liabilities assumed 2,6 10,7 Direct costs associated with acquisitions 0,6 Fair value of shares issued Total acquisition cost 36,0 24,8 53,6 1,2 29,2 Carrying value of equity (see table below) -27,2 -1,0 17,5 -5,4 5,9 Identification of excess value: Contracts and customer relationships 14,6 12,6 14,7 7,2 Computer software and rights Fair value of tangible fixed assets Deferred tax -3,7 -3,3 -3,8 -1,9 Net excess value 11,0 9,3 10,9 5,3 Fair value of net assets acquired, excluding goodwill -16,3 8,3 28,4 -5,4 11,2 Controlling ownership interests -16,3 8,3 28,4 -5,4 11,2 Non-controlling ownership interests Goodwill 1) 52,3 16,6 25,3 6,6 18,0 1) Goodwill is related to the expected synergies in connection with the acquisitions. 2) Consideration that is dependent on future results is recognised as an obligation based on the fair value at the time of the acquisition. Assets and liabilities related to the acquisitions in 2010 are as follows: 4 Office Impact Calamus print/copy Europe Impact (Amounts in MNOK) Danmark A/S companies PALnet Oy Norge AS Europe AB Property, plant and equipment 5,4 2,0 3,9 0,5 2,2 Goodwill 1,6 1,6 Other intangible assets 0,0 0,1 Computer software & rights Deferred tax assets 1,6 1,3 Other long-term interest-bearing receivables Retirement benefit obligations Long-term receivables from employees Other long-term receivables 0,3 Inventories 28,3 14,8 5,3 2,1 5,4 Trade receivables 50,3 13,3 7,3 5,1 13,2 Uninvoiced income 0,3 3,1 Provisions for losses on receivables -0,5 -0,4 -1,3 Other current receivables and investments 2,5 4,1 0,4 0,6 5,6 Other current receivables, non-interest-bearing 4,0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,1 6,0 12,3 1,3 Non-controlling ownership interests Interest-bearing long-term liabilities -38,0 -3,3 -0,2 -6,6 Other long-term liabilities and provisions -1,3 -2,6 Deferred tax liabilities -0,5 -0,3 -0,2 Trade payables -15,4 -15,9 -7,2 -1,9 -7,0 Interest-bearing loan facilities -38,1 -12,7 -3,2 Interest-bearing current leasing/borrowing liabilities -1,4 Other current liabilities -3,0 Other current liabilities and provisions -22,7 -13,9 -4,3 -7,1 -8,1 Net assets acquired -27,2 -1,0 17,5 -5,4 5,9 Net cash payments in connection with the acquisitions are as follows: Consideration and costs in cash and cash equivalents 22,2 24,3 42,9 29,2 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -1,1 -6,1 -12,3 -1,3 Net cash payments for the acquisitions 21,1 18,2 30,6 -1,3 29,2 Atea Annual Report 76 2010 Belle Benzler Dropzone AS Dropzone AB Portal AB Balance A/S Ten of Ten OY Datawest OY Group AB Umoe IKT AS Total 09.06.10 01.12.10 09.08.10 19.08.10 15.11.10 25.10.10 13.12.10 21.12.10 Norway Sweden Sweden Denmark Finland Finland Sweden Norway 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 36,5 0,9 84,3 47,7 14,4 3,8 56,3 34,7 412,1 15,9 13,3 21,1 34,4 0,6 105,8 105,8 36,5 0,9 105,4 47,7 14,4 3,8 72,2 140,5 566,2 4,9 0,8 18,2 5,3 1,8 -0,2 43,4 36,8 100,7 2,4 14,0 7,4 4,1 2,1 3,0 42,1 124,1 49,1 49,1 -0,7 -3,7 -14,1 -1,1 -0,5 -0,8 -11,8 -45,3 1,7 10,3 42,4 3,0 1,5 2,2 30,3 127,9 6,6 0,8 28,5 47,7 4,8 1,3 45,7 67,1 228,6 6,6 0,8 28,5 47,7 4,8 1,3 45,7 67,1 228,6 29,9 0,0 76,9 0,0 9,6 2,5 26,6 73,4 337,6 Belle Benzler Dropzone AS Dropzone AB Portal AB Balance A/S Ten of Ten OY Datawest OY Group AB Umoe IKT AS Total 0,1 2,0 0,7 0,1 0,1 5,5 9,4 31,9 3,7 0,0 118,7 125,6 0,3 0,0 0,5 0,7 2,2 3,9 6,9 24,5 27,4 0,0 21,3 21,7 18,1 1,6 3,8 11,6 90,8 18,6 60,4 5,7 2,7 5,3 63,0 161,9 406,8 0,3 0,9 4,6 -0,0 -2,4 -4,6 1,0 9,8 1,4 0,3 0,1 9,2 1,2 36,1 28,5 13,0 45,5 7,9 0,8 41,5 0,4 0,1 3,9 -9,3 66,1 -48,1 -0,9 -9,2 -14,0 -3,1 -0,0 -1,1 -5,3 -21,1 -47,4 -36,9 -0,6 -4,5 -59,1 -217,1 -11,9 -17,3 -83,2 -1,4 -2,6 -5,6 -2,5 -15,7 -6,6 -1,1 -0,3 -14,2 -287,4 -384,0 4,9 0,8 18,2 5,3 1,8 -0,2 43,4 36,8 100,7 36,5 0,9 84,3 47,7 10,3 3,1 56,0 30,2 387,5 -7,9 -0,8 -41,5 -0,4 -0,1 -3,9 9,3 -66,2 28,7 0,0 84,3 6,2 9,8 3,0 52,1 39,5 321,3 Atea Annual Report 77 2010 If the acquisitions had taken place on 1 January 2010, the Group's calculated pro forma results for 2010 and 2009 would be as follows: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Operating revenues 18 876,1 17 207,9 Operating profit/loss 459,3 336,2 Profit/loss for the year 1) 424,3 374,5 Ordinary earnings per share (NOK) 2) 4,51 4,07 1) A zero tax rate is assumed for both 2010 and 2009 in the pro forma figures. It is assumed that carry forward losses and other negative temporary differences are utilised in the calculation of payable tax in all countries, and net change of deferred tax / tax asset is zero in the period. 2) Calculated based on the number of shares as of 31 December. Pro forma figures are meant to provide a basis for comparison based on the Group’s composition at the end of 2010. Pro forma figures are encumbered with greater uncertainty than are the actual historical figures, and will not necessarily reflect the results that would have been realised if the purchases and sales of businesses had actually been made at an earlier date. 2009: The Group acquired five companies/assets in 2009. The new entities were integrated as a part of the Atea Group during the year. No separate figures exist for revenues and results of the acquired entities for the period from the date of acquisition to year-end in 2009. The name of the acquired companies by country can be found in the table below. Breakdown of the acquired net assets and goodwill is as follows: Mondo A CommuniUni (Amounts in MNOK) AC Sikring Aprismo Hosting OnSite cations Networks Sum Acquisition date 13.08.09 14.12.09 26.06.09 26.06.09 31.10.09 22.12.09 Country Denmark Denmark Denmark Denmark Finland Norway Voting rights/ownership interest 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% 100,00% Acquisition cost: Consideration 2) 7,5 8,0 16,8 4,0 36,3 Adjustment of cost price Liabilities assumed 13,8 -2,1 11,2 1,0 23,9 Direct costs associated with acquisitions 0,1 0,2 0,3 Fair value of shares issued Total acquisition cost 7,6 21,8 -2,1 27,9 5,2 60,5 Carrying value of equity (see table below) 1,3 -8,2 10,8 1,5 5,4 Identification of excess value: Contracts and customer relationships 1,4 0,0 20,8 4,2 0,7 27,0 Computer software and rights 0,7 0,7 Fair value of tangible fixed assets Deferred tax -0,3 -0,0 -5,2 -1,2 -0,2 -6,9 Net excess value 1,0 0,0 16,2 3,0 0,5 20,8 Fair value of net assets acquired, excluding goodwill 2,4 0,0 8,0 13,8 2,0 26,2 Controlling ownership interests 2,4 0,0 8,0 13,8 2,0 26,2 Non-controlling ownership interests Goodwill 1) 5,3 -0,0 13,8 -2,1 14,1 3,2 34,3 1) Goodwill is related to the expected synergies in connection with the acquisitions. 2) Consideration that is dependent on future results is recognised as an obligation based on the fair value at the time of the acquisition. Atea Annual Report 78 2010 Assets and liabilities related to the acquisitions in 2009 are as follows: Mondo A CommuniUni (Amounts in MNOK) AC Sikring Aprismo Hosting OnSite cations Networks Sum Property, plant and equipment 4,8 0,1 3,6 0,5 0,0 8,9 Goodwill Other intangible assets Deferred tax assets 1,2 0,1 1,3 Other long-term interest-bearing receivables Retirement benefit obligations Long-term receivables from employees Other long-term receivables Inventories 3,1 0,3 3,4 Trade receivables 1,9 0,0 7,0 0,8 9,8 Uninvoiced income 0,3 0,3 Provisions for losses on receivables Other current receivables and investments 4,9 0,4 0,1 0,1 5,5 Other current receivables, non-interest-bearing 2,3 2,3 Cash and cash equivalents 0,0 9,4 1,6 11,0 Non-controlling ownership interests Interest-bearing long-term liabilities -5,8 -5,8 Other long-term liabilities and provisions Deferred tax liabilities Trade payables -1,1 -2,5 -0,7 -4,3 Interest-bearing loan facilities -6,3 -6,3 Interest-bearing current leasing/borrowing liabilities -2,9 -2,9 Other current liabilities Other current liabilities and provisions -6,8 -0,1 -6,4 -3,7 -0,8 -17,9 Net assets acquired 1,3 -8,2 10,8 1,5 5,4 Net cash payments in connection with the acquisitions are as follow: Consideration and costs in cash and cash equivalents 7,5 8,0 21,6 4,0 41,1 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -0,0 -9,4 -1,6 -11,0 Net cash payments for the acquisitions 7,5 8,0 12,2 2,4 30,1 If the acquisitions above and sales of businesses described in Note 6 had been carried out as of 1 January 2008, the Group’s calculated pro forma results for 2008 and 2007 would be as follows (Amounts in MNOK) 2009 2008 Operating revenues 14 624,0 15 089,6 Operating profit/loss 337,1 397,4 Profit for the year 1) 385,7 424,6 Ordinary earnings per share (NOK) 2) 4,04 4,45 1) A zero tax rate is assumed for both 2010 and 2009 in the pro forma figures. It is assumed that carry forward losses and other negative temporary differences are utilised in the calculation of payable tax in all countries, and net change of deferred tax / tax asset is zero in the period. 2) Calculated based on the number of shares as of 31 December. Pro forma figures are encumbered with greater uncertainty than are the actual historical figures, and will not necessarily reflect the results that would have been realised if the purchases and sales of businesses had actually been made at an earlier date. Atea Annual Report 79 2010 During the period from 01 January 2011 to 17 March 2011 (date of the Board’s approval of the annual accounts and notes) Atea has completed the following acquisitions / business combinations (100% of the shares were acquired in all cases): Fair value Book Identified of acquired Amounts Takeover Acquisition value of net excess assets, excl. Enterprise in MNOK Country date cost equity value goodwill Goodwill value Revenues EBITDA Malux Data AB *) Norway 16.02.11 5,6 0,4 1,0 1,5 4,2 6,5 16,9 1,8 SCT Sweden 15.03.11 31,5 8,9 6,1 15,0 16,5 32,3 63,0 8,0 *) Acquisition has taken place as an asset transaction NOTE 27 NON-CONTROLLING OWNERSHIP INTERESTS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Opening balance at the beginning of the year 3,7 3,5 Additions/Disposals -3,8 1,9 Share of profit for the year 1,2 0,2 1,6 Closing balance at the end of the year 1,1 3,7 3,5 The Group owns 90.1% of the financing companies in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Atea ASA acquired 78.35% of the shares in Sonex Group Holding UAB effective 21 January 2008. Atea ASA acquired an additional 0.4% of the shares in Sonex Group Holding UAB in 2009, and an equal acquisition in 2010. Atea Annual Report 80 2010 ATEA ASA FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Content Page Atea ASA Statement of comprehensive income 82 Statement of financial position 83 Statement of changes in equity 84 Statement of cash flow 84 Notes 85 Atea Annual Report 81 2010 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATEA ASA (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 2008 Operating revenues 1 Employee compensation and benefit expenses 11 24,9 27,0 17,0 Depreciation 3 0,3 Other operating expenses -8,2 -6,2 -6,9 Operating profit/loss -17,1 -20,8 -10,0 Financial income 261,1 277,9 784,7 Financial expenses 227,9 498,7 252,3 Net financial items 12 33,1 -220,8 532,4 Profit/loss before tax from continued operations 16,0 -241,6 522,4 Taxes on continued operations 9 6,8 39,0 -35,1 Profit/loss for the year 1) 9,2 -280,6 557,5 Earnings per share 2) (Amounts in NOK) – earnings per share 0,10 -2,94 5,84 – diluted earnings per share 0,10 -2,93 5,82 1) Profit/loss for the year equals the total profit/loss since the company has no income or expenses that are not included in profit/loss for the year. 2) Both the time-weighted number of ordinary shares and time-weighted number of diluted shares are the same for the Group (see Note 22 for the Group). Atea Annual Report 82 2010 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION ATEA ASA (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 2008 ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 2 0,6 Deferred tax assets 9 22,0 27,2 66,2 Interest-bearing long-term receivables 7 1 776,5 1 830,7 2 128,2 Investments in subsidiaries 3 1 462,7 1 425,2 1 415,9 Non-current assets 3 261,8 3 283,1 3 610,3 Other receivables 4 135,4 158,1 288,4 Financial assets 8 26,9 30,3 37,9 Cash and cash equivalents 5 174,6 27,2 563,8 Current assets 336,9 215,6 890,0 Total assets 3 598,7 3 498,7 4 500,3 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Share capital and premiums 15 1 574,8 1 524,4 1 515,5 Other unrecognised reserves Retained earnings 793,3 786,2 1 134,3 Equity 2 368,1 2 310,6 2 649,8 Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 7 387,1 466,5 450,4 Non-interest-bearing long-term liabilities 8 12,8 26,6 34,0 Retirement benefit obligations 10 1,0 0,9 0,9 Non-current liabilities 400,9 494,1 485,2 Trade payables 6 2,2 3,2 2,1 Interest-bearing current liabilities 5, 7 223,3 225,8 385,5 Other current liabilities 6 604,3 464,9 977,7 Current liabilities 829,7 694,0 1 365,2 Total liabilities 1 230,6 1 188,0 1 850,4 Total equity and liabilities 3 598,7 3 498,7 4 500,3 Oslo, 17 March 2011 Ib Kunøe Sigrun Hjelmquist Morten Jurs Kristine M. Madsen Claus Hougesen Chairman of the Board CEO Marthe Dyrud Jørn Irving Goldstein Karin S. Løkke Sven Madsen Atea Annual Report 83 2010 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY ATEA ASA Shared capital Other unrecognised and premiums 1) reserves Retained earnings Share Currency Share premium Forward translation Option Retained (Amounts in MNOK) capital reserve contracts differences programme earnings Total equity Equity as of 1 January 2009 917,4 598,1 38,4 1 095,9 2 649,8 Loss for the year -280,6 -280,6 Change in treasury shares 8,9 15,9 24,8 Issue of share capital Employee share options, value of employee contribution 8,3 8,3 Dividend -91,7 -91,7 Equity as of 31 December 2009 926,3 598,1 46,7 739,5 2 310,6 Equity as of 1 January 2010 926,3 598,1 46,7 739,5 2 310,6 Profit for the year 9,2 9,2 Change in treasury shares 28,9 102,3 131,3 Issue of share capital 7,7 13,8 21,5 Employee share options, value of employee contribution 12,8 12,8 Dividend -117,3 -117,3 Equity as of 31 December 2010 962,9 611,9 59,5 733,8 2 368,1 1) See also Note 15 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW ATEA ASA (Amounts in MNOK) Note 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss before tax 16,0 -241,6 522,4 Depreciation and write-downs 0,3 Intercompany interest charges with no effect on cash flow 18,1 -100,3 -172,3 Currency translation differences with no effect on cash flow 30,2 297,6 -402,3 Options 2,7 3,3 1,3 Invoicing of management fee with no effect on cash flow -16,0 -15,0 -15,1 Change in trade payables -1,1 1,1 -2,0 Change in other accruals 37,1 282,3 -84,0 Net cash flow from operational activities 87,4 227,4 -152,0 Acquisition and capitalisation of subsidiaries -3,6 -3,9 -132,8 Purchase of tangible/intangible fixed assets -0,9 Payments on loans to subsidiaries 10,0 Net cash flow from investment activities -4,5 6,1 -132,8 Purchase/sale of treasury shares 15 34,0 17,8 -70,6 Proceeds from new issues 15 21,4 Dividend distributions -117,3 -91,7 Proceeds from raising loans 126,4 -696,2 493,2 Net cash flow from financing activities 64,5 -770,1 422,6 Net change in cash and cash equivalents for the year 147,4 -536,6 137,8 Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the year 5 27,2 563,8 426,0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 5 174,6 27,2 563,8 Atea Annual Report 84 2010 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES About Atea ASA These are the financial statements of Atea ASA, which is the holding company for the Group and includes the Group’s top management and associated staff functions (10 employees). See also Note 1 in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Operating revenues The holding company’s operating expenses (holding company cost), except for the part estimated to be related to the entity as a whole, are allocated to the reporting segments (country subsidiaries in all the countries). Accounting principles The accounting principles described for the Group are consistent with those used for the parent company. Critical accounting estimates and assessments in applying the Group’s accounting policies is mainly related to the valuation of assets (shares in subsidiaries with a book value of MNOK 1,463 and long-term receivables on subsidiaries with a book value of MNOK 1,777 as of 31 December 2010). See also Note 4 in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) as stipulated by the EU. There may be figures and percentages that do not always add up correctly due to rounding differences. NOTE 2 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Machinery, furniture/ fittings and computer IT Systems, (Amounts in MNOK) equipment rights, etc. Total Acquistitions Accumulated value as of 1 January 2009 0,1 0,1 Additions Disposals Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 0,1 0,1 Additions 0,9 0,9 Disposals Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 0,1 0,9 1,0 Accumulated depreciation and write-downs Accumulated value as of 1 January 2009 -0,1 -0,1 Write-downs for the year Depreciation for the year Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 -0,1 -0,1 Write-downs for the year Depreciation for the year -0,3 -0,3 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 -0,1 -0,3 -0,4 As of 31 December 2009 Cost 0,1 0,1 Depreciation and write-downs -0,1 -0,1 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2009 As of 31 December 2010 Cost 0,1 0,9 1,0 Depreciation and write-downs -0,1 -0,3 -0,4 Accumulated value as of 31 December 2010 0,6 0,6 Atea Annual Report 85 2010 NOTE 3 SHARES IN SUBSIDIARIES Financial year 2010 Ownership and Equity as of (Amounts in MNOK) Head office voting share (%) 31 December Book value Primary activity Atea AS (Norway) Oslo, Norway 100,00 872,4 403,7 IT infrastructure Atea Holding AB (Sweden) Stockholm, Sweden 100,00 833,4 298,8 IT infrastructure Atea Holding A/S (Denmark) Copenhagen, Denmark 100,00 316,9 522,7 IT infrastructure Atea Holding OY (Finland) Helsinki, Finland 100,00 28,2 82,0 IT infrastructure UAB Atea Baltic Vilnius, Lithuania 79,15 122,4 146,8 IT infrastructure Other dormant companies 100,00 16,9 8,8 Total shares in subsidiaries 1 462,7 Financial year 2009 Ownership and Equity as of (Amounts in MNOK) Head office voting share (%) 31 December Book value Primary activity Atea AS (Norway) Oslo, Norway 100,00 826,0 401,6 IT infrastructure Atea Holding AB (Sweden) Stockholm, Sweden 100,00 263,8 296,2 IT infrastructure Atea Holding A/S (Denmark) Copenhagen, Denmark 100,00 378,8 518,8 IT infrastructure Atea Holding OY (Finland) Helsinki, Finland 100,00 5,7 57,2 IT infrastructure UAB Atea Baltic Vilnius, Lithuania 78,75 130,7 142,6 IT infrastructure Other dormant companies 100,00 16,5 8,8 Total shares in subsidiaries 1 425,2 NOTE 4 OTHER RECEIVABLES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Prepaid expenses 0,9 1,0 Receivables from subsidiaries 134,2 149,0 Other current receivables 0,2 8,2 Total other current receivables 135,4 158,1 Maturity analysis for receivables from subsidiaries 2010 < 30 days 31-90 days > 91 days Norway 3,9 Sweden 40,4 Denmark 59,6 Finland 12,6 Baltic States 17,7 Total 134,2 Maturity analysis for receivables from subsidiaries 2009 < 30 days 31-90 days > 91 days Norway 3,7 Sweden 36,3 Denmark 71,1 Finland 15,1 Baltic States 22,7 Total 149,0 Atea Annual Report 86 2010 NOTE 5 LIQUIDITY RESERVE (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and bank deposits 1) 174,6 27,2 – of which restricted funds Unrestricted cash 174,6 27,2 Short-term overdraft facility 132,0 132,0 Liquidity reserve 306,6 159,2 Loan facilities (see Note 7) Short-term overdraft facility 132,0 132,0 of which utilised Short-term loan facility 223,3 225,8 of which utilised 223,3 225,8 1) The subsidiaries’ deposits in the parent company’s cash pool of net MNOK 414.2 as of 31 December 2010 (MNOK 454.8 as of 31 December 2009) are posted as liquid assets in Atea ASA, and as short-term loans with the subsidiaries (see Note 6). NOTE 6 TRADE PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Trade payables to subsidiaries 2,0 3,1 Other trade payables 0,2 0,1 Total trade payables 2,2 3,2 Government withholdings and taxes 2,0 0,5 Short-term debt to subsidiaries 583,8 454,8 Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 18,5 9,6 Total other current liabilities 604,3 464,9 Total trade payables and other current liabilities 606,5 468,2 Maturity analysis for trade payables Maturity < 30 days 2,2 3,2 Maturity 31-90 days Maturity > 91 days Total 2,2 3,2 NOTE 7 BORROWINGS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Long-term receivables 1) Long-term receivables from subsidiaries 1 776,5 1 830,7 Total receivables 1 776,5 1 830,7 Long-term loans 2) Long-term debt to subsidiaries 387,1 466,5 Short-term loans 3) Short-term loan facility 223,3 225,8 Total loans 610,4 692,4 1) Interest is charged on long-term claims against subsidiaries at the 12 month interbank rate plus a company specific margin calculated based on the subsidiaries’ respective creditworthiness. The interest is charged and falls due annually in arrears. The principal amount will not fall due for payment in the foreseeable future. 2) Interest is charged on long-term debt against subsidiaries at the three-month interbank rate plus a margin corresponding to the Group’s external debt. The interest is charged and added to the principal amount annually in arrears. The principal amount will not fall due for payment in the foreseeable future. 3) Terms and conditions for the company’s revolving borrowing facilities are described in Notes 11 and 14 in the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Atea Annual Report 87 2010 Maturity analysis for loans 2010 3 months Less than 1 month 1-3 months to 1 year 1-5 years TOTAL Short-term loan facility 231,7 231,7 Long-term debt to subsidiaries 1) 465,6 465,6 Total liabilities 231,7 465,6 697,3 1) Includes interest over a period of five years. Repayment is not agreed on, but five years is considered a probable time horizon. Maturity analysis for loans 2010 3 months Less than 1 month 1-3 months to 1 year 1-5 years TOTAL Short-term loan facility 234,2 234,2 Long-term debt to subsidiaries 1) 559,7 559,7 Total liabilities 234,2 559,7 793,9 1) Includes interest over a period of five years. Repayment is not agreed on, but five years is considered a probable time horizon. NOTE 8 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 2010 (Amounts in MNOK) Loans and receivables Amortised cost Fair value 1) Financial assets Interest-bearing long-term receivables 1 776,5 1 776,5 Other receivables 2) 134,5 134,5 Financial assets 3) 26,9 26,9 Cash and cash equivalents 174,6 174,6 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 387,1 387,1 Non-interest bearing long-term liability 3) 12,8 12,8 Trade payables 2,2 2,2 Interest-bearing current liabilities 223,3 223,3 Other current liabilities 604,3 604,3 1) Book value provides a reasonable expression of fair value 2) Less prepaid expenses 3) Forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic 2009 (Amounts in MNOK) Loans and receivables Amortised cost Fair value 1) Financial assets Interest-bearing long-term receivables 1 830,7 1 830,7 Other receivables 2) 157,1 157,1 Financial assets 3) 30,3 30,3 Cash and cash equivalents 27,2 27,2 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing long-term liabilities 466,5 466,5 Non-interest bearing long-term liability 3) 26,6 26,6 Trade payables 3,2 3,2 Interest-bearing current liabilities 225,8 225,8 Other current liabilities 461,2 461,2 1) Book value provides a reasonable expression of fair value 2) Less prepaid expenses 3) Forward contract regarding purchase of remaining shares from non-controlling ownership interests in UAB Atea Baltic Atea Annual Report 88 2010 NOTE 9 TAXES Calculation of income tax expenses (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Profit/loss before tax 16,0 -241,6 522,4 Taxes calculated at the rate of 28% in Norway 4,5 -67,7 146,3 Tax effect of: permanent differences 0,8 0,7 2,8 change in off-balance-sheet deferred tax assets 1,6 106,0 -184,2 Total income tax expenses 6,8 39,0 -35,1 Atea ASA does not have any tax payable because the company has a tax loss carryforward. Deferred tax liabilities/assets (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Deferred tax assets Property, plant and equipment 0,1 0,1 0,1 Accounting provisions and accruals 0,6 0,6 0,6 Retirement benefits 0,3 0,3 0,2 Capital gain and loss account 6,7 8,3 10,4 Tax loss carryforward 1) 411,8 415,4 346,3 Total deferred tax assets 419,4 424,7 357,7 Deferred tax assets not recognised on balance sheet 397,5 397,5 291,5 Deferred tax assets recognised on balance sheet 2) 22,0 27,2 66,2 1) There are no time restrictions on the utilisation of tax loss carryforwards. 2) Atea ASA has substantial tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets have been recognised in the accounts at the end of 2010 after a conservative assessment of the taxable profit in the coming years. The company is expected to report a taxable profit due to interest income on loans to subsidiaries, which exceed the company’s other costs. NOTE 10 RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Some of the company’s employees are covered by pension schemes entitling them to defined future pension benefits. The pension benefits are mainly dependent on the number of contribution years, wage level upon reaching retirement age and the size of the social security benefits. The pension agreement is financed through a Group insurance scheme with a life insurance company. The company’s obligation covers 2 employees as of 31 December 2010. Pension obligations are based on the following economic assumptions: (%) 2010 1) 2009 Discount rate 3,90 4,40 Expected return on plan assets 5,30 5,60 Annual expected wage inflation 4,00 3,00 Adjustment of statutory basic amount 3,75 4,00 Future increase in pension benefits 1,20 1,30 1) The Group’s choice of pension assumptions are according to the Norwegian Accounting Standards Board’s recommended pension assumptions NRS (V). Net pension costs are determined as follows: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Present value of pension benefits earned during the period 0,1 0,1 Interest cost of pension obligations 0,0 0,0 Expected return on plan assets -0,0 -0,0 Payments to defined contribution scheme 0,0 Recognised effect of plan changes/actuarial gains or losses Pension costs 0,0 0,1 Atea Annual Report 89 2010 Actual pension obligations and net pension obligations: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Gross pension obligations 1,2 0,6 Plan assets at market value 1) 0,9 0,6 Net pension obligations at market value 0,3 0,1 Unrecognised effect of actuarial gains and losses 0,7 0,9 Employer's social security tax 0,2 0,0 Pension obligations recognised on the balance sheet 1,0 0,9 1) Plan assets at market value are not allocated to any main categories/asset classes. This is due to the fact that the Group's pension plans are fully insured (100% insured plan) with Storebrand Kapitalforsikring. Movement in net obligation recognised on the balance sheet: (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Beginning of the year 1,0 0,9 Total expenses, see above 0,0 0,1 Premiums paid End of the year 1,0 1,0 NOTE 11 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFIT EXPENSES (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Wages and salaries 16,2 18,4 13,6 Employer's social security tax 0,9 1,0 0,9 Option plans for the management and employees 3,0 3,3 1,3 Pension costs (see Note 9) 0,2 0,1 0,1 Other personnel expenses 4,6 4,2 1,2 Total employee compensation and benefit expenses 24,9 27,0 17,2 Number of employees 10 9 10 Wages and remuneration to the President and CEO, CFO, Board of Directors and the employees’ share option plans are described in Note 19 of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. Loans to employees that are described in the same note apply to Atea ASA in their entirety. Deloitte is the auditor of Atea ASA. The table below shows Deloitte’s total charges for auditing and other services in 2010. All amounts are exclusive of VAT. Attestation Tax advisory Other non(Amounts in NOK 1,000) Auditor's fees services services audit services Total Deloitte 678,0 19,0 177,0 77,0 951,0 Atea Annual Report 90 2010 NOTE 12 NET FINANCIAL ITEMS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 2008 Gain on sale of shares in subsidiaries Interest income from subsidiaries 101,8 116,5 205,1 Other interest income 1) 13,9 11,8 10,0 Currency translation differences 2) 145,3 149,7 569,6 Total financial income 261,1 277,9 784,7 Interest expenses from subsidiaries 18,1 16,2 32,9 Interest expenses from other loans 1) 33,9 34,7 49,8 Currency translation differences 2) 175,8 447,3 167,0 Other financial expenses 0,2 0,5 2,6 Total financial expenses 227,9 498,7 252,3 Net financial items 33,1 -220,8 532,4 1) Interest paid in 2010 totals MNOK 33.9 (MNOK 34.7 in 2009). Interest received in 2010 totals MNOK 13.9 (MNOK 11.8 in 2009). 2) Unrealised currency translation differences related to the company’s long-term loans against subsidiaries totalled MNOK -30.4 in 2010 (MNOK -297.6 in 2009). Net unrealised foreign exchange effects during the term of the loans is MNOK -11.9. NOTE 13 COMMITMENTS (Amounts in MNOK) 2010 2009 Guarantees towards financial institutions 1) 7 747,3 7 382,2 Guarantees towards business associates 2) 589,7 588,3 Bank guarantees 3) 88,2 134,6 Commitments of remaining value of leasing activity 4) 41,2 26,1 Total guarantees 8 466,3 8 131,2 1) The main subsidiaries in each country (including the logistics company) have issued guarantees in favour of Nordea Bank and Nordea Finans as security for the short-term facility, factoring facility (se Note 14 for the Group), cash pool facility and overdraft facility. 2) As part of regular operation the holding company issues, on behalf of its subsidiaries, guarantees towards business partners and vendors. 3) As a regular part of operations, guarantees are given for fulfilment of contracts, advances from customers and lease matters. Such guarantees usually involve a financial institution issuing a guarantee as security for the customer. Included in the amount is MNOK 36,0 of payroll tax commitments. 4) Our leasing activity has a remaining value commitment of MNOK 41.2 (MNOK 26.1 in 2009) related to outstanding contracts. As of present date no loss has occurred and risk is considered low. It is considered improbable (i.e. < 10%) that Atea ASA will incur any charges as a result of guarantee liabilities issued on behalf of the subsidiaries. Since establishing separate finance companies in 2007 there is no experience of loss related to leasing activity. Pledges As security for the group’s credit facilities (see Note 14 for the Group), Atea ASA has pledged the share of all the major subsidiaries in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The Group’s book equity for these entities total MNOK 3,971.5 (MNOK 3,437.8 in 2009). All trade receivables in Atea AS, Atea A/S, Atea Sverige AB and Atea Finland OY are pledged as security for the factoring facility (see Note 15 for the Group). The book value of trade receivables pledged as security totals MNOK 4,367.9 ( MNOK 3,211.4 in 2009). Atea Annual Report 91 2010 NOTE 14 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Sensitivity analysis 2010 – MNOK Interest rate risk Foreign currency risk + 200 bp 1) 200 bp 1) + 10 % 10 % Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Amount on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on affected loss equity loss equity loss equity loss equity Financial assets NOK -293,6 -5,9 5,9 SEK 646,7 12,9 -12,9 64,7 -64,7 DKK 941,6 18,8 -18,8 94,2 -94,2 EUR 190,5 3,8 -3,8 19,0 -19,0 USD 0,2 0,0 -0,0 0,0 -0,0 Effect on financial assets before tax 29,7 -29,7 177,9 -177,9 Tax expense (28 %) -8,3 8,3 -49,8 49,8 Effect on financial assets after tax 21,4 -21,4 128,1 -128,1 Financial liability items NOK 610,4 -12,2 12,2 Effect on financial liability items before tax -12,2 12,2 Tax expense (28 %) 3,4 -3,4 Effect on financial liability items after tax -8,8 8,8 Total increase/reduction 12,6 -12,6 128,1 -128,1 1) Basis points Sensitivity analysis 2009 – MNOK Interest rate risk Foreign currency risk + 200 bp 1) 200 bp 1) + 10 % 10 % Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Effect Other Amount on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on on profit/ effects on affected loss equity loss equity loss equity loss equity Financial assets NOK -306,8 -6,1 6,1 SEK 604,6 12,1 -12,1 60,5 -60,5 DKK 1 012,2 20,2 -20,2 101,2 -101,2 EUR 226,3 4,5 -4,5 22,6 -22,6 USD 0,7 0,0 -0,0 0,1 -0,1 Effect on financial assets before tax 30,7 -30,7 184,4 -184,4 Tax expense (28 %) -8,6 8,6 -51,6 51,6 Effect on financial assets after tax 22,1 -22,1 132,7 -132,7 Financial liability items NOK 692,4 -13,8 13,8 Effect on financial liability items before tax -13,8 13,8 Tax expense (28 %) 3,9 -3,9 Effect on financial liability items after tax -10,0 10,0 Total increase/reduction 12,2 -12,2 132,7 -132,7 1) Basis points Atea Annual Report 92 2010 NOTE 15 SHARE CAPITAL, SHARE PREMIUMS AND OTHER PAID-IN EQUITY Number of shares Share capital Total share Treasury Treasury Share capital and Option (Amounts in MNOK) Issued shares Issued shares premium premiums programmes As of 1 January 2009 95,5 -3,8 955,3 -37,9 598,1 1 515,5 38,4 Employee share options, value of employee contributions 8,3 Change in treasury shares 0,9 8,9 8,9 Issue of share capital As of 31 December 2009 95,5 -2,9 955,3 -29,0 598,1 1 524,4 46,7 As of 01 January 2010 95,5 -2,9 955,3 -29,0 598,1 1 524,4 46,7 Employee share options, value of employee contributions 12,9 Change in treasury shares 2,9 29,0 29,0 Issue of share capital 0,8 7,7 13,8 21,5 As of 31 December 2010 96,3 -0,0 963,0 -0,0 611,9 1 574,8 59,5 The total number of outstanding ordinary shares in Atea ASA as of 31 December 2010 was 96,295,022 shares with a par value of NOK 10 per share (95,527,022 in 2009). Own shares During 2010 Atea ASA bought 167,000 own shares and sold 3,062,568 at an average price of NOK 45.09 per share. The sales of shares have been made in connection with exercise of employee options and as compensation regarding the purchase of Calamus Danmark and Umoe IKT. As of 31 December 2010 Atea ASA holds 3,601 own shares. During 2009 Atea ASA sold 889,066 own shares at an average price of NOK 33.00 per share. The acquisitions of own shares have been completed as part of a share buyback program approved by Atea ASA’s General Annual Meeting 29 April 2010. According to the approval the lowest and highest price payable is NOK 10 and NOK 200 respectively. Share options Share options have been allotted to the management and selected employees. Each share option allows for the subscription of one share in Atea ASA. The fair value of the options is calculated when they are allotted and expensed over the vesting period. A charge of MNOK 2.7 has been recognised in the income statement in 2010 relating to the share option programmes (MNOK 2.5 in 2009). In addition, National Insurance contribution expenses of MNOK 0.3 were recognised in 2010 (MNOK 0.9 in 2009). RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT We confirm to the best of our knowledge that; • the consolidated financial statements for 2009 have been prepared in • the information presented in the financial statements gives a true and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, as well as additional infair view of the Company’s and Group’s assets, liabilities, financial posiformation requirements in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting tion and result for the period viewed in their entirety, and that Act, and that • the Board of Directors’ report gives a true and fair view of • the financial statements for the parent company for 2009 have been the development, performance and financial position of the prepared in accordance with the IFRS as adopted by the EU, as well as Company and Group, and includes a description of the principal risks additional information requirements in accordance with the Norwegian and uncertainties. Accounting Act, and that Oslo, 17 March 2011 Ib Kunøe Sigrun Hjelmquist Morten Jurs Kristine M. Madsen Claus Hougesen Chairman of the Board CEO Marthe Dyrud Jørn Irving Goldstein Karin S. Løkke Sven Madsen Atea Annual Report 93 2010 Atea Annual Report 94 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND COMPANY MANAGEMENT Good corporate governance contributes to the creation of value, and it builds trust externally and internally at the same time. Good corporate governance requires good, effective cooperation between the day-to-day management and Board of Directors, respect for the company’s other stakeholders, and open, honest communication with the outside world. Below is a description of Atea ASA’s foundation for good corporate governance. The company follows the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance of October 21, 2010 (which is available at the Oslo Stock Exchange’s web page). Business operations continuously assesses the company’s financial strength and capital In accordance with Article 2 of the Articles of Association the objective requirements in light of the company’s strategy and risk profile. of Atea ASA is as follows: «The objective of the company is to sell data processing services, computer equipment, systems and related activiAuthority to issue new shares ties, and to participate in other companies for financial purposes». The The Board of Directors was authorized by the Annual General Articles of Association are available at the company’s website. Meeting of April 29, 2010 to increase the company’s share capital by a maximum of MNOK 30 through the issuance of a maximum Equal status of 3 million shares, each with a par value of NOK 10, by one The company’s share capital consists of one class of shares. The or more private offerings to employees of the Group as part of Articles of Association do not contain any voting right restrictions. an option/incentive program. This authority is valid until the All the shares have equal status. Annual General Meeting in 2011 and will expire no later than June 30, 2011. Purchase of own shares At the Annual General Meeting of April 29, 2010, the Board of Dividend Directors was authorized to purchase the company’s own shares. It is the Board of Directors’ objective to offer competitive returns This authority is given in accordance with Section 9–4 of the Norto its shareholders, supported by a high dividend pay out ratio. wegian Public Limited Companies Act, and it grants the Board The General Meeting declares the annual dividend based on a of Directors authority to allow Atea ASA and/or its subsidiaries proposal from the Board of Directors. The company’s dividend to buy shares in Atea ASA for a maximum par value of MNOK policy has been to distribute 10–40 per cent of its annual profits 70 at prices of between NOK 10 and NOK 200. The Board of as dividends in periods with surplus liquidity. Due to consistent Directors is free to elect the methods to be used for the acquisition strong performance the Board of Directors decided in a Board and sale of the company’s own shares. This authority is valid until meeting 20 October 2010 to change the dividend policy to 40-60 the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and will expire no later than per cent of net profit adjusted for normalized tax. The Board of June 30, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, Atea ASA held 3,601 of Directors proposes a dividend of NOK 2.00 per share for the 2010 its own shares, which corresponds to 0.0037 per cent of the total accounting year. number of shares issued. General Meeting Free negotiability The General Meeting guarantees shareholders participation in the The shares are freely negotiable. The Articles of Association do not company’s highest body. contain any trading restrictions. Shareholders who represent at least 5 per cent of the shares may Share capital demand that an ExtraordinaryGeneral Meeting be held to deal with The Group’s equity totaled MNOK 3,355.2 at the end of 2010. a specific matter pursuant to Section 5–7 of the Norwegian Public This gives an equity ratio of 34.8 per cent. The Board of Directors Limited Companies Act. Atea Annual Report 95 2010 The General Meeting shall normally be held by June 1, each year. The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance Notice of the General Meeting shall be sent to all the shareholders (article 7) states that; “No more than one member of the nomination with a known address and will be published on Atea ASA’s website committee should be a member of the board of directors, and any such at least 21 days prior to the date of the Annual General Meeting. member should not offer himself for re-election to the board.” The The recommendation from the Nominating Committee is also pubcompany deviates from the recommendation as the Board Chairman, lished on the website. pursuant to the Articles of Association, is member of the Nominating Committee and may be re-elected as member of the Board. The Pursuant to Article 9 of the company’s Articles of Association the deviation is justified by the regulation of the Articles of Association right to participate in and vote at the General Meeting may only and further the company is of the opinion that it is an advantage to be exercised when acquisition of shares have been recorded in the have continuity in the Nominating Committee and thus the Board company’s shareholder register (VPS) the fifth weekday prior to the Chairman should be entitled to be re-elected as member of the Board. General Meeting being held. Shareholders that wish to participate in the General Meeting (personally or through proxy) must, pursuant Further, the company deviates from the Norwegian Code of Practice to Article 10 of the Articles of Association, notify the company for Corporate Governance where it is stated (article 7) that informawithin a deadline that will be provided in the summons and which tion should be provided with respect to possible deadlines for provishall be no less than 5 days prior to the date on which the General ding proposal to the Nomination Committee. The company is of the Meeting is held. Shareholders may provide their votes in writing or opinion that the routines and guidelines that is in place with respect electronically, although no later than two days in advance of the to election of candidates to the Board is satisfactory and those who General Meeting. The summons will provide further details of how would like to propose candidates are free to do so at any time. votes may be provided. Board of Directors Registration is made in writing by letter or fax, or through Election and composition of the Board of Directors the Internet. Importance is attached to the case documents The General Meeting elects the shareholder-elected representatives containing adequate details, so that the shareholders can make a to the Board of Directors. The Nominating Committee prepares decision on the matters that are to be discussed, and setting the the nominations for shareholder-elected board members prior to the registration deadline as close as practically possible to the actual election. Importance is attached to the combined Board of Directors meeting. The agenda is set by the Board of Directors, and the main having expertise in the work of boards and the company’s principal items normally include: Report by the President and CEO, appoperations, in addition to possessing the necessary independence in roval of the annual report and accounts, election of members to relation to the company’s day-to-day management and the comthe Board of Directors and the Nominating Committee, potentially pany’s principal shareholders. Resolutions concerning the composition new election of an auditor, as well as adoption of remuneration of the Board of Directors are made on the basis of a simple majority. to the auditor and Board of Directors. As a minimum, the Board Chairman, a representative from the Nominating Committee, the The Board of Directors elects its own chairman and deputy chairauditor, the President and CEO, and the Chief Financial Officer man. This deviates from the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corwill participate at the General Meeting. The General Meeting porate Governance, which states that the Board Chairman should is chaired by an independent chairperson. In 2010 the Annual be elected by the General Meeting. One new board member, Morten General Meeting was held on April 29, and 52.34 per cent of the Jurs, was elected by the shareholders at the General Meeting in 2010. total share capital was represented. Shareholder-elected board member Cathrine Foss Stene wished to be dismissed and resigned from her board position in 2010. One new Nominating Committee board member was elected by and among the employees in 2010. The Nominating Committee shall consist of the Board Chairman The shareholder-elected board members are then: Ib Kunøe (Board and two members elected by the General Meeting pursuant to Chairman), Kristine M. Madsen, Sven Madsen, Sigrun Hjelmquist Article 7 of the Articles of Association. The members who are and Morten Jurs. Ib Kunøe is associated with Consolidated Holdings elected by the General Meeting have a term of office of two years. A/S and System Integration ApS, both of which are among the company’s largest shareholders. Sven Madsen is financial director A new committee was elected by the Annual General Meeting in in Consolidated Holdings A/S. The other board members are 2009 and consists of: independent in relation to the company’s largest shareholders and the company’s management. The board members are elected for a term • Karl Martin Stang (Chairman of the Nominating Committee) of two years and may stand for re-election. • Carl Espen Wollebekk • Ib Kunøe (Board Chairman) Independence of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors considers itself to be independent of the At the annual General Meeting this year a new election of two repGroup’s administrative management. Importance is attached to resentatives to the Nomination Committee will take place. Guidethere not being any conflicts of interest between the shareholders, lines have been issued for the Nominating Committee and these will Board of Directors, corporate management and the company’s be presented for approval by the General Meeting this year. other stakeholders. Atea Annual Report 96 2010 Remuneration to the Board of Directors analysis is prepared for acquired companies within a month after The General Meeting determines the annual remuneration to the acquisition so that they can be integrated with the consolidated Board of Directors. This remuneration shall reflect the Board of figures in connection with the next quarterly closing of accounts. Directors’ responsibility, expertise, and time spent, and it is not deAll the companies in the Group report in accordance with the pendent on results. The full annual remuneration is NOK 300 000 local GAAP, but they also report any deviations from IFRS to for the Board Chairman, NOK 150 000 for each shareholderenable corporate reporting in accordance with IFRS. Importance elected board member, and NOK 100 000 for each employeeis attached to building up competence in important accounting elected board member. and financial fields across multiple countries. Regular meetings of accounting managers, controllers and chief financial officers, For a detailed account of the remuneration paid to board members respectively, are arranged at which all the major units participate. and their shareholdings in the company, see Notes 12 and 19, respectively, to the annual accounts. The Company has an audit committee which became effective in 2010. Members of the audit committee are Sven Board of Directors’ work Madsen, Morten Jurs and Kristine M. Madsen. The responsibilities The Board of Directors has primary responsibility for management of the audit committee are amongst other things; (i) prepare the of the Group. The Board of Directors shall ensure proper orgaboard’s quality assurance of the financial reporting, (ii) monitor nization of the business operations, draw up plans/strategies and the company’s internal control and the company’s risk evaluation budgets, keep itself informed of the company’s financial position systems, (iii) have continuous contact with the company’s auditor and ensure that the operations, accounting and asset management regarding audit of the annual accounts and the group accounts, (iv) are subjected to proper scrutiny. The function of the Board of review together with the company’s auditor and monitor the audiDirectors is primarily to safeguard the interests of all the sharetor’s independence, hereunder other services than auditing that has holders; however, the Board of Directors also bears responsibility been delivered by the auditor and (v) provide its recommendations for the company’s other stakeholders. to the company’s board with respect to election of auditor. The guidelines for the work of the Board of Directors are set forth Notice and structure of meetings in separate rules of procedure. The rules of procedure contain, for The Board of Directors schedules fixed meetings every year. Norexample, provisions relating to board meeting notices, the Board mally six to eight meetings are held annually. Additional meetings of Directors’ administrative procedures, division of work between are called as required. A total of 8 meetings were held in 2010. the Board of Directors and the President and CEO, the Board of Directors’ obligations and authority, impartiality requirements, conBoard members regularly receive information on the Group’s fidentiality requirements, and the handling of insider information. operational and financial performance, including monthly operating reports. The company’s business plan, strategy, and risk are subjected Internal control to review and evaluation by the Board of Directors. The board To ensure that the company’s operations are carried out in accormembers are free to consult the company’s management if they feel dance with the current legislation and framework determined by the a need to do so. The Board of Directors’ discussions and minutes of Board of Directors, guidelines have been adopted to ensure good meetings are confidential, unless the Board of Directors determines internal control. These guidelines include routines for financial and otherwise, or if there is clearly no need for such treatment. In economic reporting, communication and information management, addition to the board members, the President and CEO, Chief authorization, risk management, ethics and social responsibility. Financial Officer and the company secretary participate in the meetings. Other participants are invited as required. All matters of The company’s and the Group’s internal control system is based significant importance shall be submitted to the Board of Directors. on full reporting and reconciliation of the income statement, This applies, for example, to approval of the annual and quarterly balance sheet and most of the notes in connection with the reports, strategy and strategic plans, acquisition and sale of monthly closing of accounts. Immediately after reporting, regubusinesses, and investments. lar follow-up meetings are held with financial managers and key personnel in all of the operating companies. The nature of the Use of Board Committees follow-up is that of identifying errors and omissions, but the The Group has a Nominating Committee pursuant to the Articles follow-up should primarily contribute to an analytical approach to of Association. Additionally, the Board of Directors has from 2010 enhance the understanding of how the business is managed and established a compensation committee, which consists of Ib Kunøe thus how it can be supported. External market data and compari(Board Chairman), Karl Martin Stang and Carl Espen Wollebekk, sons with the previous year and plans, as well as pro forma figures the two latter from the Nominating Committee. The compensation inclusive of acquired businesses, are used for this purpose. The committee’s responsibility is to prepare to the Board of Directors income statement, balance sheet and cash flow figures are reportguidelines for issues concerning compensation to key employees ed together with the associated analyses monthly to the corporate (senior management) and other material personnel related issues for management and company’s Board of Directors. An acquisition senior management. Atea Annual Report 97 2010 Insider trading the Group’s website (www.atea.com/IR). Beyond this, the Group The Board of Directors has adopted instructions for the Group’s maintains a running dialogue and conducts presentations for anaemployees and primary insiders, which regulate trading in finanlysts and investors. cial instruments and include provisions relating to the prohibition of trading, investigation and reporting requirements, ban on giving The company’s financial calendar with an overview of the dates for advice, duty of confidentiality, etc. publication of the annual report, interim reports, etc., has been published on the company’s website (www.atea.com/fc). The company’s Duty to report when members of the Board of Directors or presentations, which are also published online on the Internet via a websenior management has material interest in an agreement cast, are available on the company’s website (www.atea.com/webcast). to which the company enters into The company has established routines that ensures that members The Group considers informing the shareholders and investors on of the Board of Directors and senior management shall notify the the Group’s performance and its economic and financial status to be Board of Directors if they directly or indirectly have a material of vital importance. Importance is attached to making the same ininterest in an agreement that is entered into by the company. formation available to the market and other stakeholders at the same time. Caution with regard to the unfair distribution of information Board of Directors’ self-evaluation shall therefore be exercised when talking to analysts and investors. The Board of Directors performs an annual evaluation of how the board members function individually and as a group. Takeovers The Board of Directors has not prepared any main principles for Remuneration of the President and CEO and key executives how the Board should act in the event of a takeover bid, as recomThe President and CEO’s terms are set by the Board of Directors, mended by the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Goverbased on recommendation from the compensation committee. In nance. The company’s Articles of Association do not contain any the opinion of the Board of Directors the President and CEO’s defense mechanisms against the acquisition of shares, nor do they terms shall be competitive. The remuneration of the President and contain any other measures that restrict the opportunity to acquire CEO is specified in Note 19 to the annual accounts. The Board of shares in the company. Directors has, based on recommendation from the compensation committee, established guidelines for remuneration of the Auditor company’s key employees (senior management), and it will submit Auditor’s relationship to the Board of Directors a separate statement to the General Meeting for its approval. The auditor participates at the board meeting where the annual accounts are discussed. At this meeting, the Board of Directors is The Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance probriefed on the annual accounts and any matters of particular convides in article 12 that performance related remuneration to senior cern to the auditor. The auditor has in addition contact with the management should be subject to an absolute limit. The company audit committee according to what is provided above with respect deviates from the recommendation in this respect as such absolute to the committee’s responsibilities. limit has not been set. Due to the principles implemented for performance related compensation to senior management the Board Auditor’s relationship to the corporate management of Directors is of the opinion that such limitation is not necessary. Deloitte has been the company’s auditor since 2006. In addition to ordinary auditing, the auditing firm has provided consulting serInformation and communication vices related to accounting, tax and reporting. Reference is made to Annual report and accounts – interim reporting Note 19 to the annual accounts. The Group ordinarily presents its preliminary annual accounts in the beginning of February. The complete accounts, Board of DirecThe corporate management holds regular meetings with the auditor. tors’ report, and annual report are made available to the shareholdIn these meetings the auditor’s reports on the company’s accounting ers and other stakeholders on the company’s website 21 days prior principles, risk areas, internal control routines, etc., are reviewed. to the General Meeting, at the latest. A printed copy of the annual report can be sent shareholders on request. Beyond this, interim The auditor’s remuneration is approved by the company’s General accounts are reported on a quarterly basis. Meeting. Notice of how the remuneration breaks down between auditing and other services will be given at the General Meeting. Other market information Open investor presentations are arranged in connection with Corporate Social Responsibility the publication of the Group’s annual and quarterly results. The Atea support UN Global Compacts ten principles within the areas President and CEO review the results and comments on the perof human rights, labour standards, environment and antiformance of each individual country and market, as well as the corruption. Atea will from 2011 report on activities related to the outlook. The Group’s Chief Financial Officer also participates in Global Compact with main focus on principles regarding environthese presentations. Investor-related information and presentations ment. Reference is made to separate information provided in this associated with the annual and quarterly results are available on respect in the Annual Report. Atea Annual Report 98 2010 Atea Annual Report 99 2010 Consept, design, photo and text by Coxit Public Relations // www.coxit.no Holding Norway Sweden Denmark Atea ASA Atea AS Atea AB Atea A/S Brynsalleen 2 Brynsalleen 2 Kronborgsgränd 15 Lautrupvang 6 Box 6472 Etterstad Box 6472 Etterstad Box 18 DK-2750 Ballerup NO-0605 Oslo NO-0605 Oslo SE-164 93 Kista Tel:+45 70 25 25 50 Tel: +47 22 09 50 00 Tel: +47 22 09 50 00 Tel: +46 (0)8 477 47 00 Org.no 25511484 Org.no 920 237 126 Org.no 976 239 997 Org.no 556448-0282 info@atea.dk investor@atea.com info@atea.no info@atea.se www.atea.dk www.atea.com www.atea.no www.atea.se Finland Lithuania Latvia Estonia Atea Oy UAB Atea SIA Atea Atea OÜ PL 39 Laisves pr. 3 Unijas iela 11a Tondi 17 FI-01621 Vantaa LT-04215 Vilnius LV-1039 Riga EE-11316 Tallinn Tel: + 358 (0)10 613 611 Tel: +370 5 239 7899 Tel: +371 67 819050 Tel: +372 659 3590 Org.no 091 9156-0 Org.no 300 125 003 Org.no 40003312822 Org.no 10088390 customercare@atea.fi info@atea.lt info@atea.lv info@atea.ee www.atea.fi www.atea.lt www.atea.lv www.atea.ee Atea Logistics AB Atea Spintop AB Atea Service Center SIA Smedjegatan 12 Ekelundsgatan 4 Valnu Iela 3, 6th floor Box 159 SE-411 18 Göteborg LV-1050 Riga SE-351 04 Växjö Tel +46 123 749 199 Tel: +371 7359 600 Tel: +46 (0)470 77 16 00 Org.no 556647-0091 Org.no 40003843889 Org.no 556354-4690 info@ateaspintop.se info@ateascs.com customer.care@atea.se www.ateaspintop.com www.ateascs.com www.atealogistics.com Atea Annual Report 100 2010
