JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 The JX Group was formed in April 2010 in quest of a sustainable future. Under our new mission statement, the JX Group aims to make major advances in the fields of energy, resources and materials. Guided by the slogan of “The Future of Energy, Resources and Materials,” the JX Group is determined to shape the future. JX Group Mission Statement JX Group Slogan JX Group Mission Statement JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. JX Group Values Our actions will respect the EARTH . Ethics Advanced ideas Relationship with society Trustworthy products/services Harmony with the environment About JX The name “JX” symbolizes the JX Group’s mission statement. The letter “J” represents our position as one of the world’s largest integrated energy, resources and materials business groups from Japan, while the letter “X” represents our willingness to pioneer new frontiers, our future growth and development potential and innovation. About the JX Corporate Brand Mark The JX corporate brand mark symbolizes the continuity of the global environment and the JX Group based on the JX Group’s mission statement. The design, in which the “JX” logo overlaps with a sphere, represents the JX Group’s commitment to a green earth—i.e., our contribution to the development of a sustainable economy and society, through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. *The JX corporate brand mark is common to JX Holdings, Inc., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation. 1 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Editorial Policy The JX Group marked a new beginning as an integrated energy, resources and materials company following the management integration of Nippon Contents Oil Corporation and Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. on April 1, 2010. This is the JX Group’s first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. Management Message 3 The JX Group has prepared this report in order to be accountable with respect to CSR to shareholders and other investors, customers, employees and local communities while deepening communication and fulfilling At a Glance 5 stakeholders’ expectations in this regard. We have structured the report around the JX Group’s newly estabThe JX Group’s Businesses and CSR 7 lished mission statement and Group values, in order to explain its activities clearly. To illustrate how we are pursuing the JX Group’s mission of Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business 7 “contributing to a sustainable economy and society,” we have summarized Special Issue——Helping to Achieve a Low-Carbon Society 9 information on our core operating companies’ business operations and Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business 11 the distinctive social issues faced by each business in the feature section. Special Issue——A Stable Supply of Energy 13 Moreover, we also present our policy for JX Group activities based on the Metals Business 15 Group’s five values as represented by the acronym EARTH, along with Special Issue——Helping to Achieve a the results for these activities in fiscal 2009. Furthermore, various JX Group companies, including JX Holdings, Inc. Sound Material-Cycle Society 17 and the three core operating companies, disclose a variety of CSRrelated information on their websites. Information on these websites is JX Group Management 19 summarized on pages 39–40 for easier access. Corporate Governance 19 Scope of Report JX Group Values 21 JX Holdings, Inc. and its 10 main Group companies. Respecting the EARTH 21 JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Ethics 22 and its 24 main Group companies JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation Compliance 22 and its 26 main Group companies Risk Management 23 JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Human Rights 24 and its 38 main Group companies The scope of environmental performance information is defined in notes on each page. Advanced Ideas 25 Technology and R&D 25 Reporting Period The report mainly covers activities and results from April 2009 to Relationship With Society 27 March 2010, although some information from April 2010 onwards is Stakeholders 27 also included, as the JX Group was formed in April 2010. Corporate Citizenship 29 Guidelines Used as Reference Trustworthy Products/Services 31 • Sustainability Reporting G ­ uidelines, Version 3.0, GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Quality and Product Safety 31 • Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 Edition), Ministry of the Customer Satisfaction 32 Environment, Japan. Environmentally Friendly Products 33 • The GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Purchasing and Procurement 34 Enhancing Reporting Reliability Harmony With the Environment 35 Environmental data on pages 35–38 have been reviewed by an Environmental Targets and Achievements 35 independent body to ensure objective and reliable reporting. This report has been granted the environmental reporting assurance Global Warming Prevention 36 and registration mark, which shows that the report meets the Air Pollution Prevention 37 standards for sustainability report assurance and registration Water Resources Protection 37 established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Chemical Substances Management 38 ­Organizations for Sustainability Information (http://www.j-sus.org) Waste Reduction  38 Guide to JX Group Websites 39 Forward-looking Statements Third-Party Opinion 41 This report contains forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and Independent Review Report 42 that reflect management’s judgment as of the time of preparation. Please note that actual results may vary significantly from such projections and forecasts due to various known and unforeseeable risks and uncertainties. JX Holdings cannot guarantee the accuracy of the targets, assumptions, expectations, projections, plans and evaluations and other similar information contained in forward-looking statements, or that they will be realized without qualification in the future. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 2 Management Message The JX Group aims to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. We are pioneering the future of energy, resources and materials. JX Holdings was established in April 2010 through the management integration of Nippon Oil Corporation and Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc., two companies each with century-long histories in business. In July 2010, all businesses of both corporate groups were reorganized under JX Holdings, resulting in the incorporation of three core business companies: JX Nippon Oil & Energy, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration and JX Nippon Mining & Metals. This step marked the full-fledged launch of the JX Group, imbued with all the dynamism of a new start. Operating in the domains of energy, resources and materials, the JX Group is confronting more structural changes in its business environment than ever before. The spread of fuel-efficient vehicles, an ongoing switch in the types of energy consumed, and other changes are eroding demand for oil in Japan. At the same time, demand for energy and natural resources is holding firm, led by growth in newly emerging markets. Consequently, prices for energy and resources remain elevated, buoyed by intense competition to secure resources, rising resource nationalism, and the ebb and flow of speculative capital, among other factors. In this situation we expect the potential for extreme volatility will persist for some time. Growing awareness of the urgent need to address global environmental problems, as well as progress in the movement to develop low-carbon, recycling-oriented societies in advanced nations, have also emerged as critically important considerations in shaping the trajectory of JX Group businesses. Given these business conditions, at the JX Group, all Group employees are united in a singular determination to become one of the largest integrated energy, resources and materials business groups in the world, with operations in Petroleum Refining and Marketing, Oil and Gas E&P, and Metals. For the JX Group, fulfilling our mission statement is synonymous with CSR. The JX Group Mission Statement is to contribute to the development of a Shinji Nishio Mitsunori Takahagi Chairman and President and Representative Director sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of Representative Director energy, resources and materials. For the JX Group, innovation has a multitude of meanings. In addition to radically transforming the business structure in the Petroleum Refining 3 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Management Message and Marketing Business, innovation includes researching and developing • Develop and market a variety of environmentally friendly products new types of energy; promoting new exploration and further development and services, such as environmental high-octane gasoline, and in the Oil and Gas E&P Business; applying new technologies to boost residential-use fuel cell systems, solar power generation systems, production volumes and reduce costs; pushing ahead with new mine and other energy systems development and the development of new smelting and refining techJX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration niques in the Metals Business; and pursuing product development, along • Strive for operational safety, particularly in its operated projects with the creation of new markets, in growth fields targeted by the Group. • Ensure stable oil and gas supplies Our overarching mission, through repeated initiatives of this kind, is the • Promote greenhouse gas reduction activities, including CDM at stable and efficient supply of the energy, resources and materials essenthe Rang Dong Oil Field tial to people’s lives. Furthermore, given the field in which we conduct JX Nippon Mining & Metals business, our business activities themselves are closely linked with the • Ensure safety and prevent fires and other accidents at smelting, natural environment. As such, we consistently work to reduce our environrefining and other facilities mental impact while meeting the public’s demand for development of a • Efficiently extract, smelt, refine, process and recycle non-ferrous sustainable economy and society. Failure to consistently conduct our metal resources business in this way would not only prevent the Group from earning • Collect rare metals from used lithium-ion batteries stakeholder trust, but would ultimately push it out of the marketplace. In addition to these day-to-day actions, we actively promote a social Conversely, aggressively tackling these issues will win a high degree of contribution program that includes supporting the healthy development of public trust in the JX Group, and will ultimately raise the Group’s corpothe next generation through sports, promoting cultural events, publishing rate value. For this reason, we view the business activities that we pursue original collections of children’s literature, providing donations, and offereach day to fulfill our Group mission statement as synonymous with the ing scholarship assistance through the JX Children’s Literature Awards, kind of CSR activities that the JX Group should strive for. as well as environmental protection and volunteer activities with close ties to local communities. Our entire workforce is involved in autonomous activities aligned on a common vector. We will actively fulfill our social responsibilities as a It is not enough to simply state that the fulfillment of the Group mission global corporation. statement alone constitutes CSR for the JX Group. Building a reputation In July 2010, JX Holdings announced its participation in the United for the JX Group as a company with an advanced stance on CSR Nations Global Compact. A month later, JX Holdings was joined by its requires all executives and regular employees to be aligned on the same three core operating companies, which announced their own participation vector, and to assume a more autonomous approach when taking action. in the compact. As one of the world’s largest integrated energy, resources To this end, we formulated the JX Group Values as a set of guidelines and materials business groups, the JX Group is determined to contribute based on five concepts: “Ethics,” “Advanced ideas,” “Relationship with to the future of our planet through proactive steps to meet its social society,” “Trustworthy products/services,” and “Harmony with the environresponsibilities as a global citizen. ment.” By moving in step with these guidelines to put our mission stateIn promoting CSR, it is extremely important that we address the expecment into practice, we are embedding a determination to pioneer the tations and needs of all of our stakeholders with sincerity, and that we future in the actions we take each day, as we strive to meet the demands reflect this commitment in the initiatives that we pursue. With the JX of our wide range of stakeholders. Furthermore, by sharing our Group Group now making a new start, we hope that stakeholders will share with mission statement and putting the JX Group Values into practice, we us their opinions of our CSR activities, and that, through mutual dialogue, hope to create a new corporate culture, which will be critical for the we can spur further progress in CSR at the JX Group. future of the newly integrated JX Group. In closing, we ask for your understanding and support of the JX Group as we move forward. Group companies are individually committed to meeting their social responsibilities. JX Holdings, Inc. Moving along this common vector, JX Holdings and the companies comprising the JX Group will promote responsible business activities. More specifically, among other activities, the three core operating companies with pursue measures as follows: Shinji Nishio Chairman and Representative Director JX Nippon Oil & Energy • Pursue extensive operational safety and stability at refineries and other facilities • Develop service stations capable of supplying fuel following Mitsunori Takahagi earthquakes President and Representative Director JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 4 At a Glance Company Overview Company Name: JX Holdings, Inc. Representatives: Shinji Nishio Chairman and Representative Director Mitsunori Takahagi President and Representative Director Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan Established: April 1, 2010 Capital: ¥100 billion JX Group: (Holding Company) Listed Subsidiaries NIPPO CORPORATION Toho Titanium Co., Ltd., etc. Common Group Petroleum Refining and Oil and Gas Exploration and Metals Business Function Companies Marketing Business Production Business Independent Companies Financial Highlights n Nippon Oil Corporation (Consolidated) n Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating Income (Loss) Ordinary Income (Loss) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 12,000 500 500 250 250 275.7 8,000 7,524.0 264.0 7,389.2 113.3 86.7 192.0 5,774.3 0 103.2 43.7 0 74.0 –101.7 –67.4 4,000 –250 –250 –275.4 –312.5 4,339.5 4,065.1 3,233.7 0 –500 –500 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) Net Income (Loss) Total Assets Net Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 8,000 2,500 2,000 150 148.3 6,000 1,500 99.3 43.3 4,594.2 1,429.3 0 29.8 4,000 4,129.2 3,969.7 1,016.3 1,059.1 –40.8 1,000 –150 2,000 –251.6 500 2,251.2 2,067.5 765.3 659.9 706.6 1,886.1 –300 0 0 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 5 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Medium-Term Management Plan for FY 2010–2012 [Basic policy] • With emphasis on the concept of “Best Practices,” • dsynergies ramatically transform the Petroleum Refining & Marketing Business by realizing integration At a Glance and rigorously reducing costs, • a­ondperations maximize corporate value by allocating management resources to highly profitable on a priority basis. [Targets (Fiscal 2012)] Ordinary income ¥300 billion or more Key Assumptions (Fiscal 2012) ROE 10% or higher • Exchange rate Net Debt/Equity ratio 1 times ¥90/US$ • Crude oil FOB (Dubai spot) Capital expenditure and US$80/bbl financial investments ¥960 billion (FY2010–2012 total) • Copper price (LME) Dividend policy Redistribute profits by reflecting 280 ¢/lb ­consolidated business results while striving to maintain stable dividends Long-Term Vision for FY 2020 Become one of the world’s leading integrated energy, resources and materials business groups with new energy-related businesses JX Holdings, Inc. Transform existing operations into world-class businesses Establish profitability Petroleum Refining and Oil and Gas Exploration and Construction, Metals Business New Energy Business Marketing Business Production Business Titanium Business, etc. Petroleum Refining and Marketing Metals Slim, robust production operations aligned with demand Secure resources and develop businesses to meet Goal: Refining capacity of 1,000 thousand barrels/day ­societies’ eco needs Goal: Equity-entitled copper mine production ratio of 80% Oil and Gas Exploration and Production New Energy Become an oil and gas E&P company that achieves susEstablish profitability tained growth on the basis of operatorship Goal: Fuel cell sales of 300 thousand units/year Goal: Produce 200 thousand barrels/day of crude oil and (including exports) natural gas (equity basis) JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 6 The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business Share in the domestic fuel market: 35% (No. 1 in Japan) Paraxylene production capacity: 2,620 thousand tons per year (No. 1 in Asia) JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation was formed in July 2010 through the integration and realignment of Nippon Oil Corporation, Nippon Petroleum Refining Co., Ltd. and Japan Energy Corporation. As an integrated energy company for Japan, JX Nippon Oil & Energy conducts daily business activities to deliver efficient and stable supplies of energy. At the same time, the company recognizes that it has a social responsibility to harmonize its activities with the global Yasushi Kimura environment and supply energy in ways that help to reduce environmental impact. Representative Director, President and Executive Officer Faced with an increasingly challenging operating environment, JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation aspires to remain a company that is trusted by and useful to society. To this end, JX Nippon Oil Company Overview & Energy must dramatically transform its business. To reach its aspirations, the company is (As of July 1, 2010) executing a business strategy based on four key themes: “Realize integration synergies,” Head Office Location 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo “Develop the No. 1 competitiveness in refining and marketing in Japan,” “Enhance overseas 100-8162, Japan business,” and “Develop new energy businesses.” Every director and employee has embraced Capital the JX Group Mission Statement and the pursuit of “innovation.” Through these measures, JX ¥139.4 billion Nippon Oil & Energy is committed to pioneering the future of energy. Shareholder JX Holdings, Inc. (100% investment) Number of Employees (Consolidated) Approx. 12,500 Main Businesses Refining and marketing of petroleum and ­petrochemical products 7 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Special Issue Imports and Stockpiling Sales Japan imports approximately 90% of all crude oil used in the country The JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group has combined the ENEOS and from Middle Eastern oil-producing nations in the Persian Gulf region. This JOMO service station brands to launch the new ENEOS brand. crude oil must be transported to Japan across a 12,000 km sea route. JX The new ENEOS service station network is the largest of its kind in Nippon Oil & Energy is working to reduce CO2 emissions by raising Japan, with approximately 13,000 locations and a 35% share of domestic transport efficiency through the use of larger tankers and through rigorfuel oil sales. By consistently taking the customer’s perspective and offerous operation control to ensure proper ing products, services and technologies to meet the needs of the times, tanker speed. the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group aims to earn the full trust and support The JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group of its customers and to become Japan’s strongest service station brand. is also committed to preventing the release of crude oil into the environment as a result of accidents at sea. New ENEOS Card Tanker (Double hull) The Group has converted all of its The JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group offers a lineup of three new credit tankers into double-hull tankers ahead cards tailored to various customer lifestyles: ENEOS Card C (Cash Back), The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR of legislation due to enter force in 2015. ENEOS Card P (Point) and ENEOS Card S (Standard). Nippon Oil Staging Terminal Co., Ltd. has installed crude oil tanker exhaust processing facilities at its storage terminal site. Biomass Fuels A first for Japan, these facilities for capturing and processing exhaust Attention is turning to these fuels as a means of countering global warmgas from crude oil tankers entered operation in May 2007. The facilities ing since their raw materials are plants, which absorb CO2 as they grow. recover nearly 70% of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in tanker With the completion of Japan’s first bio-ETBE* production plant in October exhaust for effective reuse as energy. The remaining VOCs and odorous 2009 at the Negishi Refinery, the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group has substances are processed using a petroleum gas deodorizer. established a biogasoline production structure in Japan. Biogasoline, which is regular gasoline blended with bio-ETBE, has already been sold Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business [Facilities for Processing Tanker Exhaust] primarily in the Tokyo metropolitan area. From June 2010, we began sales Gas compression/ of ENEOS VIGO (Bio) premium gasoline. From September, the phased cryo-processing Tank Energy usage launch of ENEOS VIGO (Bio) sales will commence in Western Japan. Energy recovery In addition, together with Hitachi Plant Technologies, Ltd. and euglena equipment Petroleum Reduces odorous gas deodorizer substances by Co., Ltd., the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group has begun a joint research Tanker over 98% project on the production of biojet fuel made from the microalgae euglena. *Stands for Ethyl Tertiary Butyl Ether Refining and Production The Future of Energy In the refining division, we aim to maximize merger synergies by impleTo pioneer the future of energy, the JX menting several measures made possible by the integration. These include Nippon Oil & Energy Group is promot1) Reduce refining capacity, 2) Integrate operation of the ­Mizushima ing fuel cell, solar power generation Refinery, 3) Unify production plans, and 4) Pursue rationalization in crude and storage battery businesses. oil procurement, supply coordination, and transportation divisions. To encourage wider uptake of next Our annual paraxylene production capacity has reached 2,620 thougeneration vehicles such as fuel cell sand tons. By considering further increases in capacity, we aim to capture and electric vehicles (EVs), the Group SOENE Service Station demand from the growing Asian market. takes an active part in demonstration projects for hydrogen refueling stations and EV charge stations. [Plan for Reducing Refining Capacity by 600,000 BD] In March 2010, the Group opened the futuristic SOENE Service 1,792 ­Station, which maximizes the use of solar energy, in Toyoake City, Aichi 400 thousand BD ­Prefecture. SOENE Service Stations will use solar electricity generated 600 thousand BD 1,392 1,192 on-site as part of the service station’s power supply, as well as to recharge electric vehicles. Utilization rate* Utilization rate* Utilization rate* 78% 95% 95% 2009 2011 2014 (Fiscal year) *Excluding the impact of periodic repairs JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 8 Special Issue Kukkula Hirugano Tower Hall JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Helping to Achieve a Low-Carbon Society Pioneering the Future of Home Energy as an Integrated Energy Company Various new energy devices and energyHands-on training at the Solar Power saving equipment System Installation Training Center Aiming to Supply Energy in Support of a Popularizing Residential-use Fuel Cells Low-Carbon Society In fiscal 2008, Japan’s annual greenhouse gas emission volume totaled For more than 100 years, the Nippon Oil Group and the Nippon Mining 1,282 million tons, an increase of 1.6% over the fiscal 1990 benchmark Group have contributed to the development of Japan, which lacks many set in the Kyoto Protocol. With substantial increases in household emisnatural resources, through the continued efficient and stable supply of sions volume, innovation in residential energy usage will be needed to energy, mainly petroleum. achieve the Japanese government’s commitment to reducing greenhouse As public interest in global warming and climate change issues gas emissions by 6% from the 1990 level. Against this backdrop, a increases, we must give top priority to living in harmony with the environGovernment-sponsored Large-Scale Demonstration Project for stationary ment by optimally combining natural energy sources and fossil fuels. fuel cells was held from fiscal 2005 to fiscal 2008 as a national project. To this end, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is actively engaged in supplying As a participant in this project JX Nippon Oil & Energy has been contribforms of energy that support a low-carbon society such as fuel cells, solar uting to research directed at the commercial use of ENE-FARM. power generation and storage batteries. Following this and other demonstration projects, ENE-FARM was In particular, we have pursued fuel cell research for more than 20 launched in fiscal 2009, and has entered commercial use. years based on hydrogen production and catalyst development technoloAt JX Nippon Oil & Energy, ENEOS CELLTECH Co., Ltd., the develgies developed through our petroleum refining operations. We have oper and manufacturer of ENE-FARM, commenced operations at a new focused on developing residential-use fuel cell systems (ENE-FARM*), plant in April 2009. In May 2009, full-scale ENE-FARM sales began in because these systems are expected to sharply reduce greenhouse gas the domestic market ahead of the rest of the world. In fiscal 2009, emissions in the household sector. ­E NE-FARM sales volume was 1,250 units. Going forward, we aim to reduce the ENE-FARM selling price to *The ENE-FARM system supplies electricity and heat (hot water) simultaneously using hydrogen extracted from fossil fuels and other sources and oxygen in the air. ¥500,000 per unit in fiscal 2015 through further cost reductions, with the view to promoting broader use of ENE-FARM. [Enhancing Energy Usage Efficiency Through ENE-FARM] [ENE-FARM Cost Reduction Targets] Power plant Residence (¥ million/unit) Transmission ¥7.70 million Conventional system Energy usage efficiency Transmission loss ¥5.82 million 5% ¥4.81 million Waste heat loss 55–60% Power plant Your home is the Residence “power station.” ¥3.29 million ENE-FARM Energy usage ENE-FARM efficiency ¥1.20 million ¥0.50 million Waste heat loss 15–20% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2012 2015 (Fiscal year) 9 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business Increasing the Penetration of Solar Power Voice Generation Systems of employees As an integrated energy company, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is actively promoting the use of solar power. Solar power generation systems convert the sun’s energy directly into electricity. An outstanding feature of such systems is that they emit no greenhouse gases during power generation. Moreover, making solar Shota Yagi New Energy Planning Group power generation systems more compact has very little effect on their System Integration Business Dept. Energy System Business Division power-generating efficiency. For this reason, these systems are suitable JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation for use as distributed power sources for every home. Solar power generation systems have been rapidly penetrating society, supported by upgraded and expanded national and local government Aiming to Promote Wider Use of “Double Power Generation” Systems subsidy programs, the start of a surplus power purchasing system and other factors. To further strengthen the solar power generation business, In “Double Power Generation” systems, which combine solar power generation and ENE-FARM, ENE-FARM-generated in June 2010 we opened the Solar Power System Installation Training electricity is prioritized for household use. Therefore, electricity The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR Center within the Kawasaki Plant. The Training Center offers classes on sold back to the grid is greater than when only a solar power systems basics, design, and installation work and points of caution, as generation system is installed. well as hands-on training using a mock roof. These classes are provided ENE-FARM also produces hot water while generating to JX Nippon Oil & Energy employees, as well as employees of dealerelectricity. This helps to enrich the lives of households, while ships that sell solar power generation systems and installation companies. promoting energy efficiency. By having these personnel attend the training program, we are able to By encouraging wider use of “Double Power Generation” develop a system that enables customers to put their full confidence in systems, JX Nippon Oil & Energy will help to reduce greenus in all aspects of solar power generation systems, from sales to installahouse gas emissions in the household sector. tion and management. Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s sales personnel specializing in energy devices offer both solar power generation systems and ENE-FARM, and can handle installation of “Double Power Generation” systems combining both of these systems. Optimal Combination of Natural Energy Sources and Fossil Fuels Eco-friendly Multi-Energy System JX Nippon Oil & Energy is conducting demonstration trials of an Eco[Overview of Eco-friendly Multi-Energy System] friendly Multi-Energy System, which improves on “Double Power —Example of installation at Kukkula Hirugano— ­Generation” systems that optimally combine the use of natural energy Commercial electricity During normal operation Electricity requirements sources and fossil fuels. As shown in the chart to the right, the Eco-friendly (grid power) Multi-Energy System is a complex system that combines various new Tower Hall Lighting, A/C, energy devices and energy-saving equipment. It is a clean, energy-efficient refrigeration, etc. system that can control power generation and recharging/discharging of each device, in accordance with power consumption requirements. Recharging/ “SOENE” energy Microdischarging controller monitor In June 2010, JX Nippon Oil & Energy installed the new system at cogeneration Fuel cell system ­Kukkula Hirugano, a private-sector commercial facility in Gujo City, Gifu Water heating requirements Prefecture. This facility has been selected as a “Next-generation Energy Footbath, Solar panels Storage batteries snow melting Charging station Park” as part of an initiative promoted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and for EVs, etc. Industry. Together with Gifu Prefecture, JX Nippon Oil & Energy will conduct Commercial electricity During power failures Electricity requirements demonstration trials of the new system over the course of one year. The (grid power) new system was designed to reflect the results of the demonstration trial of Tower Hall ENEOS SOENE House, an experimental residence built in March 2009 in Lighting, A/C, refrigeration, etc. Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture. Even during power failures caused by natural disasters or other events, the system will switch to independent Recharging/ “SOENE” energy operation, enabling the stable supply of electricity and hot water. マイクロ Microdischarging controller monitor cogeneration コージェネ system Fuel cell JX Nippon Oil & Energy will continue to tackle the challenge of develWater heating requirements oping optimal energy systems in terms of environmental and economic Footbath, snow melting Solar panels Storage batteries Charging station performance, as well as comfort, while remaining focused on the needs for EVs, etc. of people in their daily lives. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 10 The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR Oil and Gas Exploration and Production (E&P) Business E&P business in 15 countries around the world Crude oil and natural gas production: 143 thousand Barrels per Day (BD) (Equity basis: Crude oil equivalent) JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation is the result of the integration of Nippon Oil Exploration Limited and Japan Energy Development Co., Ltd. on July 1, 2010. The company is responsible for oil and gas E&P activities as one of the three core business companies of the JX Group. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is currently involved in oil and gas exploration, Makoto Koseki development and production projects in 15 countries around the world. The company has Representative Director, President and Executive Officer positioned Vietnam, Malaysia and the U.K. North Sea as core countries under the mediumJX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation term management plan, and is leading projects as operator in such countries. We have also Company Overview been promoting a crude oil production project in the United Arab Emirates for more than 30 (As of July 1, 2010) years, as well as oil and gas production projects in Japan. Head Office Location 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo With recent rises in crude oil prices, an increase in resource nationalism, and growing 100-8163, Japan demand from developing nations, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration expects to face tougher Capital competition in acquiring resources in the future. Under these circumstances, as one of the ¥9.8 billion Shareholder core business companies of the JX Group, we will maintain a high standard of ethics, build a JX Holdings, Inc. (100% investment) strong relationship with society and strive to harmonize with the environment while actively Number of Employees (Consolidated) promoting business operations. In addition, we aim to strengthen the relationships between Approx. 800 resource-poor Japan and oil and gas producing countries by contributing to the development Main Businesses Exploration, development and production of of these countries through our business activities. oil and gas 11 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Special Issue Exploration, Development and Production of Overview of Business in Core Countries Oil and Gas Vietnam…FY2009 Sales Volume 14,000 BOED Under the medium-term management plan, the basic strategy for JX We acquired a working interest in Southern Vietnam offshore Block 15-2 Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is to maintain and expand production over the as operator in 1992. In 1994 we discovered the Rang Dong Oil Field and medium to long term. To continue to grow as an oil and gas E&P company started production in 1998. In July 2008 we achieved cumulative producfocused on operatorship, we will take the following measures: tion volume of 150 million barrels. Since much of the oil from the Rang Dong Oil Field accumulates in (1) Lay the groundwork for growth ­fractures that have formed in the granite basement rock, we have applied • Reserves replacement and expansion advanced fracture evaluation, horizontal borehole drilling, and artificial lift Primarily through exploration, aim to increase future production. At techniques to maximize production from the oil field. The basement rock the same time, acquire assets based on comprehensive risk analysis. development and production techniques obtained in such process have • Pursuit of additional development projects become one of our key strengths. In other blocks in Vietnam, we are advancPursue additional development mainly in core countries of operation ing exploration activities not only in basement rock, but also in sandstone. (Vietnam, Malaysia and the U.K. (North Sea)). Moreover, as part of our corporate activities, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is making a tangible contribution to improving the lives of the The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR • Application of new technologies: enhanced oil recovery, etc. people of Vietnam. These efforts include social contribution activities and (2) Restructure the asset portfolio greenhouse gas emissions reduction measures such as a clean developAllocate resources with a focus on core countries ment mechanism (CDM)* project to recover associated gas. *The clean development mechanism (CDM) is a mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol. Developed To carry out these measures JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration plans to countries and developing countries cooperate in implementing a project which reduces the make capital expenditure and financial investments of ¥320 billion over the emissions of the greenhouse gases (GHGs) such as CO2. This project served as a model for establishing the CDM methodology, which is as of August 2010 being used in over 30 projects three years from fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2020, the final year of our long-term around the world that recover and reuse associated gas. vision, we are targeting crude oil and natural gas production of 200,000 Barrels Oil Equivalent per Day (BOED). Oil and Gas Exploration and Production (E&P) Business Malaysia…FY2009 Sales Volume 61,000 BOED Production Forecast for Oil and Gas In 1987 we acquired a participating interest in Block SK10, offshore ­Sarawak, (Thousand BOED) 200 and in 1990 discovered the Helang Gas Field. In 1991 we acquired a participat200 ing interest in Block SK8, and discovered the Jintan Gas Field and other fields. Subsequently, we joined with Malaysian national oil company, Petronas, 143 132 Asset acquisitions Shell and others to establish a liquefied natural gas (LNG)* project using the 150 and others discovered gas as feed gas, and since 2003 we have been selling LNG to Exploration power companies as fuel for power generation, and to gas companies for use 100 Development as city gas (including in Japan). By participating in natural gas exploration, Existing development and production through to LNG sales, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation is, together with other JX Group companies, contrib2009 2012 2015 2020 (Fiscal year) uting to the stable supply of LNG to consumer nations, including Japan. *Liquefied natural gas (LNG) is a form of natural gas consisting mainly of methane and is liquefied by refrigeration to around minus 160 degrees Celsius after impurities such as water, sulfur and carbon Business Areas Core countries Core candidate countries dioxide have been removed. Liquefaction reduces the volume of natural gas to 1/600, allowing LNG to be transported and stored efficiently. Moreover, compared with petroleum or coal, LNG emits less greenhouse gases and atmospheric pollutants such as nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides when it is burned. As such, it has been drawing much attention as a cleaner and preferred energy option. The U.K. (North Sea) Canada Abu Dhabi Japan Qatar The U.K. (North Sea)…FY2009 Sales Volume 13,000 BOED Libya The U.S. Gulf of Mexico With its established local laws, regulations, and tax regime relating to the exploration and production of oil and gas, and well-developed operating infrastructure, the U.K. North Sea is a strategic area for JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration to carry out exploration and production activities. We have been acquiring E&P assets since 1994, and currently hold interests in more Myanmar than 10 producing oil and gas fields, including the Brae Oil and Gas Fields, Vietnam Thailand and the Magnus Oil Field. We are also actively pursuing exploration, and are Malaysia nO  il and gas reserves of the Indonesia currently studying options for development of natural gas discovered at the East Timor JX Nippon Oil and Gas Papua Culzean prospect in Block 22/25a in December 2008. Moving ahead, JX Exploration Group New Guinea Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration will continue to grow its business in the North (As of December 31, 2009) 813 million BOE Australia Sea by quickly moving to development and production after success in (Total of proven and probable reserves exploration, and by acquiring further blocks through farm in, licensing rounds based on SPE Standards) and other opportunities. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 12 Special Issue JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation A Stable Supply of Energy Contributing to the stable supply of oil and gas while maintaining safe operations by Solar power generation system on a production effectively applying knowledge and experience accumulated as operator platform (Vietnam) Offshore firefighting drill at Helang gas field (Malaysia) HSE Management System Emergency and Oil Spill Response E&P activities progress in four stages: exploration, development, producAs part of the HSE-MS, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration established a tion and abandonment. Each stage involves risks of injuries and illness, corporate emergency response plan and a structure based on site speaccidents, and impacts on the environment. Giving top priority to managcific emergency status, and an oil spill response plan. Under the plans our ing risks related to health, safety and environment (HSE) in carrying out response is organized in a tier structure comprising the accident site, the our business activities, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has established operation site office, and the company headquarters. Depending on the and is implementing systematic approaches to manage those risks (HSE level of the emergency the necessary organizations and resources are management system or HSE-MS) based upon internationally recognized mobilized at each tier to minimize the impact on human life and the envistandards such as ISO14001 and OHSAS18001. Moreover, to further ronment. The plans are regularly tested for effectiveness. Emergency prevent workplace accidents and reduce our environmental impact, we drills are performed internally and together with relevant emergency continually improve the HSE-MS and apply it across the entire organizaservices providers, and improvements to the plans are made as necestion, from the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration headquarters to each sary. In order to promptly respond to a major oil spill, we utilize an industry office and operation site. mutual aid organization in Malaysia, and have engaged industry-­ recognized oil spill response services providers in other countries. HEALTH, SAFETY and ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY OF JX NIPPON OIL & GAS EXPLORATION CORPORATION General Policy • D esigning our workplaces to minimise the risks to personnel and We, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation (NOEX), as a member developing work practices to further reduce the risks as low as reasonof JX Group, whose mission statement is to contribute to the developably practicable. ment of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the • Encouraging the use of the best available technology to reduce the areas of energy, resources and materials, are undertaking oil and gas impact of our operations to the environment, particularly with regard to exploration and production operations as one of the core businesses of the efficient use of energy and materials, the minimisation of waste JX Group. and the prevention of pollution. We, as a member of the society, are committed to providing oil and gas • Ensuring our personnel to be competent for their tasks and further for the society’s needs in a manner that avoids injuries and illnesses to providing HSE training and awareness programmes to manage HSE our employees, contractors and neighbours while acting in harmony with risks. the environment of the Earth. • Developing communication channels to ensure the HSE policy and its Strategies objectives are understood by all our personnel, contractors and cusWe implement this policy by conducting the following strategies: tomers, and to actively seek their input and feedback. • Ensuring that Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) considerations Application are given prevailing status over our other business considerations. The President of NOEX is accountable for ensuring the HSE policy is • Ensuring compliance with all relevant legislations and other requireimplemented and that its effectiveness is reviewed annually. ments to which we subscribe. All personnel and contractors of NOEX Group Companies in all areas • Applying a systematic approach to HSE management to achieve of the activities under NOEX operational control are responsible for continual HSE performance improvement including setting strict HSE applying the HSE Policy. objectives and performing regular audits and reviews. 13 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Oil and Gas Exploration and Production (E&P) Business Voice of employees Shota Nakatsuka Petroleum Engineering Group Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Limited Supporting Development and Production Through Safe Operations Since I was posted to Vietnam in October 2008, I have worked as a petroleum engineer involved in well intervention work and well testing in our oil fields. Well intervention work involves survey and analysis of well performance to find out why production has declined or problems have occurred, then address such problems with appropriate solutions. And it also involves replacing equipment in the well or adding new equipment to optimize production. During well testing, we evaluate new oil/gas reservoirs and production wells to estimate production potential. Since we work with wells which are in production, we always plan carefully to avoid causing leakage or blowout of the high pressure fluid. Just one single mistake or moment of carelessness would not only suspend our operation for a long time, but would also pose a direct risk to the environment and to human life. We pay special attention to equipment maintenance and pressure control at every stage of our operations, and in some situations we have the person in charge of each section, before the operation or test, carefully go over conceivThe JX Group’s Businesses and CSR able accidents and response measures to them. All of these works take place on offshore facilities that are in the middle of operation. At 20–30 meters above the sea, surrounded by high temperature, high pressure piping and heavy machinery, the environment demands that we are constantly on alert. I tackle my daily work with acute awareness that I am supporting safe operations, which are the cornerstone of development and production of oil and gas. Through my work, I aim to contribute to efficient development and production operations. Harmony with the Environment Oil and Gas Exploration and Production (E&P) Business of gas processing facilities and maintained stable gas production. In Vietnam, from September 2001 we ceased flaring associated gas proEnvironmental Preservation Activities Based on duced along with crude oil from the Rang Dong Oil Field and began to ­Environmental Impact Assessments transport such gas via a subsea pipeline to an onshore power plant in At JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, environmental impact assessments Vietnam for use as fuel gas to generate electric power. The JX Group (EIA) form the primary project planning process for proactively preventing applied to register this project, which efficiently utilizes associated gas, environmental impact from oil and gas exploration and production. We with the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Executive Board, the UN examine countermeasures to mitigate identified environmental impacts, organization under the Kyoto Protocol. On February 4, 2006, the project including biodiversity, when necessary, and monitor environmental impacts was accepted and registered as a CDM project. Moreover, several of the in accordance with the method set out by the EIA to ensure that any offshore installations at the Rang Dong Oil Field are equipped with solar impacts are really being mitigated. From the early stage of project planand wind power generators to partially cover electricity demands at the ning, technical experts and environmental specialists related to each installations. In June 2009, the V ­ ietnamese Ministry of Industry & Trade project closely communicate on the best possible mitigation plans. (MoIT) awarded Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Limited with a first prize for environmental protection in recognition of our concerted efforts Reduction in Greenhouse Gas Emissions in Vietnam in this regard. Two primary sources of greenhouse gas emissions from JX Nippon Oil & In the United Arab Emirates, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is a Gas Exploration’s E&P operations are CO2 emitted from the flaring of the shareholder of Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd., which operates offshore oil fields associated gas produced along with crude oil and the continuous release such as the Mubarraz Oil Field. These operations involve using a highof vent methane gas from gas processing facilities. We have formulated pressure compressor to inject associated acid gas produced along with and are enforcing extensive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emiscrude oil back into the producing oil reservoirs at depths of approximately sions at our major operating oil and gas fields, namely the Helang Gas 3,000m below sea level. This has greatly reduced CO2 emissions into the Field in Malaysia, the Rang Dong Oil Field in Vietnam and the El-Bunduq atmosphere and enhances the reservoir’s crude oil recovery rate. In and Mubarraz Oil Fields in the Middle East, among others. In the Helang recognition of the project’s groundbreaking technology and its successful Gas Field, the company reduced vent gas emissions released from gas track record, Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd. was honored by the state-owned processing facilities by approximately 50% in 2009 against a rolling Abu Dhabi National Oil Company with first prize (supreme winner) in the average of the previous three years. This was achieved by managing the 2000 HSE Awards. pressure of the vent gas lines and carrying out thorough maintenance See page 26 for more information inspections of production facilities. We also reduced unplanned shutdowns JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 14 The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR Metals Business Copper smelting and refining capacity: 1,170 thousand tons/year 80 (No. 2 in the world) Equity-based entitlement volume: Approx. thousand tons/year (Ratio of equity-based entitlement volume: 17%) (Equity basis: volume of copper concentrate) JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation JX Nippon Mining & Metals is a core operating company of the JX Holdings Group and is guided by the JX Group Mission Statement. With copper as our main product, our business areas include upstream (resource development), midstream (smelting and refining), and downstream (electronic materials, and recycling and environmental services) activities. We are working hard to strengthen and expand our existing business and to implement strategies for Masanori Okada balanced growth across each of these areas. Representative Director, President and Executive Officer JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group businesses main features are as follows: JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation 1. We supply society with the basic metal resources and materials that support daily life and Company Overview industry activities in a broad sense. (As of July 1, 2010) 2. Our business activities—ranging from the exploration of resources and the manufacturing Head Office Location 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo and fabrication of the most up-to-date materials to materials recycling—are consistently 100-8162, Japan geared to a recycling-oriented business structure that uses the limited resources from the Capital earth as its direct raw materials. ¥40 billion 3. Our business activities are developing globally, widely, and diversely. Shareholder JX Holdings, Inc. (100% investment) With an awareness of our company mission to stably supply non-ferrous metal resources Number of Employees (Consolidated) and materials, we will pursue innovation in productivity through unceasing technology Approx. 5,000 development, contributing to the development of a sustainable society on a global scale while Main Businesses Manufacture and sale of non-ferrous metal working to maintain a harmonious relationship with a diverse range of stakeholders. products and electronic materials 15 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Special Issue Resource Development (Upstream) Electronic Materials (Downstream) In its resource development business, JX Nippon Mining & Metals is In its electronic materials business, JX Nippon Mining & Metals develops, taking steps to secure long-term, stable supplies of high-quality ore to manufactures and sells highly functional materials for making electronic raise its ratio of equity-based entitlement volume amid growing global components used in IT and electronic devices and in automobiles, among demand for copper ore. Specifically, we are actively developing new mines other applications. We hold the top share in the global markets for a host and acquiring promising deposits. One such initiative is the ­Caserones of products including rolled copper foil, sputtering targets for LSIs, sputterCopper and Molybdenum Deposit Development Project in Chile. Since ing targets for flat-panel displays, and titanium copper alloys. Aiming to acquiring an interest in May 2006, we have carried out exploratory drilling remain the first-choice vendor for our customers, we are concentrating on to ascertain the amount of ore as well as flotation tests and an economic understanding their needs and swiftly adapting our products and services evaluation of the project based on them. The results of these studies to meet them. In particular, we are working hard on developing environindicate that development of the project is expected to be economically mentally friendly surface treatments, such as by using lead-free chemicals. viable, and a decision to move into development was taken in February 2010, after we received environmental approval from the environmental board of the III Atacama Region (Chile’s third administrative division). The JX Group’s Businesses and CSR Rolled copper foil Titanium copper alloys The Caserones Project in April 2010 Sputtering targets for LSIs Surface treatments Metals Business Simulated image of Caserones after operations commence Recycling and Environmental Services (Downstream) Smelting and Refining (Midstream) In our recycling business, we recover copper, precious metals and other Our smelting and refining business is carried out by the Saganoseki materials from scrap containing precious and rare metals. In parallel, to Smelter & Refinery and the Hitachi Works under the umbrella of our group avoid emitting secondary waste, we run an environmental business for company, PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD., and the Tamano Smelter of detoxification processing of industrial wastes. In Hitachi City, Ibaraki Hibi Kyodo Smelting Co., Ltd, all of which boast world-class technological Prefecture, we started the Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex (HMC) capabilities, cost competitiveness and productivity. With a combined annual Works. To make full use of the manufacturing capacity of this facility, we refined copper production capacity of 710 thousand tons/year, are boosting our loading capacity for scrap containing precious and rare (Saganoseki and Hitachi: 450 thousand tons, Tamano: 260 thousand metals, and working to expand our analysis and pre-processing capacity. tons), JX Nippon Mining & Metals continues to stably supply the market We are also working on a project to recover rare metals, such as lithium, with high-quality products as Japan’s largest producer of refined copper. from used lithium-ion batteries. Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery HMC Works Tamano Smelter JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 16 Special Issue JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Helping to Achieve a Sound Material-Cycle Society Developing an Integrated Recycling and Tsuruga Plant (Pilot Plant) Environmental Services Business to Make Efficient Use of the Earth’s Resources, and to Help Create a Sustainable Society Solvent extraction equipment Playing Our Part in Creating a RecyclingRecycling High-Demand Lithium-ion Batteries Oriented Society As part of its efforts to realize a recycling-oriented society, JX Nippon Mining Modern society depends on supplies of oil, coal and other fossil fuels, as & Metals Corporation is focusing its efforts on recycling of lithium-ion batterwell as on iron, non-ferrous metals and other mined resources. At JX ies. Currently, lithium-ion batteries are used extensively in such electronic Nippon Mining & Metals, we believe it is vital to use the Earth’s resources devices as mobile phones and personal computers. Looking at the not-­tooefficiently if we are to pass on a sustainable society to future generations. distant future, demand for lithium-ion batteries is projected to rise dramatiUsing metals refining technologies developed in copper smelting and cally as an in-vehicle power source for next-generation automobiles, refining operations, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals group has promoted including electric and hybrid vehicles, with respect to the growing trend the recovery of metals from so-called “urban mines.” We have established toward the establishment of a low-carbon society. Lithium, one of several a network of five operation bases throughout Japan as part of our intenecessary raw material metals, on the other hand, is a scarce commodity with grated recycling and environmental services business to help create a an uneven geographical distribution. Under these circumstances, the recovsustainable society. Recently, operations began at our HMC Works, which ery of lithium from used batteries and the development of recycling technolorecovers a wide variety of valuable metals. gies that facilitate its reuse are issues of immediate pressing concern. In 1978 JX Nippon Mining & Metals became the first in the world to [JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group Recycling Network] use high-precision separation and recovery technology for nickel and Operation base Area cobalt using a sulfuric acid bath. Today we are working to develop comPAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD., Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery Western Japan region mercially viable separation and recovery of cobalt, nickel, lithium and HMC Works, Nikko Environmental Services Co., Ltd. Kanto, Tohoku, Chubu regions manganese from used lithium-ion batteries. Tomakomai Chemical Corporation Hokkaido region Nikko Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. Chubu, Kansai regions [Diagram of the Recycling Process] Nikko Mikkaichi Recycle Co., Ltd. Chubu region Raw Materials (Recycled cathode materials) [Valuable Metals Recovered at HMC Works] Leaching Bath Filter Press Solvent Extracting Manganese Refining Manganese Electrowinning Manganese Manganese Gold Silver Tin Solvent Extracting Cobalt Refining Cobalt Electrowinning Cobalt Cobalt Solvent Extracting Nickel Nickel Carbonate Nickel Carbonate Process HMC Works Indium Bismuth Antimony oxide Lithium Carbonate Process Lithium Carbonate 17 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Metals Business Aiming to Build a Business Model for Voice of employees ­Materials Stewardship In September 2009 following a public tender, JX Nippon Mining & Metals was commissioned by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) to develop technology to recover rare metals from used lithium-ion batterMakoto Narusako ies as a part of the ministry’s industrial technology development program. Tsuruga Plant Technology Development Section JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation In response, we constructed a pilot plant on the premises of group company Nikko Tsuruga Recycle Co., Ltd. We are currently conducting trials in collaboration with Waseda and Nagoya universities for recovery of lithium-ion batteries. We have developed basic technologies for the recovery From Demonstration Testing to Full-fledged of lithium and manganese from lithium-ion batteries, which, if brought to Operation practical application, will represent a world first. When I was assigned to work on the Tsuruga Plant in January 2010, the outer shell of the facility had been completed and Plans are in place to supply value-bearing metals recovered as raw construction of the plant equipment was about to begin. I was materials for use in cathode materials of the in-vehicle lithium-ion batterinvolved in almost all aspects of the project, including conies manufactured by the company’s Isohara Works and other manufacturThe JX Group’s Businesses and CSR struction, test operation and start-up of the equipment, procurers. In July 2009 the Isohara Works began operating manufacturing ing necessary materials, formulating an operating plan and equipment with a capacity of 500 tons per year in anticipation of growth setting up an operating system. in demand for in-vehicle lithium-ion batteries. In particular, I spent a lot of time on instruction and training for plant operational personnel. With the support of many others, we In addition to striving to realize the practical application of recovery started operation with real liquid in early April, and began operatechnologies in the future, JX Nippon Mining & Metals will endeavor to tions in mid-May, with a staff of 17 people working in 3 shifts. build an efficient supply chain encompassing lithium and other rare Inside the plant there are many reaction tanks, reservoirs, metals to realize materials stewardship.* pipes and pumps. The equipment can be started and stopped remotely using a touch panel. We made the process flow easier to understand by clearly labeling the names of each Metals Business [Materials Stewardship Diagram] tank, the destinations of the pipes and so forth; and we made Return to environment the operation safer by allowing operators to check the status Disposal Society’s need for minerals and metals of each process onsite, and the composition of the liquid. This also helps to improve product quality. Reuse At present, about 20% of the equipment for the entire plant Use and social is operational. Once the demonstration testing is complete, we benefit Process Remanufacture stewardship aim to start full-fledged operations as soon as possible. This Product Product stewardship Exploration job is demanding in terms of achieving rigorous quality staninnovation and design dards and establishing a low-cost operation, but as an engineer I feel it is an extremely worthwhile project. Semi-fabrication Recycling Mine site and fabrication development Extraction mining Smelting and refining *Materials stewardship, which is advocated and promoted by the International Council on Cathode material manufacturer Mining and Metals (ICMM), embodies the Battery manufacturer Isohara Works range of activities required to ensure the Automobile manufacturer Sales company optimal and appropriate use of minerals and metals in society. In cooperation with its corporate clients in the IT industry, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is recovering the non-ferrous metals that it has put into society as recyclable materials. Through User Electric Co•Ni these efforts, we are contributing to the Carbonic acid Mn•Li development of a recycling-oriented society. JX Nippon Mining & Metals, Environmental Recycling Services Group Disassemble Leaching Positive electrode Recycled Solvent extraction Collection company Crush cathode <Al sheet> cathode materials Waste lithium-ion Sort Scrap metal, battery cells resins, etc. Aluminum package Separator JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 18 JX Group Management Corporate Governance Basic Approach to Corporate Governance Management Execution and Supervision The basic approach to corporate governance of JX Holdings is to Execution of Duties make decisions and execute operational activities quickly and flexibly The Board of Directors decides and reports on matters prescribed by to implement growth strategies for the JX Group as a whole and to laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, and other make appropriate responses to changes in the business environment. matters stipulated by the Regulations of the Board of Directors. In addition, JX Holdings endeavors to secure the soundness and Executive officers are appointed to execute the operations decided transparency of its management to respond to the trust and confion by the Board of Directors. dence of all its stakeholders. Furthermore, the Executive Committee meetings are held regularly In line with these beliefs, as the holding company, JX Holdings to finalize important decisions related to operational execution. focuses especially on formulating mediumto long-term strategies In order to ensure transparency and objectivity in determining for the JX Group and strategically allocating management resources compensation for directors and executive officers, we have estabto implement these strategies. Under the holding company, the core lished a Compensation Advisory Committee as an advisory body to operating companies are responsible for actual business activities in the Board of Directors. the Group: JX Nippon Oil & Energy, which is responsible for the petroleum refining and marketing business; JX Nippon Oil & Gas Supervision and Audits Exploration, which runs the oil and gas E&P business; and JX Nippon JX Holdings has appointed four highly knowledgeable and experiMining & Metals, which is in charge of the metals business. enced outside directors to strengthen supervision of management from an independent, objective perspective. Of the Company’s six corporate auditors, a majority of four members are outside auditors with great expertise and experience in the field. Under Japan’s [Corporate Governance Structure of the JX Group] General Meeting of Shareholders Election and removal of Election and removal of Election and removal of directors corporate auditors independent auditors (audit firm) [JX Holdings] Board of Directors Audits Board of Corporate Auditors Independent auditors (Chaired by the Representative Director, Chairman) 6 corporate auditors including 16 directors including 4 outside directors 4 outside corporate auditors Election and removal of Compensation Advisory Committee executive officers Audits (Chaired by outside director) Monitoring and supervision [Executive Committee] Body to assist decision-making by the president Business execution Chairman and Representative Director President Executive Vice Presidents (President and Representative Director) Senior Vice Presidents Executive officers Financial audits JX Group CSR Council Presidents of core operatJX Group Compliance Committee ing companies and others JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee JX Group Environmental Committee Internal audits Internal Audit Department (Internal Audit Division) Management supervision [Core Operating Companies] JX Nippon JX Nippon JX Nippon Oil & Energy Other Group Companies Oil & Gas Exploration Mining & Metals 19 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Companies Act, the powers of the (board of) auditors have been The first JX Group CSR strengthened and expanded. In this way, the Company has built a Council convened in July 2010. system to ensure the effectiveness of supervision of the directors’ During the inaugural meeting, execution of duties. the chair expressed his thoughts on the JX Group CSR Internal Control System Regulations and promotion of Basic Approach to Internal Control the mission statement, resolved The first JX Group CSR Council in session Based on the JX Group Mission Statement “JX Group will contribute to form committees, explained to the development of a sustainable economy and society through methods of operation, and issued directions for the creation of CSR innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials” and the structures at each company. The meeting also sought to share meaJX Group Values “Ethics, Advanced ideas, Relationship with society, sures for promoting the mission statement, one of the major policies Trustworthy products/services, and Harmony with the environment,” for fiscal 2010. JX Holdings is building internal control systems to ensure appropriate business activities. Group CSR Promotion Managers We have appointed CSR promotion managers in each Group departCSR Promotion Structure ment and affiliated company. These employees are on the frontlines Basic Approach to CSR of the Group’s CSR activities. We will steadily fulfill our responsibility to society through faithful implementation of the JX Group Mission Statement by every officer Fiscal 2010 Activity Policy and employee in order to establish a corporate Group worthy of the We believe that sharing a common mission statement and a unified trust of our stakeholders. sense of purpose among all officers and employees of Group companies in day-to-day business activities will help to foster a new JX Group Management Group CSR Council and the Three Committees corporate culture and realize the Group-wide cohesion necessary to The JX Group CSR Council, chaired by the president of JX Holdings achieve growth and expansion. Based on this belief, in fiscal 2010, and comprising members from across the Group, is tasked with control the first fiscal year after the merger, we will work to spread the JX of CSR activities for the JX Group. Under the umbrella of this meeting Group mission statement throughout the company as quickly as are the JX Group’s three CSR Committees, namely the JX Group possible. We have set this goal as the CSR Activity Policy of JX Compliance Committee, JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee Holdings, and will promote measures to that end. and JX Group Environmental Committee, each focused on their respective areas. [JX Group CSR Promotion Structure] JX Holdings JX Group CSR Council Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company Chaired by President of JX Holdings Administration Office JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Holdings Corporate Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department Social Responsibility Department Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Four-Company Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department JX Group’s Three CSR Committees Responsibility Contact Meeting Department JX Group Compliance Committee CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Group Corporate JX Nippon Mining & Metals Citizenship Committee Corporate Social Responsibility CSR promotion managers in each department JX Group Environmental Committee Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 20 JX Group Values Respecting the EARTH Ethics P. 22 Advanced ideas P. 25 RelationshipP. 27with society TrustworthyP.products/services 31 Harmony withP.the35environment 21 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Ethics Alongside compliance with laws and rules, the JX Group believes that the basis of trust is formed by fair and honest business transactions, protection of intellectual property and human rights, and other behaviors that underlie ethical decision-making and actions in all of its business activities. Together with the promotion of thorough compliance and stronger risk management, the JX Group has formed a highly ethical stance based on management that respects human rights, and has set its sights on becoming a truly leading company in this field. Basic Approach to Compliance [Major Compliance Activities in Fiscal 2009] To promote fair and honest corporate activities and earn greater Group name Nippon Oil Group Japan Energy Group trust from society, the JX Group has established regulations and Compliance Training for new hires Training for new hires education Training for new supervisors Training for new managers other rules to ensure thorough compliance among all Group Training in document regulations Presentations on basic companies, and has declared a policy of full compliance with laws, compliance rules, etc. Training in anti-trust laws, others the Articles of Incorporation and regulations in every aspect of Priority areas Anti-trust laws Establishment and promotion of work performance. In conjunction with the establishment of JX Permissions/authorizations, themes in every department Holdings in April 2010, and in light of the transitional period qualifications, etc. Survey of legal Surveys of legal compliance 56 companies, including Japan needed to move to this management framework, we formulated compliance status status at 20 companies, including Energy and Japan Energy regulations to prevent insider trading and took steps to rigorously Nippon Oil, Nippon Petroleum Development Co., Ltd. Refining Company, Limited, and manage information regarding important facts that employees Nippon Oil Exploration Limited acquire during the course of their duties. We also drafted compliance regulations and we conduct compliance inspections of Following the merger in July 2010, both corporate groups plan to each Group company, as well as offer support and suggestions on coordinate with JX Holdings in inspecting legal compliance status and developing a proper compliance framework. conducting in-house compliance training. In July 2007, we established the JX Group Compliance Committee as a sub-unit under the JX Group CSR Council, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration establishing a framework for deliberating compliance-related Prior to the merger, both Nippon Oil Exploration and Japan Energy matters, including information security and human rights, and for ­Development had positioned compliance as a key management issue, JX Group Values sharing information between individual Group companies. Going conducting reviews of compliance status and a variety of in-house training forward, the committee will be charged with periodically inspecting among other efforts to ensure thorough compliance. In fiscal 2009, in the status of JX Group legal compliance. Furthermore, the Group, in cooperation with an outside legal addition to the reviews of compliance status, the companies reviewed their firm, has put in place an internal reporting system for early information management status and conducted compliance training on discovery and correction of behavior that could lead to legal issues such as preventing insider trading and combating bribery of foreign violations. This system also serves as a means to properly protect public officials in international business transactions. These measures will those who come forward to report such behavior. Moreover, the remain in place for the post-merger JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, along system is accessible not only to JX Holdings full-time employees, with ongoing coordination with JX Holdings to ensure thorough compliance. but to part-time staff, temp workers, and employees at partner companies. To encourage use of the system, we ask partner JX Nippon Mining & Metals companies to help raise awareness of the system among all parties Basic policies on compliance, as well as priority issues for each fiscal involved in operations relating to JX Holdings. year and the training curriculum, are decided by the Compliance Subcommittee established under the CSR Committee. In fiscal 2009, in addition JX Nippon Oil & Energy to compliance training by job class (training for new hires, third-year Prior to the merger, Nippon Oil Corporation and Japan Energy ­Corporation employees, new supervisors, and new managers), we also conducted both conducted a broad range of compliance training, promoting activities training on anti-trust laws and export control. around priority concerns, using surveys to assess legal compliance status, and conducting follow-ups to check on improvements, in an effort to ensure thorough compliance. Compliance implementation at each company in fiscal 2009 is shown highlighted in the following chart. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 22 Ethics Basic Approach to Risk Management JX Nippon Oil & Energy The JX Group has risk management structures that are tailored to Prior to the merger, both groups had devised Business Continuity Plans the business lines of each Group company, with countermeasures (BCPs) in case of a major earthquake, and also conducted annual disasin place to manage individual risks related to compliance, ter prevention drills. In fiscal 2009, too, Nippon Oil Corporation, during occupational safety, and the environment, among others. ENEOS Disaster Prevention Week initiatives, carried out disaster prevenFor crisis management, comprehensive disaster prevention tion and first-response drills based on simulations of a major earthquake measures (earthquakes and new strains of influenza) and other directly beneath Tokyo. Japan Energy also conducted fire evacuation such areas, we made certain companies responsible for Groupdrills based on plans from participating fire departments. wide planning and coordination during the merger, taking into consideration the specific operational characteristics of JX Holdings and its core operating companies. The result is a risk management framework that encompasses the entire Group. More specifically, crisis management is the responsibility of JX Holdings, which is to take care of overall coordination in the event of crisis situations that could potentially impact Group management. Accordingly, JX Holdings has formulated a set of crisis management rules detailing actions for minimizing damage Disaster prevention drills First-response drills should such situations arise. A standing administration office for responding to crisis situations has been established within JX Similarly, during the H1N1 influenza outbreak in May 2009, each Holdings. Should such situations arise at JX Holdings or a company established response headquarters for devising countermeacompany within the JX Group, the general manager of this sures, took steps to prevent the spread of infection among employees department, or alternatively, the general manager responsible for and their families, and assessed infection rates, among other measures. general affairs at the applicable Group company, is responsible for immediately reporting the incident and any response measures In addition, the companies each formulated specific BCPs ahead of a taken to the general manager of the administration office. possible pandemic. Depending on the severity of the crisis, the president of JX Holdings may opt to establish an in-house response headquarters JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration for specific countermeasures, or a response headquarters to Prior to the merger, each respective company in the Nippon Oil Group and devise and coordinate measures across the Group. The express the Japan Energy Group devised countermeasures tailored to the individual purpose of these measures is to mount a swift and accurate risks that they faced. With the view of cooperative ties with other JX Group response in service of the Group’s social mission. companies post the launch of JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, along with Regarding financial transactions, we drafted a set of regulations re-establishment of a variety of rules including regulations governing crisis governing the enactment and management of derivative management, information security and other areas, a Risk Management transactions by the JX Group. As part of the appropriate Committee chaired by the President has also been set up, and we are management of risk for the JX Group with respect to derivative working to identify risks in each department and pursue comprehensive transactions, JX Holdings is also responsible for formulation of basic policies and monitoring related to the development and risk countermeasures across the company. maintenance of internal control systems for the entire JX Group. Where comprehensive disaster prevention measures are JX Nippon Mining & Metals concerned, in times of earthquakes, pandemics or other Risk management at JX Nippon Mining & Metals is primarily centered on widespread disasters, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is charged with a Risk Management Subcommittee, which meets twice yearly. In fiscal taking the lead in fulfilling the Group’s vital social mission of 2009, the company formulated a response manual for coping with new maintaining the stable supply of energy. JX Holdings and other influenza outbreaks—a priority issue for the entire Group. In tandem, Group companies serve in a supporting role under this framework. priority risk categories were identified in every department, with the status of risk countermeasure planning and implementation reviewed at the subcommittee meetings. Each department also carried out an annual self-evaluation of enacted measures and risk assessment in an ongoing drive to improve risk management. As part of risk management, JX Nippon Mining & Metals is also developing countermeasures for coping with large-scale natural disasters at its business sites, including damage from earthquakes and floods. 23 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Basic Approach to Human Rights In terms of initiatives by each company in fiscal 2009 prior to the The JX Group recognizes that achieving corporate behavior firmly merger, Nippon Oil, in addition to training by job class (24 sessions) and rooted in high ethical values ultimately rests on the actions of its e-learning training (4 sessions), held 23 human rights training sessions individual executives and employees. Accordingly, the JX Group for branches, refineries and affiliated companies. Furthermore, in 2009, strives for labor, personnel management, and human resource Nippon Oil established an annually recurring Human Rights Week in development underpinned by respect for human rights. Beyond November. In addition to using the internal email system to disseminate respecting international rules such as the United Nations messages from the officer in charge of companywide human rights Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Conventions, the JX promotion, employees, including those at group companies, were invited Group strives to cultivate strong ethical values among its to submit slogans related to human rights. executives and employees by providing them with supportive Japan Energy, for its part, has sought to raise human rights awareness environments for performing meaningful work. While individual by using presentations on basic compliance regulations as opportunities policies and specific measures are decided based on Group to discuss human rights-related regulations and the 10 principles of the company business characteristics and scale, we endeavor to United Nations Global Compact. 21 explanatory meetings of this kind improve working environments across the entire Group, including were held in fiscal 2009. through the joint usage of welfare facilities, by promoting information exchanges between staff responsible for human JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration resource management. Prior to the merger, each respective company in the Nippon Oil Group JX Holdings has also placed special emphasis on the and the Japan Energy Group conducted activities to promote human development of human resources responsible for Group rights awareness. Nippon Oil Exploration provided explanations to management, and is fostering a management class of high ethical ­overseas employees hired locally regarding the training program implestandards through specific training for executives and joint training mented at the head office on prevention of sexual and power harassment for administrative staff at all Group companies. as part of efforts to encourage global promotion of human rights awareJX Holdings and its three core operating companies are also ness. From August 2010, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration became a participants in the United Nations Global Compact, implementing participant in the United Nations Global Compact, and has taken steps to and promoting the compact’s 10 principles in the 4 areas of human adopt the 10 principles as part of human rights awareness. Through these rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. and other activities, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, in the wake of the merger, as one of the core business companies of the JX Group remains as committed as ever to actively promoting human rights awareness. JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Nippon Mining & Metals is developing an organization where respect JX Group Values for human rights is the norm, and where the personality and individuality of every employee is valued. Article 4 of the company’s Code of Conduct states that, “We will respect employees’ personalities, human rights and individuality.” The company has raised awareness of its stance on respect for human rights among all affiliated companies, and, from a compliance JX Nippon Oil & Energy perspective also, is clearly documenting its commitment to eliminating As a vehicle for human rights promotion following the July 2010 merger, discrimination and prohibiting sexual and other types of harassment, and JX Nippon Oil & Energy has put a framework in place with a human rigorously conveying this message to employees. rights awareness office, which serves as a companywide administration JX Nippon Mining & Metals unequivocally rejects child or forced labor office. The office is headed by the director in charge of human resources. of any kind. Outside of Japan, the company promotes numerous busiAs expressed in the basic policy below, by implementing systematic nesses in the Asia-Pacific region, employing some 1,700 people, and human rights training, we will strive to create a corporate culture with an rigorously adheres to age restrictions and other limitations when recruitingrained respect for human rights. ing. Managers, meanwhile, are extensively trained on the company’s Fundamental Human Rights Policy of prohibition against the use of forced labor. JX Nippon Oil & Energy As global business development gains momentum going forward, JX • Eliminate all forms of discrimination through Nippon Mining & Metals is dedicated to strict compliance with local labor respect for human rights laws and other restrictions at its overseas bases. Similarly, in terms of • Systemize human rights training recruitment and human resource development, the company is committed • Enhance awareness and sensitivity regarding to valuing its coexistence with local communities as it strives to create potential discrimination dependable work environments for its employees. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 24 Advanced ideas Dedicated to meeting the challenges of cutting-edge research and technology development with advanced ideas, the JX Group will contribute to society as a whole by creating technologies, products and services that help to answer social concerns. JX Group Technology and R&D JX Nippon Oil & Energy has advanced the development of the With advanced nations leading the move to structure low carbon, HS-FCC process based on independent basic research since 1994. recycling-oriented societies amid growing awareness of the urgent Specifically, the company participated in the development of advanced need to address global environmental problems, the role of the HS-FCC technology compatible with heavy crude as a component of energy, resources and materials industry has become more “Developing Technologies for Innovative Next-Generation Oil Refining,” a important than ever before. project publicly sponsored by Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Guided by its Group mission statement, to “contribute to the Industry. Since 2000, in conjunction with King Fahd University of development of a sustainable economy and society through ­Petroleum & Minerals and Saudi Aramco, JX Nippon Oil & Energy has innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials,” the JX built and operated a small-scale HS-FCC system producing 30 BD. From Group is aggressively pursuing technology development in each of its business domains. In parallel, JX Holdings will seek to 2007, JX Nippon Oil & Energy began designing a 3,000 BD demonstracomprehensively manage and coordinate a host of technology tion system as part of the Japan Petroleum Energy Center’s technology development themes being advanced by the Group. Efforts here development project. include encouraging the establishment of a technology and The purpose of this latest project is to establish technology for designdevelopment platform across the entire Group. ing a commercially viable system for producing several tens of thousands Individual Group companies, meanwhile, are advancing joint of barrels per day by constructing and operating the 3,000 BD demonresearch and demonstration tests in collaboration with stration research system based on the results of earlier research. This governments, public institutions, research institutes, universities demonstration system will be completed at the end of January 2011, and and other entities. The following pages detail some of the themes is scheduled to begin research operation from May 2011. and content of technology development for contributing to *The conventional process utilizes an upflow reactor, where the oil used as raw material is supplied sustainable economic and social development. from the lower section of the reactor along with a catalyst. However, since the catalyst and the raw material in an upflow reactor flow against gravity, the process is hindered by a phenomenon known as back mixing, whereby gravity causes some of the catalyst to fall back, prompting long stagnation of the raw material in places and resulting in uneven reaction times. By contrast, in JX Nippon Oil & Energy downflow reactors, gravity causes the catalyst and the raw materials to flow in the same direction, eliminating back mixing and achieving uniform reaction times. In October 2009, JX Nippon Oil & Energy began construction of research equipment at the Mizushima Refinery for demonstration of a 3,000 barrel/day, High Severity-Fluid Catalytic Cracking (HS-FCC) process. Compared to conventional fluidic catalytic cracking (FCC) systems, the [3-D Diagram of Complete HS-FCC Demonstration System] HS-FCC process delivers much higher yields of propylene, which is a raw Exhaust gas flue material for plastic, high-octane gasoline, and other products. Against a Reaction-catalyst cyclic regeneration system backdrop of higher global petroleum usage in the future, and with tighter Catalyst regeneration tower demand expected for easy-to-handle light crudes, this process will enable efficient production of much needed products through effective use of Downflow reactor Entire the more difficult heavy crudes. The technology itself involves bringing system heavy crude briefly and uniformly into contact with a catalyst inside a downflow reactor at high temperatures. Higher yields are achieved by stimulating the heavy crude breakdown reaction.* 25 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Since April 2008, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has collaborated with JX Nippon Mining & Metals established the joint venture company Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC), an incorpoBioSigma S.A. with the Chilean state-owned Corporacion Nacional del rated administrative agency, to conduct research into enhanced oil recovCobre de Chile (CODELCO) in 2002. Bio Sigma S.A. is playing a ery technology using carbon dioxide gas injection at the Rang Dong Oil leading role in the Company’s efforts to develop bio-leaching Field, a site operated by JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration’s operating technologies. subsidiary, Japan Vietnam Petroleum Company, Limited. Bio-leaching is a hydro-metallurgical process that extracts valueWith this technology, carbon dioxide is injected into the oil reservoir bearing metals from their ores through the use of bacteria. In recent where it interacts with the crude oil to boost the crude oil recovery rate. years, demand for copper has risen dramatically. On this basis, the effecLaboratory experiments and oil reservoir simulations were carried out tive application of low-grade copper ore, which was previously discarded with JOGMEC to predict how the technique would actually perform in the as tailings, has become an increasingly pressing issue. While bioleaching field. Results indicated a certain level of increase in oil production, so the technology has been employed to extract copper from low-grade secondcompany is now preparing for pilot tests in the field. ary copper sulfide ore at certain mines since 1990, BioSigma’s focus extends beyond secondary copper sulfide ore. Specifically, the company is working to further harness the potential of bacteria to develop a leaching technology that will efficiently recover copper from primary copper sulfide ore, a notoriously difficult application. Under the bio-leaching process, bacteria perform the action of oxidizing iron and sulfur. In order to procure the energy required to spur bacterial growth, the bacteria draw on electrons found in the iron and sulfur, respectively. As a result, the copper remains unoxidized, and in a recoverable state. With this technology, previously discarded tailings become a Rang Dong Oil Field resource while the speed of leaching in the hydro-metallurgical process is also accelerated, contributing to improved economic benefits. In the United Arab Emirates, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is a In November 2009, construction of the first industrial-scale biomass shareholder of Abu Dhabi Oil Co., Ltd., which operates offshore oil fields plant with BioSigma Technology began at CODELCO’s Radomiro Tomis such as the Mubarraz Oil Field. At this field, we were the first in the Mines in Chile. Middle East to introduce the technology of re-injecting toxic sour gas Currently under construction, the plant is designed to supply including high density sulfur oxide and carbon dioxide associated with ­BioSigma’s proprietary microorganisms to enhance the copper recovery crude oil production into the oil reservoir, resulting in “zero gas flaring” oil from some 20 million tons of a mixed sulfide copper bearing ore, about field operations. This new technology prevents air pollution stemming half of which is primary copper sulfide ore. This is the world’s first bioJX Group Values from the flaring of associated gas, enabling the company to cut annual mass plant for supplying bacteria, and it is expected that recovery will be carbon dioxide emissions by approximately 200,000 tons. At the same significantly enhanced compared to that from conventional leaching time, the interactive effect between the injected associated gas and the technology once the full industrial scale of the technology is completed oil in the reservoir results in greater crude oil production. in the next four years. In upstream petroleum sectors, there is a growing call for more environmentally friendly oil field development. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is answering the call by effectively utilizing the associated gas, and carbon dioxide which is considered the main culprit contributing to global warming, in an effort to reduce environmental impact and boost crude oil production. [Copper Recovery Process Utilizing Bio-leaching Technology] Bio-leaching microorganism Bioreactor Low-grade sulfide ore heap Prior to adoption Mubarazz Oil Field, where adoption of Electron micrograph the technology has eliminated flaring of bacteria After adoption Copper Solvent extraction electrowinning JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 26 Relationship with society We strive to earn society’s trust by faithfully meeting the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Through sports, culture, programs for positive youth development, and environmental protection activities, we hope to deepen our relationships with communities and the public, and to coexist with society as a corporate citizen. Relationship with Stakeholders The JX Group conducts business activities while maintaining relationships with a variety of stakeholders, among them shareholders, investors, customers, employees and business partners. By accurately assessing the needs of these many stakeholders, and sincerely responding to them, we seek to earn society’s trust. • Participation in management • Expansion in corporate value (higher dividend levels) through voting rights Shareholders • Timely and appropriate information disclosure • Provide safe and reliable products and • Robust IR activities services of real value and Investors • Improve customer satisfaction • Further enhance quality • Offer environmentally friendly products and • Put the JX Group mission statement into practice services • Contribute to growth in corporate value Customers Employees • Purchase of products and services • Prepare working environments • Increasingly diverse and complex needs • Provide fair and honest opportunities and maintain diversity • Establish human resource development systems • Boost employee satisfaction • Ensure fair, honest business opportunities • Promote green purchasing • Demands for corporate activities • Support for corporate activities Local and • Supply raw materials of reliable quality Business Partners International • Relationship with society • Supply environmentally friendly products Communities • Preservation of the global environment • Participation in the United Nations Global Compact • Support and cooperation with NPO/NGO • Laws and regulations activities • Exchange of viewpoints with NPOs/NGOs Governmental NPOs and NGOs • Guidance from and compliance with national and Organizations regional governments • Monitoring of corporate activities • Maintain fair, honest relationships • Requests for cooperation and sponsorship • Project participation Shareholders and Investors Furthermore, our corporate website As a publicly listed company of the JX Group, JX Holdings is committed to is expressly created to convey inforthe swift, proper and fair disclosure of information to shareholders and invesmation in an unbiased and intuitive tors in its determination to promote highly transparent management. manner and contains management When disclosing information, in addition to compliance with relevant laws, policies, financial and business inforwe actively disseminate information on management and relevant policies to mation, press releases, various IR encourage broader understanding of JX Group business activities. materials, and stock information. Presentation for analysts Senior management creates ample opportunities for direct discusIn a commitment to fair disclosure, sion, including at earnings presentations and medium-term manageexcerpts from presentations held for ment plan briefings. analysts and institutional investors, including meeting materials and video, are also posted on the website. 27 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Customers Local and International Communities The JX Group pursues initiatives in quality assurance and product safety The JX Group consistently aims to to deliver trusted products and services that satisfy its customers. In conduct responsible corporate parallel, the Group works to proactively communicate with customers, and activities in local and international to develop products and services tailored to diversifying customer needs. communities. As part of this comSee pp. 31–33 for details regarding activities. mitment, along with vigorous community contribution activities, JX Employees Holdings and its three core operatDai Hao annex building at Cho Dai ­Elementary In the JX Group, labor unions are present at nearly all affiliated compaing companies support the 10 School, Quang Tri Province, Vietnam nies in Japan. We also strive to realize a proper work-life balance and principles of the United Nations maintain occupational health and safety in order to provide good working Global Compact. environments for our employees. Since 2002, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has focused on educaThe JX Group’s basic approach to work-life balance is to forge a tional assistance, including the construction of schools, to provide a better win-win relationship between a company and its employees. JX Group learning environment for the children of Vietnam. In 2009, the company companies therefore have a variety of support systems on hand and made a donation to the construction of the Dai Hao annex building for conduct awareness-raising activities, among other actions. the Cho Dai Elementary School in Quang Tri Province, Vietnam. The The JX Group conducts business activities with a strong awareness company and its employees also made donations to ensure a full array of that protection of worker health and safety are matters of paramount educational materials are on hand at elementary and junior high schools concern. JX Nippon Mining & Metals drafts a yearly Management Policy built through previous donations across Vietnam, in an ongoing effort to on Health and Safety as part of its commitment to creating safe and provide the schools with the equipment and supplies they need. secure work environments. Despite these efforts, the Saganoseki Smelter In conjunction with International Children’s Day on June 1 of each year, & Refinery was the site of a significant accident in June 2009 in which employees take part in the procession and other events at a walking three Group employees died from asphyxiation. In its resolve to prevent event held in the city of Vung Tau, Vietnam. In addition, Japan Vietnam such a tragic accident from happening again, JX Nippon Mining & Metals Petroleum Company, Ltd. makes donations to economically disadvanis promoting a health and safety program aimed at eliminating disasters taged children in the city through a fundraising effort run by the Vung Tau as part of its Management Policy on Health and Safety for fiscal 2010. Committee on Population, Families and Children. Prior to the merger, Nippon Oil and Nippon Petroleum Refining had a See pp. 29–30 for details regarding activities. frequency of industrial accidents and an accident severity rate* for fiscal 2009 of 0.14 and 0.001, respectively. The same rates for Japan Energy NPOs and NGOs were 0.28 and 0.004, the totals for Nippon Oil Exploration (including in As part of its citizenship activities, Malaysia and Vietnam) and Japan Energy Development were 0.00 and the JX Group seeks to build coopJX Group Values 0.00, and for Nippon Mining & Metals 0.61 and 0.01. erative relationships through dialogue with NPOs and NGOs *Frequency of industrial accidents: Number of deaths or injuries resulting from work-related accidents per 1 million man-hours. Accident severity rate: Number of lost workdays per 1,000 involved in distinctive activities. man-hours. (Reference) Overall frequency of industrial accidents and overall accident severity rate JX Nippon Mining & Metals, for for Japan in calendar 2009 (Jan. to Dec.) were 1.62 and 0.09, respectively. (Source: Industrial Accident Trend Survey by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare of Japan) example, sponsors the work of Scholarship recipients in Bangladesh 2050, an NPO involved in addressBusiness Partners ing global problems such as rapid population growth, poverty, environJX Nippon Procurement Corporation oversees purchasing operations for mental degradation, and HIV/AIDS. Currently, the NPO is providing JX Group companies. Besides making purchasing information openly continuing higher education assistance for approximately 120 women in available and actively providing opportunities to business partners, JX five Southwest Asian countries. Among other programs, 2050 is also Nippon Procurement is seeking to develop bonds of mutual trust with operating an independence assistance project for giving agricultural partners by ensuring fair and honest trading opportunities. instruction to women from impoverished households. The company also places an emphasis on the environment by aggressively promoting green purchasing. Governmental Organizations See p. 34 for details regarding activities. The JX Group operates in regions across Japan and in countries worldwide. Wherever it operates, the Group maintains fair and honest relationships with national and regional governments and complies strictly with applicable laws and regulations. Along with active participation in ­government-backed projects, the Group provides policy recommendations, primarily through industry bodies. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 28 Relationship with society Basic Approach to Corporate Citizenship JX-ENEOS Baseball Club/Baseball Support Activities The JX Group’s actions are guided by the JX Group Values, which Founded as the ENEOS Baseball Club in 1950, the JX-ENEOS Baseball emphasis our relationship with society and working in harmony with Club has won 9 Intercity Baseball Tournament titles, the most of any team the environment. As such, social contributions are a key theme in in the tournament’s history. our CSR activities. With sights on realizing positive youth development, the JX-ENEOS The JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee was estabBaseball Club is involved in efforts to extend the support base for baselished expressly to discuss matters pertaining to JX Group social ball as a national pastime. In addition to baseball classes for schoolchilcontributions and to share related information among JX Group dren given by past and current club companies. Chaired by the director in charge of the JX Holdings members, the club provides support for Corporate Social Responsibility Department, the committee is a variety of baseball-related events and comprised of members drawn from across the JX Group. groups, including the All Japan Junior Based on research by the committee, the following basic policy Softball Tournament, the ENEOS CUP and other items concerning JX Group social contribution activities Junior Tournament for NPB12 baseball were drafted at the second JX Group CSR Council held in teams, the Women’s Baseball Baseball class for schoolchildren ­October 2010. ­Association Japan, the Japan Dream Baseball League, the Yokohama Bay [Basic Policy for JX Group Social Contribution Activities] Stars Sports Community, and the Rakuten Eagles Baseball Clinic. Recognizing its role as a good corporate citizen, the JX Group will advance together with society and will contribute to the JX Sunflowers/JX Basketball Clinic development of a sustainable society through the vigorous The JX Sunflowers are a women’s basketball team originally founded by promotion of social contribution activities, as well as support for Kyodo Oil in 1969. The team boasts 15 championship wins in the All the citizenship activities of its employees. Japan Basketball tournament, a tied record for the most in the tourna[Priority Fields for Social Contribution Activities] ment’s history. 1 Advancement of sports and culture In the JX Basketball Clinic, a special team made up of current and 2 Youth development and support former JX Sunflowers players with Olympic or WNBA* experience, travel 3 Environmental protection across Japan, deepening interaction among young people through basketball and teaching them basic skills. In fiscal 2009, the clinic was held 59 times, with a total of 2,254 Examples of JX Group Social Contribution Activities people attending. JX Nippon Oil & Energy also provides assistance for JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund wheelchair basketball among other activities. Through this program, the JX Group calls for submissions from the general *WNBA: Women’s National Basketball Association public of original children’s literature on the theme of “heart-to-heart ­contact,” gives recognition to the best works submitted, and publishes the works as a collected volume of children’s literature called The Bouquet of ­Children’s Stories. Copies of the book are donated to social welfare facilities and other sites across Japan, while funds generated from book sales to business partners, Group companies, employees and others are channeled into the JX Children’s Story Fund. Each year, donations from the fund are given to the Japan National Council of Social Welfare. Donations go to children in foster-care facilities, mothers and children’s homes, and foster JX Basketball Clinic families as educational assistance. In fiscal 2009, total donations totaled ¥23 million. The paper used for The Bouquet of Children’s Stories is “3.9 paper,” made from wood produced through forest thinning. Through this initiative, the Group, by using materials locally produced in Japan, is working to boost the volume of carbon dioxide absorbed by forests, while providing support for “Kizukai Undo,” a domestic forest preservation A copy of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories program promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency. 29 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 School Visits–ENEOS Environmental Classes ENEOS Forests and “Forest Foster Parent Agreement” To enhance understanding of the environment and energy among children, ­Environmental Protection Activities JX Nippon Oil & Energy employees visit elementary schools and other sites Forests are expected to fulfill many different functions, including absorbto explain these topics in an intuitive way, using quizzes, experiments, and ing carbon dioxide and sustaining biodiversity. To stimulate the function of observations of actual crude oil to teach children about the relationship of forests, ongoing preservation work is essential. The JX Nippon Oil & oil to our daily lives, how petroleum products are made, global warming, Energy Group, through employees and their families, conducts forest new environmentally friendly forms of energy, and other topics. volunteer activities focused on locations across Japan where its refineries Experiments that compare hydrogen to carbon dioxide or demonstrate operate. The name given to these sites is ENEOS Forests. Among other how fuel cells work never fail to draw sounds of amazement from the actions, employees carryout forest thinning, clear away underbrush, prune children as they enjoy learning about the environment and energy. branches, and create walking trails. Classes were held 32 times in fiscal 2009, and attended by some In two other prefectures in Japan, Nagano and Okayama, JX Nippon 1,800 students. Oil & Energy is party to “Forest Foster Parent Agreements,” under which it covers forest maintenance costs. Meanwhile, employees and their ­families take part in forest volunteer activities, joining forces with local residents to preserve forests. Since 2005, forest events have been held 79 times in 9 locations throughout Japan, with 5,610 people taking part. ENEOS Environmental Class (School visit) Activities at an ENEOS Forest [Examples of Other Social Contribution Activities in Fiscal 2009] Company name Activity Overview of Activity JX Nippon Oil & Energy Donations to the National Land Afforestation When customers use their ENEOS Card at ENEOS service stations, 0.01% of the amount is Promotion Organization donated to this organization. Total donations have climbed to over ¥160 million since the ENEOS Card was first issued in October 2001. JX Group Values Click Donation Drive to Support Sports for the The website hosts a click donation drive to support sports organizations for the disabled based on Disabled the number of clicks the site receives. In fiscal 2009, donations were made to four organizations mainly for winter sports as part of the “Shoot for Vancouver!” campaign. ENEOS Hydrogen Trust Fund To realize a hydrogen-based society as quickly as possible, the company supplies a total of ¥50 million in grants each year for basic research into ways to supply hydrogen energy. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Donations to Areas Affected by the Sumatra In 2009, the company made donations through NGOs to fund aid efforts in Indonesia, which was Exploration Earthquake severely hit by an earthquake that struck off the coast of Sumatra. Ongoing Forest Conservation Activities At the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field, volunteer activities include planting cherry trees around the gas treatment facility, planting evergreens in the surrounding area, and clearing weeds. These ongoing forest conservation activities serve both to improve the local landscape and to harmonize the site with the surrounding environment. Red pine saplings raised on the field grounds are used in the planting activities. Efforts to cut away underbrush, thin trees and spray disinfectant began over a decade ago to protect the red pines from a pine-withering disease that had spread throughout the area. JX Nippon Mining & Signing of Basic Agreement for the “Nikko In July 2009, the company signed a basic agreement with the City of Nanyo, Yamagata Prefecture, Metals Satoyama/Ryuki Forest Development” Project concerning the “Nikko Satoyama/Ryuki Forest Development” Project. Under the agreement, the company will plant new saplings while making use of the deciduous trees in the forest. Plans also call for the creation of two new areas in the forest. The first, called the “Satoyama Healing Forest Area,” will make use of wood from thinning for mushroom cultivation and offer a bathing spot in the forest. The second, called the “Satoyama Four Seasons Forest Area,” will allow visitors to enjoy cherry blossoms and other seasonal flowers and blooms. Other plans include the creation of new footpaths, service roads, an observatory, and an arbor. Participation in the Kurakakeyama Forest Since fiscal 2008, employees have served as volunteers in a project to maintain the Kurakakeyama Maintenance Project Forest adjacent to the Hitachi Area Coordination Center. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 30 Trustworthy products/services To satisfy customers, the JX Group works diligently to improve product and service quality from the customer’s perspective, and to ensure product safety. As the aspects that make up product quality diversify, we aim to provide even more trustworthy products and services by considering the environment in our products, and the human rights records of our business partners in our procurement activities. Basic Approach to Quality and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Product Safety JX Nippon Mining & Metals is sharing quality-related knowledge and Through its core operating companies alone, the JX Group is experience within the group to respond quickly and efficiently to custominvolved in a broad range of operations—from oil and gas ers’ increasingly sophisticated and diverse needs regarding quality. Viewexploration, refining and marketing, and copper mine ing the development of an effective framework as an urgent task, the development, smelting and processing, to electronic materials. company has promoted efforts to integrate existing quality activities at Each Group company practices quality control, and each each business site to establish a companywide quality management company and business site has obtained ISO 9001 certification, system, from the standpoint of greater quality information sharing. the internationally recognized standard, as part of efforts to Key initiatives taken in fiscal 2009 are described below. ensure quality. JX Holdings has extensive knowledge of the quality control and 1. Establishment of a companywide quality management system product safety policies and annual targets of each company. If a In October 2009, the company drafted a basic quality policy and regulaproduct-related accident does arise, JX Holdings works together tions governing quality management. with the Group company involved to minimize damages and formulate steps to prevent recurrence, in line with crisis 2. Sharing of quality information from each business site management rules (see p. 23). A council meeting of officers responsible for quality at operating companies directly under JX Nippon Mining & Metals was convened in ­November 2009, where members reported on ISO 9001 audit status, JX Nippon Oil & Energy quality losses, and the status of quality-related complaints. In conjunction with the July 2010 merger, JX Nippon Oil & Energy 3. Redevelopment of quality training system ­formulated a new quality policy drawing from the quality assurance poliJX Nippon Mining & Metals is developing a systematic training system cies and product-specific quality policies in place at the companies prior that incorporates new quality control and problem resolution methods and to the merger, as well as the JX Group Values. As in previous years, the ISO quality management, and that divides quality education previously company continues in fiscal 2010 to identify key issues for improving conducted on an individual business site basis into business site specific quality and ensuring product safety. Major quality activities in fiscal 2009 and companywide categories. prior to the merger are highlighted below. Going forward, JX Nippon Mining & Metals will continue to spread [Key Issues and Major Activities in Fiscal 2009] in-house data, insight and experience relating to quality across the group, Nippon Oil and Nippon Petroleum Refining Japan Energy while advancing human resource development and building a more robust Strengthen companywide quality Strengthen quality control and companywide quality management system. assurance system assurance systems • Embedded PDCA via close ties with •E nacted quality survey conducted by head key departments office and shared quality-related data Enhance quality assurance system for Enhance quality competitiveness fuel and chemical products • Applied for fuel oil quality patent • Enacted new internal audit and Respond firmly to future quality and management review environmental quality Extensive quality control at refineries • Drafted product standards for biogasoline and manufacturing sites Establish fundamental technology •R educed major complaints to zero via • Researched optimal anti-knocking trouble and complaint prevention programs indicators Enhance response to customers 31 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Basic Approach to Customer Satisfaction Redefined ENEOS Brand The JX Group is committed to improving customer satisfaction. Group companies work to assess customer needs through everyday business transactions, the establishment of customer centers, and customer satisfaction surveys, then reflect customer input in products and services. JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Energy recognizes customer satisfaction (CS) as a vital component of quality, and has set up a CS Management Promotion ENEOS and JOMO have joined to form Group within the Quality Assurance Department to drive CS improvement. a new ENEOS Prior to the merger, each company had established its own customer “ENEOS” was coined from the words “ENERGY” and “NEOS,” centers and other customer help desks. Inquiry status for these centers in which means “new” in Greek, and expresses a desire to assemble fiscal 2009 is shown below. a diverse energy portfolio capable of satisfying every customer. The brand mark was designed to symbolize energy, with the [Achievements in Customer Consultation] globe in the center representing “reliability” and “continuity,” and the Nippon Oil Japan Energy spiral spreading outward symbolizing “creativity” and “innovation.” 49,300 inquiries 11,400 inquiries 2,100 complaints 900 complaints *The JOMO brand will be successively changed to the ENEOS brand. Additionally, JX Nippon Oil & Energy offers training specifically for service stations designed to improve customer service. The status of training sessions held in fiscal 2009 is shown below. [Major Service Station Training Programs] Nippon Oil Japan Energy These activities will continue under JX Nippon Oil & Energy, which will New CSP* Course CS Management Practice Program Course consists of two parts—training in This program covers issue identification to also research additional measures for further increasing customer ways to improve basic customer service action plan formulation in a drive for more and training in customer service and successful CS management. satisfaction. safety inspection. Participating service stations: 270 Participating service stations: 624 *Car-life Support Program JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Nippon Mining & Metals uses input from customers and business Japan Energy has promoted a Field Communication Program for partners to improve product and service quality. The company also places JX Group Values service stations in addition to the previously discussed initiatives. This importance on creating relationships of trust. Customer praise for the practical training program for earning customer trust through inspection company’s technological capabilities and product quality in each of its activities seeks to deepen communication with customers and give them businesses has resulted in JX Nippon Mining & Metals receiving several the confidence to rely on their local service station for certain products awards. Examples of some of the major awards and recognition received and services. 34 service stations joined the program in fiscal 2009, in fiscal 2009 are discussed below. Going forward, JX Nippon Mining & making a total of 377 service stations to date. Metals remains dedicated to doing its utmost to respond dynamically to customer needs. [Examples of Major Awards for the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group in Fiscal 2009] (Company names were as of fiscal 2009) Customer Type of Award Recipient Reason for Award Intel Corporation Preferred Quality Supplier Award Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd. This award was established to encourage continuous and outstanding improvements among principal suppliers to Intel. Nippon Mining & Metals was highly rated in terms of cost, quality, supply system, delivery and technological capabilities as an outstanding vendor for sputtering targets used in thin film formation. TAIFLEX Scientific Co., Ltd. Best Supplier Award Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. Contribution to stable supply of rolled copper foil Sony Corporation Green Partner Award Nikko Metals Philippines, Inc. Strict compliance with chemical substance management standards Raytheon Company NCS Supplier Excellence Award Nikko Metals USA, Inc. Contribution to high quality and other supply-side areas JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 32 Trustworthy products/services Basic Approach to Product RECOSUL (Sulfur Concrete) Anti-Erosion Construction Methods Environmental Performance RECOSUL is a product developed and sold as a way of effectively using With public interest in the environment growing every year, product the sulfur generated as a byproduct at refineries. environmental performance is becoming indispensable to efforts to Made from modified sulfur (created by adding an additive to sulfur), improve the reliability of products and services. All companies in RECOSUL is a new aggregate material that, when it hardens, offers the JX Group are developing and offering environmentally friendly outstanding tensile strength, water impermeability and acid resistance. products, technologies and services. RECOSUL is also an environmentally friendly recycled product, since the raw material is an industrial byproduct. Furthermore, RECOSUL can be reheated to reform it into a product again, resulting in an ultimate recyJX Nippon Oil & Energy clable product that never becomes industrial waste. The manufacture of ENEOS FLEET Series RECOSUL also produces 60% fewer carbon dioxide emissions than The ENEOS FLEET series of automotive lubriconventional cement concrete products. cants was developed to embody the keywords “environment,” “energy conservation,” “long life,” Heat treatment to make sulfur concrete malleable (separate out steel rods) and “high performance.” Sulfur Several new products were added to the product lineup in October 2010, among them three large diesel engine oil products, including Cleaning Pulverization Factory production/ a fuel-efficient diesel engine oil compatible with ENEOS FLEET Ultimate Recycling Scheme shipment diesel particulate filters, and a gear oil for dual use on transmission and differential gears in heavy vehicles. The ENEOS FLEET series not only responds to environmental Recovery Building construction/ Recovered from remodeling, etc. foundation ­concerns, but helps to improve total cost merit for customers. Paraffinic Latent Heat PCM Ecojoule® Latent heat refers to the heat released or absorbed when matter underJX Nippon Mining & Metals goes a phase change from liquid to solid, for example when water Hyper Eco Alloy becomes ice, or vice versa. While water freezes at zero degrees centiHyper Eco Alloy is an environmentally friendly copper alloy that offers grade, the freezing point of the Ecojoule® latent heat storage material can superior heat dissipation properties and higher electrical conductivity than be adjusted at will. The result is a material for efficient heat storage that brass (an alloy of copper and zinc), while retaining the same tensile can eliminate wasted energy from overcooling or overheating when strength and workability. Brass has been widely used as a material for the adjusting temperature. In addition to its male terminal of automotive connectors. However, greater use of automoadoption in thermal storage air conditioning tive electronics in recent years has led to concerns over the heat dissipasystems that help reduce energy use and tion and conductive properties of this material. Moreover, recovered carbon dioxide emissions in buildings and pieces of tin-plated brass cannot be melted down and used as a raw other facilities, Ecojoule® is finding applicamaterial for brass. However, since Hyper Eco Alloy is made from copper, tion in automotive components, thermally zinc and tin, it can be made even from recycled tin-plated scrap. These Ecojoule® adjustable apparel, building materials and a features make Hyper Eco Alloy ideal not only for use in automotive wide range of other fields. ­connectors, but also for electrode tabs in lithium-ion batteries. From secondary side When heat is stored To secondary side When heat is released Insertion of stored heat materials Refrigeration unit High temperature side Low temperature side Thermal storage air conditioning systems for buildings Automotive electrical systems Automotive connectors 33 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Basic Approach to Purchasing JX Group Company Initiatives in Fiscal 2009 Procurement sources for raw materials are growing increasingly In its procurement activities, Nippon Oil, aimed to meet public expectadiverse in step with economic globalization. Numerous examples tions by emphasizing 1. Greater transaction transparency, 2. CSR and exist of cases in which supplier-side problems concerning compliance, 3. Concern for the environment, and 4. Partnerships. In fiscal compliance practices, the environment and human rights have 2009, the company worked to procure supplies, materials and services ultimately impacted consumable goods. For this reason, from those business partners that strive to reduce their environmental responsible supply chain management has become an important impact. The company also promoted green purchasing, achieving a 100% element in garnering trust in products and services. green procurement rate. To bolster partnerships, Nippon Oil sponsored To develop a Group-wide supply chain management framework, suppliers’ meetings to explain and share awareness of its medium-term the JX Group in July 2010 merged the Purchasing Department of Nippon Oil with Nippon Mining Procurement Inc., the two units management plan, future supply-demand trends and purchasing policies. responsible for the purchasing functions of Nippon Oil and Nippon Nippon Mining Procurement has approached purchasing policies and Mining Holdings. This integration resulted in the establishment of JX green purchasing by conducting questionnaires among its business Nippon Procurement Corporation. Going forward, JX Nippon partners. In fiscal 2009, the company targeted suppliers above a certain Procurement will spearhead the Group’s efforts to promote size with a questionnaire that touched on topics of growing interest, such transparent, fair and honest transactions. Along with environmentally as respect for human rights and procurement from regions embroiled in friendly purchasing activities, the Group will pursue stronger civil unrest. Through these activities, the company also worked to reflect communication with business partners, aiming for mutually beneficial the opinions and requests of business partners in its purchasing activities. outcomes by building partnerships grounded on mutual trust. Basic Purchasing Policy JX Nippon Procurement has drafted a new basic purchasing policy as shown below. JX Nippon Procurement Basic Purchasing Policy JX Group Values JX Nippon Procurement is committed to pursuing purchasing operations based on the JX Group Values (EARTH) to develop good partnerships with business partners and to fulfill its corporate responsibility to society. Ethics • Respect for the letter and spirit of relevant laws and social norms in execution of business operations. • Select business partners based on fair and honest evaluation of their compliance with laws and social norms, concern for the environment, and track record in areas such as quality, price and delivery. • Maintain appropriate relationships with business partners based on the highest ethical values. Advanced ideas • Consistently promote creativity and innovation through advanced ideas, and strive to adopt new products and services. Relationship with society • Endeavor to achieve robust communication with business partners, and work together diligently to contribute to society through relationships of mutual trust. Trustworthy products/services • Provide JX Group companies with high reliability and satisfaction through fast, accurate and highly transparent activities. Harmony with the environment • Work persistently to create a sustainable society by promoting the purchase of equipment and services with low environmental impact. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 34 Harmony with the environment We develop technologies and services for creating a better global environment. As a corporate group closely connected to the Earth’s resources, the JX Group is involved in ongoing and vigorous efforts to use resources and energy effectively, and to preserve the environment. Basic Approach to the Environment Strict Compliance with Environmental Laws Harmony with the environment is one component of the JX Group The JX Group strives for strict compliance with environmental laws Values. Accordingly, the environment is a vital theme in the Group’s through rigorous EMS operation. In fiscal 2009, there were no incidents CSR activities. involving violations of any laws pertaining to the environment. In conjunction with the July 2010 start of the JX Group’s threecore operating company framework, we established the JX Group Environmental Targets and Achievements Environmental Committee to serve as an advisory body to the Key environmental targets and achievements in fiscal 2009, prior to JX president of JX Holdings. Going forward, the committee is to lead Group integration, for the corporate groups of core operating companies efforts to develop an Environmental Management System (EMS) are as follows: tailored to the JX Group. Among other functions, the Committee will manage progress on medium-term environmental management [Nippon Oil Group Major Environmental Targets and Achievements] plans proposed by Group companies. Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY 2008–2010) Fiscal 2009 JX Group companies are also aggressively advancing efforts to Reduce specific energy consumption*1 (fiscal 2010) obtain internationally recognized ISO 14001 EMS certification. (Refineries/Plants) Down 20% from fiscal 1990 –19% The same certification has already been obtained for the Group’s (Oil and Gas E&P) CO2 emissions intensity down 3%*2 from fiscal 2007 –11% key business sites, including refineries and smelters. Reduce waste (Nippon Oil Group) Maintain Zero Emissions Plus goals 0.27% After discussion in the JX Group Environmental Committee, the (waste-to-landfill ratio*3 of under 0.5%) JX Group Environmental Policy, described below, was established *1 Amount of energy consumed (kL)/production volume (kL) *2 Targets in Malaysia at the second meeting of the JX Group CSR Council in October *3 Volume of landfill waste/total volume of waste generated (excludes excavation sludge) 2010. [Japan Energy Group Major Environmental Targets and Achievements] Medium-Term Environmental Plan (FY2008–2010) Fiscal 2009 JX Group Environmental Policy Reduce specific energy consumption (average for 2008–2012) (Refineries) Lower than 8.59 kL of crude oil equivalent/ The JX Group will production volume (1,000 kL) 8.70 1. Develop the technologies, products and services (Oil and Gas E&P) CO2 emissions intensity lower than 2.70 kg-CO2/GJ* 2.62 that help to create a better global environment. Reduce waste (Refineries, Plants) Waste-to-landfill ratio of less than 1.0% 0.54% 2. Work diligently to prevent global warming and be *Targets related to gas production at the Nakajo Oil and Gas Field. mindful of preserving biodiversity. 3. Constantly strive to reduce environmental impact [Nippon Mining & Metals Group Major Targets and Achievements] in all business activities. Autonomous Action Plan on Environmental Protection (FY2006–2010) Fiscal 2009 (Reduction rate versus average achievement for FY2003–2005*) 4. Strive for strict compliance with environmental Reduce specific energy consumption (fiscal 2009) laws and ordinances, based on the highest (Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Down 4% –3.5% ethical values. Reduce CO2 emissions intensity (Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Down 6% –6.9% Reduce final waste disposal intensity (Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Down 24% –60% *Based on fiscal 2006 achievement for some overseas business sites. 35 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming Fiscal 2009 Achievements Global warming is a problem that faces all of us. The companies In terms of energy consumption (crude oil equivalent) in fiscal 2009, the within the JX Group are addressing this issue by setting activity Nippon Oil Group and the Nippon Mining Holdings Group consumed 5.98 targets, reducing energy consumption, and taking steps to cut million kL and 2.55 million kL of energy, respectively, a total of 8.53 million greenhouse gas emissions. kL for both groups. This figure was largely unchanged from fiscal 2008. As shown on p. 35, JX Group companies are largely on track to meet reduction targets for specific energy consumption outlined in their JX Group Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions medium-term environmental management plans. Prior to the merger, the Nippon Oil Group made efforts to reduce carbon For CO2 emissions in fiscal 2009, the Nippon Oil Group and the dioxide emissions throughout its entire supply chain. In parallel, the group Nippon Mining Holdings Group reported emissions of 15.55 million tons placed the strongest emphasis on achieving greater energy efficiency at and 6.24 million tons, respectively, a total of 21.79 million tons of emisthe refining stage, which accounts for roughly 80% of its total CO2 emissions for both groups. This figure was slightly lower than that reported in sion volume. In its Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan, the fiscal 2008. group’s main target was to reduce specific energy consumption at the refining stage in fiscal 2010 by 20% compared to fiscal 1990. Guided by 40万バーレル this goal, the group has pushed forward with a host of activities to 60万バーレル n Nippon Oil Group n Nippon Mining Holdings139.2 Group enhance energy efficiency, including the development and adoption of 119.2 cutting-edge technologies, improved production processes, and efforts to Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) (Million kL) reduce losses from waste heat. 10.0 The Japan Energy Group is also determined to contribute to reductions 7.5 in CO2 levels through more efficient energy use. Accordingly, the group 5.0 5.75 5.99 5.98 worked to use energy more efficiently throughout its supply chain. In its 2.5 Medium-Term Environmental Plan, the group’s main target is to reduce 2.49 2.55 2.55 average specific energy consumption (kL crude oil equivalent/production 0 volume (1,000kL)) at refineries to 8.59 or lower from fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 40万バーレル 60万バーレル 2012. To this end the group is promoting energy efficiency measures at 139.2 its refineries through the ongoing enactment of operational improvements 119.2 CO2 Emissions and other actions. (Millions of tons) The Nippon Mining & Metals Group, meanwhile, has positioned global 25 warming prevention as one of the priority issues of its Autonomous 20 15 Action Plan on Environmental Protection. Here, the group’s main targets 15.26 15.96 15.55 10 for fiscal 2010 were to reduce specific energy consumption and CO2 JX Group Values 5 emission intensity by more than 5% and 7.5%, respectively, compared to 6.37 6.32 6.24 0 the average values for fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2005. Specifically, the 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) group is working to reduce its energy usage through greater efficiency and effective waste heat utilization in smelting processes, including About Energy Consumption and CO2 Emissions rationalization of copper smelting methods, and boosting electrical Figures for the Nippon Oil Group represent totals for the entire ­current efficiency in copper EW processes. supply chain (exploration and production, shipment and stockpiling, refining and production, and distribution and retailing). Figures for the Nippon Mining Holdings Group represent totals for petroleum (exploration and production, and refining and production) and metals operations, and Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (following consolidation by the Nippon Mining Holdings Group in fiscal 2008). To enable past fiscal-year comparisons, the scope of data for the Nippon Oil Group and the Nippon Mining Holdings Group has been limited to 2009 CSR reports respectively published by both corporate groups in the previous fiscal year. Due to rounding, figures for some past year data may differ slightly from those published in the CSR reports published last fiscal year. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 36 Harmony with the environment Initiatives to Prevent Air Pollution Initiatives for Protecting Water Resources In line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards to As one of its resource conservation measures, the JX Group firmly prevent air pollution, the JX Group closely monitors gases emitted manages its use of water resources and monitors wastewater into the atmosphere by its facilities. The Group also works diligently produced by its facilities in line with laws, ordinances, accords and to reduce emissions by adopting a range of equipment to enhance voluntary standards, in an effort to reduce its environmental impact. environmental performance and by switching to low-sulfur fuels, among other actions. Fiscal 2009 Achievements Of the freshwater resources consumed in fiscal 2009, the Nippon Oil Fiscal 2009 Achievements Group and Nippon Mining Holdings Group used 91.84 million tons and In fiscal 2009, sulfur oxide (SOx) emissions by the Nippon Oil Group and 43.97 million tons, respectively, a total of 135.81 million tons. This figure the Nippon Mining Holdings Group amounted to 6,577 tons and 8,915 was largely unchanged from fiscal 2008. tons, respectively, a total of 15,492 tons for both groups. This figure was Of seawater resources consumed, the Nippon Oil Group and Nippon largely unchanged from fiscal 2008. Mining Holdings Group used 760 million tons and 320 million tons, Moreover, nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions by the Nippon Oil Group and respectively, a simple total of 1,080 million tons. This figure was largely the Nippon Mining Holdings Group in fiscal 2009 amounted to 7,555 unchanged from fiscal 2008. tons and 4,374 tons, respectively, a total of 11,929 tons for both groups. In fiscal 2009, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) load volume, an This figure represented a slight improvement over fiscal 2008. indicator of water pollution levels, for the Nippon Oil Group and Nippon Mining Holdings Group was 516 tons and 329 tons, respectively, a total of 845 tons for both groups. This figure was lower than that for fiscal 2008. 40万バーレル 40万バーレル 60万バーレル 60万バーレル n Nippon Oil Group n Nippon Mining Holdings139.2 Group n Nippon Oil Group n Nippon Mining Holdings139.2Group 119.2 119.2 SOx Freshwater (Tons) (Millions of tons) 20,000 150 15,000 120 5,113 6,410 90 6,577 92.40 91.84 10,000 84.47 60 5,000 10,198 30 9,105 8,915 43.62 45.16 43.97 0 0 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 40万バーレル 60万バーレル 139.2 119.2 NOx Seawater (Tons) (Billions of tons) 15,000 1.20 12,000 1.00 0.80 9,000 9,525 8,363 7,555 0.60 0.63 0.74 0.76 6,000 0.40 3,000 0.20 5,286 4,494 4,374 0.33 0.32 0.32 0 0 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 40万バーレル 60万バーレル 139.2 119.2 Chemical Oxygen Demand Load Volume (Tons) 1,000 750 544 500 457 516 250 347 393 329 0 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 37 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Initiatives for Management of Initiatives to Reduce Waste Chemical Substances JX Group companies each set waste reduction targets in line with their own medium-term environmental management plans, and take JX Group companies conduct proper management of specified steps to reduce both their waste-to-landfill ratio and final waste chemical substances stipulated under the Pollutant Release and disposal intensity. Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. Group companies also strive to See p. 35 for environmental targets and achievements. reduce chemical emission levels as part of steps to reduce their environmental impact. Where the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) system is concerned, Group companies endeavor to Fiscal 2009 Achievements present information on the behavior and handling of target In fiscal 2009, total waste generated (volume of total waste excluding chemical substances in a readily accessible manner. volume recycled internally) by the Nippon Oil Group and Nippon Mining Holdings Group was 90,000 tons and 70,000 tons, respectively, a total of 160,000 tons for both groups. Fiscal 2009 Achievements The volume of landfill waste generated by the Nippon Oil Group and In fiscal 2009, the release and transfer of specified chemical substances Nippon Mining Holdings Group was 237 tons and 2,507 tons, respecinto the environment for the Nippon Oil Group and Nippon Mining tively, a total of 2,744 tons for both groups. This figure represented a ­Holdings Group was 471 tons and 960 tons, respectively, a total of 1,431 sharp improvement compared to 5,963 tons reported in fiscal 2008. The tons for both groups. This figure represented an increase over 1,398 tons main source of this reduction was the completion of a soil remediation reported for fiscal 2008. The main source of this increase was the addiproject on property owned by Japan Energy outside its Funakawa Works, tion from fiscal 2009 of the Kurobe Plant within the scope of data comthat had been ongoing since fiscal 2001. This resulted in a sharp drop in piled by Nippon Mining Holdings Group company Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. waste related to soil treatment. 40万バーレル n Nippon Oil Group n Nippon Mining Holdings Group 60万バーレル 40万バーレル 139.2 60万バーレル 119.2 n Nippon Oil Group n Nippon Mining Holdings139.2 Group Release and Transfer of Specified 119.2 Chemical Substances Volume of Landfill Waste (Tons) (Tons) 1,500 6,000 1,200 263 497 471 5,000 900 4,000 372 366 600 3,000 5,700 237 901 960 2,000 300 682 3,437 1,000 2,507 0 0 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) 2007 2008 2009 (Fiscal year) JX Group Values Management of PCB Waste Concerning Air and Water Pollutants, Chemical ­Substances and Waste JX Group companies properly store and manage equipment such as Figures for the Nippon Oil Group represent totals from refining and capacitors and oil that contain polychlorinated biphenyl (or PCB). The production (data from the Oita Refinery included in calculations of the volume of landfill waste from fiscal 2009). Figures from the ongoing disposal of PCB waste has been entrusted to Japan Nippon Mining Holdings Group are totals for petroleum (exploration and production (excluding SOX and NOX), and refining and produc­Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO). tion) and metals operations, and Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. (following consolidation by the Nippon Mining Holdings Group in fiscal 2008). Due to rounding, figures for some past year data may differ Conformance with REACH Regulations slightly from those published in the CSR reports published last fiscal year. The European Union (EU) implemented new regulations pertaining to chemical products from June 2007 called REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals). Based on the principle of preventive action, these regulations seek to identify the particular characteristics of each chemical and the risks it poses in accordance with standardized management for chemicals transported within the EU, and to clarify the potential environmental effects of such substances. In fiscal 2008, all JX Group companies carried out preliminary registration of all chemicals that fall under the scope of these regulations, and are now conducting preparatory work ahead of full registration. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 38 Guide to JX Group Websites JX Holdings http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ About JX Group Establishment of JX Group JX Group Mission Statement Objectives and Basic Concept Disclosure Materials of the Integration Corporate Profile JX Group Mission Statement Group Companies Management Policies Corporate Data Executives Organization Corporate History News Release Investor Relations IR News Management Policies Financial Highlights IR Library Shareholder & Stock Information IR Calendar Latest IR Materials Corporate Social Responsibility The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed P24, P34 human rights; and Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P24, P34 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the P24 right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P24 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and P24 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P24 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P35, P38 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P35–38 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P9–10, P13–14, P17–18, P25–26, P33 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P22, P28 39 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 JX Nippon Oil & Energy http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/english/ Corporate Profile Products Company Overview Lubricants JX Group Mission Statement Petrochemicals ENEOS brand Optical Films Executives TU Cloth Organization Tow PREPREG Research & Development Energy for Industrial customers CSR Report JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/index.html Business Activities Corporate Profile Japan President’s Message The North Sea Corporate Data The Middle East/Africa Executives North America Organization Southeast Asia Operating Overview Oceania Safety, Environment and Community Exploration Development and HSE Policy Production Flow HSE Management System Operation Safety Environment Community Recruit JX Nippon Mining & Metals http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/ Corporate Profile Products Corporate Data Copper Foil Message from the Management Sputtering Targets Organization Chart Compound Semiconductors JX Group Mission Statement Surface Treatment Agents Corporate History Precision Rolled Products Main Operating Sites Precision Fabricated Products Cathode Materials Business Segments Resources Development Corporate Social Responsibility Smelting and Refining Recycling and Environmental Service Technology Development JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 40 Third-Party Opinion We received comments from an outside expert on the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010. The newly created five EARTH values are a powerful, easy-to-­ remember acronym that will be able to permeate throughout the entire JX Group. However, in my opinion there is still room to improve on several points, including what information to offer and how and where to communicate it. For example, the report includes figures on diversity and employment of disabled persons at the core operating company level, but not for the holding company. In addition to these data that are well covMasaatsu Doi ered, there are other areas where the Group’s response to issues was Associate Professor insufficient and will need to be improved across the Group. For example, Faculty of Regional Policy Takasaki City University of Economics page 28 contains negative information that a company might traditionally prefer not to disclose, and although these points need real-world improvement, the JX Group is to be commended for actively disclosing This year for the first time, the CSR report includes reports on the newly even these harsh facts. However, readers would be better able to underformed JX Holdings parent company separate from reports on the core stand the wider picture of such events if the report included information operating companies. This new addition will help the listed JX Holdings to such as explanations of why various incidents and accidents occurred, fulfill its social responsibility. and what mechanisms are being developed to prevent reoccurrences. The main points in JX Holdings’ CSR activities are the creation of the Finally, I would like to touch on the need for a long-term CSR vision as five values (EARTH) to guide the activities of the new Group, and its a future issue. Pages 5 and 6 present the medium-term management efforts to implement a highly abstract mission statement in a concrete plan and long-term vision of JX Holdings. I think the Company needs to manner, incorporating it into day-to-day business activities. present a similar page clearly indicating goals and action plans for CSR The JX Group aspires to embody all five of the EARTH values, but I activities. I also think it needs to develop mechanisms to enable ongoing believe that the “A” in EARTH, symbolizing the Group’s intention to incorevaluation of the results. Next fiscal year, I hope that the JX Group will porate “Advanced ideas” into CSR activities, demonstrates the Group’s further advance its CSR management by effectively establishing the five unique perspective on CSR. This fiscal year, the focus was on advanced values formulated in fiscal 2010. use of petroleum and technologies for effective use of iron ore. The Group has positioned these efforts as part of a social business that Professor Doi earned his undergraduate degree at the Hitotsubashi University leverages its proprietary expertise, and I have great hopes for it going Faculty of Economics, and is completing his doctoral degree at the Hitotsubashi forward. Starting this year, the JX Group has specified a basic policy and University Graduate School of C­ ommerce and Management. He joined the focus areas for its social contribution activities. In these areas, I believe faculty of Takasaki City University of Economics in 2009, and is the co-author of CSR Management: Corporate Social Responsibility and Stakeholders and The the Group will be able to leverage its core business technologies and Rise of Social Enterprise, both published by CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, Inc. expertise in initiatives that will truly require strategic “Advanced ideas.” Response The social mission of the JX Group is to provide a stable and efficient toward these goals based on our view that our very business embodies supply of the energy, resources and materials indispensable to human CSR. Going forward, we will work with all our stakeholders to contribute life. Because our business areas are closely related to the natural to the development of a sustainable economy and society. environment, we are expected to work constantly to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities. We are pleased to receive these comments and opinions from ­Professor Doi in his capacity as a researcher in the area of harmonious Yuji Nakajima co-development of companies and society. In particular, we have taken Executive Officer, General Manager, to heart his recommendation that we clearly indicate our CSR goals and Corporate Social Responsibility Dept. plans for implementation, and the importance of disclosing our progress JX Holdings, Inc. 41 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 Independent Review Report JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 42 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ Corporate Social Responsibility Department Inquiries (e-mail) csr@hd.jx-group.co.jp As of September 30, 2010, JX Holdings was a constituent of the following major SRI Indexes: DJSI Asia Pacific: A global index of approximately 140 companies selected for their outstanding sustainability from among the 600 largest companies in the Asia-Pacific region. MS-SRI: This index comprises 150 stocks selected from among listed companies in Japan on the basis of noteworthy social responsibility efforts. This is Japan’s first socially responsible investment index. Indicators of environmental performance in this report have been reviewed by a third party and received the mark appearing below. The J-SUS mark indicates that the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2010 meets the standards for sustainability report assurance and registration established by the Japanese Association of ­Assurance Organizations for Sustainability ­Information (J-SUS). This report was printed using an environmentally friendly waterless printing process and vegetable oil ink. In support of the Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement) promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency, JX Holdings has printed this report on paper made from wood harvested in Haramura, Nagano, Japan, during forest thinning. This contributes to increased absorption of CO2 in Japanese forests. Original Japanese Version Published in October 2010
