The Copper Miracle Metal Designed and developed by Green Evangelist Sterlite Working wonders, enriching everyday life as India’s leader in copper production. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. SIPCOT Industrial Complex Madurai Bye Pass Road, T.V.Puram P.O. Tuticorin 628 002, Tamil Nadu. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. Sustainable Development Report 2010 Copper Sustainable Development Copper Message Report Summary 2009-10 from the CEO R. Kishore Kumar Chief Executive Officer, SIIL This is a concise, summary report initiated to deliver more reader-friendly and eco-friendly way of presenting the sustainable development report. We “F have designed a more elaborate and detailed online version of the report which has additional information on our economic, social and environmental performance. For SIIL, it is not enough to be one of the largest producers of “ Please do visit: http://www.sterlite-industries.com/Sustainability copper in the country; we are committed to propelling sustainable growth across the community, the environment and the economy. The Miracle of Metal The Miracle of Sustainable Development Dear Stakeholder, There is one key element that drives our Sustainability strategy, and that is the Miracle Metal – Copper itself. Any Sustainability mission has at its foundation three core focus areas – Profitability, Environment Care and Socio-Economic Development – and at Sterlite Message from the CEO Message from the COO Organization Profile Approach to Reporting Industries (India) Limited (SIIL), copper contributes very significantly to this ‘Triple Bottom Line’. Page no. 1 Page no. 2 Page no. 4 Page no. 14 Increasingly, copper is being used across a plethora of applications; more and more industries are turning to copper as the metal of choice. The demand for copper is at an all-time high, and this will only multiply over the coming years. For SIIL, it is not enough to be The Miracle of Value Creation one of the largest producers of copper in the country; we are committed to propelling sustainable growth across the community, the environment and the economy. Our growth is linked to that of the Indian economy; and when both flourish, a bright future is in store for the stakeholders associated with us. From generating wealth for our stakeholders to preserving the wealth of our natural resources, copper is a force to reckon with. On one hand, it plays a key role in industries as diverse as construction, automobiles, power generation, telecommunications, electronics, healthcare and many more. And on the other hand, copper contributes to environment protection and climate change in a big way being 100% recyclable, and provides opportunities for employment generation – ensuring a sustainable future. Powered by this Miracle Performance at a Glance Corporate Governance Economic Performance Risks and Opportunities Metal, we aim to drive our Sustainability initiatives further forward and work even harder towards the development and advancement Page no. 17 Page no. 18 Page no. 21 Page no. 23 of each of our stakeholders, as well as society at large. The Miracle of Community The Miracle of Empowerment The Miracle of Sensitivity The Miracle of Partnership Myriad efforts are in progress, to promote Sustainability in our sphere of influence and operation. Programs have been introduced to ensure employee satisfaction and welfare of the highest order, and provide a workplace that is high on safety and security. At the same time, we are nurturing and growing the communities in all the geographies we operate, through initiatives in the realms of healthcare, education and career opportunities. Mutually-beneficial relationships are fostered, as we believe in maintaining superior standards of ethics with all our business partners. And when it comes to caring for our Planet, we are adopting practices that conserve our precious natural resources and result in no adverse impact on environment. Thanks to Nature's Miracle Metal, lives are being improved, opportunities for self-sufficiency, well-being and progress are ever-increasing, and SIIL's Socio-Economic Development bottom line is Community Development Human Resources Health, Safety & Environment Supply Chain Management on the upswing. Page no. 24 Page no. 31 Page no. 37 Page no. 49 In our Sustainability mission, we are privileged to partner institutions and visionaries who share our goals and aspirations. Government The Miracle of Recognition bodies, NGOs and educational institutions join us in making a difference to the lives we interact with, and the projects we undertake. This report, with its adherence to the GRI framework and alignment to the United Nations Global Compact principles, is our way of acknowledging their stellar contributions. Glossary and GRI index and Assurance Certificate This Sustainable Development Report is a testimony to the good work SIIL is undertaking. This would not have been possible without GRI Application Level Performance Indicators your constant encouragement and support. We are indeed grateful that like us, you too believe in miracles. Awards & Accolades Page no. 54-55 Page no. 56 Page no. 57-58 Page no. 53 R. Kishore Kumar Chief Executive Officer 1 Copper Message from the COO Ramesh Nair Chief Operating Officer, SIIL SIIL won the “Distinguished Award” in 5S in National Quality Convention conducted by Quality Circle Forum of India (QCFI) l Two members of SIIL’s Self Help Group, Ms. Dhanalaxmi and Ms. Maria Ponnammal, received the “National Virtual Academy l Fellowship Award” from M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation “ A At SIIL, growth is accompanied by an effective Sustainability strategy which relies on the best technology, streamlined processes and a motivated team. “ The Rock Tamira Group, headed by Ms. Selvarani, is the first SIIL-run SHG in Tamil Nadu to receive the Government order in the l l span of 75 years of the SHG concept's existence Completion of construction of the Sterlite Pediatric Block – an Exclusive 30-bed block at Government Hospital, Tuticorin, at a cost of ` 85 lakhs ’Save A Child Heart’ Programme in partnership with Apollo Hospitals / District Health Society supported 99 surgeries at l a cost of ` 80 lakhs These achievements make us proud and testify to our firm efforts towards attaining Sustainability. However, there were disappointments in terms of our Safety performance. We regret to report the death of 3 people in separate incidents during the year. These fatalities emphasize a concerted focus for the future – Zero tolerance for unsafe acts and conditions. Key measures already in place include recruitment of a safety expat for international safety experience, deployment of Dupont elearning safety module, safety refresher courses, 3-day safety training for freshers, single point accountability to enhance line Dear Stakeholder, ownership, job safety analysis for online jobs, safety alerts to the entire workforce, and linkage of safety performance to performance Across the globe, industries are seeking materials that make their products more efficient, longer-lasting and which, of course, have appraisal for all SBU heads. The National Safety Day celebrations in March ‘10 saw enthusiastic participation from employees and no or minimal negative impact on the environment. The answer lies simply at their feet, literally. For the earth itself yields that Miracle contractors alike. Strong measures will be introduced to ensure compliance with the Company’s safety standards. All this will certainly Metal – Copper – which is finding more and more applications in diverse industries around the world. help us achieve an ‘Incident-free Workplace’. Today, the demand for copper is rapidly going up. Copper is working miracles in a variety of ways, bringing positive change to the lives Our past and planned Sustainability programs have been segregated under the headings Economic Performance, Community, Human it touches. Be it in heavy industries or power supply, hi-tech or healthcare, copper is being preferred for its inherent beneficial qualities. Resources, Health, Safety and Environment and Supply Chain Management for your reading convenience. These are geared to realize At SIIL, growth is accompanied by an effective Sustainability strategy which relies on the best technology, streamlined processes and the holistic vision of SIIL: “To be the world's leading copper producer delivering sustainable value to all stakeholders by leveraging a motivated team. This in turn has helped us notch up many milestones on the way, starting with a net annual turnover of USD 2,765.56 technology and best practices.” million in 2009-10 and the highest ever production of our key products such as Copper Anode, Sulphuric Acid and Phosphoric Acid. The report is based on GRI Reporting Framework (G3) covering social, economic and environmental aspects of our business. The past year was full of activities and new initiatives. We crafted our Vision & Mission for 2015 with direct emphasis on high quality As a key stakeholder of SIIL, you will be proud to discover the many ways that your Company is championing Sustainability assets, low cost of production, and providing superior returns to stakeholders. To accelerate our drive towards cost excellence and and working out miracles to improve people's lives and our planet's future. When you go through this report, please do communicate retain our position among the most efficient smelters, we launched an Operational Excellence Programe “Achieve Cost Excellence your feedback to us as it will help us in understanding your perspective and further improve upon. As always we look forward to your (ACE)-4000” designed to identify, implement and sustain solutions that would significantly reduce the current cost of production trust and support. through a host of initiatives across our operations (Tuticorin and Silvassa). To align our ACE initiatives at par with best practices worldwide, we partnered with the renowned consultant, Boston Consulting Group. A meet on ‘Asset Optimisation’ across Vedanta group companies was held at Tuticorin with the core objective of leveraging quality output from existing assets and technology. Some key highlights and achievements during the year were: SIIL won the “Outstanding Achievement Trophy” from RBNQA for the year 2009 for its robust system processes l Ramesh Nair Highest ever sales of Phosphoric Acid, Silicic Acid and Gypsum l Chief Operating Officer SIIL won the International Star Award for Quality – Gold category from Business Initiatives Directions, Spain l ACE 4000 project commenced with Boston Consulting Group for achieving overall bottom-line improvement by ` 150 cr. l (translating to ` 4,000 PMT COP reduction till cathode) RO plant commissioned in SAP during Dec ‘09 which helped us maintain the overall water balance in the system, thereby reducing l an equivalent amount of fresh water consumption DO briquette process commissioned in Tuticorin Refinery resulting in recycling of hazardous waste l SIIL Tuticorin team won the Bhageerath award – 1st prize in AQUA ‘09 held at Goa l 2 3 Indeed, copper itself is the inspiration for the Company – for its significant contribution to the human race. Copper The Miracle For the Company, it is not enough to ensure there is a steady supply of this Miracle Metal, which is essential for numerous applications in all walks of life. There is also the Sustainability aspect of its operations, which directly impacts all stakeholders. Thus, keen attention is paid to the sustainable of Metal development of People and the Planet, to make a difference to Nature and the lives we touch, in multiple, positive ways. Our core product copper is intrinsically environmentally friendly. With the highest recycling Sterlite Industries, rate of any engineering metal in the world, copper can be reused again and again. Indeed, with its innumerable benefits, copper truly has earned the reputation of being a Miracle where sustainability is driven by the Miracle Metal Metal. This, we believe, will sustain us and the generations to come, far into the future. Our Parentage Sterlite Industries (India) Limited (SIIL) is the principal subsidiary of Vedanta Resources plc, a diversified and integrated FTSE 100 metals and mining company, with principal operations located in India, Zambia and Australia. The Vedanta group produces Aluminium, Copper, Zinc, Lead, Iron Ore and Commercial Energy with operations in India, Zambia and Australia, and a strong organic growth pipeline of projects based on the foundation of 30,000 full-time employees. Vedanta Resources plc – Snapshot Vedanta Resources plc The story of copper is an ancient one, going back over 10,000 years. It plays a vital role even today, in a variety of applications – from 79.4% 70.5% 54% 94.5% 57.4% Architecture and Automobiles to Electricity and Telecommunications, from Marine and Machined products to Cookware and Electronics. Konkola Vedanta Madras Copper Mines Aluminium 29.5% Sterlite 3.45% Aluminium Industries Sesa Goa It can also be said that copper is good for our health. Copper has been proven to inhibit the growth of food and water-borne pathogens (KCM) (VAL) (MALCO) like E. coli, polio virus, salmonella and more. Drinking water can be safely stored in copper vessels and in the long run, copper plumbing will costs less and is much safer than other materials. Indeed, copper stands the test of time; and a prime example of this is 51% 64.9% 100% 100% 100% the main landmark of the United States of America the Statue of Liberty. 80 tons of copper were used for the skin of the monument, Bharat VS Dempo and the metal has withstood all kinds of weather for over a hundred Hindustan Copper Mines Aluminium Sterlite Energy & Company years, ensuring that Lady Liberty stands tall for ages to come. Zinc (HZL) of Tasmania (BALCO) Private Limited Copper is truly a Miracle Metal and Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. is proud to be associated with the production and distribution of this priceless resource. As one of the largest producers of copper in India, SIIL believes that its responsibility involves much more and measures its success by the growth of its people, the well-being of its community and the sustainable development of the environment. 4 5 Our Organizational Structure Sterlite’s copper business is headed by R. Kishore Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, and supported by Ramesh Nair, Chief Operating Officer, ably supported by management personnel at Tuticorin and Silvassa to help him conduct the business in a transparent and sustainable manner. Location of the Organization and Organization Headquarters Vedanta Resources plc. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. Address: Vedanta Resources plc Address: SIPCOT Industrial Complex 16 Berkeley Street, Madurai Bye Pass Road, T.V.Puram P.O., London W1J 8DZ Tuticorin 628 002, Tamil Nadu Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7499 5900 Website: www.sterlite-industries.com Fax: +44 (0) 20 7491 8440 Website: www.vedantaresources.com Our Vision To be the world’s leading copper producer delivering sustainable value to all stakeholders by leveraging technology and best practices CEO Kishore Kumar COO Our Mission 2015 Ramesh Nair l To build a knowledge and process driven organization through TPM Chief Marketing Precious Metal Head Operations Head HSE Head HR Acid Business Corporate Liaison CFO Officer Business Prasad Surya Rao A Sumathi Suresh Bose Somnath Ghosh Sanjay Karn Vinod Bhandawat l To create sustainable value through safe, clean and green processes Puneet Jagatramka G Senthilnathan l To sustain a leadership position in domestic and global markets through market development and customer delight Head Operations l To secure raw material through long term contracts and captive mines Head Domestic Tuticorin Indirect Taxation Tarun Singh S Varadharajan Pankaj Kumar l To be the best and most respectable corporate citizen Head Export Metal Head Operations l To leverage technology to its full potential across the business cycle Marketing Silvassa Company Secretary Anshu Goel Sameer Gupta Rajiv Choubey l To harness the profitable and growing CCR/value added product from 240KMT to 600 KMT per annum l To achieve Zero cost and beyond Head Copper Head Commercial Concentrate Vivek Savant Head IT Vijay Murty Chetan Trivedi Our Values The Business of Miraculous Copper ENTREPRENEURSHIP We foster an entrepreneurial spirit throughout our businesses and value the ability to foresee business opportunities early in the cycle and act on them swiftly. Whether it be developing organic growth projects, making strategic acquisitions or creating entrepreneurs Main Products (Copper Business) By-Products (Acid Business) from within, we ensure an entrepreneurial spirit at the heart of our workplace. • Copper Anode of purity > 99.5% • Sulphuric Acid (concentration >98%) GROWTH • ‘A’ class Continuous Cast Rod • Phosphoric Acid 43% & 54% (on P2O5 basis) We continue to deliver growth and generate significant value for our shareholders. Moreover, our organic growth pipeline is strong as we seek to continue to deliver significant growth for shareholders in the future. We have pursued growth across all our businesses and into new areas, always on the basis that value must be delivered. EXCELLENCE Value-added Products Achieving excellence in all that we do is our way of life. We strive to consistently deliver projects ahead of time at industry-leading • Bismuth Bisulphate (99.5%) costs of construction and within budget. We are constantly focused on achieving a top decile cost of production in each of our • Selenium Powder (99.5%) businesses. To achieve this, we follow a culture of best practice benchmarking. TRUST The trust that our stakeholders place in us is key to our success. We recognize that we must responsibly deliver on the promises we make to earn that trust. We constantly strive to meet stakeholder expectations of us and deliver ahead of expectations. SUSTAINABILITY Our Operational Efficiency We practice sustainability within the framework of well-defined governance structures and policies, and with the demonstrated commitment of our management and employees. We aim not only to minimize damage to the environment from our projects but to To fulfill the Vision of becoming the world’s leading copper producer, we constantly strive to innovate, improve operational make a net positive impact on the environment wherever we work. efficiencies and reduce the unit costs. This in turn helps us to create small miracles across the length and breadth of our business, from production processes to delivering customer satisfaction to implementing environment-friendly initiatives and ensuring inclusive growth. 7 The Sterlite Story The Miracle Story The Sterlite Story The Miracle Story From producing cables in 1975 as the From an ancient erstwhile Rainbow Industries Ltd., to to the modern Copper is the age, Copper SIIL is the first Company in India being the first company in India to set matches the oldest metal used up a Copper Smelter and Refinery in to set up a Copper Smelter and advancement – it's by man, dating back the private sector, Sterlite Industries used in high technology Refinery in the private sector. has had a clear, long vision of more than 10,000 years. products like computer increasing stakeholder value. microchips. Renewable With business excellence processes Sufficient copper To combat global warming, SIIL energy sources like TQM, the Company has a strong in the soil is created a miracle generating power such as solar, from process waste heat. This project track record of increasing needed for the wind, geothermal, was registered as a CDM project in growth of crops of fuel cells and other the United Nations Framework production, reducing unit costs and technologies are all important staples like rice Convention on Climate Change maximizing employee productivity. (UNFCCC) in December 2009. heavily reliant on copper due to and wheat. its excellent conductivity. We have a track record of exceeding Since 1900, During the past 10 years, the demand for our own performance year on year in Copper is a refined copper Company witnessed an increase energy and water usage, recycling sustainable metal, increased from in turnover from ` 50 crores less than 500 and reuse of waste innovatively and as it is virtually one (approx. 11 million USD) in 1997 thousand tonnes to engaging and working with hundred percent around 18 million to ` 13,676 crores (approx. 3 communities towards building a recyclable . metric tonnes in 2008 as billion USD) in 2009-10. demand over the period grew by an average sustainable business. of 4% per year. The discoveries We are amongst the fastest growing Whether they are and inventions non-ferrous metal companies in relating to powered by sun, India, having principal businesses of electricity and Refineries and copper rod plants magnetism of the wind or water, smelting and refining, producing have been established at Tuticorin late 18th and early efficient and finished copper in the form of 19th centuries by and Silvassa, with the smelting scientists such as r e n e w a b l e e n e rg y cathode, and copper rods. Our process carried out in Tuticorin. Ampere, Faraday and Ohm, systems rely on copper for domestic copper sales increased to and the products manufactured from copper, 2,06,150 MT in 2009-10. helped launch the Industrial Revolution and optimum performance. propel copper into a new era. 8 9 Our Operational Efficiency Business Excellence at SIIL Operations at Tuticorin A key area of Sustainability is commitment to Business Excellence across all areas. At SIIL, we are committed to excel on the journey towards business excellence. Business excellence itself provides the framework for sustainable growth by leveraging various proven best The Tuticorin copper complex comprises the following facilities: practices. Business Excellence framework is depicted below: • Copper Smelter of 1,200 TPD • Refinery of 875 TPD MSS: • Rod Plant of 410 TPD lDeveloping Management programs lConducting periodic internal MSS: • Sulphuric Acid Plant of 4,200 TPD audits, external surveillance, ISO 9001 recertification audit ISO 14001 • Phosphoric Acid Plant of 800 TPD lConducting Management OHSAS 18001 reviews ISO 17025 Tuticorin, a major harbor in the southern state of Tamil Nadu, is Ideas@Sterlite An IT-based strategically located with respect to our business, which involves suggestion platform importing ore through the sea route and also exporting our products to various 5S: l Beyond mere housekeeping Management l Periodic evaluation of ideas locations. l Pledge by all employees and System from employees by the Idea contract labor to: Sustenance Management Committee Formation of a 5S policy Organization structure l Awards to Idea-owners and Operations at Silvassa Master Deployment Plan Business implementers through a wellTraining Internal Audits Excellence defined Award policy The Silvassa unit comprises: Competitions Framework l From January 2010, initiated a l Success measurement: Team from SIIL winning the state level similar platform for contract • Refinery: 1,95,000 TPA competition Employee employees under Productivity Engagement myideas@sterlite • Rod Mill: 1,78,000 TPA Improvement and Initiatives Enrichment Silvassa is the capital of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, strategically located between Maharashtra and Gujarat. TQM: TPM: It has a large number of factories and industries providing SPIDER (Standard Practices, l An ongoing journey since l Started in May 2007 Implementation, Development, significant government revenue with special economic benefits. 1997 l Comprehensive Road Map till 2013 Evaluation and Rating) l Anchored by a central team – for future deployment of this best Business Excellence practice across the plant in l Principal objective: Evaluate and l Successful launch of 180 subsequent years through a phased upgrade the knowledge level of all the projects till date manner employees systematically through initial l Core objectives assessment, evaluation, announcing the To improve employee result, gap analysis, corrective actions involvement and reassessment Obtain statistical thinking in Operational Efficiency for Sustainable Development l Covers entire frontline and middle various business aspects management across all core areas • DO plant commissioned in Dec 2009 with capacity of 0.5 MT/hr for the purpose of converting DO powder into briquettes and l Since last year, conducted 3 cycles till replacing master alloy usage, resulting in cost benefit of ` 3.32 Cr/yr date • RO commissioned in September 2009 with capacity of 1,300 m3/day to treat the effluent arising from copper production and recycle the water for boiler or cooling tower make up ACE 4000 • Reduced complex power cost by power trading on IEX / power exchange ACE4000 is a cost excellence program at SIIL, targeting a reduction of ` 4,000 ($ 88) per MT of copper cathode. The • Tuticorin Smelter had the eighth lowest cost of production of all copper smelting operations worldwide, according to Brook Hunt program will help to leap forward in alignment with Vedanta's vision of becoming a global cost leader. As part of the implementation process, employees and consultants were engaged in an exercise, which produced highly potential • Tuticorin and Silvassa refineries had the seventh lowest costs of production of all copper refining operations worldwide, according ideas worth ` 149 Crores. Of these, ` 120 Cr worth of ideas were found to be of implementable quality in Phase 1. to Brook Hunt Some of these ideas are already implemented and others are in the implementation stage. Employee engagement across different functions was the key to the success of idea generation under this program. 10 11 Our Products and Sustainability Market Segmentation Acids Business a. Domestic Market Segmentation Strategy Sterlite segments the Domestic Copper market based on: l Region l Type of application industry the lValue potential and ability to realize Our Acids Business division is strategically based at Tuticorin to capitalize on our advantages of scale of l Usage of Copper (primary and customer is further catering to lVolume production and proximity. We are located in the vicinity of major fertilizer producers such as Fertilisers and secondary) l Growth of Industry Chemicals Travancore (FACT), Coromandel International Limited (CIL), Mangalore Chemicals and b. Overseas Market Segmentation Fertilisers (MCF) and Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO), and cement companies like Overseas customers are evaluated on two key parameters of potential and long-term partnerability in order to initiate or increase business. India Cements, Madura Cements, Dalmia Cements, etc. who are some of our major customers. The evaluation process gauges overall business potential of the customer including future expansions, whilst Partnerability assessment determines the ease of doing business, financial potency and customer’s attitude, reflected in similar corporate values and the customer’s relationships with group companies of Sterlite. Through this process, the initial market which was in the Middle East has now developed an Sulphuric Acid enviable customer base in SAARC, South East Asia and the Far East. $ The Sulphur market witnessed an all time low with the prices falling to USD FOB $ Adnoc, following the world economic slowdown, which had otherwise gone up to Copper Business $ USD 800 FOB in the previous year. This depression was also witnessed in the $ sulphuric acid market with tonnages sold at negative realization. To avoid these Domestic Market $ negativities, we rationalized the sales of phosphoric acid, which increased by 31% Sterlite has stiff competition with immediate competitors in Cathodes and Copper Rod sales. Augmented capacity and for 2009-10. The first ever arrangement for tolling of phosphoric acid was done consistent product quality standards have facilitated Sterlite to remain highly competitive in the domestic market. using external production facilities wherein we produced 10.78 kmt of phosphoric Domestic sales during 2009-10 increased to 2,06,150 MT from 1,98,453 MT in 2008-09 (refer to Graph 1). Growth in acid, thereby consuming and avoiding negative sales of approximately 32 kmt of domestic copper industry is also linked to the performance of various sectors like cement, steel, crude oil, electricity, sulphuric acid. Graph 2 shows the sales trend of sulphuric acid in 2009-10. It is coal and petroleum refinery. During 2009-10, the core sector has registered a growth of 5.3% compared to 2.7% growth evident that our sales model, supported by an efficient supply chain, is well during 2008-09. evolved to eliminate most of the market uncertainties. Export Market Copper Cathodes are exported to markets in China, Korea and other South-East Asian countries. Copper Cathodes, which are Phosphoric Acid converted into Rods, are supplied to both the domestic and Phosphoric Acid Sales Trend graph export markets. Sterlite is recognized as a supplier of global SIIL continues to be a dominant player of phosphoric acid in the Indian market 168316 171110 160665 173070 180,000 repute across Asia and Middle-East markets. with an impressive reputation as the only domestic seller in India. Graph 3 shows 160,000 our sales trend of phosphoric acid in the past 3 years. 140,000 117252 102803 109239 120,000 In MT 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 Copper Customer Satisfaction Surveys Graph 1 20,000 0 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 We periodically conduct Customer Satisfaction Surveys once in two years to evaluate our overall performance and get feedback from our 00 -2 00 -2 00 -2 -2 00 00 -2 00 -2 00 -2 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 customers to enable us to offer improved services. The results of the last survey conducted shows that at least 77% of our customers think 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 we are competitively priced. GRAPH 3 Acid Customer Satisfaction Survey Associations and Memberships Being a leader in the by-products market, we like to set new SIIL holds membership in prestigious institutions such as: benchmarks for exceeding customer expectations. To understand the customer requirements better, we undertook a Customer • All India Chamber of Commerce • International Copper Association Satisfaction Survey amongst 50 key customers. With an overall • Confederation of Indian Industry • Tuticorin Chamber of Commerce and Industry Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) of 82% (refer Graph 4), we feel • Export Promotion Council for • International Copper Promotion our performance is just satisfactory and believe that there is still Export Oriented Units Council of India (ICPCI) some room for significant improvement. • Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry • Indian Copper Development Centre (ICDC) • Indian Institute of Metals • Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) GRAPH 4 12 13 Stakeholder Identification Level of Influence As an enterprise, we have several stakeholders. So we attempted a structured High The Miracle approach to identify stakeholder segments for engagement. Priority is given to those stakeholders who are directly impacted by the Company's operations and Copper of Sustainable to those who can impact business itself. As shown, stakeholders were broadly categorized, depending upon the nature of impact a development intervention has on them and the degree of influence they form on the development decision. Keep satisfied Focus efforts Development We are committed to providing a safe, secure and healthy workplace for all employees by using the best technology and practices. Respect for nature, enhanced resource conservation and use of environment-friendly technology are embodied in our working. People are our key assets. We are committed to Making Miracles building a flexible, flat and learning organization with an engaged and high Respond to requests Keep informed a way of life performing workforce. We believe in nurturing and mentoring leaders from within and providing opportunities for growth based on meritocracy, performance and integrity. Communities are integral to our business. We are committed to enhancing the quality of life of the communities near our C operations and creating self-sustaining communities. We work to gain and Low High Copper, one of humanity’s oldest and most nurture our social licence to operate in the host communities. Level of Interest useful materials, contributes to the new model of sustainable growth and development, just as Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism it has through the millennia. It is been estimated that at least 80% of all copper ever We continuously engage with Stakeholders Engagement Mechanism Few Initiatives by the Company stakeholders to understand their mined is still in existence – having been lWritten Communication/ Need based discussions/ Giving educational support by organizing a study center l and giving scholastic excellence awards and scholarships expectations, which in turn enables us recycled time and again and in use today meeting with community Arranging monthly rural health camps and rural health unit l to respond to issues which have the representatives Women empowerment: Sterlite SHG and income l somewhere, somehow. lOpen dialogue generation projects potential to affect our operating lSurvey & PRA's Developing rural infrastructure: Total sanitation, renovation l works for schools, model village development environment and our community. The Employment generation through coastal livelihood project l HIV AIDS awareness l engagement helps us to identify and Communities & NGOs Horticultural trials with local farmers l Save-a-child heart program l document significant opportunities, Mother-daughter Mela l challenges, priorities and reasons. It is also in line with our commitment to lMonthly reports Regular compliance with rules, regulations & stipulations l lMonthly inspections Submission of monthly reports l the timely disclosure of relevant and Immediate response by the way of corrective action on l issues raised by the Government authorities reliable information on financial Government & Regulators performance, the entire gamut of Intranet facilities Employee suggestion scheme l lNewsletters l Spot recognition scheme l activities relating to Environment, Monthly and quarterly Employee retention bonus l Training programs l Event management team l Occupational Health and Safety lEmployment suggestion CEO kitty l (EHS), and social initiatives. Sterlite scheme Team of the month l We believe Sustainability needs to be woven into every aspect of our business, starting from increasing efficiency into our daily operations lCommunication meeting Mentor-Mentee l ideas@sterlite l believes that the disclosure of all right up to green field projects. Through this Sustainable Development Report 2009-10, we give you a glimpse into our Sustainability Employees Employee of the month & year l appropriate and useful information Family get-together l framework as well as the initiatives which we have undertaken across the length and breadth of our company with the single focus of with regard to Company activities that $ Discussions / personal Customer satisfaction survey creating sustainable miracles. $ $ $ l interactions on a daily basis l Online access through E-Salesmate l can have an impact on stakeholders is $ lPlant Visit Faster response for customer complaints l at the heart of good governance. Arranging for plant visit We acknowledge that our business has the potential to directly or indirectly impact all our key stakeholders. We focus on the following l Alongside is a summary of Sterlite’s Customers pillars which are modelled on our parent company Vedanta’s Sustainability strategy and which help us build miracles in the every relevant key stakeholders, our mode of space: lDiscussions / personal Vendor meets l engagement with them and initiatives interactions on a daily basis Drivers’ training program for safety l lPlant Visit Vendor Satisfaction Survey l l Environmental Stewardship Evaluation of Vendor Sites l undertaken whether statutory or Suppliers / Transporters otherwise, to positively affect them. l Empowering Communities lInduction programs Rewards & Recognition l lTraining programs Welfare facilities for Contractors as a part of HR initiatives l l Nurturing People Contractor Safety Management Cell l Idea Schemes l Contract Labourers Safety Performance Bonus l l Health and Safety lManagement Development Employees are guest faculties at leading institutions l program Employees are sent for Management Development l lAcademic interactions programs “Stakeholders play a key role in making any organization successful. It is only by engaging with its stakeholders Educational Institutions that an enterprise can expedite progress on issues ranging from increasing efficiency, to resolving key conflicts to Rs. £ l l Redressal of investor grievances Quarterly/half-yearly results Annual reports l Annual Shareholders’ meet l Investors/Shareholders Website, Newspaper ads 14 managing growth across interest groups.” Ramesh Nair COO, SIIL 15 Materiality Analysis A cross-functional team representing the key stakeholders – Employees, Suppliers & Transporters, Customers, Communities, Media, Environment and Regulatory Authorities went through a 3-step process to identify key material issues. At Sterlite, materiality analysis is used to identify environmental and social challenges and opportunities that are important to our stakeholders and to prioritize them in our business strategies. A combination of engaging with our external stakeholders and internal strategic alignment ensures that this process leads to identification of key material issues. By linking our non financial performance with our business strategies, we focus our creating sustainable miracles which make us a successful company. The process followed is: Performance at a Glance 2009-10 Identification of Issues Target for Performance for Target for The cross-functional team identified issues specific to the stakeholders, which they represented based on the Performance Parameter Units following: 2009-10 2009-10 2010-11 l Relevance to direct short-term financial performance  Best practice norms exhibited by peers l l Ability to deliver on Company's strategy and policies  Societal norms l HEALTH & SAFETY Number of findings on occupational illness Number 0 0 0 Fatalities Number 0 3 0 Identification of Material Issues LTIFR 0.20 0.62 0.10 Severity Index 0.10 17.94 0 Issues identified were put through objective assessment using a materiality matrix, where it was assigned scores depending on their bearing on factors such as Reputation, Operational Efficiency, Talent Attraction, Access to Market, Environmental Footprint, License to Operate, Innovation Trigger, Access to Capital, etc. A threshold score was established to classify points into material and nonENVIRONMENT material issues. A threshold score indicates whether an issue is considered significant enough to require corporate action (and at what CONSUMPTION OF WATER level) and whether it is significant enough to provoke stakeholder action (and at what level). Primary Consumption (million) M3 3.11 2.84 2.56 Primary Consumption (Specific) M3/MT of Cathode 7.90 6.30 5.62 Identification of Material GRI Indicators CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY Primary Energy Consumption (incl Fuel) (million) GJ 5.12 4.69 4.70 A total of 67 material issues were identified through the materiality exercise. Following which, GRI (G3) indicators and Global Primary Energy Consumption (incl Specific) GJ/MT 17.15 16.95 16.38 Compact principles covering critical issues were identified and the data collected and reported here”. These material issues are SOLID WASTE GENERATION addressed under various stakeholder categories as dedicated sections such as Economic Performance, HR, Corporate Social Hazardous Waste Generation TPA 71,876 86,638 68,282 Responsibility, Health, Safety & Environment and Supplier Management. FERRO SAND Sale of Slag TPA 2,44,000 1,46,856 12,60,000 Approach to Reporting GYPSUM Sale of Gypsum TPA 14,40,000 12,27,027 18,00,000 Sterlite's Sustainable Development Report 2009-10 which covers the environmental, social and economic performance has been based on the GRI – G3 Reporting Framework and the United Nations Global Compact EMISSIONS* principles. This will be Sterlite's third sustainable development report following the 2007-08 and 2008-09 reports. SO2 Emission from process plants Kg of SO2/T of H2SO4 <1 0.71 <1 Total SPM (from process plants & CPP) TPA 289.06 154.18 289.06 The indicators can be found across the following key sections of the report: Fluoride emissions from PAP TPA 17.11 7.65 17.11 *All targets are as per regulatory standards l Economic and financial performance – The Miracle of Value l  Supplier & vendor management – The Miracle of Partnership Creation l  Health, safety and environmental management – The Miracle l Corporate social responsibility – The Miracle of Community of Sensitivity SOCIAL Contribution to the local community Rs. in Crores 1.66 1.48 1.68 l Human resources – The Miracle of Empowerment Total number of employees Number 1,167 1,254 1,100 Female employees % 20 11 15 Reporting Scope and Boundary The Sustainable Development report 2009-10 communicates the initiatives undertaken during the period April 2009 to March 2010 across PRODUCTION QUANTITIES the following: Main Products Cathode TPA 3,79,417 3,34,174 3,70,668 1. Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin 2. Sterlite Copper, Silvassa Continuous Cathode Rod TPA 2,50,401 1,96,882 2,50,932 Listening to our stakeholders BY-PRODUCTS Sulphuric Acid TPA 12,57,521 10,36,353 12,76,231 Specific Feedback received on Sustainable Development Report 2008-09 which has been incorporated as Phosphoric Acid TPA 2,24,302.50 2,05,844 2,42.513 suggestions for this year’s report are as follows: VALUE ADDED PRODUCTS l Giving values in US Dollars Bismuth Bisulphate TPA 17 0.44 14.50 l Giving a quick glance approach where significant change in values has occurred across Selenium TPA 97 115 128 16 different areas of work l Interactive web report 17 Remuneration Committee Group policies, internal control and laws and regulations. The Statutory Audit is undertaken by the Statutory Auditors who Sterlite's Remuneration Committee is responsible for are responsible for performing statutory audit under the recommending the fixation and periodic revision of Companies Act, 1956, of the Company's financial statements remunerations (including commissions and/or incentives, in accordance with generally accepted auditing practices and etc.) of the Managing Director and Executive Directors. for issuing reports based on such audits. This is done after reviewing their performance based on preThe Board of Directors have constituted an Audit Committee Business excellence is achieved when a company adheres to These principles are reflected in the Company's day-to-day determined evaluation parameters and the Company policy of in accordance with the requirements of Section 292A of the the highest levels of accountability, efficiency, responsibility initiatives and policies. rewarding achievements and performance. The compensation Companies Act, 1956 and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement and fairness across all areas of operations. This is the crux of for members of the highest governance body, senior entered into with the stock exchanges and has entrusted it to Corporate Governance. At Sterlite Industries (India) Limited The Board of Directors remains at the helm of affairs, guiding management team, is based on the variable pay scheme over supervise the below mentioned processes and thus ensure (SIIL), we aim at achieving transparency, accountability and the Company by approving the broad framework and policies, and above their monthly fixed components. The compensation accurate and timely disclosures that maintain the transparency, equity across all facets of our operations and in all interactions annual operation plans, budgets and expansion plans. The dayis decided on the basis of the individual performance and integrity and quality of financial control and reporting. with stakeholders, while fulfilling the role of a responsible to-day management is handled by the Copper Management measurement of business deliverables. This variable pay corporate citizen committed to sustainable business practices. Committee comprising the CEO, COO, CFO, Business Heads, policy addresses the enterprise score card mechanism which The functions of the Audit Committee of the Company include Head HR and Marketing. measures all the business deliverables. the following: The Company maintains good corporate practices which 1. Oversight the Company's financial reporting process and constantly undergo change and improvement, keeping its core Share / Debenture Transfer Committee the disclosure of its financial information to ensure that goal in mind — maximizing stakeholder value. A firm focus on Code of Business Ethics & Conduct the financial statement is correct, sufficient and credible The Board of Directors have delegated the power to approve 2. Recommending to the Board, the appointment, rebusiness ethics and commitment to Corporate Social The Board of Sterlite Industries (India) Limited, in its meeting share/debenture transfers, transmission and consider split / appointment and, if required, the replacement or removal Responsibility gives the Company the impetus to achieve held on 12th January 2007 adopted the revised Code of consolidation requests to the Share / Debenture Transfer of the statutory auditor and the fixation of audit fees excellence in its spectrum of stakeholder-advancement Business Ethics which is applicable to all Board members, Committee. The Share/Debenture Transfer Committee met 3. Approval of payment to statutory auditors for any other initiatives. The mandate is clear: all our operations and actions Senior Management and all employees of the Company. The eighteen times during the year. services rendered by the statutory auditors must benefit and be of value to every life we touch, and be code of business ethics and conduct is available on the website 4. Reviewing, with the management, the annual financial sustainable for all time to come. of the Company, www.sterlite-industries.com. All Board Banking and Authorization Committee statements before submission to the Board for approval members and Senior Management personnel have affirmed 5. Reviewing, with the management, the quarterly financial At SIIL, the overall governance structure is reviewed by the The Banking and Authorization Committee consists of six statements before submission to the Board for approval Board of Directors. At present, the Board has six members, compliance with the code of business ethics and conduct. The members, i.e. 2 Directors and 4 Senior Management officials 6. Reviewing, with the management, performance of with a mix of promoter, professional and independent Whole Time Director, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief of the Company. The Committee approves, on behalf of the statutory and internal auditors, the adequacy of the directors. For further details on the governance structure of Operating Officer have also confirmed and certified the same. The Company has a very strong internal control mechanism Company, any changes in authorised signatories for banking internal control systems Sterlite, refer the corporate governance section of the annual with a dedicated team called ‘Management Assurance Team’ operations, delegation of powers for day-to-day excise and 7. Reviewing the adequacy of the internal audit function, if report. (MAS) who run a well-defined framework to review all the sales tax matters, authorization to specific employees for any, including the structure of the internal audit compliances of Companies policies, and laws applicable to the certain contractual obligations and such other delegation as department, staffing and seniority of the official heading The Company's Corporate Governance structure is based on Company. At the unit level, the Company has a compliance may be required. The Committee met once during the year and the department, reporting structure coverage and the following principles: review mechanism which reports monthly compliance to other business was transacted by circulation. frequency of internal audit l Trusteeship: A transparent and independent Board with a Senior Management. The compliance status is updated to the 8. Discussion with internal auditor on any significant Audit Committee and its role findings and follow-up thereon balanced composition and size can provide effective Board of Directors every quarter. 9. Reviewing the findings of any internal investigations by leadership to the Company. The Board is the trustee for all As on March 31, 2010, the Company's Audit Committee the internal auditors particularly into matters where there the stakeholders. Shareholders'/Investors' Grievances Committee consisted of Mr. Gautam Doshi (Chairman), Independent is suspected fraud or irregularity or a failure of internal l Aim: Accountability, independence, effective internal The Shareholders' Grievances Redressal Committee is Director, Mr. Sandeep Junnarkar, Independent Director, and control systems of a material nature and reporting the surveillance, voluntary legal compliance and governing empowered to perform all functions of the Board in relation to Mr. Berjis Desai, Independent Director. Mr. Gautam Doshi is matter to the Board rules & procedures. handling of Shareholders' Grievances, primarily focusing on the financial expert in the Audit Committee and all members 10. Discussion with statutory auditors before the audit l Entrepreneurship: Empowering the management and review of investor complaints and their redressal, queries have accounting and financial management knowledge and commences, about the nature and scope of audit as well as employees, especially women, to showcase strength, received from investors i.e. transfer of shares, issue of share expertise. The Committee met six times during the course of post-audit discussion to ascertain any area of concern ownership, innovation and passion to excel and lead. certificates, non-receipt of Annual Report, non-receipt of the year on April 28, 2009, May 30, 2009, July 29, 2009, 11. Reviewing the Company's risk management policies l Creating value: Efficient resource management to declared dividends, etc. and work done by Share Transfer September 19, 2009, October 29, 2009 and January 25, 2010. 12. Looking into the reasons for substantial defaults in the enhance enterprise value and return on investment. l Concern and respect for people and environment: Agents. The Committee comprises of three members who met payment to the depositors, debenture holders, The Management is responsible for the Company's internal shareholders (in case of non-payment of declared Working for society and the community. four times during the year on April 28, 2009; July 29, 2009, controls and the financial reporting process which is done dividends) and creditors October 29, 2009 and January 25, 2010. internally by the MAS Team. The Company, on a rotation 18 basis, appoints internal auditors who review the compliance of 19 13. Reviewing any changes in the accounting policies or Communication to Shareholders Copper The Miracle practices as compared to the previous financial year and commenting on any deviation from the Accounting SIIL puts forth key information about the Company and its Standards 14. Carrying out any other function as is mentioned in the performance, including quarterly results, official news releases, and presentations to analysts, on its website www.sterlite-industries.com regularly for the benefit / of Value Creation terms of reference of the Audit Committee 15. Reviewing the financial statements, in particular, the information of the public at large. During the year, the investments made by the unlisted subsidiary companies quarterly results of the Company's performance have been Reaping dividends (if any), in view of the requirements under Clause 49. published in leading newspapers such as ‘The Economic through robust growth Times’ in English and ‘Dinamalar’ (Tamil Nadu edition) in the Disclosures by Management to the Board vernacular. Hence, they are not separately sent to individual shareholders. Sterlite, however, furnishes the quarterly and All disclosures relating to financial and commercial half-yearly results on receipt of a request from any transactions where Directors may have a potential interest are shareholder. provided to the Board, and the interested Directors do not participate in the discussion nor do they vote on such matters. Whistle-blower Policy Disclosure of Accounting Treatment in Preparation Sterlite has a whistle-blower policy, where any instance of of Financial Statements non-adherence to the Policy or any observed unethical behaviour is to be brought to the attention of the Head of Sterlite has followed the guidelines of accounting standards Management Assurance System. laid down by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) in preparation of its financial statements. Our economic impact can be categorized according to the affected groups Table 1 Payment to Government (see Economic Value Summary). Immediate economic impacts are through Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Code for Prevention of Insider-Trading Practices the salaries and benefits are paid to employees and the money paid to our in USD (million) suppliers and contractors. Communities benefit directly from our social Total Payment 294.81 225.64 350.86 In compliance with the SEBI regulation on prevention of investment made through our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) insider trading, the Company has instituted a comprehensive activities, through voluntary donations and indirectly through spending by our employees and our suppliers. We also contribute to the code of conduct for its Directors, management and officers. National Exchequer, discharging responsibilities by paying all applicable taxes and levies (refer Table 1). The code lays down guidelines, which advises them on procedures to be followed and disclosures to be made, while dealing with shares of the Company, and cautioning them of Economic Value Summary the consequences of violations. The code clearly specifies, Table 2 Our Economic Performance 2009-10 Sterlite clocked revenues of USD 2,765.56 million in Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 among other matters, that Directors and specified employees 2009-10 against USD 2,439.05 million in 2008-09. The of the Company can trade in the shares of the Company only in USD (million) increase in revenues is attributed mainly to the increase in during the 'Trading Window Open Period'. The trading Net Turn over (Net of duties) 2,672.29 2,439.05 2,765.56 Sales Volume and LME prices, which is basically a supply window is closed during the time of declaration of results, demand factor (refer Table 2). The Indian copper market Personal expenses 13.96 17.35 16.30 dividend and material events, etc. as per the Code. The continues to demonstrate a robust growth rate of 4% in Retained earning 409.97 565.88 546.39 Company Secretary is the Compliance Officer. 2009-10. Capital Expenditure 20.89 22.42 21.44 In relation to the sales volume, SIIL achieved domestic sales of 2, 06,150 tons and export sales of 1,27,095 tons. 2009-10 was a challenging year for the entire industry and global economy. Sterlite has performed exceptionally well this year by achieving the highest ever Anode Production of 3,32,056 tons and the same benchmark has been set for domestic sales. Cathode production for 2009-10 was 3,34,174 tons, 6.83% higher than the previous year due to planned maintenance in 2009-10 and lower copper grade in concentrate during 2008-09 (refer Table 3). The acid business faced a sharp decline in prices in the year 2008-09, mainly on account of cheaper fertilizer imports and low sulphur costs (refer Table 4). The same scenario occurred in the initial period of the year 2009-10. But with the passage of time, the Acid market showed signs of improvement and the year finished with good performance of the Acid business. One more milestone has been set by Sterlite this year by selling highest ever phosphoric acid in comparison to the last three years. Table 3 Copper Export v/s.Domestic Market (in tons) Table 4 Acid Sales (in MT) Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Phosphoric Acid Sulphuric Acid Export 1,80,035 1,14,114 1,27,095 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Domestic 1,57,037 1,98,453 2,06,150 1,60,665 1,57,108 2,05,836 6,14,098 5,13,307 4,84,453 Total 3,37,072 3,12,567 3,33,244 20 21 Investors and shareholders Suppliers Copper Risks and Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Shareholders receive dividends and may benefit from growth in Cost of Material, Goods and the value of their shares. In 2009-10, SIIL’s dividends were worth Services (USD million) 2,464 2,128.25 2,665.71 USD 76.20 million (refer table 5). SIIL has announced bonus shares in the ratio of 1:1 and split of its equity shares of Rs. 2 each Employees Opportunities (approximately 4 cents each) into equity shares of Re. 1 each (approximately 2 cents each). Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. puts In 2009-10, we employed over 1254 employees directly and 1715 forth key information about the Company and its performance, employees through contract mode, thereby contributing a Given the dynamic environment of the global economy combined with climate change looming large, every company is faced with risks including quarterly results, official news releases, remuneration of Rs. 82.30 crores for Sterlite’s operations. At SIIL, that it needs to combat and opportunities that can become areas of improvement and provide an outline for sustainable development. At and presentations to analysts, on its website the Human Resources department supports the business operations Sterlite, the Company is well equipped to handle the business challenges posed by the current global economic conditions apart from the www.sterlite-industries.com regularly for the benefit of the public. to achieve key targets by implementing Key Result Areas (KRAs) inherent risks to which the industry is exposed. and prescribing performance parameters for each employee. It Table 5 Investors motivates employees to innovate and improve their performance For Sterlite, the current business operations are exposed to the following significant risks and opportunities: Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 through various reward and recognition schemes like Dividends (USD million) 59.76 52.29 76.20 employee/team of the month, CEO kitty, etc. Employees are also Risks Opportunities part of cross functional and cross cultural teams. They are encouraged to contribute to the various community initiatives ü Fluctuations in metal prices on the LME and LBMA ü  Tie-up long term contracts for ensuring consistent supplies Community for concentrate and rock phosphate through volunteerism. Employees who volunteered were ü Currency fluctuations recognised in the ‘Employee Communication Meet’ to promote ü  Focused approach to inventory management to minimize CSR activities are a critical component in the overall vision of the ü Limited availability of natural resources, especially cash outflows Company to be a respectable corporate citizen. These are imbibed ‘Corporate Volunteerism’ among employees. concentrate and rock phosphate ü  Explore and establish sustainable usage of slag in cement and and implemented as part of the Company’s DNA, rather than as an ü Limited infrastructure availability A Structured Employee Satisfaction Survey conducted at road applications adhoc measure. Consequently, spend on CSR is taken up as part of periodical intervals reveals the level of satisfaction and enables ü Disposal of bulk by-products such as slag ü  Develop infrastructure at port and inside plant for higher bulk the overall Business Plan exercise and aims to bring focus to the necessary follow-up actions. Quality of need-based training, HR ü Developing / managing relationships with Government and material movement to cater to expansion requirements. activities which will help achieve the overall corporate objectives. transparency and sensitivity to people issues, employee of the other stakeholders (e.g. local community, opinion makers, ü  Competency mapping and creating resource pool to ensure SIIL plays the role of a catalyst in bridging the community needs local administration, etc) month, Ideas@Sterlite effectiveness, etc are some indicative that succession planning is ensured and the resources for sustainable development. Health, Education, ü Availability of potential employees, their retention and parameters that are measured through this satisfaction survey. ü  Reduction of overall COP and improvement in margins by Women Empowerment and Rural Infrastructure Development are succession plan cost reduction programs the thrust areas under which SIIL has made significant Employees ü Compliance requirements of health, safety and environment ü  Use of technology/automation initiatives to leverage regulations contribution. Please refer to the dedicated section on CSR in this Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 implementation of best practices report (refer page no. 24). ü Natural calamities and man-made disasters Total No. of Employees 1,232 1,285 1,254 Contribution to Community Salaries, Wages, Bonus and 10.56 12.99 12.55 Particular 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Allowances (USD million) Community Development Contribution of Provident Fund 0.68 0.79 0.77 0.18 0.39 0.35 Initiatives (USD million) and Other Funds (USD million) Donations (USD million) 0.28 0.19 0.04 Total (USD million) 0.46 0.58 0.39 Contribution to Gratuity and 0.20 0.29 0.45 Annuity fund (USD million) Participants in employees 1.06 1.71 0.98 Vendors stock purchase plan Vendors and suppliers are considered as business partners of the Staff Welfare Expenses 1.20 1.37 1.39 organization and are treated accordingly. SIIL’s key suppliers and (USD million) partners are informed of our vision and mission and the key Total employees 0.26 0.20 0.16 deliverables expected from them through supplier / vendor meets training spend (USD million) and our website. Suppliers are evaluated based on their deliverable performance. The vendor meet conducted in Chennai in August 2009 was a grand success, with over 200 of our business partners attending the same. Periodic vendor review and feedback is also carried out to align them with our overall business requirements. 22 23 Together, everyone can work a Miracle When people work together, anything is possible. This is Our Approach why we at SIIL involve the community at every step. Copper The Miracle This goes a long way in fostering their ownership and pride in CSR projects successfully executed. We interact Catalyzing Miracles of Community with the local people from initial planning stages right through to the final execution. Contributing Support, Nurturing Self-Sufficiency STERLITE Facilitates Community results Sterlite follows an approach of playing a catalyst role between Government agencies and domain specialists such as NGOs, academic institutions, nationalized banks & hospitals to deliver community results of high impact. SIIL seeks to keep the community informed, with regard to various Government O Our ancient civilization believed Copper to be a ‘pure metal’ and it has been scientifically proved that copper vessels are safer schemes, which have been established for their benefit. Based on the people's demands, projects are planned and executed, with each stakeholder playing a contributive role in the community. and healthier options to store food and drinking water due to its anti-fouling properties. Self-Sufficiency like never-before At SIIL, we believe that an educated, healthy community living in clean and hygienic conditions can stand on their own The Miracle of Changing Lives feet and do things they never dreamt possible. Community is one of our most important stakeholders, forming a key pillar to Education Projects Nurturing success that goes beyond academics achieving success in our Sustainability journey. We believe that our core concept of ‘Changing Lives’ can help bring miracles in the day-to-day lives of From the very basic three R's (Reading, writing & people, living in the rural and coastal areas of Tuticorin and Silvassa. arithmetic) to recognizing academic excellence, we cover At SIIL, we strive to improve the quality of life in and around our operations in an entire gamut of education programs. Our holistic a way that promotes self reliance. Education, Health, Women Empowerment approach ensures that every person who wants to learn and Rural Infrastructure are the pillars on which our CSR programs are based, gets an opportunity to do so, regardless of age or gender. to deliver a better tomorrow for women, children and youth. The activities aim We also conduct training programs for teachers, to ensure to benefit the community as a whole, so that each and every person experiences a specific quality standard in the teaching methods. the miracle of a vibrant, self-supporting community. Through the endeavors, we witness miracles everyday Aligning our initiatives with the United Nations’ Millennium Development changing drop-outs who earn a distinction for themselves, achieve cent percent enrollment in schools, to career guidance that gives final Goals and the principles of the Global Compact, we work together with the year students a new determination of supporting themselves and their families. Single parent children are given special treatment under community, the NGOs and the government – together creating miracles. the project. SIIL has launched a host of initiatives which are success stories in their own right. Here's a quick overview: Project Success Impact “We do not see CSR as charity; not even as a responsibility; but as an opportunity to change. All our CSR activities Evening Study Centers 1781 students across 24 centers are determined by the concept of 'Changing Lives', where we constantly endeavor to improve the quality of life of Scholastic Excellence Awards 24 District toppers the communities where we operate.” Educational Scholarships 9 students during the reporting period Ramesh Nair COO, SIIL Notebook distribution 2,225 students 24 Support to children of single parents 591 students Training for teachers 19 teachers 25 Health Projects Nurturing Healthy Mindsets Rural Infrastructure Projects Nurturing the Current and Future Community Where Healthcare is concerned, we focus mainly on the Mother and the Child. When basic amenities are improved, people are privy to better living conditions, and this only leads We aim to improve mother and child-care facilities in all the geographies we to the advancement of society as a whole. Our objective in this regard is two-fold: On one hand, we touch. In addition, we run a plethora of programs that seek to improve the wellencourage community participation in order to put in place relevant solutions that sustain selfbeing of the populace starting right from inducing a behavioral change to sufficiency. At the same time, we partner with Government's initiatives to improve the rural creating a natural tendency to healthy habits. landscape and bring about development at a faster pace. Here too we adopt a holistic approach; from offering an array of health services The miracle of model villages had unfolded before our eyes through our programs, we have to running need-based health camps, to supporting Government health ensured no school dropouts in these villages; while kitchen gardens provide sustainable livelihood, initiatives and partnering with their efforts to raise awareness on key issues healthcare & nutrition and sanitation facilities are significantly improved and women are such as HIV-AIDS. It is heartening to see that our employees too play an active empowered to take on their own enterprises. Our specific initiatives with regards to rural role – for instance, 43 of them donated generously at a Blood Donation Camp. infrastructure are listed below, along with the successes we have achieved: Following is a list of the projects we are conducting, along with the number of people whose lives are directly impacted: Project Achievements Project Number of People Helped Total sanitation 76 policies Sterlite Pediatric Block 200 children/day Model villages 3 villages Child friendly villages; Celebration No school dropouts in model villages; Save A Child Heart Program 44 children of 1st birthdays of all babies 12 first birthdays celebrated Rural Health Clinics 6,270 people across 7 Clinics Kitchen garden 2,000 families General Health Camps 3,472 people Polio Eradication Project 22,000 children “The significant support extended Project Clean Hand 550 children by SIIL towards the 'Save a Child Sterlite Women Empowerment Project (SWEP) Eye Camps 900 people Heart' programme in association “SIIL's Women Empowerment Industrial Intervention on 1,011 students across 11 schools and 325 with the District Health Society is Sterlite Women Empowerment Project (SWEP) envisages Project results in economic HIV-AIDS members of women self help groups highly commendable. SIIL has social and economic empowerment of women. The aim of the empowerment of women, by Blood Donation Camp 43 employees donated blood touched the Young Buds Heart and project is to generate supplementary income for women Self helping them turn into Partnering with Government Multi 1,500 people given rebirth.” Help Groups (SHGs) and to provide training to upgrade the entrepreneurs. This is visible in Speciality camps skills of women by creating opportunities for viable economic Dr. S. Uma, Deputy Director of Tuticorin through Health Services, Tuticorin activities. With the objective of empowering rural and coastal microenterprise.” women, SWEP was launched on March 5th 2005. 1012 SelfMr. S. Selvakumar, Employee Help Groups (SHGs) have been formed, covering 14,095 rural First Aid Training women from marginalized sections of society. More than 151 groups have taken up profitable income generation activities. Focus has been given to microfinance as a strategy to reach more women and Sterlite’s CSR department organized “First Aid Training” for nine teachers in Chinchpada school involve them in the development process. The microfinance has helped to alleviate poverty and maximize economic output. The income premises, Silvassa. At the end of the training, First Aid Kits were distributed to the participating schools. generation activities vary from prawn pickle processing to dry flower making, household provision supply, candle making, milk vending, rabbit rearing, vessels rental and petty shops. Specialized healthcare for children The Project was implemented in partnership with six local NGOs. Around 30 field level group organizers have been playing a key role in forming women groups at the village level. Periodic training programs have been organized for the women groups which include training in book keeping, leadership qualities and decision making. The SHGs hold regular monthly meetings, which provide a platform for sharing SIIL completed the construction of an exclusive Pediatric Block in the government and discussing broad social, legal, political and economic issues that affect their lives, and help identify the income generation programs. hospital campus to help the hospital to provide improved healthcare for children of the Exposure visits to different markets have been organized for the group members, helping them to learn marketing skills and from other Tuticorin district. people’s experiences. The groups, recognized by the District Women Development Corporation of the Government of Tamil Nadu, repay the bank loans in easy installments. “SIIL's partnership in the Eye Results Camp and Pulse Polio Camps helps The income generation programs have enabled the women to increase their family income and us to reach the target of achieving on an average, earning increased to Rs. 2200 -3000 per month as additional source of income. a Blindness & Polio-free India.” During the reporting period the groups have availed of loans ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 4,00,000. The project has enabled the women to have greater access to capital credit. Dr. D. Selvi, Medical Officer The Rock Tamira Group, headed by Ms. Selvarani, the first SHG in Tamil Nadu received the Pudukottai Primary Health Center, Government order to supply 3,000 beds and 6,000 pillows to the retail handloom shops in Tuticorin Tamil Nadu for the first time in the span of 75 years. 26 27 International Women’s Day Celebrations CSR Activities at Silvassa SIIL celebrates International Women’s Day by organizing a grand public function of SHG Mother Daughter Mela women members under the Sterlite Women Empowerment Project on March 8th of every year, since 2006. This program helps to create awareness about International Women’s SIIL supported the “Mother Daughter Mela” initiated by the Education Department in Chinchpada Primary School, Silvasssa. Around Day and to encourage and inspire more SHG women under SWEP to undertake Income 65 students and their mothers attended the program, whose objective was to help reduce the girl child’s school drop-out rate and also Generation Projects. The most interesting part of this function was the parade and drill to improve their hygiene habits. performed by over 7000 SHGs, which was the first and largest of its kind in this part of the state. Awards for excellence in Income Generation Projects, for the 24 Best SHGs, 11 Entrepreneurs, two Woman Exemplars and also for 6 respective NGOs were also School Infrastructure distributed during this occasion. A variety of folk dances like Karagaatam, Oyilattam, SIIL helped to improve the infrastructure of Chinchpada School, by supporting their garden development and beautification of school Kolaattam, OyilKummi, and Villupattu were performed by the SHGs . Also various sports premises and classrooms. As part of the garden development, 1,100 saplings were planted in the school premises and a new gate was events were conducted and prizes distributed. installed at Chinchpada Primary School. Coastal Livelihood Project (CLP) Borewell Inauguration SIIL inaugurated two borewells with hand pumps and handed them over to villagers in Chinchpada-Khadiphada and Nimalphada Village, SIIL launched a ‘Coastal Livelihood Project’ to promote technical skills among Silvassa. 250 villagers obtained easy access to drinking water. coastal youth in Tuticorin. ` 15-lakh is allocated for this project which enables them to get employment in different fields, with the support NGOs. In 2009, ` 12 lakhs was spent on the project offering vocational education to more than 325 people. Eighteen courses are offered under the initiative that include fashion designing, desktop publishing, shipping management, nurse assistant training, garment manufacturing and so on. SIIL has identified various areas of skills development which need to be offered to the fishing community members such as: l Computer training lBeautician l Nursing assistant l Cell phone mechanic l Embroidery l Tailoring l Shipping management These trainings have given confidence to the young men and women of coastal Donation of Suiting & Shirting Material Vanvasi Kalyan Ashram areas and helped them to find a job in Tuticorin. During the reporting year, we have achieved an employability rate of 68% with an average earning of ` 3000-4000 per month. “SIIL Coastal Livelihood vocational trainings have boosted up Awards and accolades the coastal youth in generating supplementary income for their families. SIIL’s involvement in the Two women members Ms. Dhanalaxmi and Ms Maria Ponnammal of the Sterlite CLP project is superb.” Women Empowerment Project, received the “National Virtual Academy Mr. S. Princeton Ferando, Fellowship” award from M.S.Swaminathan Research Foundation”. General Secretary Coromandel The Silvassa unit of SIIL provided suiting & shirting material to 100 tribal students of ‘VANVASI KALYAN ASHRAM’ in Randha Social Service, Tuticorin and Khanvel, Silvassa with a contribution of ` 5000/towards stitching charges. 28 29 Employee Volunteerism Sterlite recognizes that employee volunteerism benefits the Company, the employee (both personally and professionally) and the community. At SIIL, employee volunteerism is a key part of our activities related to community development. Employees keenly participate in activities that benefit the deprived and lesser privileged. An amount of ` 2 Lakhs was donated by 256 employees for Copper The Miracle supporting CSR activities. Some of the activities, heartily participated in and supported by employees are: Activity Achievements of Empowerment Leprosy home Contribution by 12 employees for the St Josephs leprosy home Supporting physically challenged women Purchase of tricycle for Ms. Kaliammal of Encouraging Leadership, South Veerapandiapuram Village from contribution of employees Opening up the Workplace Supporting parentless children Distribution of free notebooks and school bags for 591 parentless children, through Supporting washermen community donation by 48 employees Ironing vehicle and Iron boxes distributed to two villagers of South Veerapandiapuram, O Organic life forms have evolved in an environment containing copper. As a nutrient through donation by 16 employees and essential element, copper is vital to Supporting fire-affected families Donation and support to 3 families affected of Inigonagar by fire accidents, by 11 employees maintaining health and life sustaining functions depend on this important metal. CSR team and employees visit the Leprosy Home Dress materials distributed to the inmates of the home Once in a while, Miracles too need a reality check! Although we have been pursuing CSR activities since 1996, and are fairly confident of the results, we decided to undertake a reality check to determine possible areas of improvement and plan the way forward. Therefore, in early 2009, SIIL’s Tuticorin unit engaged M/s AC Nielson to conduct a study to understand the current brand status among the neighborhood community, and help identify ways to further improve our services to the community. Just as copper ore goes through a rigorous refining process before the Miracle Metal is created, so too our people are trained, challenged and developed to bring out the best in them. At SIIL, we believe that people are our biggest assets in creating a worldThe methodology followed was Quantitative House to House Surveys, as well as Face to Face Interviews using a class organization. One of the key to achieve the true miracle of sustainability is to empower employees, especially young talent, Structured Questionnaire. with the objective of evolving potential leaders. Our mission is to attract and build a progressive, motivated and engaged workforce Some key areas requiring focus: who will take SIIL to new heights. As of March 2010, the total workforce employed by SIIL was 1,254 (refer to Graph 1, 2, and 3). To conduct more health and hygiene related camps in needful areas from northern blocks i.e. Kayathar and l Vilathikulam, Tamil Nadu. Employee Qualification-wise break-up MBA/Equivalent To focus more on health / hygiene-related activities and transportation. l A CA/ICW 19 En gin Others 30 57 ee r+ 32 M Whilst we are currently formulating a strategy for initiating some of the activities recommended, few activities are already BA ers under progress. Each activity will have a measurement approach built in to determine its efficacy. Engin e 224 CSR External Review +M BA eer 892 g in En We hired the services of KPMG, in April 2009, to study our current CSR activities and give us their observations and recommendations for Graph 2 improvement. They interviewed stakeholders such as members of the community, staff of NGOs and representatives of Government departments. Recommendations made are under review and we are trying to assess the impact of the same on the community if we were to implement “For any organization to grow in a sustainable way, employees play a key role. We are therefore in a continuous them. The emphasis on long-term investments in education, infrastructure and resources made by KPMG is already process to identify what our employees expect of us and try to give them a company which they are proud to be in alignment with our corporate strategy and we are committed to create bigger miracles with the community in the long term. associated with in every dimension.” Suresh Bose, GM-HR, SIIL 30 31 Our recruitment strategy: ‘Get, Nurture and Grow’ CASE STUDY 1 Our strategy is to source the best talent as trainees, through campus recruitments from best-in-class institutes. For senior level positions, we Global Leadership Program Positioning Miracle Workers across the world try to get suitable candidates from our group companies through internal advertisements; else we recruit them through advertisements and consultancy firms. This Program provides talented employees an opportunity to work overseas We offer an environment conducive to work, competitive salary packages and perks in order to attract the best people and retain them. Our for 6-12 months on important projects and focused assignments. The focus is to maintain a healthy geographical mix amongst our employees from all regions. We believe in equal opportunity and do not objective is to create an elite pool of managers who are ready to take discriminate on the basis of color, caste, region , religion and sex. leadership positions in the globalized environment. Two cycles of the program have been completed, in which over 50 employees were covered from the operations, maintenance, mining and enabling areas (HR, Learning and training development – Nurturing future leaders Commercial, etc). We focus on learning and development to enhance knowledge and skills, and prepare our people to face any challenge. Our in-house This year, 6 GLPs from Zambia stayed with SIIL for one year, for grooming Faculty Development Program gives opportunities for knowledge sharing, whereby any employee can take training sessions on business on technical and behavioral skills. The GLPs of Vedanta also underwent a needs and self-development. Leadership Development Program at Tuticorin on 26th & 27th January 2010. Detailed training calendars are drawn up for all management cadre employees, as well as non-executive employees, which cover Individual training needs for achieving short-term employee objectives, and Organizational training needs for achieving long-term objectives. The training programs conducted for our employees are as follows: CASE STUDY 2 1. Safety, Health and Environment 2. Quality Management Systems: 5S Practices, TPM Awareness, Quality, Environment, Safety Management The Miracle of Mentoring System (QESMS), Structured Problem Solving Techniques This year at SIIL, we went in for voluntary nominations for Mentoring and 3. Functional / Technical Programs: Multi Skilling, On the job training around 36 people volunteered. This ensured that only people who have the 4. Behavioral Improvement Programs innate need to guide new joinees become mentors. We also engaged an external expert – Mentor Learning – to conduct an assessment and design an 5 Management Development Program (MDP) Intervention Roadmap for us. Based on this, new joinees were given inputs on During the year, we had organized various training programs in order to achieve a minimum of 3-4 days how they could utilize the Mentee Mentor relationship effectively. of training for every employee. We also had a Skill Building & Certification program for 40 Managers, who Leadership Development were given insights on different personality types and how each type had to be guided. After the program, 8 Managers volunteered to become Mentors. To Our vision is to build a fast, flexible and flat organization with world-class capabilities and a high performance culture across all of our build momentum for this initiative, we drafted a communication strategy, businesses. We believe in nurturing leaders from within and providing opportunities for growth across all levels and geographies. sent out e-mails and put up posters about Mentorship around the plant. A Rendezvous Allowance of Rs. 500 per Mentee per month was also set, to encourage Mentor Mentee meetings. Not only the Mentees, but also the Mentors have gained through the process, becoming more mature Stars of Business and ACT UP individuals who know how to nurture and groom future leaders. SIIL has a structured process to identify and nurture fast track performers called “Stars of Business”. Top performers from middle to first level senior management are identified based on annual appraisals and their age. Short-listed employees are put under a leadership development program – Accelerated CASE STUDY 3 Competency Mapping & Upgradation Programme (ACT UP). They are earmarked for key roles, fast growth and increase in compensation. The mapping The Miracle of Unleashed Creativity is done through an assessment center comprising case-study presentations, group activities, psychometric testing and one-on-one interaction. This is linked The Business Excellence department embarked upon a new initiative – to the Sterlite Leadership Model to ensure future leaders have the required “Creativity Meet”. The primary objective of this was to provide a platform competency. Over the years, 124 Stars have been identified. They have proved to for showcasing the meritorious ideas as case studies by respective owners, be an asset for the Vedanta Group and thus made Sterlite a leadership pool for which leads to knowledge sharing amongst fellow participants. The 2 day Graph 5 event was facilitated by INSSAN (Indian National Suggestion Scheme Vedanta. Graph 5 refers to the number of Stars over the last 3 years. Association), Northern chapter. The meet started out with presentation from participant employees including 5 contract employees, which was then followed a expert sessions from guest faculty. Subsequent to the success of “Sterlite gives me enough freedom to utilize my knowledge and skills this meet, a similar initiative has been taken up at Silvassa. To leverage on the for personal as well as organizational growth.” success of this initiative, we intend to conduct inter-location competitions -Tushar Vyas, GET within Tuticorin and Silvassa in the near future, which will result in higher level of employee engagement. 32 33 HR Policies Equal Opportunity Employer Awareness Programs regarding Company policies and our Code of Conduct are As an equal opportunity employer, SIIL does not discriminate on grounds of gender, age, religion, origin or conducted regularly, and we have several engagement processes to record employees’ political affiliation. We do not employ forced, bonded or child labor all our contractors have to submit valid grievances. Inputs on the business code of conduct/ethics given is carried out regularly identity proof, before they enter the plant. in communication meets, which include information on malpractices such as prevention, bribery and corruption. We registered one incident of malpractice by an We are governed by the standing order as set by Government of India with respect to any sort of operational employee for this financial year and the necessary action was taken. The Company’s change. remuneration policy and practices do not differentiate on the basis of gender. As a Wherever possible, we favor utilizing local manpower resources and give preference to the local community principal employer for contractor laborers, we ensure that there is no grounds for while hiring fresh graduates. As a Recruitment Policy, we try to maintain a mix of 60% from Tamil Nadu, discrimination and they are paid as per the Minimum Wages Act. Training and 30% from the rest of India and 10% from Southern states, in order to bring cultural diversity into our workforce (refer Graph 9). awareness programs were also conducted for employees on road safety and healthrelated issues such HIV / AIDS, Hypertension, etc. Addressing challenges and utilizing opportunities Graph 10 Employee Satisfaction Survey Performance Evaluation System The key challenge for HR is to retain the right talent in an extremely competitive environment (refer Graph 10). We proactively take measures to address attrition and retain good talent. Some of these are: KPO (Key Performance Objectives) / KRA (Key Result Areas) are assigned to individual employees on a ‘SMART’ (Specific, Measurable, 1. Manpower planning for the expansion project of our operations Achievable, Realistic, Time-bound) basis in line with our business plan. Targets are revised as per business needs through mid-term 2. Skill enhancement of our workforce performance reviews. The performance of trainees / probationers is reviewed systematically and high performers are recognized by 3. Knowledge management suitably curtailing their training / probation period. Through our Annual Performance Appraisal System, employees are awarded with a suitable rise in their compensation package based on their performance rating, with effective feedback on performance and areas for 4. Building a strong leadership pipeline for future expansion projects improvement. 5. Building a culture of nurturing and transparency 6. Becoming an employer of choice Through ACT UP, Stars of Business are identified and their skill gaps bridged through appropriate training at reputed institutes. Stars are 7. Utilization of technology in all HR processes The results of an Employee Satisfaction Survey elevated and given cross-functional responsibilities / seconded to group companies, wherever required.. conducted based on the Hewitt Model showed One of the measures which has helped boost the morale of the process controllers is an overall satisfaction index score of 71.5%. Women Empowerment rationalization of B.Sc. Compensation package to make it at par with the best in the industry. At SIIL, women employees are given equal roles and Benchmarking best practices responsibilities in all areas. Our Women’s Committee strives to foster the advancement, development and This year, we organized visits to foreign smelters and other companies in India in order to benchmark best practices. Around 50 employees empowerment of women through continuous visited Bosch, Toyota Kirloskar, Dell, Wheels India, ABB, L&T, Reliance Industries, Shanmugar Mills and Sundaram Fasteners. As part monitoring and effective working. Graph 6 refers to of the Know-L2-edge scheme, ten employees visited foreign smelters – Codelco, Chile and PD Miami – to benchmark and implement the percentage of women employed at SIIL for global best practices. They shared their knowledge with colleagues and drew up an action plan for implementation. 2009-10 in ratio with their male colleagues. Induction program A special function was held to celebrate International Women's Day on 8th March 2010, by the Women’s Committee. Prizes were distributed to the winners of various A Structured Induction Module spanning 15 days was introduced, covering all departments and plant processes. At the end of this, new competitions held as a run-up to the main event. joinees have to undergo a 3-day e-Learning Safety Module before they start work. After this, they have an informal interaction with Senior Management during which they are given a platform to exhibit their talents. Employee Retention Team-Building Workshop Attrition, as with all companies across the globe, remains one of the biggest To enhance team-building skills, we held a Team-Building Workshop, targeted at Senior challenges to HR. At SIIL too, we strive hard to proactively take measures to Management. Two workshops were held where participants had to work on their skills not just combat attrition, by attracting the right and best talents and becoming the inside the classroom, but also outside by battling natural forces together as a team. preferred employer of choice. Graph 7 & 8 show the gender-wise and gradewise attrition for the reporting period 2009-10. Graph 7 Employee Benefits Key issues identified for attrition were: Benefits provided to full-time employees include: l Higher education l Location l Work conditions l Remoteness of plant and location l Personal Accident Insurance l Mediclaim Insurance l Paternity/Maternity Leave l Conveyance l Food Allowance for full time employees l Uniforms “Such a vibrant and demanding environment to excel at SIIL, with the “SIIL is the place where only attitude and performance counts, not the gender. If you have the fire within you, then SIIL is the place to sow promise of growth in a short span of time. What an environment to your dreams and grow.” begin my career with!!!” N. Deepa, SIIL -Vimal Raj, MT 34 35 Copper The Miracle Internal Training Courses We regularly conduct in-house training programs, like the Leadership Excellence Acceleration Program, Passion to Win, Maintenance Workshops and other programs essential to the Company's processes. Refer Graph 11 for grade-wise Man-days/employee. of Sensitivity Funding support for external training or education Protecting the Planet, Employees are sent to external institutes for customized training programs based on the need identified for each individual. as well as our People Employee Rewards Spot recognition slips are issued by the HOD to reward employees for any extra initiative taken by them in their day to day work. Apart from the regular production incentive schemes, we have Employee / Team of the Month, CEO Kitty, Employee / Team of the Year, etc. RReplacing all Aluminum wound transformers with copper can save 4,500 million kwhr of Security Personnel energy annually and ` 1,800 crores for India. Security personnel hired from a third party organization undergo training on a regular basis – in 2009-10, 152 hired security personnel had training on ‘How to deal with employees and visitors’. Provision of sabbatical period with growth Two employees attended a one-year training course at the Regional Labor Institute, Chennai, to take on specified roles in safety function on their return. At SIIL, we are sensitive to the intricacies of the impact of our Pre-retirement planning for intended retirees operations on environment and our Retirement planning sessions are held with the Head – HR, who briefs them on the benefits and also provides general counseling. people. Hence we strive hard to maintain the highest standards in health & safety and environmental Retraining for those who intend to continue working performance. We have a wellformalized integrated management When such people are taken back to work, they are provided classroom training and on-the-job training. system that continuously improves our environmental, quality and OH&S performance, in line with ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 laid standards. Management Approach The HSE policies of all the group companies are in lieu of the corporate policy of Vedanta. To oversee HSE matters, a Committee has been in place since June 2004 at the corporate level of Vedanta, currently comprising of Mr. M.S. Mehta, the Chief Executive Officer Vedanta Group, along with the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of Zinc, Copper and Aluminium businesses and Mr. Naresh Chandra as an Independent Director, overseeing the activities of the Committee. The Committee monitors the HSE performance of the group's “Sterlite gives freshers like us immense opportunities, as well as freedom businesses, providing advice and guidance to the Board and management in enforcing amendments and achieving the goals of the to grow and express our talents.” corporate HSE policy. At Sterlite, we have an Assistant General Manager (AGM-HSE), who directly reports to the Chief Operating -Subhakanghki, GET Officer (COO) on HSE performance. The AGM-HSE ensures the implementation of the goals of the HSE policy, and dissemination of best practices across all levels and operations of the Company through a team of qualified Health, Safety and Environment specialists. “For us, environmental management is all about preserving the eco-system to our best 36 ability, as it is the core pillar of Sustainability.” Ramesh Nair COO, SIIL 37 Environmental Performance Energy Conservation We have taken several measures to reduce energy consumption. Currently there are no At SIIL, environmental management is an ongoing effort to improve our performance towards initiatives in place for introducing renewable energy based products and services. Some of the achieving our long-term goal of environmental sustainability, thereby resulting in a healthy and ever-improving triple bottom line. We make a conscious attempt at designing more energy conservation projects which we have under taken during the reporting period are given efficient processes that use fewer types and quantities of materials that are hazardous, and in table 2 below along with approx. energy saving: which produce lesser waste and emissions. The overall environmental performance for the Table 2 Energy Conservation projects in SIIL 2009-10 year 2009-10 is classified under the following heads and covers information for our Tuticorin Annual Sr. .No Project Title Fuel UOM and Silvassa plants. Energy saving 1. Raw materials consumption 7. Waste management 1 Instrument air line modification at SAP 1 Power KWh 10,95,000 2. Energy use and conservation 8. Ozone depleting substances 2 LPG consumption reduction by IL covering LPG MT 350 3. Water consumption and conservation 9. Climate change 3 SOV provision for plant air line in feed area Power KWh 2,31,000 4. Bio-diversity 10. Environmental compliance 4 ISA Furnace Oil line modification FO MT 396 5. Emissions 11. Products and services 5 FO consumption reduction by increasing FO MT 130 the temperature 6. Effluents 12. Environmental expenditure 6 High installation of fan C for power saving scrubber Power KWh 7,92,000 1. Raw materials consumption 7 Forced circulation in electro winning instead Power Kwh 8,25,000 of gravity flow Major raw materials used during the reporting period 2009-10 are given below: Replacing of acid mist exhaust fan with acid 8 absorption pads Power KWh 1,74,240 Table 1 Consumption of raw materials 9 Bus bar gap filling with silver alloy Power KWh 1,65,000 Material 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 Impeller trimming in electrolyte circulation 10 pump Power Kwh 68,310 Raw Materials (Tons) Copper concentrate 10,82,095 10,46,769 11,40,324 11 Installation of flux max in CCR LPG line LPG MT 27.06 The major raw materials used for Rock Phosphate 5,07,031 5,61,174 6,36,135 production of copper and phosphoric Associated Materials (Tons) acid are copper concentrate and rock Highlights during the reporting period: Limestone 20,206 24,494 17,393 phosphate, both of which are imported. 11 energy conservation projects were implemented l Quartz Fines 94,255 1,03,858 1,11,757 During the reporting period, raw Reduction in specific energy consumption was due to higher production l Quartz Chips 38,057 36,779 39,212 material consumption grew due to Reduction of 1% of conventional energy source through usage of bio briquette instead of furnace oil l Pig Iron 7,304 5,714 5,635 Specific energy consumption to produce one ton of cathode was reduced by 3% l Coke 6,857 7,147 7,367 increased production. As of today, we Packaging materials (Tons) do not use recycled materials as input 3. Water Strap steel zinc coated in any of our processes. 134 110 88 Our source of water has not changed since last year & the same was reported in the 32mm(w) *0.8mm tons earlier Sustainable Development Report. The total water withdrawal for both Strap steel zinc coated 5 18 26 Tuticorin and Silvassa from surface sources for the last year is given in Graph 4. 19 mm(w) * 0.64mm tons During the reporting period, specific water consumption (Graph 5) has been reduced Total packaging material 139 128 114 to 6.3 m3/MT of cathode from 6.48 m3/MT of cathode. This was achieved by taking 2. Energy Use and Conservation several water conservation initiatives, including commissioning of an RO plant for treated water having a capacity of 1,300 m3/day. Smelting operations being highly energy intensive in nature, put a strong challenge and pressure on us to keep energy efficiency as one of core areas of our focus. All possible measures and efforts are attempted to reduce our energy consumption, including having a dedicated Nearly 20% of total water demand is managed by the recycling and reusing process. Energy Manager for both Tuticorin and Silvassa plants, who identifies and implements energy efficient projects on a regular basis. Further, we have two rain water catchment ponds of capacity 30,000 m3 to collect rain Total Direct energy (GJ) water which is used for green belt development and other process activities. 17.4 Specific Energy Consumption 6000000 Total Indirect Energy (GJ) 17.2 5000000 GJ PET COKE 6% GJ BIO FUEL 1% 17 GJ HSD 0% Total Water Intake Energy in GJ GJ FO used in process 23% 4000000 GJ LPG 11% 16.8 17.1500246 5121233.29 4694984.54 4701758.45 16.9462364 697667.146 16.6 3000000 665042.24 778343.36 (GJ/MT) 16.4 2000000 16.37616 16.2 1000000 Silvassa 16 15.8 0 Target for Performance Target for Tutocorin/10 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 GJ FO used in CPP 2009-10 for 2009-10 2010-11 GRAPH 1 GRAPH 2 GRAPH 3 Graph 1 refers to the reduction in specific energy consumption to produce 1 ton of cathode. Graph 2 refers to the direct and 38 indirect energy consumption of SIIL for the year 2009-10, while Graph 3 refers to the fuel-wise break-up of energy used for SIIL for 2009-10. The values have been restated for the last two years to correct inadvertant understatement of FO GRAPH 4 GRAPH 5 39 consumption. 4. Bio-diversity Table 3 List of hazardous and non-hazardous waste In order to understand the impact of our activities and operations on the Unit Types of Waste Quantity (Tonnes) Destination surrounding bio-diversity, we carried out a bio-diversity study to assess the impact of our activities and operations on flora and fauna around a 10 km radius Hazardous Waste area of SIIL by the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun.The study ESP Dust 12,410 Reuse concluded that there is no significant change in the plant-animal-marine animals Scrubber Cake 37,868 Secured Landfill due to Sterlite's operations in the area. It is interesting to note that although a ETP Cake 32,498 Secured Landfill number of industries are operating in the area, diverse floral and fauna species Spent Catalyst 0 Secured Landfill have been reported there. Such rich diversity is encouraging and shows that D.O. Powder 278 Reuse industrial development has not adversely affected the diversity at different levels Tuticorin Arsenic Cake 618 Secured Landfill till date. Nickel Sludge 799 Sold to authorized recyclers In the FRI report, there is no IUCN red list species mentioned that exists in the Residue study area or is directly affected by the operations of Sterlite. FRI has also suggested a few methods to conserve the endangered / rich Heavy Metal Sludge 202 Secured Landfill medicinal plants (in-situ/ex-situ) in the study area and we are exploring the possibility of implementing the same. In the reporting year Used Oil 118 Sold to authorized recyclers there havent been any initiatives for protection and or restoration of the habitats of any species. Oil Sludge 524 Sold to authorized recyclers D.O. Powder 562 Sold to authorized recyclers Nickel Sulphate 640 Sold to authorized recyclers Silvassa 5. Emissions Nickel Sludge 122 Sold to authorized recyclers Residue All over the world, controlling emissions in Smelter is a great challenge. However, by virtue of the best available techniques for air Non Hazardous Waste emission control systems, we are able to meet and go beyond air emission regulatory standards. Our operations generate mainly airborne emissions such as Sulphur dioxide, Fluorides and Nitrogen oxides (NOx). The trends of emissions such as SO2, Fluoride, and NOx for the Sold to outside parties for Copper Slag 6,59,811 Road, Cement & Concrete last three years are shown in Graphs 6, 7, and 8 respectively. You will observe that there is an increase in SO2 emissions in terms of absolute Tuticorin Gypsum 9,50,240 Sold to outside parties for Cement values. This resulted mainly due to a higher volume of production. Lime Grit 2,702 Sold to outside parties Emission of Sulphur dioxide Emission of Fluorides Emission of NOx All the hazardous wastes mentioned in the above table are disposed of Total amount of Hazardous & Non-Hazardous Waste in an onsite Secured Landfill (SLF), which has been designed based on SO2 (T/Year)* (Nox (T/Year)* 250000 CPCB guidelines with the exception of ESP dust and DO powder which are recycled in the process and nickel sludge, used oil and oil 200000 161,2753.4 sludge which are sold to a CPCB authorized recycler. Graph 9 shows 138,1434.8 142,6319.1 the total amount of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated in In MT 150000 Non-Hazardous Waste SIIL (Tuticorin & Silvassa) during the last 3 years. 100000 Hazardous Waste As mentioned in the table, three types of non-hazardous waste are 81,747.39 86,638.44 76,464.24 *only for process plants *only for CPP generated, i.e. Slag, Gypsum and Lime Grit. Gypsum is generated at 50000 our Phosphoric Acid Plant at Tuticorin, which is the major raw 6. Effluents material for the cement industry. During the reporting period, we were 0 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 able to dispose 1.3 times of generation. We were able to maintain a GRAPH 9 Since inception our plant is working on the principle of ‘Zero Discharge’. Entire waste water generated in the plant is either recycled or higher disposal rate in view of past accumulated stock, which is reused in the plant. Key areas where the waste water after treatment is utilized includes but not limited to granulation of slag generated expected to be exhausted by the end of 2010-11. during the smelting operations, preparation of Milk of Lime (MOL) and gas cleaning plant. Further, blow down and wash water generated are recycled within the system without any treatment. Waste Segregation 7. Waste Management During the reporting period, we extended a system of waste segregation at source by using 3-bin systems at our township for collecting bioWastes generated from our processes are categorized as either hazardous or non-hazardous wastes depending upon their characteristics. degradable, non-bio-degradable and recyclable waste, and also conducted awareness sessions on waste management. We have formed a Hazardous wastes primarily generated from our site include ESP Dust, Spent Catalyst, ETP Cake, Scrubber Cake, D O Powder, Arsenic dedicated team internally, comprising people from both Environment and Marketing Departments, to ensure speedy, environmentalCake, Nickel Sludge, Heavy Metal Sludge, Oil Sludge and Used Oil. Non-hazardous wastes include copper slag and gypsum. Table 3 in friendly disposal of Copper Slag, the other non-hazardous waste generated during the smelting operations. In the last few years, we carried the next page gives a list of hazardous and non-hazardous waste and the amount generated during the reporting period, along with their out a lot of technical studies through reputed institutions to explore Copper Slag as an alternative material for other industrial applications disposal method. such as cement manufacturing, concrete preparation, road construction, etc. Our concerted effort has resulted in some good breakthroughs in slag disposal, which is given as a case study on the next page. 40 41 Case Study1 9. Climate Change Mitigation Climate Change is affecting us in ways more real than before. We at SIIL are taking cognisance of this fact, and acknowledging our A miracle that is turning waste to resource responsibility in mitigating the impact. The race is on, and we have to accelerate our efforts to take care of the ecology and safeguard our environment. For in time to come, this will have a positive impact on all aspects of our triple bottom line. Climate change has been Copper Slag, generated during smelting operations, is finding new uses in infrastructure and construction industries working affecting our operations and the potential risks are a cause for concern. We have therefore embedded climate change considerations into miracles that will stand the test of time. our business decision making and analyze the risks and opportunity arising from climate change periodically. As a responsible company, we believe there exists nothing like waste in Nature, it is mainly our inefficiency to extract value from Our Risks and Opportunity Management something that results in what is called waste. In view of this, we have been rigorously working over the last few years on exploration of possibilities / applications where the waste generated from our core and non-core l Energy efficiency is a key part of solving climate change, generating a host of opportunities for the copper sector, as copper metal is activities can act as a raw material for other industrial / sectoral applications. amongst the best conductors of electricity, with a high potential to solve problems like transmission loss of energy. Thus increased consumption of copper to deal with energy losses will have a positive impact on the sustainability of our society and also of Sterlite We have been fairly successful in establishing the usage of Copper Slag in generating being a leading producer of copper in the country. valuable products. Our efforts are having widespread environmental (replacement of virgin material) and social benefits (generation of employment) for our Company l Increase rain water catchment capacity and ensuring 100% recycling of effluents generated and society on the whole. We have established the following applications of Slag: l Identification and implementation of renewable energy sources l M/s. Indian Roads Congress gave an accreditation certificate for constructing trial l Identifying and implementing energy efficiency projects roads using Copper Slag. Following this, the National Highways Authority of CO2 India also issued a policy letter stating that Copper Slag could be used in sub-base l Inventorization of our GHG emissions on an annual basis and developing plans and projects to minimize or reduce layers of all national highways. We then approached M/s. Madhucon for using GHG emissions Copper Slag in 0.4 km of Rail Over Bridge (ROB) in the Madurai-Tuticorin national highway NH 45B. So far, Case Study 2 close to 35,000 MT of Copper Slag has been used to construct embankments and other layers of the road. We are also exploring its usage in other national highways, More power; less emissions A miracle worked by a pioneering project state highways and rural roads. l The National Council for Cement and Building Materials (NCCBM) explored the To combat global warming, SIIL took up a unique initiative generating power from process waste heat. There are inherent process technical suitability of Copper Slag in the cement manufacturing process. The risks associated with implementing a waste heat recovery boiler in the copper smelter. However, Sterlite successfully implemented results were positive and our slag is suitable for manufacturing Ordinary Portland this project, utilizing the heat from waste gases coming out of the copper smelter to generate 11.2 MW of electricity. Cement (OPC) and Portland Slag Cement (PSC). The BIS sub-committee has also Waste gases coming out of the copper smelter at a temperature of 1,044oC is allowed to pass through a waste heat recovery boiler. By recommended Copper Slag as a performance improver in cement manufacturing. Several tests were conducted in cement industries and the results have been quite utilizing the thermal energy from waste gases, the boiler – with operating pressure of 70 bars and temperature 285oC – generates encouraging. We are awaiting regulatory approval to take this application forward, 45TPH of steam. in a big way. The temperature of the steam is further increased by the super heater to enhance its thermal energy. The super heater will utilize l M/s. Structural Engineering Research Centre (SERC) conducted a feasibility study for using Copper Slag in concrete furnace oil to increase the temperature of steam to 485oC and 64.4 bar pressure. The steam generated is used to drive the turbine with manufacturing. The report concludes that the behavior of Copper Slag is similar to river sand and can be gainfully utilized as a fine 11.2 MW rated capacity. aggregate in mortar and concrete mixes. The use of Copper Slag as a partial replacement for sand in ready-mix concrete spells Thus the activity utilizes waste heat recovery technology to generate electricity, which displaces grid import. Thereby reducing better workability and strength. Further, Slag can be used as a sand replacement material for joints in the masonry to an extent of 50%, without any adverse effects on the strength of the masonry. greenhouse gas emissions from the grid connected to fossil fuel-based power plants. This project helps avoid sending 18,000 tons of CO2 per year to the atmosphere. It was successfully registered as a CDM project in the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in December 2009. The same project was also registered in the Voluntary Carbon Standard (VCS) and we have accumulated 67,900 VERs for the preregistration period, which are to be sold in the voluntary carbon market. Three more CDM projects have been identified in our expansion project and PDD preparations are in progress. These three projects will result in a reduction of 65,000 tons of CO2 in the atmosphere per year. In this way, the Miracle Metal is playing a role in helping to keep the atmosphere clean, so we can all breathe easier. 8. Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS): We have slowly phased out all equipment containing ODS except air-conditioners which consist of Freon R22, an ozone depleting substance. The present quantity of this ODS is approx. 0.57 tonnes. We are in the process of identifying alternatives for the same and will replace them shortly. GHG Emission We started assessing our business carbon footprint from 2006-07 onwards. For the year 2007-08, the footprint study was extended to Silvassa operations as well. Our GHG inventorization is being assessed according to GHG protocol under scope-1 and scope-2, where we have direct management control. Our inventorization was disclosed as part of the sustainability report and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) framework as well. GHG inventory for the year 2009-10 was disclosed as follows in table 4 on the next page. 42 43 Table 4 GHG inventory for the year 2009-10 The break-up of the environmental expenditure during the reporting period of 2009-10 is represented in the following table 5: For the year 2009-10 Emission Quantity S No. Disposal, treatment & remediation costs Emission scope (unit in Rs. lakhs) (tonne of CO2) $ 1 Treatment and disposal costs 2,369 $ The total greenhouse gas emissions (Tuticorin & Silvassa) 5,49,699.65 2 Costs involved in treatment of emissions 2,880 Direct GHG emission from the process 3,71,999.23 3 51 Expenditures for the purchase and use of emission certificates Indirect GHG emission from purchased electricity from the grid 1,77,700.43 4 Insurance for environmental liability 3 Specific GHG emission per tonne of copper cathode 1.64* 5 Clean-up costs, include costs for remediation of spills as reported in EN23 0 * includes GHG emissions from phosphoric acid plant. S. No. Prevention and Environmental management costs For the year 2009-10 (unit in Rs. lakhs) The higher value of GHG per tonne of cathode produced was mainly due to the following reasons: 1 Personnel employed for education and training No separate personnel for training. 1. There was an additional 25.68 million units of power imported from grid as compared to last year. The Personnel for environmental imported energy from grid has higher GHG emission, i.e. DG-based power is lesser management will take care of (685.96 T of CO2/GWh) when compared to grid emission factor (850 T of CO2/GWh). training & education 2 External services for environmental management 45 2. Since DG-based power was lower, Waste Heat Boilers attached to those DG sets were also shut off. Hence 3 Personnel for general environmental management activities 60 the steam requirement of the plant was met by fuel fired boiler in Phosphoric Acid Plant (PAP). There was an additional 2801 T of FO consumed in PAP as compared to last year. 4 Research and development 74 5 Extra expenditure on green purchases 0 3. Our Rock Phosphate consumption also increased by 74,961 T as compared to last year. Since rock 6 Other environmental management costs 2,472 phosphate contains 4% of CO2 , this also contributed to the increase in GHG emissions. TOTAL (in Rs.) 7,954 10. Environmental Compliance We have a robust system of ensuring regulatory compliance and update our senior management on a monthly basis through the legal Health and Safety Management department. During the reporting period, there were no monetary or non-monetary fines/penalties on us from any statutory body. At SIIL, we are committed to achieve zero accidents and creating a safer workplace. Our paramount task is to enhance the safety of the employees and contract workforce. Having 11. Products and Services seen a downward trend in safety statistics, the Company commenced taking aggressive steps on safety improvement plans in 2009-10 and took the help of the world's renowned We deal primarily with products such as copper cathodes and copper rods, which are in pure form with very negligible traces of precious safety expert M/s. DuPont's safety training courses. For us, the health of both employees metals such as gold, silver, platinum, palladium, etc., and hence have no impact on the environment during handling operations. However, and contract labor is of outmost importance and we do not compromise on improving the there are certain by-products such as sulphuric acid, phosphoric acid and hydrofluorosilicic acid which are also produced and sold for Occupational Health conditions. In the year 2009-10, we focused more on the health external applications. During production, storage and transportation, all standard operating procedures are being followed. Emergency status of contract staff. scenarios such as any leaks/spillages are controlled by following the Emergency Preparedness and Response Plan (EPRP), made available at the site. Also during the transportation of such acids, care is taken to educate the drivers/transporters on the emergency instructions to be followed in line with the Transport Emergency (TREM) card issued to all of them. “We have to use everything in our might to ensure that Safety is not compromised.” We also have a thorough system of checks of tankers by competent persons to avoid any spillages/leakage during transportation. This Ramesh Nair COO, SIIL helped us to prevent any spillages in the reporting period. We carried out an LCA study to estimate environmental impacts of our process. In this study, we have focused on copper manufacturing Occupational Health and Safety starting from transportation of copper concentrate from port to production of cathode rods. The resultant improvement projects of the Sterlite has a formal Unit Safety committee comprising of 43 people both management and non-management staff. Even as we aim to attain study will be taken up during the next reporting period. a zero severity rate and create a safe working environment for all our employees, accidents do take place. In 2009-10, we lost 3 Further, all products produced at site do not require any packaging process except for copper rods, which use wooden pallets as packaging irreplaceable lives at work. As a result of this, Sterlite's LTIFR was 0.62 v/s 0.5 last year (refer Graph 10) and the severity index was 17.94 material. However, it is very negligible, to the order of 18,560 pallets, consumption, during the reporting period. In order to offset the wood v/s 14.44 last year (refer Graph 11). utilized, the Company is planning to compensate by planting an equal number of trees in its premises, during the next year. 12. Environmental expenditure We always have separate budgets for environmental improvement since we are very focused on protecting the environment. Since the collection of high-quality and reliable environmental expenditure data is crucial for us to take informed decision, we started to assess Environmental Cost Accounting (ECA) under UNEP guidelines from 2008-09. 44 45 Safety improvement plan An aggressive approach 3-Day Safety classroom training through by Bureau Veritas To arrest the downward trend in safety statistics, the Company had embarked upon aggressive Creating “zero incidents” is possible only by raising awareness amongst employees on job-specific topics related to Safety. Therefore we safety improvement plans in 2009-10. These involved the following: engaged an external agency – Bureau Veritas – for an exclusive 3-day training for all our employees. Through these training modules, 400 employees were trained in the year 2009-2010. l Training across all levels of employees by DuPont l Job Safety Analysis across the inventory of jobs l Engaging a Safety Expert from a major metal & mining company to help us establish world-class safety practices Business Excellence process contributing to Safety l Reviewing and making changes to the Work Permit System The SPIDER (Standard Practices Implementation, Development, Evaluation & Rating) process initiated by the Business Excellence Cell l Giving a sabbatical to two of our experienced engineers to complete the governmentin 2008-09 helped in significantly improving the safety knowledge levels of all employees. It also resulted in employees' understanding of approved Diploma in Industrial Safety from Chennai. This will result in us having their own process SOPs, which in turn had a positive impact in the second half of 2009-10, wherein we saw a downward trend in injuries. qualified safety officers l Senior officers undertaking daily night shifts to focus on safety aspects and compliances Occupational Health Training Statistics at Tuticorin Training Statistics for Tuticorin The health of our employees is of paramount importance to us, and we believe the health For the year 2009-10, our Unit at Tuticorin had set a target of 20 man-hours per employee per year and status of our contract staff is no less important. Therefore in 2009-10, we had a lot of 14.9 which we exceeded to achieve 31.1 man-hours per employee per year. Similarly, a target of 12 manfocused initiatives for our contractor labor. As a result, apart from SIIL employees, all SIIL contract staff working in SIIL underwent a medical check-up. Permission to enter the plant hours per employee per year was set for the contractor laborers and we were able to achieve a figure of Contractor 31.1 for work is given only after the doctor certifies the fitness of the contractor labor. 14.9 man-hours per employee per year. GRAPH 12 Man-hours/employee/year Training statistics for Silvassa Key initiatives for 2009-10 Training Statistics at Silvassa In the same reporting period, our Unit at Silvassa set a target of 7 man hours per employee per year, to Across 2009-10, we undertook several initiatives to safeguard the health and safety of our employees, as well as contract staff. Education is achieve 7.2 man-hours per employee per year and for contractor laborers a target of 20 manhours per 7.2 identified to be one of the key means for promoting safety awareness. Here are some of the initiatives: employee per year was set, with a figure of 42.3 man-hours per employee per year finally achieved. SIIL Contractor 42.3 Contractor access control GRAPH 13 DuPont Safety Training web-delivered interactive training Man-hours/employee/year An initiative whereby an exclusive gate has been allocated for contract staff. This initiative has resulted in increased Safety consciousness World-renowned safety expert DuPont was hired to impart safety training to employees across the and PPE compliance amongst all contract workmen, in addition to easy movement for material handling vehicles and minimum organization. More than 99% employees were covered under DuPont training in 2009-10. intersection between men and machines. e-Learning programs on safety and industrial skills to our employees comprising of around 36 courses, the contents have been selected based on the plant requirements. The courses also have three types of tests, including pre-tests & post-tests, to evaluate the effectiveness of training. The Training on life-saving techniques and fire-fighting safety fit criteria for all employees was fixed at 85% and above under the DuPont training. This training record was also considered as part of the individual appraisal process in 2009-10 (refer to 59 employees were trained through a unique program on Life-Saving Graphs 14 & 15). Techniques & Fire-Fighting by Usha Fire. In addition, two batches covering Sample Login Page 96 employees were given a one-day intensive training on First Aid by SIIL Chief Medical Officer Dr. R Kailasam, under the banner of St. John Training statistics for Tuticorin Unit Training statistics for Silvassa Unit 6000 Ambulance. 2000 5284.1 1800 1729.4 5000 4245 1600 4000 1200 1216 Tuticorin Employees 1000 Silvassa Employees 3000 Tuticorin Training Man hours 800 Silvassa Training Full body harness Fire-fighting Techniques 600 Man hours 2000 Instead of safety belts (banned by the Government), each contractor in Sterlite is given a full-body harness with a double lanyard. The 400 1000 834.86 723 200 209 full-body harness distributes the forces generated during a fall over at least the thighs, pelvis, chest and shoulders. The standard sliding 33 117 0 2 71.1 32 back D-ring helps to suspend a fallen worker in an upright position after the fall. 0 M1-M3 M4-M6 M7-M8 M1-M3 M4-M6 M7-M9 GRAPH 14 GRAPH 15 Note: Training targets were exceeded due to extensive training of the employees on DuPont Safety courses. 46 47 Job Safety Analysis (JSA) JSA has been started for all online jobs at all plants. In a JSA, each basic step of the job is analyzed to identify potential hazards and Copper The Miracle recommend the safest way to do the job. It can serve as a teaching aid for initial job training and as a briefing guide for infrequent jobs. of Partnership Single Point Accountability (SPA) Leveraging technology, With the aim of achieving an accident-free workplace, the SPA project was initiated in Tuticorin and Silvassa from January 2010. The project is mentored by Mr. Cho Yiu Chan – a qualified industrial hygienist with over 40 years' experience in increasing efficiency industrial health and safety. It enables employees to take responsibility for the HSE aspects of overall operations and contribute significantly. This is achieved through executives from various departments who are appointed by the COO to handle each of the 77 SPAs. The vision of this project is to make both the sites world-class in HSE Management Systems by implementing necessary improvements, resulting in 100% compliance of the requirements. The SPA process requires that each appointed executive undertakes the following: l Understand Sterlite’s and local regulatory requirements l Understand the related Self Assessment Audit document; implement necessary changes and update the program status as a self assessment / improvement process l Proactively acquire the necessary skills for the working team through the HSE department, experts at other Sterlite / Vedanta locations within the group, as well as qualified external providers l Develop, coordinate and deploy related improvement projects and train employees across the entire site l Monitor and audit the performance of the deployment process for the related protocol, and implement identified improvements l Personally coordinate with the work team to participate in incident investigation and project reviews to ensure the processes comply with the requirements l Plan and deploy regular and random audits to evaluate program performance and implement improvements if necessary High Velocity Water Spray Systems for Transformers Management Approach For providing utmost protection to all transformers, a survey was carried out through an external fire consultancy. Consequently, it was We have a centrally led Commercial team working towards the vision 'To build a world class commercial organization by leveraging decided to install automatic High Velocity Water Spray (HVWS) Systems in the area, which are designed for automatic operation and volumes, increasing synergies and employing seamless supply chain'. Our procurement policy is based on fair and transparent principles consists of spray pump, deluge valve and quartzite bulbs. with the objective of developing collaborative supply chain with our suppliers. With 20000 materials being procured we provide The Spray Pump (110KW) supplies water to this HVWS system. The detection system network consists of heat sensing detectors of fusible opportunities to many Engineering & Manufacturing firms all around the globe. type (Quartzite bulb) mounted around the equipment which is under spray protection. Another network of water projectors are mounted around the equipment and it is connected to the water supply mains through a deluge valve, which is normally kept closed by the water Purchase pressure in the mains. On evidence of any fire, the detectors will burst and release water. Because of difference in pressure across its diaphragm, the deluge valve will open. This will result in a pressure drop in the main line and the spray pump will start automatically when Commercial department comprises of the pressure drops below 8 bars. Contactors are provided on the deluge valve for annunciation of fire and for deluge valve open Stores Logistics annunciation in the panel. The deluge valves can also be operated from a local control panel. Logistics, Purchase & Stores. Commercial Pedestrian Walkway Project Our main focus, according to the Vision statement comprises of 2 verticals across the significant Supply Chains as depicted below: Road accidents within the plant are serious safety concerns, with a lot of intersections occurring 1. Leveraging Technology between pedestrians and the vehicular movement. With over 1000 vehicles plying each day at a 2. Best Practices site of SIIL, a pro-active step to ensure safety of pedestrians was taken. Plans have been put in motion to build a separate pedestrian walkway by next year. As a temporary measure till the walkway is constructed, a MS pipe reflective coated hard barricading has been put across the Leveraging Technology major pedestrian walkway path at SIIL site. All employees have been instructed to walk within Supplier Relationship Management (SRM) is a tool that is being known to simplify the procurement process of any the walkway to prevent any major incidents from occurring. company. SIIL has implemented SRM 5.0 to have better collaboration with their business partners. SIIL deals with Sterlite around 110 vendors on SRM and is planning to utilize SRM in all of its transactions. “We believe a world class commercial organization can only be built with collaborative relationship with our 48 supply chain partners based on transparent and fair trade practices.” Vivek Savant, GM-Commercial, SIIL 49 Best Practices Best Practices SIIL has always been focused on vendor inputs in the form of feedback in surveys and help portals like V help. SIIL periodically conducts Leveraging technology for environmental commitment the exercise of Vendor surveys and is always attentive toward portals like Vhelp and tutenders. Vendors can freely give their inputs, which GPS installation in Acid tankers are given due consideration. SIIL has installed GPS in all of its captive acid tankers and this has helped in close monitoring and tracking of acid tankers as well as arresting any possibility of pilferage of material. This has also Production ensured the safe transportation of acid from our factory premises till our customer's gate. This Vendors SIIL (Internal Users) initiative emphasises our commitment towards direct stake-holders interest as well as our environmental commitments. Outbound Link Inbound Link We are developing green supply chain management projects which will include promoting energy efficiency as a component for suppliers. Sustainable Logistics At SIIL, we believe that task of the logistics team is not just about increasing efficiency and cost optimization, but also to nurture closer and stronger relationships. This not only gives us greater control over costs and operations, but also ensures safety. We believe in the miracle of partnerships and encourage sustainable development of the businesses of our partners. We have made sure that material human rights issues are a part of supplier contract Developing strategic partners A collaborative process conditions. The following initiatives demonstrate our commitment to building stronger and sustainable partnerships. SIIL strives to develop strategic relationships with quality suppliers , which can render us the following mutual benefits: l Improvement in service levels l Increase in business volumes for qualified business partners Sealing safety with technology l Technological innovation and improvement Tamper proof plastic seals for Copper Concentrate tippers l Mitigated risk of stock outs l Optimization of inventory in the supply chain SIIL is now using Tamper Proof plastic seals for Copper Concentrate tippers to ensure safe and secured movement of materials. These seals are tied on to tipper bodies and this helps in avoiding malpractices such as swapping of trucks leading to loss of material. The plastic seals are affixed to the tipper body at the port immediately after loading and the same is monitored at 4 different places while the tipper is enroute V-Meet to SIIL. At SIIL, the seals are first verified and only then broken and disposed-of. One of the key initiatives to develop strategic partnerships is Vendor meets (VSS Valves for Sulphuric Acid Tankers Seals for Phosphoric Acid Tankers meet), which are forums where business partners can interact with SIIL's management and discuss avenues leading to business excellence. The key SS valves were introduced in Sulphuric Acid Tankers to Plastic seals were introduced for the Phosphoric Acid Tankers objectives of these meets are: control the leakage, resulting in an increase in the life of the as well as the conveyor system to move tankers outstation. By valve. Rust formation are eliminated by the SS Valves, sealing the pilot samples in the tankers, the pilferage of the l Rapport Building with the valves also being safe for the environment. materials was controlled. l Showcasing futuristic requirements of Sterlite l Receiving vendors' feedback Partnering with safety l Encouraging entrepreneurial ventures in upstream and downstream projects l Facilitating idea generation from vendors Drivers Training program by M/s. TATA Motors The V-meet held this year in Chennai on August 2009 was a grand success, with over 200 of our business partners attending the same. We successfully conducted a Drivers’ Training Program through Tata Motors on 8th August, 2009 for a batch of 24 drivers from different fields of operations like acid tankers, tippers, trailers etc. The drivers received training from Mr. B. S Ramani Senior Manager, Tata Motors, who focused on key areas of Automobile Focus on Internal Customers Basics, Fuel Conservation and Safety during driving. After the SIIL conducts internal customer satisfaction survey, to better understand the needs of internal customers, completion of training all drivers were issued certificates of participation by the GM Commercial and the AGM Logistics. i.e. the production department, to cater to their requirements, thus emphasizing on adding value across the supply chain and eventually to the end customer. 50 51 AIDS Awareness Program An “AIDS Awareness Program” was organized in partnership Copper The Miracle with an NGO, Chitaranjandas Organization for Women (COW) at of Recognition our Truck Parking Yard on 16th December, 2009. Tuticorin RTO Inspector Mr. Chandra Sekar was the Chief Guest of the program. Around 150 drivers and cleaners participated in the program. Safety Training Program for Hopper Operation & Maintenance Labors A Awards are a way in which we get recognized for our sustainable practices across domains. This in turn encourages us to raise our internal We conducted “Safety Training Program for Hopper Operation benchmarks and aim for even higher goals. & Maintenance Labors” on 23rd December, 2009 for 30 people. The area of focus during the training was mainly about the safety practices for Hopper Operations and safety representatives from our HSE Department as the instructors. General Health Camp at Tuticorin Port A Health Camp was conducted as part of the 'Safety Week Celebration' organized by the Port for 125 truck drivers, cleaners and Port labour force Around 150 people were treated in the camp. . IMC Ramakrishna Bajaj National Quality Jamsetji Tata National virtual academy fellowship award Outstanding Achievement Trophy, 2009. for two women in our CSR group Asia Manufacturing Excellence Award (AMEA) Corporate Platinum Award Road Safety Week International Star Award for Quality by Business Initiative Directions (BID) – Gold category, received in October 2009 We observed Road Safety week by organizing a free eye and general health camp for truck drivers and cleaners on 7th January, 2010. Mr Subbiah, Inspector of Police (Traffic) participated as Excellence in Operations from Tuticorin Port Trust Handling highest volume of exports chief guest in the presence of Mr Thangavel, Regional Transport & highest volume of imports (excluding T. Coal) Officer. Sterlite sponsored and presented headlight stickers and awareness stickers to the Regional Transport Officer. Excellence Award for 5S in the Quality Convention 52 Other • Excellence Award by Institute of Economic Studies (IES), 2009 Awards • Bhageeratha Award 2009 for innovative treatment process-Sodium sulphide treatment plant from IIChE, Mumbai 53 54 55 Glossary GRI Index AIDS Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome kmt Kilo Metric Tonne Standard Disclosures B.Sc. Bachelors in Science KWh kilo Watt hour CCR Continuous Cathode Rod LBMA London Bullion Market Association GRI Description of the Std. Disclosure Page nos GRI Description of the Std. Disclosure Page nos CDM Clean Development Mechanism LCA Life Cycle Assessment CEO Chief Executive Officer LME London Metal Exchange 1 Strategy & Analysis 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees CFO Chief Finance Officer LPG Liquified Petroleum Gas 1.1 CEO message, COO message 1-3 to provide recommendations or direction 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and to the highest governance body 18, 20 CO2 Carbon Dioxide LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate opportunities 2, 3, 23 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members COO Chief Operating Officer NGO Non Governmental Organisation of the highest governance body, senior CPCB Central Pollution Control Board NOX Oxides of Nitrogen 2 Organizational Profile managers, and executives 20 Cr/yr Crore per Year OHSAS 18001 International occupational health and safety 4.6 Processes in place for the highest DO Deoxidised management system specification 2.1 Name of the Organization 5, 7 governance body to ensure conflicts of ESP Dust Electrostatic Precipitator Dust P2O5 Phosphorous Pentoxide 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 7 interest are avoided 20 ETP Effluent Treatment Plant PF Provident Fund 2.3 Operational structure of the Organization 7 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications FOB Free On Board PMT COP Per Metric Tonne Cost of Production 2.4 Location of Organization’s headquarters 7 and expertise of the members of the highest GJ/MT Giga Joules per Metric Tonne RBNQA RamKrishna Bajaj National Quality Award 2.5 Number of countries where the Organization 7 governance body for guiding the RO Reverse Osmosis operates organization’s strategy on economic, GLP Global Leadership Programme environmental, and social topics 32 GPS Global Positioning System RTO Road Transport Office 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 2.7 Markets served 12 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission H2SO4 Sulphuric Acid SAARC South Asian Association For Regional or values, codes of conduct, and principles Cooperation 2.8 Scale of the reporting Organization 16 HIV Human Immunodeficiency Virus relevant to economic, environmental, and SAP System Analysis and Program development 2.9 Significant changes during the No Changes IEX Indian Energy Exchange social performance and the status of their SBU Strategic Business Unit reporting period implementation 6 IIChE Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 59 SEBI Securities Exchange Bureau of India 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body ISO International Organization for Standardization SHG Self-Help Group for overseeing the Organization’s identification ISO 14001 defines terms of fundamental concepts related 3 Report Parameters and management of economic, environmental, to environmental management, published in the SO2 Sulphur Dioxide and social performance 20 ISO 14000 series of International Standards SOX Oxides of Sulphur 3.1 Reporting period 16 4. 10 Processes for evaluating the highest ISO 17025 the main standard used by testing and SPM Suspended Particulate Matter 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 16 governance body’s own performance, calibration laboratories TPA Tons per annum 3.3 Reporting cycle 16 particularly with respect to economic, ISO 9001 International standards requirements for quality TPD Tons per day 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the 53 environmental, and social performance 37 management system TQM Total Quality Management report or its contents 4. 11 Explanation of whether and how the IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature UNEP United Nations Environment Programme 3.5 Process for defining report content 16 precautionary approach or principle is and Natural Resources 3.6 Boundary of the report 16 USD United States Dollar addressed by the Organization 37 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary 4. 12 Externally developed economic, of the report 16 environmental, and social charters, GRI Application Level 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced principles, or other initiatives to which the Organization operations 16 subscribes or endorses 1 3.9 Data measurement techniques and 4. 13 Memberships & associations 12 The Sterlite Sustainable Development Report 2010, ‘Copper-The Miracle Metal’ is a ‘Third Party Checked' Application Level A+ Report. bases of calculation (Relevant explanations 4. 14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Three levels in this application level system are titled C, B, and A. Each level reflects a measure of the extent of application or coverage of have been provided in the individual sections) Organization 15 3. 10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 4. 15 Basis for identification and selection of the GRI Reporting Framework with A being the maximum. of information provided in earlier reports, stakeholders with whom to engage 15 Report and the reasons for such re-statement 39 C C+ B B+ A A+ 4. 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Application Level 3. 11 Significant changes from previous reporting including frequency of engagement by type periods in the scope, boundary, or Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for measurement methods applied in the report None and by stakeholder group 15 1.1 Level C plus: Level B 3. 12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 4. 17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 2.1 2.1 0 1.2 through stakeholder engagement 15, 16 Disclosu res OUTPUT 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.1 2 3.9, 3.13 Disclosures in the report 55 4.1 4.4 , 4.14 4.1 5 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 3.13 Assurance 57-58 Disclosures on Management Approach Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach for 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement Disclosures for each disclosed each Indicator Disclosure on Management Approach EC 21 G3 Managemen t Indicator Category Category Disclosure on Management Approach LA 31 4.1 Governance structure of the Organization 18 OUTPUT Approach 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest Disclosure on Management Approach HR 31 Disclosu res governance body is also an executive officer 18 Disclosure on Management Approach SO 24 4.3 State the number of members of the highest Disclosure on Management Approach EN 37 Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 and governance body that are independent Disclosure on Management Approach PR 37 G3 Performanc e Performance Indicators, Performance Indicators, at Sector Supplement* indicator Indicators & including at least one from least one from each of: with due regard to the and/or non-executive members 18 OUTPUT each of: social, economic, economic, environment, materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplemen t and environment. human rights, labor, society, a) reporting on the indicator or Performance Indi cators product responsibility. b) explaining the reason 54 for its omission. 57 Performance Indicators Coverage UNGC Page Coverage UNGC Page GRI Code F, N, P Principles GRI Code F, N, P Principles No. No. EC1 F 21, 22 LA1 F 31, 34 EC2 F 7-8 43 LA2 F 6 34 EC3 P 22 LA3 F 6 35 EC4 N None LA4 F 1, 3 No formal union Feedback Form for Sustainable Development Report 2009-10 EC5 F 6 34 LA5 F 3 35 EC6 F 22, 51 LA6 F 45 Please tick ( ) the most appropriate box. Poor Average Good V. Good Excellent EC7 F 6 35 LA7 F 45 1. Relevance to sustainability of information given in the report EC8 F 27, 29 LA8 F 32, 47 EC9 P 30 LA9 F 47 2. Completeness of the information EN1 F 7-10 38 LA10 F 36 3. Quality of the information EN2 F 7-10 38 LA11 P 36 4. Mode of presentation EN3 F 7-10 38 LA12 F 34 5. Your suggestions on improving our report EN4 F 7-10 38 LA13 F 1, 6 31 EN5 F 7-10 39 LA14 F 1, 6 32 EN6 F 7-10 39 HR1 F 1-6 None EN7 F 7-10 51 HR2 F 1-6 51 EN8 F 7-10 39 HR3 P 1-6 34 EN9 F 7-10 39 HR4 F 1-6 34, 35 EN10 F 7-10 39 HR5 P 1-6 34 EN11 F 7-10 40 HR6 F 1-6 35 EN12 F 7-10 40 HR7 F 1-6 35 EN13 F 7-10 40 HR8 P 1-6 36 EN14 F 7-10 40 HR9 N No Cases EN15 F 7-10 40 SO1 F 1 24-28 EN16 P 7-10 43 SO2 P 10 34 EN17 F 7-10 44 SO3 F 10 34 EN18 F 7-10 44 SO4 F 10 34 EN19 F 7-10 42 SO5 P 10 12 Name: Designation: EN20 F 7-10 40 SO6 N 10 None EN21 F 7-10 40 SO7 P 44 Organization: EN22 F 7-10 41 SO8 F 10 44 Contact Address: EN23 F 7-10 44 PR1 F 44 EN24 F 7-10 41 PR2 F 44 Tel: EN25 F 7-10 40 PR3 F 44 EN26 F 7-10 44 PR4 N None EN27 F 7-10 44 PR5 N 13 EN28 F 7-10 44 PR6 N No Such Incidents Sterlite sincerely thanks you for your time and comments. EN29 F 7-10 44 PR7 N None Please mail / email your feedback to: EN30 F 7-10 44, 45 PR8 N None PR9 N None Ms. A. Sumathi Mr. Lovish Ahuja Associate General Manager & Head HSE, Manager & Head Environment, Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. Note: F Fully covered. P Partially covered. N Not covered. SIPCOT Industrial Complex SIPCOT Industrial Complex Madurai Bye Pass Road, T.V.Puram P.O. Madurai Bye Pass Road, T.V.Puram P.O. 58 Tuticorin 628 002, Tamil Nadu. Tuticorin 628 002, Tamil Nadu. email id: a.sumathi@vedanta.co.in email id: lovish.ahuja@vedanta.co.in NOTES
