Corporate Social Responsibility 2011Report Contents 4 Bringing Jason Closer to You 5 Management Voices on CSR 6 The 10 Principles of UN Global Compact 7 Reflection of the 10 Principles in Corporate Values 8 Human Rights 9 Fair Labor Practices 12 Environment Protection 13 Anti-Corruption 14 Work-Life Balance 3 Bringing Jason Closer to You Founded in 1976, Jason Marine started off as a sole-proprietorship providing repair services for marine electronics equipment on board vessels. Since then, the Company has transformed into a leading provider of integrated solutions of communication, navigation and automation systems for the marine and offshore oil & gas industries. Sale of marine communication, navigation and automation systems We design, supply, integrate, install and commission a comprehensive range of internationally renowned manufacturers for marine communication, navigation and automation products like radar, gyrocompass, GPS, voyage data recorder, antenna, DP System. Provision of maintenance and radio survey We provide our customers with a wide range of services from operational and maintenance, to upgrading and repair services. Technical competence is of utmost importance in the any electronics industry. We also provide annual performance test of voyage data recorders as well as statutory radio survey for the various international classification societies and authorities such as ABS – American Bureau of Shipping, BV – Bureau Veritas, CCS – China Classification Society, DNV – Det Norske Veritas, GL – Germanischer Lloyd among many others. Provision of airtime services In line with our provision of comprehensive solutions for marine satellite communication needs, we also offer our customers airtime services. Our airtime services relate to the provision of bandwidth ‘airtime’ for the satellite communication. 4 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Management Voice on CSR “Our Responsibility towards a Better Society” “Jason as a company likes to see Corporate Social Responsibility become a way of life for all her people. Being a member of United Nations Global Compact, Jason is able to learn and share best practices among members where responsible corporate citizen, living on the values of caring for one another as fellow human being.” 5 The 10 Principles of United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 6 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Reflection of the 10 Principles in Jason Electronics Corporate Values Jason Electronics’ business foundation is guided by the its Corporate Values: Character of integrity and positive attitude; Competence to strive for excellence through innovation; Commitment on teamwork and pursuing the extra miles. Character Jason Electronics takes the considerations of ethical business practices earnestly. The company appraises the value of Integrity of her staff highly as business conducts are determined heavily by the character of its employees. Competence It is to the interest of the company to nurture our employees’ talents and skills to grow together with the company. We believe that the real meaning of an endeavor can only be realized when it is delivered with highest standard of excellence and innovation; and this is the foundation where our Corporate Social Responsibility is built upon. Commitment Jason Electronics is fully committed in delivering professional and ethical business conducts and safeguarding the occupational rights and safety of the employees. It is our strategic intent to be a sustainable business in the environment and enrich the community. 7 Human Rights It is our very first priority to ensure that we safeguard the human rights as stated in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights of every party that we deal with in the course of our business. Basic Human Rights must not crossed by any means, at all cost. As the most basic measure, Jason Electronics always ensure its compliances with local regulations, especially those pertaining to rights. We pursue the highest human rights reinforcement and other ethical considerations from the various countries where we operate, then we propagate the good practices around subsidiaries for collective benefits across our regional operations in Malaysia, China, Thailand, Indonesia, and Korea. Diversity & Discrimination With globalization taking place, skills and talents move around the world easily. A rich diversity of culture, race, language, age, and educational background is a common scene in today's economy. While this bring an abundance of human resources pool, such situation also opens an vulnerability for workplace discrimination. Every individuals deserves an equal career opportunity regardless of their personal attributes. Jason Electronics is very firm in exercising neutral corporate policies. Recruitment and career advancement are purely based on merits and performance, not on any subjective or personal judgment, stereotype or seniority in the company. Our employment mixture comprises of staff from 8 nationalities with various education background and age. We are aware the actual bottom-line victim of workplace discrimination is no other than the employer itself. 8 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Labor Practices Gender Equality In overall, Jason employment distribution has been quite stable. Changes of the employment structure are usually weighed around 1% 2% on any given category from one year to another. The male workers represent 67.1% of the company workforce. This number is about 14% higher compared with the ^ * male workers proportion in Overall (National) Service Sector. The gap is mainly caused by the nature of marine industry where we need to employ a substantial number of engineers, which majority of the marine engineers are comprised of male gender. Nonetheless, our fellow female coworkers are given equal career opportunity on the other aspects. They have taken some managerial positions, senior man^JEPL: Jason Electronics Pte Ltd agement and even Board of Directors. *Source: Report on Labour Force in Singapore (Service Industry), 2010, MOM Appreciating the Real Value of Senior Employee Senior or aging employee is often generally perceived to be more expensive to be retained and harder to be retrained, thus leaving them to a rather disadvantageous position at times. Somehow we have different perspective about this. Jason Electronics believes that the senior employees are able to contribute further, given their experiences and loyalty that they built up within the company. Presently the proportion our senior employees are still lower than the National level (8.2% compared to 17.1%), this is also due to the nature of our business where we need to have more fit field engineers aged below 45 years old. However, the company is in favor with the Ministry of Manpower’s encouragement to retain the retiring employees who are still willing to contribute to the economy through retraining and redesignation. So far we can see the results in the 2.5% proportional increase in senior employees from the previous year. 9 Welcome the Foreign Talent Currently the company is employing 51 foreigners (including Permanent Residence) from 7 nationalities. We value and retain our foreign talents thus there is no significant changes to the proportion of foreigners that we employed over the years. They comprises of 15.9% (excluding Permanent Residences) of the total employment, which complies within the quota specified of the Ministry of Manpower. Labor Union Our employees are not unionized even though the company never place any deterrents to the employees from forming it as we ensure that we our employees are well taken care of. From the past 30 years Jason Electronics has learnt that an open and trusting communication accompanied with fair employment policies replace the needs of Labor Union. Training & Development 4,197 Total Training Hours Comprises of Technical & General Training (excluding Safety Training) 69% Participation Rate 118 out of 170 staff benefited from the training National level average for the period is to 29%* 35.5 Hours per Trained Worker Equivalent to 4.4 days per trained worker National level average is 4.9 days per trained worker* Talent Retention Staff turnover rate is a critical indicator to assess staff satisfaction level whether we have created an engaging work atmosphere and culture for our staff. We took the National turnover rate as a benchmark to instill best practice in the industry. We have been improving the turnover rate over the period, and it even overperform the *Source: Report on Labour Force in Singapore (Service Industry), 2010, MOM benchmark for Q4 2010 and Q1 2011. 10 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Safety First Marine engineers are exposed to wide range of risks during their course of work. We have full control of creating a safe working environment in our workshop, but when these engineers are assigned to commission a system on the shipyard or open seas where the hazards are different and it is beyond our control. For instances, the engineers are required to climb over and jumped from one vessel to another while carrying a bulky luggage full of tools and spare parts. Moreover, the risks are augmented when they attending a job on the other hemisphere as they are susceptible to extreme weather, pirate attacks and civil disputes. Organizational Safety and Health (OSH) is a subject that is taken very seriously by the company. We always advocate the ‘Safety First’ mindset to our engineers as their safety is one of our highest priority. We also equip them with necessary risk assessment, safety equipments and safety training. The company does not hesitate to provide a thorough these safety training since it is to ensure their safety during the course of work. 416 Hours of Safety Training 54 Engineers benefited Workplace Incidents It is our common practice to get the engineer diagnosed further for any possible hidden complication and give them the necessary rest days to recover fully as the medical advice. More importantly, we will investigate the incident to analyze the root cause and implement the relevant preventive actions to avoid the same or similar incident from recurring again. 3-Years Statistics on Workplace Incident 2009 2010 2011 3-year average First Aid Case (FAC) 1 0 0 0.34 Lost Time Incident (LTI) 0 2 1 1 Restricted Work Case (RWC) 0 0 0 0 Medical Treatment Case (MTC) 0 0 0 0 Fatality Rate 0 0 0 0 Near miss / Dangerous Occurrence 0 0 0 0 Lost man-days 0 5 4 3 11 Environment Protection While each business have different nature of operations and impact on the environment, we believe that every single business has a role to play in supporting sustainable environment. For Jason Electronics case, where the main operations involve system integration and servicing (instead of manufacturing) the environmental conservation initiatives are more focused on paper efficiency and responsible disposal of toxic materials and scrap. Paper Efficiency Paper is undoubtedly an essential needs in offices. Nonetheless, we must remember that every time we print something we are cutting trees from our valuable forestry. The real threat against environment is not the rising population’s demand, but when ignorance breeds and environment taken for granted. In Jason Electronics we managed to reduced 30% of our office paper usage last year, from 1039 reams the previous year to 707 reams this year. One contributing factor of this reduction is credited to the implementation of our ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system which eliminates the needs of some physical documents. Recycling Office Paper Environmental challenges such as climate change, afforestation, or recycling requires heavy involvement from the people. People behavior, however, is largely influenced by their environment. Having understood the issue, the company is very keen to create a supportive green environment for the green initiative. Last year the company revamped its office paper recycling program by increasing the collection points threefold, from 5 to 15 points, and they are distributed to strategic locations in order make it more convenient for staff to recycle their office papers. The result is significant as expected, with amount of paper collected for recycling was increased tremendously, averagely about 335kg per quarter. 1-Year Statistics of New Office Paper Recycling Program Oct 2010 Dec 2010 Mar 2011 Jun 2011 Total 1 year Total Collection 360 400 300 ± 280* 1,340 kg (in kg) *report pending 12 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Anti-Corruption Jason Electronics holds integrity firmly in its corporate value. Doing the right things is always the first preferrence in our operations. Deviations of ethical conducts in our company will not be tolerated. We want our employees to work professionally and ethically, that is by putting the interest of customer, company, and other key stakeholders before their personal interests. A Virus called Corruption Bribery and corruption in a way is similar to virus. It travels far, spread fast and the consequences is grave. A corrupt action by a single company could affect the other companies along the value chain. In a long-fought battle against corruption, it is realized that the last hope is again placed on businesses to refuse to take part in it and be committed in clean conducts. Clean Business When we get new businesses, it is important for us to attained with hard work, quality services and good reputation, not through unfair practices. We strengthen our clean conducts through firm corporate conduct policies, internal control procedures, and regular internal audits. 13 Mercy Relief It is very fortunate that Jason Electronics has the chance to collaborate with Mercy Relief last year. Mercy Relief is a non-profit organization that provide support to areas that affected by natural disaster like the Qinghai Earthquake, Ketsana Typhoon in Southeast Asia, Haiti Earthquake, and Earthquake and Tsunami in Sendai, Japan for a recent example. In a typical scenario, communication infrastructure is usually destroyed in disaster affected area. With core competence in Communication technology, Jason Electronics provided the Thrane & Thrane Explorer700 satellite communication equipment to assist their overseas operations so that they can have better coordination between the support team and headquarter. Workplace Health Promotion Workplace Health Promotion (WHP) is a dedicated team whose main objective is to promote healthy lifestyle for Jason Electronics staff. Our initiatives ranged from regular health screening, health talks, healthy culinary workshops and workout sessions. We are intending to have one staff activity each month as part of continuous support for staff welfare. Last year itself we have arranged 14 activities year-round, and apart from it, we also setup and a Cholesterol Management Program to assist staff who are determined to reduce their cholesterol level. Our initiatives is awarded with Silver Singapore Health Award by Health Promotion Board (HPB) in 2010. With this, we are now even more motivated to enhance the welfare of our staff. Staff Feedback on WHP Benefits for the year 2010 I learn / try something new 79.3% I acquire new skills / knowledge 46.2% I have fun with my colleagues 68.3% I can exercise after work 41.4% I understand health matters better 18.6% I am motivated to maintain my health 24.8% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 14 Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd — CSR Report 2011 Paintball Challenge Evening Brisk Walking Culinary Demonstartion Annual Health Screening Ice Skating @ Kallang Kickboxing Tryout “As an organizer, the biggest returns for arranging these activities is knowing how my colleagues are benefited from the activities that organized by me. My personal favorite is the Healthy Culinary Workshop. I love it because it’s like a lunch gathering with colleagues where we cook and share the food together. I’d also like to share that I once joined the company’s Yoga trial sessions, which later on encourages me to continue my Yoga practice with my friends at the nearby Community Club until today.” -Ms. Joey Pang, Workplace Health Committee Member (inset on Aeroponic Farm Tour, first from left) 15 embracing a journey in CSR one step at a time with sincere & unwavering commitment towards better business society Jason Electronics (Pte) Ltd 194 Pandan Loop #06-05 PanTech Business Hub Singapore 128383 Tel: (+65) 6872 0211 Fax: (+65) 6872 1800 www.jason.com.sg
