texprego CSR Communication on Progress TEXPREGO GENERAL TRADING LLC Annual Communication on Progress (COP) Preface: We believe that promoting an understanding of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities among our stakeholders is one of our important social responsibilities. In selecting the themes and items for the report, we use objective indicators and our own process of materiality selection in order to produce a CSR report that addresses the concerns of various stakeholders. Executive Summary: CSR integrates marketplace, workplace, environment and community concerns with business operations in interaction with the stakeholders. TEXPREGO uses CSR to support sustainable development and to be a good corporate company and citizen as well. The very basis of texprego’s CSR policy is to respect the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the United Nation's conventions on Children's Rights and the elimination of all forms of discrimination against Women and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and to encourage and assist our suppliers, subcontractors and stakeholders to do the same. In business, texprego ́s commitment to CSR is demonstrated and continuously improved by emphasizing the importance of values, business ethics and good working conditions for sustainable growth. We develop and operate our business in accordance with best environmental friendly. Corporate Social Responsibility Policy (CSR): TEXPREGO supports sustainable development by promotes its CSR activities based on the conviction that all business activities must take CSR into consideration. Texprego is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate social responsibility in its business activities. To meet this commitment we will seek to respect the rule of law, adopt appropriate international standards, implement management systems, and will strive to: Business Ethics  Behave with honesty and integrity in all our activities and relationships with others.  Maintain internal controls adequate to guide and ensure standards are met. Human Rights  Identify and assess human rights risks within our sphere of influence and activities.  Provide direction and training to enable employees to positively address human rights within our sphere of influence and activities. Employees  Respect the rights and dignity of every employee and treat them fairly and without discrimination.  Encourage team working and the sharing of knowledge throughout the organization.  Recognize employees’ individual and team contribution and reward them appropriately. Suppliers  Seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with suppliers and subcontractors.  Encourage suppliers and subcontractors to abide by our standards.  Responsibility for compliance with texprego’s CSR policy and standards lies with the Managing Director, Managers and their staff. Environment:  In countries where environmental regulations are below Internationally Accepted Standards, manufacturers will be actively encourage to upgrade to the International Standards as well as customers requirement. Nafi Tower, 12th Floor, 53 Gulshan South Avenue, Circle – 1, Dhaka, Bangladesh texprego CSR Communication on Progress Community:  Respect the different cultures and rights of individuals and indigenous peoples in all countries in which we operate  Assist in the development of local community programs where we operate, in consultation with stakeholders. The CSR policy reflects senior management’s attitude towards integrity and high ethical values and is the ethical framework for the company’s activities. The objective of this policy is to provide the minimum standards for managing risks and opportunities relating to the Code of Conduct of corporate social responsibility by the company to support the achievement of our vision. Communication on Progress of Corporate Social Responsibility: Social Responsibility at Marketplace: Respecting all legislation in the territories in which TEXPREGO operating business. Meeting all applicable regulatory requirements and voluntarily signed charters and Code of Conduct to which we have committed ourselves. Social Responsibility at Workplace: Basing our activities on the foundations of the United Nation’s Universal Declaration on Human Rights and ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Also texprego encourages and assists suppliers, subcontractors and stakeholders to do the same. We place particular emphasis on The freedom of association and Collective Bargaining, The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour, The elimination of all forms of child labour, The elimination of all forms of discrimination and harassment or abuse and The protection of employee right to minimum wages and integrity, through;  Increasing CSR awareness and ensuring that suppliers, subcontractors and stakeholders have adequate competence to assess compliance risks and opportunities within their own work.  Creating and sustaining working conditions that promote a healthy and friendly work-­‐life in accordance with laws and employment agreements.  Developing and facilitate the health and safety workplace of all employees.  Evaluation, follow-­‐ups, monitoring and training to all suppliers and subcontractors. Social Responsibility for Environment: TEXPREGO operating and developing in readymade garments business according to best environmental praxis especially in the following areas:  Continuing improvement of the environmental management system (EMS).  Emphasis suppliers those production operations are environmental friendly.  Avoid hazardous chemicals and substance in readymade garments.  Evaluation, follow-­‐ups, monitoring and training to all suppliers and subcontractors. Corporate Responsibility in Community: TEXPREGO is committed to good corporate citizenship and to supporting charity and community initiatives, which are relevant to its business, employees, suppliers and stakeholders in territory. We provide financial support to individuals, groups and social organization in Bangladesh, such as:  Computer Education, English and Arabic Language Learning for visually impaired student through social organization.  Formal education for poor and orphan student by institute  Formal education to individuals This activity explains the parameters for this support and the way in which TEXPREGO is acting as corporate citizen in the community. Nafi Tower, 12th Floor, 53 Gulshan South Avenue, Circle – 1, Dhaka, Bangladesh
