Sustainability through partnerships 2|3 We believe that in the future, demand will increasingly shift towards solutions with low climate impact. Acting on climate change is therefore not only the right thing to do – it is also where the future business opportunities lie for Grundfos Carsten Bjerg, Group president and ceo We engage in partnerships, teaming up with other companies and organisations to find ways to a more sustainable world. “Sustainability through partnerships” is therefore the theme of the Grundfos sustainability report 2010 Carsten Bjerg, Group president and ceo Sustainability report 2010 4|5 Management statement .............................................................................................................. 6 Creating shared value..................................................................................................................... 8 PRODUCT Article: Reducing energy – moving the world.................................................................................... 12 Reporting: Sustainability means business opportunities..................................................................... 14 Sustainable future via managed innovation....................................................................... 14 Sustainable products.....................................................................................................................15 Sustainable product development strategy........................................................................ 16 Connecting with our customers................................................................................................17 Influencing global agendas on sustainability......................................................................20 Future focus areas.......................................................................................................................... 21 PEOPLE Article: Grundfos employees Bring Water2Life.................................................................................. 24 Reporting: Great people develop Grundfos................................................................................................ 26 Employee engagement................................................................................................................ 27 Satisfaction and motivation among Grundfos employees............................................28 Diversity drives creativity and innovation............................................................................29 Compliance with the Grundfos Code of Conduct..............................................................30 Future focus areas...........................................................................................................................31 PROCESS Article: We're taking a dose of our own medicine............................................................................. 34 Reporting: Excellent Management................................................................................................................ 36 Footprint strategy – no more CO2.............................................................................................37 Performance 2010.......................................................................................................................... 38 Sustainable buildings....................................................................................................................40 Community engagement .......................................................................................................... 41 Future focus areas.......................................................................................................................... 41 PURCHASE Article: Requirements to ethical behaviour positively received...................................................44 Reporting: Supplier Relationship Management .......................................................................................46 Further implementation of Supplier Code of Conduct.................................................... 47 Compliance and audits ................................................................................................................48 Reducing CO2 in the supply chain.............................................................................................49 Future focus areas..........................................................................................................................49 THE REPORT Grundfos about the report......................................................................................................... 50 Auditor’s report................................................................................................................................51 Grundfos in brief............................................................................................................................. 52 Subject index and read more..................................................................................................... 54 Grundfos performance summary.............................................................................................55 management statement S ustainability is the keyword when looking back at our change is just one part of a great Grundfos effort to obtain a highactivities and results for 2010. It is true that, over the past er degree of sustainability. The world needs to adopt an alternafew years, world attention has shifted from climate issues tive mindset, develop new technologies and new habits. And we to the financial crisis, for example. Yet to Grundfos, sustainability believe that sustainable development and financial growth can in all its aspects still has our undivided attention. And running a go hand in hand. The journey towards a sustainable development healthy and strong company during a massive financial crisis and will lead to a greater competitiveness, where money can be made experiencing a decline in turnover as a consequence have not by thinking and manufacturing responsibly. shaken our principle of making sustainability the all-important We have set ourselves the target of not emitting more CO2 objective in everything we do. We, too, suffered financial blows than we did in 2008. This is an ambitious target that means and we had to adapt and reorganise our company. This required that Grundfos – like the rest of the world – needs to reduce our a joint effort in all Group companies and by all employees. And it energy consumption and identify energy sources other than fosmeant that, by partnering with our customers, we were able to sil fuels. In 2010, we made a two per cent reduction in our CO2 develop solutions to relieve the most serious consequences. Our emissions compared with 2008, and we thus met our target. This customers acknowledged our efforts with increased satisfaction is satisfactory considering our considerable growth figures in and loyalty. We managed to turn decline into progress, and we 2010. In order to be able to keep our CO2 consumption below the have reason to be optimistic about the future. 2008 level, we need to make a shift to greener manufacturing. Our ambitions for the CO2 area reach further than our own 15% footprint. With our energy-efficient products we are able to help our customers reduce their CO2 emissions, and we must make our products even more efficient by offering lower energy consumption. Therefore, we will intensify our efforts to raise the level of awareness in the world around us, locally, regionally, nationally and globally. We will try to make our surroundings become part of our effort to think and act more responsibly today than we did increase in net turnover compared with 2009 yesterday. Sustainability through partnerships This raising of the awareness level will not only take place in rela5.2% tion to climate change, but also through a wide understanding of the importance of sustainability and responsibility. Our commitment is not open for discussion. Our employees, customers and business partners know that. But it is not possible for Grundfos to fight climate change on our own, for example, or to provide clean drinking water for all the world’s poor people. We and our products are clearly part of the solution, but in order to achieve of turnover invested in research, development the best and most sustainable effect, we find it is necessary to and launching new products in 2010 enter into a number of partnerships. This is why the theme for Grundfos’ 2010 Sustainability report is ”Sustainability through partnerships”. Read more about these partnerships in the articles within the report, for example Grundfos Brings Water2Life Further progress which incorporates a partnership with the Danish Red Cross and In 2010, Group net turnover amounted to 2,634 million euro our employees, and which provides clean drinking water to poor compared to 2,291 million euro in 2009, which is a 15 per cent people in Kenya. increase. Thus, our company is in reality debt free, and our equity ratio is better than ever. The new progress and our sound Grundfos Brings Water2Life financial position will be used to secure the basis for the future In order to give our employees an opportunity to make a difdevelopment of our company. This led to a significant strengthference and provide clean drinking water to the poor people of ening in research and technology developments, and we made the world, we launched the employee involvement programme an investment of 5.2 per cent of our 2010 turnover within these Grundfos Brings Water2Life in 2010. areas. This programme creates a link between our employees, our focus on sustainability, responsibility and our competences, and Grundfos’ effort for higher sustainability it helps create a stronger focus on sustainability among our Our view on climate change is based on science. When leading employees. With this programme, Grundfos also contributes scientists and experts from the UN’s IPPC state that climate towards meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals. change is man-induced, we believe it. The fight against climate Global Compact 6|7 Grundfos supports and has supported Global Compact since 2002. Support for Global Compact We are constantly setting new targets for our sustainability and Grundfos has been supporting the UN Global Compact since responsibility efforts. This is why we review our activities and 2002. Together with our core values, these 10 principles form the present them every year in our sustainability report, which you basis for our holistic approach to responsibility and sustainability. are holding in your hands. We encourage you to read on and In addition, Grundfos supports the ”Caring for Climate” initiative judge for yourself whether our intentions live up to the results. and accordingly, we have committed ourselves to specific set tarWe hope you will enjoy reading it! gets for the reduction of our CO2 emissions. Niels Due Jensen Carsten Bjerg Group Chairman Group President & CEO CREATING SHARED VALUE I n an environment characterised by rapid change, growth and for the surrounding society, including our employees, suppliers, globalisation, our Grundfos mission, vision and values provide customers, and the communities in which we operate. guidance for our behaviour and function as key decisionTo create shared value means thinking ahead while at the making tools, especially in terms of sustainability and responsibility. same time delivering strong short-term results. This means that Grundfos’ history of sustainability and responsibility dates we will choose sustainability and responsibility initiatives careback to the establishment of the company in 1945 and our orfully. Furthermore, we will focus our resources on areas in which ganisation and employees continue to live these values. Furtherwe can contribute the most while at the same time having a more, along with our commitment to the UN Global Compact, competitive advantage. In this way, we believe we can serve both our mission, vision and values provide the foundation for our purposes. approach to conducting business in a sustainable and responsible As a global company we acknowledge that our companies manner. face different challenges and issues related to sustainability and responsibility. Therefore, the model reflects our think global – act Our approach local approach, which makes it possible for our companies worldFundamentally, we believe that Grundfos and the societies in wide to adapt to local conditions. which we operate are interdependent. Successful companies need healthy societies, and healthy societies need successful The structure of the report companies. Therefore, our business decisions follow the principle The structure of the Sustainability Report 2010 is based on the of shared value – value that benefits both sides. 4 Ps PURCHASE, PROCESS, PEOPLE and PRODUCT in the GrundThe Grundfos shared value model illustrates the way in which fos shared value model. In order to emphasise Grundfos’ core Grundfos creates shared value while moving along the value competences as a solution-provider of sustainable products, this chain. The model comprises four main areas of value creation: report will begin with the last part of the shared value model, PURCHASE, PROCESS, PEOPLE and PRODUCT. This model helps us PRODUCT. to identify initiatives that increase the impact for Grundfos and VALUE FOR GRUNDFOS VALUE for grundfos VALUE for grundfos VALUE for grundfos Securing high-standard Lowering manufacturing Generating profit through Creating profit through suppliers and building and distribution costs a motivated, competent and a unique value proposition trustworthy relationships diverse workforce and a competitive edge; entering new and emerging markets Purchase process people product VALUE FOR SOCIETY VALUE FOR SOCIETY VALUE FOR SOCIETY VALUE FOR SOCIETY Increasing local labour Creating jobs and economic Creating worldwide job Creating economic standards and growth growth, improving living opportunities and increasing growth, improving living standards and minimising level of competence standards and minimising environmental impact environmental impact Purchase Process People Product Responsible supplier Grundfos is present To ensure our present Through our innovative management is a key with companies all over and future existence, approach to sustainable area at Grundfos. the world. we need an innovaproduct solutions, we In our understanding, In our understanding, Process tive, enthusiastic and skilled provide the world with customPurchase includes: includes: workforce to safeguard our ised, high-quality and sustain• All Grundfos procurement • Operations business success in the long run. able solutions, which minimise • Supplier management • Inbound and In our understanding, People our customer’s impact on the outbound logistics includes: environment and at the same • Properties and utilities • Leadership and collaboration time create a competitive edge • Community involvement • Competence development for Grundfos. In our understand• Occupational Health ing, Product includes: and Safety • All Grundfos products • Code of Conduct • Research & Development • Customers • Sales & Marketing • Service 8|9 An integral part of Environment and Group CSR departments is exclusively on sustainability and responsibility. They provide tools, facilitate new our business strategy initiatives, manage strategic projects, share best practice and monitor progress. In 2010, our focus on sustainability was further In order to create shared value, it is vital that Grundfos ensures strengthened with the employment of a Director of Sustainabilcompliance with local, national and international laws, rules and ity & CSR with direct reference to CEO & Group President Carsten regulations wherever we operate. In this context, it is necessary Bjerg. to adhere to international guidelines to which we have volunFurthermore, approx. 58 per cent of all Grundfos companies tarily committed ourselves, for example the UN Global Compact. have appointed a person who is in charge of sustainability and Some rules are legally binding, while others reflect good practice, responsibility. This includes almost all production companies, ethical standpoints and common values. The Grundfos Code of which constitute the majority of the Group based on number of Conduct reflects a combination of these and what we underemployees. The appointed people are mainly General Managers stand as good business practice. or employees within the Human Resources or Quality functions. Furthermore, we are convinced that, as a company, we must exceed laws and regulations and act responsibly in relation to the environment, employees, and local communities. This responsiAchievements 2010 bility is integrated into our business strategy. and future focus Sustainability First In 2010, focus was on two major sustainability efforts. First of all, Sustainability is a key concept in Grundfos and this term is underefforts have been made to contribute to our footprint strategy stood in its broadest sense embracing the threefold bottom line of never emitting more CO2 than in 2008. A variety of strategic of economic, social and environmental concerns. The focus on reduction initiatives has been launched resulting in a two per sustainability in Grundfos was strengthened with our Innovation cent CO2 reduction compared with 2008. This is a satisfying reIntent, which is our guiding star for the next 15-20 years. Innovsult when considering the rapid growth Grundfos experienced in ation Intent thus serves as our vision and the primary driver of 2010. the transformation that takes place at Grundfos and it defines Secondly, we have launched the new sustainability prothe areas in which we want to make a difference as a company. gramme, Grundfos Brings Water2Life, which combines Grundfos’ The aim of the Innovation Intent is to capitalise on opportuniproducts with employee involvement to create access to water in ties that are founded on major global challenges such as climate a sustainable way for some of the world’s poorest people. Thus, change, population growth, urbanisation and new technologies, the programme contributes to a green and social mindset across thus creating shared value. the entire organisation gathered around a common cause. Emanating from Innovation Intent and our foundation is “The Our objective for the future is to perform on our Group StratGrundfos Climate White Paper – our response to the climate chalegy and release the full potential of sharing a common direction lenge”, the purpose of which is to provide a direction for existing towards a sustainable Grundfos. In order to succeed with our and future climate-related initiatives. The Climate White Paper sustainability agenda, our ambition is to become a role model presents our position on climate change, offers our own vision regarding the way in which economic, social and environmental for sustainability, and illustrates how our values, corporate beconsiderations can be a premise not only for a sound operational haviour, products and new ideas can be expected to contribute set-up but also a vehicle for developing innovative, sustainable to a better environment and social prosperity. We also wish to and profitable solutions. motivate and inspire all our employees to address the climate challenge. In 2011 we will focus on: • Initiatives directly associated with the Climate White Paper Think global – act local • Our Footprint strategy targeting CO2 and water reductions In order to be able to successfully implement sustainability and • Engaging in dialogue with key influencers on the international responsibility, these concepts need to be embedded in the entire agenda on climate and water organisation. This means that our objectives are implemented • Launch the process of developing a sustainability strategy and applied across companies and units both globally and locally. document that clarifies our focus areas and future efforts A number of management service functions are in place to support our companies and units globally. The focus of the Group 10 | 11 Product With Grundfos’ expertise and customer orientation, Content Product we provide the world with sustainable product 12 Reducing energy ‒ moving the world solutions, while at the same time creating a 14 Sustainability means business competitive edge for our company. This is what we oppotunities mean by shared value. Our products create value 14 Sustainable future via for our customers by ensuring high quality and managed innovation 17 Connecting with our customers customised solutions. Furthermore, we consider our innovative products to be part of the solution to the urgent challenges the world is facing today. article T he climate is changing dramatically. Grundfos’ research shows that pumps mental and economic potential of The effects of pollution and exceshave a substantial impact on the environreplacing pumps. Therefore, Grundfos has sive energy consumption are seen ment, as they use up to 10 per cent of the made it a top priority to get sustainable and felt all over the world. According to world’s total electrical energy. pumps on the global energy agenda – now. the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Furthermore, the EuP Lot 11 Motors Change (IPCC), people and businesses are Final Report illustrates that most of the Partnerships drive the change the main causes of present and anticipumps that are currently installed are larIt is not possible for Grundfos alone to pated climate change. ger than necessary for the job they are to put pumps on the global energy agenda This challenge that the world is facing perform, and the majority of the motors and influence the legislators. We need to has caused companies, NGOs and individthat have been chosen to drive the pumps work together with different stakeholders uals to put climate change on the global are inefficient. In fact, 2/3 of all pumps and build relevant partnerships in order agenda. As a result, many good initiatives use up to 60 per cent more energy than is to raise awareness about the potential of have been presented to ensure a more necessary. high efficiency pump technology. sustainable world – but it is not enough. We must stand together to emphasise There is still an urgent need for ways to rethat this is not just a national or companyduce CO2 emissions easily, cost-effectively, SAVING energy at the specific issue. It is a global call to action. and immediately. point of usage is a very It is essential to enter into partnerships good way to get quick with politicians in order to appeal to legisHidden opportunities cuts on emissions lative bodies and initiate influential change Professor Will Steffen, “Saving energy at the point of usage is a Climate Institute Australia on both national and international level. very good way to get quick cuts on emisPolitical support and involvement will sions”, says Professor Will Steffen, Climate allow us to further strengthen our mesInstitute Australia. Pumps offer a great opsage and influence. For example, Grundfos portunity for reducing the world’s energy Consequently, energy-efficient pumps ofplayed a major role in the legislative proconsumption. A typical life cycle assessfer great potential for reducing the world’s cess for pump motor efficiency and the ment of a pump shows that 95-97 per cent energy consumption. But because pumps consequent layout of the EuP Directive for of the environmental impact is caused by are hidden in basements or production electric motors. This directive makes strinthe energy consumption related to the facilities and are normally not visible to the gent restrictions on the energy consumpuse of the pump. public eye, few people realise the environtion of electric motors in order to reduce Pumps have a substantial impact on the environment, 12 | 13 as they use up to 10 per cent of the world’s total electrical energy. Consequently, energyefficient pumps offer great potential for reducing the world’s energy consumption. Reducing Energy ‒ Moving the World electricity consumption and dependency initiated the “Meet the Energy Challenge Energy-efficient pumps will have a posion energy imports in the EU. Once the NOW” movement. The purpose is to tive effect on the environment as global directive has been fully implemented, it explain the potential efficiency benefits CO2 emissions will be reduced. However, it will help reduce the EU’s entire annual offered by pumps, both internally and exwill also generate financial savings for our electrical energy consumption by five per ternally, and to introduce our energy-efficustomers. To Grundfos, higher demand cent by 2020. cient solutions. For example, our Grundfos for energy-efficient pumps and motors Other important stakeholder groups Blueflux® motors and variable frequency will give us a competitive advantage as include installers, consultants and condrives for pumps minimise energy usage our products are efficient and intelligent, tractors. It is crucial that they realise how while ensuring top-of-the-line perforand we are in a position to offer the world pumps can bring potential savings to their mance and reliability. what it is asking for. customers, and thus drive their business. In Our technology and holistic way of addition, appealing to end customers will thinking always give us an edge in the www.grundfos.com/energy encourage them to demand efficient solumarket and keep us ahead of legislative tions every time. Businesses and indusrequirements. tries that take it upon themselves to rise up to the energy challenge and switch to Grundfos products create shared value more energy-efficient pumps have great opportunities for achieving CO2 reductions Grundfos is a leading pump manufacturer and savings. and with our products we have the ability It is estimated that if every business to help our customers reduce their CO2 were to switch to a high-efficiency pump emissions. Grundfos takes this responsisystem we could reduce global electricity bility very seriously, and we do our best to consumption by four per cent, which is act accordingly, developing quality pumps Global Compact comparable to the combined residential and minimising the environmental impact Grundfos supports the UN Global electricity consumption of one billion caused by using our products. Compact principles 8 and 9 by taking people. If we take advantage of pumps and the the initiative to promote greater hidden opportunities they present we will environmental responsibility and “Meet the Energy Challenge NOW” develop environmentally friendly create value for the environment, for sociproducts. Putting sustainability first, Grundfos has ety and for Grundfos, all at the same time. REporting Product W Sustainable future e understand PRODUCT as the full spectrum of Grundfos products and ideas, innovation measures, customer relations and sales/marketvia managed innovation ing activities, as well as the after-sales and partner support services. Innovation is not new in Grundfos. For many years we have In 2010, our main focus was on a continued effort to maintained and increased our intensive strategic focus on develop sustainable and innovative products and promote innovation. This was followed up by the even more radical the use of sustainable products. Furthermore, we focused Innovation Intent in 2008 . on connecting with our customers and understanding their Innovation Intent is our guiding star towards 2025, and needs while at the same time influencing the global agenda the goal is to put sustainability first, be there for a growing on sustainability. world and pioneer new technologies. As regards the latter, one of the strategic objectives is to ensure that one third of Grundfos’ 2025 turnover comes from products and services Sustainability means other than pumps – our core business to date. Based on this overall objective, three innovation platbusiness opportunities forms were established: Be there for Future Homes and Living in China Sustainability is at the very core of Grundfos’ product develExploit Zero-impact Commercial Buildings in USA opment, our innovation strategy, the needs we address and Rethink Decentralised Water Treatment the markets we serve. We help companies and people meet global sustainability Transforming Grundfos challenges by providing the technologies and technical capOur Innovation Intent is a primary driver for the future abilities and by engineering solutions that enable them to transformation of Grundfos and for the technologies on do so. We have the products when the customers are ready which our mainstream operations are based. It is critical for them or when national and international requirements that we develop and nurture an organisational environment demand them. that encompasses all the primary innovation paths – radical, Grundfos’ sustainability and responsibility objectives are evolutionary and incremental. not only a sign of the responsibility we assume in relation The Grundfos organisation must be in a position to to society. These objectives are also the basis for our future identify and select ideas, technologies and solutions that strategic and commercial success, as explained in the Grundhave significant potential to generate exceptional return on fos Climate White Paper published in 2009 and Innovation investment. This is why we will focus to an increasing extent Intent from 2008. on our business development capability, rather than nurture technical capability alone. Grundfos’ business areas Grundfos’ determined focus on high energy efficiency in Grundfos operates in many different markets and offers our pump products has greatly reduced their energy conpump solutions for a number of different purposes. sumption. This has been achieved by optimising hydraulic One important business area for Grundfos is buildings, flows, motor efficiency and control capabilities, and these and we focus on delivering all the types of pump solutions efforts are ongoing. As the cost effectiveness of such efthat are required. These solutions are mainly pumps for forts will inevitably begin to tail off, we need to extend our heating, air conditioning, fire protection, water supply and market advantage to other fields and other key parameters wastewater. They are used in large buildings such as hotels, to continue to provide customers and end users with vishospitals, shopping malls and apartment buildings and in ibly significant value. From our traditional base of focusing smaller buildings such as oneand two-family houses. mainly on the actual pumps, we now anticipate a future Another business area is water. Grundfos provides pump in which the ability to manage, monitor and process the solutions to water plants, wastewater plants and agriculpumped media will also be an essential part of the Grundfos ture, for example. The focus is mainly on water recovery and innovation landscape. distribution and wastewater treatment. Also, we focus on pump solutions for industrial customTargeting innovation efforts ers. We focus on a number of different industries; some are Grundfos has gathered much experience by planning and specific, such as the water industry, but we also focus on implementing ambitious innovation strategies focused on providing pump solutions for industries in general. a wide range of advanced technologies. This experience has given us a clear picture of both the advantages and pitfalls 14 | 15 that are involved in different approaches. The very high level Our most energy-efficient circulator is the ALPHA2 pump. of uncertainty that stems from addressing new technologies One of the reasons for the efficiency of this pump is the and new fields of business means that radical innovation AUTOADAPT function, which is an integral part of the pump provides very little greenfield growth in the early years. This and gives perfect comfort at the lowest possible level of is why we have to make sure that our most radical developenergy consumption. AUTOADAPT analyses the pump sysment and innovation work will also rub off on our core busitem and regulates the pump output according to specific ness and generate revenue flows that are viable in the long needs. In 2010, we reached a total number of 2.7 millions term. ALPHA units sold. The AUTOADAPT function has also been At the movement, we are engaging in an ongoing refineintegrated into other circulator pumps, and in 2010 the ment, fine-tuning and targeting of our innovation efforts. Comfort AUTO-ADAPT DHW Circulator was launched. It is Our objective is to make sure that these efforts make sigan intelligent hot water circulator pump, which can adapt to nificant contributions to our core business activities, while and memorise the users’ tapping patterns, and it is used in at the same time opening new doors and developing and oneand two-family houses. implementing important new technologies that will help Circulator pumps are also sold to Original Equipment ensure Grundfos’ long-term future. Manufacturers (OEM) .* In 2010, the UPM2/UPM GEO prodIn order to strengthen our focus on innovation, the Group uct was launched. It is a high-efficiency circulator pump, Senior Vice President for Business and Technology Developwhich is typically installed in gas boilers and which meets ment has been appointed as the fifth member of Grundfos the future EU efficiency demands. Group Management as of 1 January 2011. 2.7 In the future, we will be taking a more holistic and integrated approach to innovation. Grundfos’ innovation strategy work will therefore be more closely integrated into our business segments in order to strengthen revenue flows and accelerate the payback from our innovation efforts. Sustainable products millions ALPHA units sold Innovation and sustainability are key issues for our approach to product development. This approach takes a number of Monitors and controllers considerations into account such as providing our customers with greater value, helping them to meet their customAnother way of minimising energy consumption in a pump ers’ needs even better, enabling our customers to achieve is by monitoring and controlling the pump. Grundfos offers greater energy and resource efficiency and finally helping various solutions in terms of monitors and controllers. our customers plan and carry out their operations in a more In 2010, a new CR monitor was launched. It is a system responsible and sustainable manner. which monitors a pump’s efficiency and performance and In 2010, Grundfos engaged in many different projects in enables an early warning on efficiency loss. order to expand our portfolio of sustainable products, and Also, the Dedicated Control (DC) was launched in 2010. our focus continued to be on resource and energy consumpThis is an innovative pump controller with a unique built-in tion. We invested 5.2 per cent of our turnover in activities energy saving feature that continuously adapts the speed of related to researching, developing and launching new prodthe pump to the current conditions. This ensures that wasteucts. water is transported using the lowest possible amount of The following is a presentation of some of the products electrical energy. and solutions Grundfos offers. Circulators The market for circulators is very important for Grundfos, as we are the largest manufacturer of circulator pumps, covering approx. 50 per cent of the world market. Circulator pumps are usually used for circulating water in heating and * OEM is used to refer to a company that acquires a product cooling systems, and Grundfos offers many different prodor component and reuses or incorporates it into a new product ucts within this product family. with its own brand name. REporting Dosing pump During 2010, Infarm’s development work included a protoSmart Digital is Grundfos Alldos’ new dosing pump, which type of the SmellFighter concept and further analysis of revolutionised the market by also being able to measure test results. Full-scale prototype testing will continue in flow. Furthermore, the pump is flexible and can be used in a 2011. Sales during 2010 were hard hit by the downturn in number of applications. It is simple to use and maintain and agricultural investments as a consequence of the financial it can be remote-controlled. Therefore, the Smart Digital crisis, but Infarm retains an attractive order portfolio well helps the end user to limit and manage resource consumpinto 2011. tion and thereby limit the environmental impact. Grundfos Sensor BioBooster Less expensive and more versatile, and possibly multivariGrundfos BioBooster is a containerised wastewater treatable, digital sensors are essential for increasing the “intelliment system based on a Membrane Biological Reactor gence” of a wide range of systems, components and installa(MBR) that combines biological treatment with UF memtions. Such sensors enable companies to meet sustainability brane filtration. The result is a compact, modular and odourobjectives by addressing the energy efficiency and water free system that is used to treat wastewater to a level where efficiency of complete systems, instead of simply focusing the treated water can be reused for a number of technical on individual components. functions or discharged directly to the recipient. The sensors were put on the market in 2006 and they Significant technical development took place during 2010 have shown steady sales growth. During 2010, sales grew and will continue in 2011, aiming at increased commercial further, and there are now more than one million Grundfos activities from mid-2011. Several commercial trials and consensors in operation. The sensors will to an increasing extacts in both municipal, industrial and commercial building tent be integrated into Grundfos’ product portfolio, adding segments demonstrate significant market interest in the value to both products and customer solutions. overall BioBooster solution. LIFELINK Sustainable product Grundfos LIFELINK was set up to develop, sell and supply services for automatic water systems, primarily aimed at rural development strategy users in third-world countries. A business model has been developed which enables micropayments via mobile Grundfos’ product development strategy for the future banking. This ensures financial sustainability and a long focuses mainly on minimising energy footprints and water lifetime of the system alongside a fully transparent and footprints. corruption-free payment system. In terms of energy footprint, Grundfos makes it possible During 2010, the project was further accelerated and, at for our customers to manage their energy consumption and present, 12 sites are in operation in Kenya. Further growth reduce their CO2 emissions by providing energy-efficient is expected in 2011, when Grundfos LIFELINK will also set up products. As a member of the Europump organisation, activities in more countries in East Africa and Thailand. Grundfos has been a proponent of voluntary labelling the energy requirements of all circulator pumps, based on the new EuP Directive . The EuP Directive provides EU-wide rules 12 for improving the environmental performance of energyusing products (EuP) through eco-design. Several Grundfos pump types* will benefit from this and Grundfos is also developing a comprehensive range of pumps based on the ALPHA2 design, specifically to meet EuP Directive requirements. In terms of water footprint, Grundfos has gradually moved well beyond the traditional focus on hardware and lifelink sites operating in kenya in 2010 equipment. Instead, we are now focusing on identifying the basic problems and solutions in relation to the challenges with water, thus meeting customers’ real needs. Collection and recycling of water plays a key role in reInfarm ducing consumption of groundwater, which is becoming a Infarm produces and sells environmental systems that enscarce resource. This is why Grundfos is increasingly focusing able large pig and dairy farmers to considerably reduce ammonia and nitrogen emissions based on worldwide patents for acidification, odour prevention and slurry separation. * UPM2, UPM, Geo, Solar PM2, MAGNA GEO, etc. 16 | 17 on rainwater harvesting, optimised distribution in wateris to fully understand these needs and to offer the right works and on the reuse of water in buildings and industries. products, solutions and competences to meet them. A leading water treatment provider Greater reach for sustainable technologies Industrial water treatment represents a global market Grundfos is in a position where we can make an important amounting to approx. EUR 12 billion in 2010. However, this contribution to the global take-up of sustainable technolomarket is highly fragmented and is undergoing a process of gies. Grundfos can do this by supplying products and solurapid consolidation. With our current technology base and tions to markets where they have previously been unavaillimited resources, we will only be able to address a minor able, or where their use would not normally be considered. part of this global market for industrial water treatment Also, our offering can form an integral part of new applicaequipment. However, Grundfos has the ambition to become tions and technologies. a leading water treatment provider in the future. Therefore, Examples include pumps used in wind turbines and for we are in the process of identifying potential opportunities rainwater harvesting, solar heating in Germany, new sensor and building up the necessary skills and competences. Also platforms in China, geothermal heating in the US, solarwe have several “discovery and incubation” projects in the powered water supply systems and pumps for use in pipeline. refrigeration systems. Legislation and governmental subsidies together with Documenting the paybacks pricing on energy and water are the main reasons for a cusIn order to document that our products are sustainable, tomer to base his choice on energy efficiency. As in previous Grundfos began to develop a new categorisation system in years, Germany and Denmark are significant markets for 2010. The objective is to ensure that future Grundfos prodclimate-friendly solutions. ucts are designed with appropriate, documented sustainability profiles within four distinct categories: • Energy efficiency Grundfos in emerging markets • Material recycling Throughout 2010, we continued our strategy of bringing • Manufacturing footprint high-efficiency pump solutions to emerging markets. The • Social impact. Grundfos STAR region, which includes the Middle East, India, Turkey, South Africa, Brazil, Argentina, Egypt and Chile, is As from 2011, we will begin to use this sys tem to measure home to about 40 per cent of the world’s population. These and compare existing Grundfos products against concrete populations are characterised by having a relatively low averbaselines, setting out transparent benchmarks for future age age, and they have high expectations to both their living product ranges. standards and quality of life. These countries represent a rapidly growing market that accounts for approx. EUR 0.25 billion of annual sales, and they will play a major role in longBuilding on built-in intelligence term sustainability agendas. Grundfos believes that intelligent solutions represent the next Growth rates in these markets are notably better than stage of development in pump systems. Sensors will therefore in more well-established markets, and our 2010 turnover play a greater role in Grundfos products and systems. was only about seven per cent down on 2009, in spite of Sensors will be installed to monitor the flow of any medium. the continuing effects of the world economic crisis. In the This will provide data that the pump can use to tailor its opercourse of 2010, we opened local offices in Colombia, Ghana ating profile to the conditions in the system. This will lead to new and even more efficient ways to configure whole systems. and Peru, as well as a new regional office in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We are continuously launching AUTOADAPT versions of existing Our 2011 plans and budgets feature growth figures of 25Grundfos pumps fitted with “intelligence” that registers con30 per cent in the STAR region, based on substantial interest sumption patterns so that each pump can meet user needs in energy-efficient solutions. We expect to be able to meet more effectively. this demand as a result of our strategy of manufacturing in regional hub facilities, combined with an efficient supply chain that helps to keep both costs and environmental impacts down. Connecting with our customers Grundfos pump technologies make it possible to contribute China – our second home market to sustainable development through genuine partnerships China is on track to become the world’s largest energy based on our customers’ needs and requirements. Our goal market. At the same time, it has the world’s most serious REporting environmental problems. Energy efficiency, water scarcity, Grundfos pump audits are specifically designed to help pourbanisation and a fast-growing middle class all require tential customers avoid using more energy than necessary efficient pump solutions to meet these challenges, and to meet their needs by showing them how much energy China is on the brink of becoming the single largest global and emission equivalents they could save by installing pump market – and Grundfos’ second home market. In energy-efficient Grundfos equipment. We currently provide 2010, Grundfos considerably strengthened our position as a pump audits as a consultancy service, providing docuprovider of clean-tech solutions in China and increased our mented recommendations that help the customer decide total sales to CNY 1,543 million. To anchor ourselves firmly in between concrete options, based on full transparency. The China, Grundfos is present with three manufacturing plants, focus is on replacing, refurbishing or rethinking a company’s one sales company and one investment holding company. In systems. 2010, Grundfos strengthened its position in China as a proIn 2010, we developed the Grundfos pump audit concept vider of clean-tech solutions. still further and widened its scope to cover more countries. 2010 also saw the initial roll-out of the Energy Saving Tool 1,543 (EST) in Austria and Germany. This new quick-check tool evaluates pump performance by measuring electricity consumption and anticipated flow in order to give realistic estimates of the energy savings that could be made by changing to energy-efficient Grundfos alternatives. In 2011, we intend to intensify the central registration of the many pump audits carried out by Grundfos companies throughout the world. We also plan to roll out the Energy million CNY in total sales in China in 2010 Saving Tool for use throughout our sales organisation worldwide. In addition to a number of sustainability activities, Grundfos Training business partners is strongly involved in the so-called Green China initiative. In addition to pump audits, Grundfos promotes sustainable This overall concept focuses on influencing Chinese legislabehaviour by training our business partners. Approx. 68 per tion and regulation, promoting clean-tech solutions sourced cent of all Grundfos companies have engaged in business from Danish companies, and building and maintaining acpartner training in 2010. The overall purpose of such training cess to decisionmakers in the Chinese provinces. 2010 saw a is to raise the level of sustainability awareness among busimilestone being reached with the signing of a partnership ness partners and to illustrate the options that are available agreement between the Danish consortium represented by with Grundfos’ products. Training takes many forms – semthe Danish Embassy in China and the City of Zhangjiagang inars, workshops, pump and energy audits, covering topics in the Jiangsu Province on a joint eco-city development inion sustainable behaviour ranging from water consumption, tiative. energy efficiency, solar solutions and sustainability and responsibility. For example, Grundfos Argentina completed Cultivating a green mindset training in the reduction of energy consumption for 2,400 Sales growth is not enough for Grundfos to achieve our people throughout 2010. sustainability objectives. We are also working to change basic mindsets and organisational cultures among our Marketing platforms spread the word partners and customers to make it easier to introduce and Grundfos is raising awareness about sustainability via our roll out sustainable solutions. We also intend to build and marketing activities too. In 2010, the Grundfos “Meet the strengthen our contacts with end-users and to provide: Energy Challenge NOW” initiative was launched in five Euro• better awareness of the practical needs of end-users and pean countries . This marketing platform positions pumps customers and electric motors on the global climate agenda and • the best technology for the task encourages a broad spectrum of stakeholders to make the • local support shift to energy-efficient solutions immediately. • after-sales follow-up activities. 18 | 19 In 2011, this initiative will be extended even further. Focus same time reducing their environmental impact. From 2013 will be on establishing partnerships and communicating onwards, standard circulator pumps will be prohibited for the need to take action now, rather than considering future sale, and from 2015 onwards A-labelled pumps will be the solutions. The goal is to establish concrete cases to ”spread only choice available. the word”, showing decision makers in both private and In 2009, the European Commission passed a new directpublic sectors the tangible opportunities for reducing CO2 ive that lays down rules for improving the environmental emissions, saving money and establishing a more credible performance of energy-using products (EuP). These regulaand greener image. tions aim at reducing the electricity consumption in the The focus on Grundfos A-labelled circulator pumps many different electric motors that are used throughout continues in the “Powered by the Impossible” campaign. industry. Such motors account for 30-40 per cent of the A-labelled Grundfos ALPHA2 and MAGNA circulator pumps world’s electricity consumption, and the European Commisare sold to homeowners through wholesalers and installers. sion estimates that the new directive will result in a five per This marketing campaign aims to increase general awarecent reduction in European electricity consumption by 2020. ness about the advantages and benefits offered by these To help decisionmakers make an energy-efficient choice pumps and to partner with installers to sell efficient, reliable in regard to high-efficiency electrical motor technology deand sustainable alternatives to homeowners. In 2010, we signed specifically for pump installations, Grundfos has dereleased a new online information system that will enable veloped the Blueflux label. This label guarantees full docuour professional partners to provide even better support to mentation of a pump motor’s performance parameters. homeowners. It also guarantees that the equipment in question meets global legislative standards on motor efficiency and com1.1 plies with the forthcoming EuP electrical motor directive as well as the directive’s 2017 efficiency requirements. Customer Satisfaction Survey 2010 Grundfos needs clear, well-structured data that is statistically viable in order to determine the success of the measures we implement and to identify how and where we can make billion kWh energy saved per year since 2005 improvements. Therefore, we conduct biannual Grundfos Customer Satisfaction Surveys, as these can be used as a key indicator for patterns of customer loyalty. Participation Our A-pumps have been sold since 2005, and the total sale in these surveys is mandatory for all Grundfos sales compaof these pumps up to 31 December 2010 has led to energy nies. savings of 1.1 billion kWh a year, corresponding to 533,000 The results document that customer loyalty has imtons of CO2. These savings equal the annual electricity conproved from 78 to 82 during the 2008–2010 period. Loyalty sumption of 673,000 EU citizens. is the most important measure in terms of customers, and the increase in loyalty is an ongoing trend since 2000, which Guiding customers towards we are very pleased with. sustainable purchasing choices It is crucial that our customers and business partners experiCustomer loyalty ence a sufficient degree of transparency that will help them determine the level of sustainability offered by a product. 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 Grundfos has been actively involved in setting up the Loyalty 75 76 76 77 78 82 European energy labelling scheme for residential heating circulator pumps which was introduced in 2005. These energy labels rate efficiency on a scale from A to G – with A being the most efficient. This makes it easier for homeowners throughout Europe to save money while at the REporting Other ways of communicating with customers compliance etc. Likewise, 2010 saw no legal actions relating In addition to the Customer Satisfaction Survey, several to marketing communication and no legal actions relating Grundfos companies report that they actively communicate to business. with their customers in order to understand their needs. Such communication mainly takes place at customer events, trade fairs and customer meetings. Influencing global agendas Also, customer screening gives an indication of focus areas in relation to sustainability and responsibility. Close to on sustainability one third of all Grundfos companies were screened on sustainability and responsibility issues in 2010. The primary Grundfos assumes responsibility as an active participant in focus was on environmental issues closely followed by the global debate on sustainable development. As a leading issues of labour rights, human rights and anti-corruption. technology company, Grundfos plays an important role as a solution provider of a wide range of environmentally reWarranty rate sponsible technologies. We therefore aim to use our expertCustomer satisfaction with Grundfos is also emphasised by ise to motivate politicians and impact the global agenda the low rate of products that were reported faulty within through media and participation in influential networks and the two-year warranty period. decision-making fora. Paving the way for solutions that are cleaner, more energy-efficient and water-efficient will bene0.48% fit both society in general and our particular business. Focusing where we can contribute the most We consider fighting climate change through pump efficiency to be the area where we can make one of the greatest contributions to sustainability as pumps account for 10 per cent of the world’s energy consumption. Consequently, Grundfos is products reported faulty in 2010 in a unique position to make a positive difference by making ourselves heard among decisionmakers. As part of these efThe warranty budget for 2010 was 0.50 per cent products forts, we played a major role in the European Commission’s to be reported faulty, yet with an actual number of 0.48 per EuP directive on electric motors, which will introduce efficent. Thus, our goal was achieved. The 2011 budget is 0.48 ciency standards from 2011. per cent. One challenge that is facing us now is to raise general awareness about the problem and especially about inNo fines for compliance fluencing decisionmakers to take responsibility and act Grundfos is committed to behaving responsibly and we promptly on energy efficiency. Many Grundfos companies would like our customers, suppliers and competitors to perthroughout the world are heavily involved in national and ceive us as being a fair, credible and trustworthy business local initiatives in these fields by engaging in close relationpartner. ships with local authorities and organisations. As regards compliance with laws and regulations, GrundThe World Business Council for Sustainable Development fos did not receive any significant fines in 2010 for non(WBCSD) is a leading forum for energy and climate issues. 20 | 21 In 2010, Grundfos stepped up our involvement in the responsibility by sharing our know-how and experience WBCSD and we are now working in focus areas dealing with with other member companies. energy efficiency in buildings, energy and climate, water and social development. These are fields in which Grundfos Influencing national and local agendas can make a difference by boosting awareness about the imIn addition to influencing the global agenda on sustainabilpact of energy-efficient pump solutions. ity, Grundfos also seeks to promote sustainable behaviour For example, Grundfos joined the WBCSD initiative and nationally and locally through various activities. Approx. 30 signed the “Manifesto on Energy Efficiency in Buildings”. As per cent of all Grundfos companies engage in public policy a result, we are now involved in developing guidelines in by attending seminars, conferences and fora of political diawhich energy efficiency related to sustainable pump solulogue. For example, senior employees at Grundfos Pumps tions will be an integral part of new global guidelines. For India are members of various trade bodies like the Confedmore information about sustainable buildings in Grundfos, eration of Indian Industries and Indian Green Building Counplease see p. 40. cil, where they attend seminars regularly and give talks on energy-efficient pumping, pump audits and sustainability. Water constraints, climate change and social development are inter-linked Water is increasingly recognised as a critical issue in sustainFuture focus areas able development, alongside energy. In 2010, we continued to work on helping people understand the full scope of the In the future, we will continue to focus on our customers’ water–energy–climate nexus. needs and develop sustainable products and solutions. Grundfos is involved in numerous water-related netFurthermore, we will increase our focus on innovation in works, research institutions and projects throughout the Grundfos by closely integrating innovation into our business world. One example is our involvement in the Stockholm segments and by living up to the goals that have been set in International Water Institute (SIWI), a policy institute that our Innovation Intent: seeks sustainable solutions to the world’s escalating water crisis. Investigate and reduce carbon emissions over the entire In 2010, Grundfos also joined the WBCSD working group life cycle of our products and services on Water, which is in line with our “Rethinking DecentralEncourage a green mindset ised Water Treatment” innovation platform. Influence the global agenda on sustainability. Climate change and related water stress also have severe consequences for food security in developing countries. Research shows that one-third of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) depend on issues related to water in order to be successful. In 2010, we continued our active involvement in the Social Development Focus Area in WBCSD. Grundfos also attended the United Nations’ Global Compact Business Leaders Summit in June 2010. As a signatory of the Global Compact, Grundfos supports and contributes to sustainable development and increasing business 22 | 23 People An innovative and enthusiastic workforce is essential Content People for our present and future existence. We therefore 24 Grundfos employees Bring Water2Life need to recruit and retain the best and the brightest. 26 Great people develop Grundfos We believe that this can be done by creating a great 27 Employee engagement place to work, providing all Grundfos employees with 30 Compliance with the opportunities for professional and personal developGrundfos Code of Conduct ment. As a global company, we create job opportunities all over the world and we contribute to increasing the level of competences in the communities where we are present. This is shared value. GRUNDFOS article RUNDFOS EMPLOYEES BRING S WATER 2 LIFE MEN GØR VI EN FORSKEL L ife has changed in the rural village products with employee involvement to of Kambi ya Juu in Kenya since create access to water in a sustainable way Grundfos employees donated a for some of the world’s poorest people. water system through the global emThus, the programme meets several of our ployee programme – Grundfos Brings commitments in the Grundfos Climate Water2Life. White Paper – encouraging a green and Ann Akopi, 31 years old and mother of social mindset among our employees and three, used to fetch water in the nearby promoting innovative and sustainable brook. But the water was not clean, and products. especially the children often fell sick. Now, Grundfos employees can join the proeveryday life has changed for Ann and her gramme and make a difference in various Henriette Nygaard visits Ann Akopi at her home in 2,500 neighbours. Their village, Kambi ya ways – by giving monetary donations, by Kambi ya Juu, as part of the inauguration of the Juu, received its very own water project in communicating the programme at their first Water2Life project in October 2010. October 2010. workplace, or by initiating activities in order “Now we have safe drinking water. to raise money for Water2Life projects. The programme was launched on 1 June It's a great thing. Since the water system Employees all over the world have taken 2010 and by the end of the year, employees was installed, the children have not been many inspiring initiatives: for example, had donated more than 54,000 euro. The affected by disease”, she says on her way a tombola in Germany, a flea market in Grundfos Group contributes with a similar to the Grundfos LIFELINK water system China, a candy stand in Mexico, manuamount and with this, enough money has where she will tap the first 20 litres of facture and sale of personalised bottle been donated to finance four LIFELINK water that she and her family will use openers in Denmark and breakfast events water systems for water projects in Kenya. that day. in Dubai. All profits from these and many other Employee representative opens Change driven by Grundfos employees first water project events are donated to Water2Life. It is Grundfos employees around the The water system for the project in Kambi world who have made the water project in ya Juu is the very first donated by employKambi ya Juu a reality through the GrundNow we have ees through Water2Life. It was inaugurated safe drinking water. fos Brings Water2Life programme. It's a great thing. on 26 October 2010, less than six months Grundfos Brings Water2Life is a global Since the water after the programme was launched. and employee-driven sustainability prosystem was installed, Employee representative Henriette Ingegramme based on voluntary action by emthe children have mann Nygaard, Bookkeeping Assistant at not been affected ployees in more than 50 countries. by disease Grundfos A/S, travelled to Kambi ya Juu to Over the years, employees have often Ann Akopi, officially open the water project. Following citizen in the village of voiced an appeal when people around the Kambi ya Juu in Kenya a draw, she had won the honour to repreworld have been struck by disaster. With sent all of her Grundfos colleagues who this programme, the employees’ desire have contributed to the water project that to aid has been met. The programme is a have provided the 2,500 inhabitants of framework, which combines Grundfos’ Kambi ya Juu with access to safe water. 24 | 25 Ann Akopi fetching water at the newly installed Water2Life project in Kambi ya Juu. It is really exciting being here and seeing Thus, the partnership with the Red Cross enGrundfos Brings Water2Life is one way in with my own eyes how the inhabitants of the sures that the water projects are sustainable which Grundfos strives to make a difference village benefit from the Water2Life project. It in the long-term as regards technical, enand meet the MDG targets. is great to see that we have made a real difvironmental, economical and social factors. ference , Henriette Nygaard says. Together we can make a difference The first goal of Water2Life is to donate Grundfos Brings Water2Life was launched on UN Millennium and implement 10 water projects in small vil1 June 2010 and, from the very first day, the Development Goals lages in Kenya. project created shared value for Grundfos www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ and society at large. To many Grundfos emWith LIFELINK, Grundfos contributes to Sustainability through partnership ployees, the programme fosters motivation fulfilling the UN Millennium Developand core competences ment goals: and pride by giving them an opportunity Grundfos Brings Water2Life is based on a to aid people in need. And thanks to these unique partnership between Grundfos and . Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger committed Grundfos employees more Ken. Achieve universal, primary education the Danish Red Cross, which each provide yan people, just as Ann Akopi, will soon be . Promote gender equality and emcore competences and technology to the spared the long walk to dirty brooks and power women water projects. . Reduce child mortality instead enjoy access to safe water every day . Improve maternal health for many years to come. . Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other It is really exciting being here and seeing with diseases my own eyes how the . Ensure environmental sustainability inhabitants of the village . Develop global development partbenefit from the Water2Life nership project. It is great to see that we have made a real difference Water2Life contributes to global UN goals Henriette Nygaard, Bookkeeping Assistant at Grundfos Grundfos is committed to fulfil the United LIFELINK and Global Compact With LIFELINK, Grundfos supports the Nations’ Millennium Development Goals UN Global Compact principle 1 by sup(MDG) in which water plays a significant role. porting and respecting the protection Grundfos is responsible for installing the It is the targets of MDG to halve the amount of internationally proclaimed human solar-powered LIFELINK water systems, proof people without sustainable access to safe rights. LIFEKLINK creates access to safe viding technical training of the villagers, and water before 2015. drinking water, and water is a human maintaining the water systems on an onToday, one billion people around the right. going basis. The Danish Red Cross and their world have no access to safe water. As a conFurthermore, as user payments are local partner, the Kenya Red Cross Society, sequence, 200,000 people are dying every automatically collected, a LIFELINK apply their vast experience in community demonth – half of them are children under the system is corruption-free. In this way, velopment by overseeing the project impleage of five. Access to safe water is one of the Grundfos also supports UN Global Compact principle 10 by working mentation and training the villages in health, most important factors in creating sustainagainst corruption in Africa. hygiene and the importance of safe water. able development. REporting People W e understand PEOPLE as all activities related to To do this we need to keep a sustained focus on talent develthe strategic and general approach of managing opment and deployment. Significant milestones have been and developing Grundfos employees worldwide. met since we launched the talent management programme, This includes leadership, employee development, ensurthe Talent Engine, in 2009. We do, however, need to ensure ing that people have the right skills, efficient collaboration that our talent management approach is sustainable and among colleagues in a global company, a healthy and safe strongly anchored throughout the organisation. To do this working environment and compliance with our Grundfos we will constantly strengthen the existing talent manageCode of Conduct. ment approach, for example by adding new features to the In 2010, Grundfos employed 16,609 people and our Talent Engine. Activities performed during 2010 include the main focus was on strengthening talent management and following: developing training opportunities, thus offering an allencompassing learning platform. Furthermore, we focused 1. Review of the nomination process. A total of 80 people on improving the satisfaction and welfare among employwho are involved in the nomination process attended ees, fostering a more diverse workplace and advancing the web sessions to be ready to support the managers locally activities initiated to achieve internal compliance with the in e.g. executing strategic projects. Code of Conduct. 2. Revision of the Matchmaking process, matching talents and strategic assignments throughout our company. 35 strategic assignments have been posted, eight assignGreat people develop Grundfos ments have been completed, eight are currently in progress and 19 are still open. “Great people” is one of the overall strategic themes of the 3. Initiation of local and regional programmes to support Grundfos Group Strategy. The ambition is to provide Grundthe development of local talents. fos with the leadership, talent, competences and passion 4. A number of master classes for global talents on general that are needed to drive strategic change and to fulfil our topics of leadership. 106 ambitions for the future. Great people want great leaders Great leaders are the most important asset when developing great people, and we are in the process of strengthening our leadership capabilities at all levels throughout the organisation. We aim to develop a new kind of leadership characterised by leaders with great ability to connect with other people and to bring out the best in them. Leaders that talents appointed possess the skills to lead processes and projects in global in grundfos organisations based on networks and relations. And leaders, who can energise people to meet the future challenges in the global marketplace. Talent management in numbers in 2010 In order to be able to develop this new kind of leadership 31 Talent Centre assessors trained we have developed new leadership principles in 2010 that 9 Talent Centres completed express our expectations to great leaders at Grundfos. These 78 talents and 28 global talents appointed principles will be deployed during 2011. 18 global talents have changed positions within the organisation as a result of promotions Talent management We want to develop an organisational culture that attracts and grows talents. Also, a culture that constantly nurtures Talent Innovation Award 2010 a critical mass of top talented and passionate people, who In 2010, the Grundfos Talent Engine was awarded the are all engaged in driving strategic changes and developbest talent management programme in Europe by the ing the business. The ultimate goal of talent management “HR Leadership Alliance” organisation. The Talent Engine received the Talent Innovation Award at Grundfos is to bring forward and develop the best and at the Award ceremony in November 2010. brightest people in order to realise the strategic ambitions of www.hrleadershipalliance.com the company. 26 | 27 Growing people and organisations Employee Development Dialogue (EDD) There is a call for change throughout Grundfos. To ensure The Employee Development Dialogue (EDD) is the corthat our business has the right set of competences that nerstone of employee development at Grundfos. The are needed to realise the strategic ambitions, training of purpose of the EDD is to create a coherent and relevant framework for an open dialogue about the objectives of people at Grundfos is more important than ever. Grundfos’ Grundfos as well as the employee’s tasks, qualifications training academy, The Poul Due Jensen Academy (PDJA), is and motivation for doing his/her job, and for the responsible for offering training and learning to the entire employee’s development ambitions. organisation. 2010 was the first year when Grundfos employees were In 2010, we launched MyEDD, which is a database with offered an all-encompassing learning platform, i.e. a mix of tools to help and support both managers and employface-to-face courses, online sessions, tutorials etc. ees in the dialogue. The database was developed to The Poul Due Jensen Academy offers training within four facilitate the entire process, ensuring a constructive and learning tracks: forward-looking dialogue. • Serving customers, focusing on sales and customer service. During 2010, 77 per cent of white-collar workers and 71 per cent of blue-collar workers attended an EDD • Leading people, focusing on leadership capabilities. compared to 80 per cent white-collar workers and 76 • Growing talents, focusing on supporting the increased per cent blue-collar workers in 2009. It is Grundfos’ obfocus on talent management. jective that all employees attend an EDD every year, and • Effective delivery, which will be launched in 2011 with the 2010 result is not satisfactory. A focus area in the programmes to support the complete value chain. coming year will therefore be to increase the EDD rate. To support the strategic objective of being truly global, the Academy works in a formalised network with PDJA satellites, which are local/regional training centres certified by the Academy to run certain courses adapted to local conditions. Employee engagement As per December 2010 we have four certified PDJA satellites in Russia, China, India and North America, all sharing the With our ambitions formulated in the Innovation Intent, the same learning philosophies and methods. Grundfos Climate White Paper and Group Strategy, we wish In May 2010, the Academy started running face-to-face to motivate and inspire all our employees to help Grundfos courses again after the temporary break due to the financial take on the climate challenge. Furthermore, we want to foscrisis. 312 Grundfos employees participated in face-to-face ter a green mindset and promote a culture where employtraining in 2010. The participation in face-to-face training ees take responsibility for the world. This is done through is reflected in the number of participants attending online employee engagement and commitment on both local and 4 courses at the Academy, as the number of online particiglobal scale. pants decreased from 1,350 in 2009 to 795 in 2010. Decrease in training hours during 2010 In general, 2010 saw a decrease in the number of training hours at Grundfos. The number of training hours for bluecollar workers fell by 23 per cent compared to 2009, yet still resulting in more than 12.4 hours of training per worker LIFELINK systems donated by Grundfos during 2010. The number of training hours for white-collar employees in 2010 workers fell by four per cent compared to 2009, meaning that white-collar workers received almost 17 hours of training per worker during 2010. The decrease in training Grundfos Brings Water2Life is related to the aftermath of the financial crisis and to the In 2010 a new global initiative, the Grundfos Brings Watermomentary stop in face-to-face training, which, however, 2Life programme, was launched. Grundfos Brings Water2Life gained momentum during the latter part of 2010. is a global, employee-driven sustainability programme based on voluntary action of employees in more than 50 countries. REporting The programme was launched on 1 June 2010 and before the throughout the organisation compared to 2007. According end of the year, employees had donated 54,000 euro. The to the consultant company which conducted the survey Grundfos Group contributes with a similar amount and with and are specialists in employee engagement surveys, there this, enough money has been donated to finance four solarhas been a universal decline in satisfaction and motivation powered LIFELINK water systems for small villages in Kenya. across companies worldwide in the wake of the financial The programme contributes to our strategic ambition of crisis. Particularly, satisfaction with “top management”, “pay being truly global and encouraging a green mindset, while and conditions” and “development” dropped. contributing to our commitments in the Grundfos Climate The decline at Grundfos, from 73 to 68 in satisfaction and White Paper. Approx. 45 per cent of all Grundfos companies motivation and from 83 to 80 in loyalty, is in line with the have organised various activities in order to raise money general global labour market. Furthermore, the relative level for the Grundfos Brings Water2Life programme, e.g. raffles, is stable, meaning that Grundfos is still a company enjoying tombolas, candy stands and a number of different events. a high level of employee satisfaction and motivation according to international benchmarks. Employees contribute in times of crisis It is not only via Grundfos Brings Water2Life that Grundfos Employee motivation and satisfaction survey employees help to make a difference in the world. When the 2007 2010 *EEI 2010 In earthquake hit Haiti in January 2010, an idea fostered by an Satisfaction and 73 68 63 employee to make a donation led to a company-wide collecmotivation tion involving all Grundfos employees. Loyalty 83 80 69 More than 50,000 euro was collected by all Grundfos *European Employee Index includes 23 countries worldwide employees and the Grundfos Group doubled the amount, resulting in a donation of more that 100,000 euro. November 2010, 3,500 reports based on the results from 100,000 the survey were released to the managers who then communicated the results to the units and departments. Future action plans have been prepared locally in close dialogue between managers and employees. Furthermore, Group Management has defined several improvement projects at euro Donated to haiti by Grundfos corporate level. and the employees in 2010 Special reports have been prepared to measure the satisfaction and motivation among talents enrolled in the Talent Engine programme. The results among talents show a Satisfaction and motivation higher level of satisfaction and motivation compared to the employees in general. This underlines the fact that the talamong Grundfos employees ents recognise the special attention they are given especially as regards opportunities for development. Grundfos gives top priority to the health and safety of our employees. It is our ambition that all employees should Injuries and absence enjoy a high level of job satisfaction achieved through Grundfos gives top priority to the health and safety of emhaving interesting jobs that match their individual skills and ployees. In 2010, 10 out of 16 Grundfos branded production ambitions, opportunities for professional and personal decompanies where certified according to OHASA 18001, which velopment, and a good and inspiring working environment. focuses on health and safety management. In 2010, there was continuous focus on reducing the numEmployee motivation and satisfaction ber of work-related injuries and absence due to accidents. The Every other year the satisfaction, motivation and loyalty of target for 2010 was a 10 per cent reduction in accidents and a the employees are measured on a global level. Postponed 10 per cent reduction in absence hours compared with 2008 from 2009, the Employee Motivation Survey was launched for all Grundfos manufacturing companies. in 2010 and resulted in 7,891 electronic and 3,999 postal Overall, the number of accidents per million working hours answers. The response rate was 85 per cent of all Grundfos was 9.13 in 2010, which is 23 per cent lower than 2008. The employees covering 56 countries and 31 languages. number of lost working hours due to injuries per 1,000 working The survey shows that the financial crisis and the subhours was 1.07 in 2010, which is five per cent lower than 2008. sequent actions within Grundfos have resulted in a generGenerally, this is an acceptable development and result for ally reduced level of satisfaction, motivation and loyalty injuries and absence in 2010. 28 | 29 Diversity drives creativity Among others, the initiatives in 2010 were: • Preparation of a white paper on ”Diversity”, including and innovation women in management positions. • A graduate programme aiming at 50 per cent female Grundfos wants to build on diversity in an effort to create graduates – this goal was reached for 2010. the best conditions for business differentiation and innov• A new network, “The Stiletto Road”, has been established ation. By focusing on diversity and mobility, Grundfos will for women who would like to know about management develop people with a global mindset that supports crossand who consider to become a manager. organisational networking as a daily working practice. We • In December 2010, 20 female managers and 20 male manwill enable mobility of global talents and people in general agers attended a workshop offering their ideas to initiato support the growth of the business and our people. tives that could ensure more diversity in management. During 2010, Group Management approved a diversity • Grundfos signed the initiative launched by the Danish policy, which will now be implemented throughout the Ministry of Equality about a ”domino effect” to appoint organisation. The key elements of the diversity policy are to more women in boards of directors, including training increase the number of women in management and to inour own female managers so that they are able to take crease the number of non-Danes in group key positions. seats on boards of directors. Women in management One functional area in the Grundfos Group breaks from the Grundfos operates in a male-dominated industry and this is norm for gender distribution among managers, namely the reflected in the number of female managers that are found positions of financial managers. The percentage of female in Grundfos. In general, the number of managers, female as financial managers within the Group was approx. 36 per well as male, has increased throughout 2010. cent in 2010. Notably, in the Asian region, the number of feThe number of female managers has increased due to male finance managers is even higher, 52 per cent. It should a dedicated effort, which has also increased the number be noted that this is not a result of legislation or a quota of female department heads and directors. The number of scheme, but is due only to a general principle of always emfemale mangers in 2010 was 17.5 per cent compared to 17 per ploying the most competent person. cent in 2009. The goal is to have at least 25 per cent female managers at Grundfos by 2015. Employees on special terms Grundfos has initiated a number of initiatives to meet our Grundfos knows that a business cannot succeed in a society objective of having more women in management positions. that fails, and we therefore continued our long-standing commitment for inclusive labour market frameworks that ensure 17.5% a sound business environment, welfare and integration. female managers in grundfos in 2010 4% Employed on special terms in 2010 52% Since the foundation of Grundfos in 1945, one focus area has been diversity and hiring people on special terms. The first flex-workshop was introduced in Denmark in 1968, and today similar workshops can be found in several Grundfos companies, for example Grundfos Manufacturing in Hungary and Grundfos Pumps Ltd. in China. The goal is for at least three per cent of the workforce to be employed on female managers in special terms, for instance due to reduced working capacity, the Asian region in 2010 disability or long-term unemployment. In 2010, the target was reached with more than four per cent of the workforce employed on special terms. REporting In order to reduce social exclusion and strengthen social inOur Code of Conduct outlines the principles that guide people clusion in Denmark, Grundfos is represented in the National to act responsibly in terms of complying with laws and rules. Network of Business Leaders, consisting of 14 Danish top executives. Their companies – which employ more than a total of 100,000 people – are working actively to find new forms Focus in the Grundfos Code of Conduct of cooperation focused on social aspects of the workplace. The Grundfos Code of Conduct focuses on international Among other things, this includes acting as an advisory body laws and rules, human rights, labour rights, environment, political contributions, acceptable accounting, to the Danish Minister for Employment. Network members fair and lawful competition, entertainment and gifts, also participate in the public debate on sustainability and rebribery, commission, and other personal monetary sponsibility and inspire other employers to promote the social awards, conflict of interest and confidentiality. well-being of both employees and businesses in surrounding communities. Mobility Strengthened internal control In order to strengthen our efforts to improve mobility in In 2010, we continued our focus on internal control measures Grundfos, a Group Mobility Manager was hired in 2010. The in relation to Grundfos’ financial performance. Our Corporate goal for Grundfos is to become a front runner in dealing with Internal Control function (CIC) maintained its effort to implemobility. Important elements in the mobility strategy are ment and optimise our framework and concept for a uniform expatriation, cross-organisational projects, and the Grundfos internal control environment in all Grundfos companies. Graduate Programme, which will ensure a steady flow of talThis was achieved by training financial managers and nonented people in the global organisation. financial managers, implementing strategic projects such as a comprehensive Control Handbook covering our key financial processes and the SAP Governance, Risk and Compliance The Grundfos values monitoring system. In 2010, the first pilot test was performed During the last couple of years significant steps have by testing the SAP access control and segregation of duty been taken to develop Grundfos to become truly global, environment in the finance function of a selected Grundfos e.g. through global Research & Development activities, company. shared service centres, competence centres and global 56 collaboration networks. A very important aspect of the truly global ambition is to share the same values throughout the organisation to make certain that people share the same, strong sense of the Grundfos culture. In 2010, we carried out a project to revitalise the Grundfos values in line with the strategic objectives of growth and globalisation. As part of the preparation of the Group entities visited by revitalised values we performed a validation process, Corporate internal control in 2010 comprising almost 200 employees in 14 countries, who were involved in discussing the meaning of the value Compared with 34 visits in 2009, CIC increased the level of statements in workshops locally. The revitalised values activity in 2010 by visiting 56 Group entities with the purwill be rolled out during 2011. pose of reviewing and rating the internal control environment and submitting observations, risk descriptions and recommendations for improving the business processes and Compliance with the Grundfos controls. While two visits in 2009 were unannounced, seven visits were unannounced in 2010. Most of the visits in 2010 Code of Conduct were ”first-time visits”, however some companies were visited for the second time due to low ratings in 2009 and they Ethical and legal compliance is paramount in Grundfos. We all showed improvements which led to a higher maturity therefore continuously wish to strengthen our activities rating in 2010. Overall, further significant improvement is to ensure compliance with the Grundfos Code of Conduct, expected in 2011, where more companies will receive their which is signed by all Grundfos General Managers every year. second visit. 30| 31 In addition, three compliance workshops were held in 2010, In 2010, the committee received two reports, both were inattended by 23 managers and other key employees. vestigated by Corporate Internal Control, who found no violaIn 2010, the Grundfos Financial Shared Services Centre tion of the Grundfos Code of Conduct. (GSS) was established in Hungary with the purpose of serHuman rights and labour rights vicing 41 Grundfos companies during the next two years. The centre will undertake a number of financial and acGrundfos supports and respects the protection of intercounting tasks from the local companies. The CIC function nationally proclaimed human rights and the ILO Declaration contributed in structuring the control environment. GSS will on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. By signing start business in early 2011. the Grundfos Code of Conduct every year, all Grundfos comAll targets for 2010 were met and the most important panies commit to follow the principles that meet or exceed issues for 2011 will be to support the companies to achieve local legislation. Thus, all Grundfos companies refrain from further improvement of the local control environment and using forced labour or child labour and do not participate in to secure proper functioning of the controls in the GSS and discrimination or harassment. in the companies joining the GSS. Furthermore, focus will be In order to be continuously updated and be made aware of on the roll-out of the SAP Governance, Risk and Compliance any human rights concerns, most Grundfos companies report finance access control system and prepare for an extension of that they receive updates on changes to legislation from local the system to other functions such as procurement, logistics governments or that they make use of various monitoring and sales. systems. As part of hiring processes, all potential employees are Deployment of the Code of Conduct screened by the local Human Resource staff as part of the In order to enhance Grundfos employees’ ethical compepersonal interview to make sure that the applicant is hired tences, a process was initiated in 2010 to develop a useron the correct legal terms. In terms of wages, most Grundfos friendly guideline for the Grundfos Code of Conduct. The companies follow local laws which set a minimum standard guideline will be launched to all companies in 2011. wage, and most Grundfos companies pay more than the Most Grundfos companies report that they already have amount required by law. To ensure that the wages are fair, actively introduced the Grundfos Code of Conduct to their most companies use salary benchmarking reports. employees. Some companies ask all their managers or even Furthermore, Grundfos companies comply with national all their employees to sign the Code of Conduct, although it legislation concerning freedom of association and the right is only obligatory for Grundfos General Managers. Furtherto form or join labour unions. In countries with minimal tradmore, several companies inform employees about the Code ition for trade unions, companies have set up labour commitof Conduct at annual meetings and offer training to their tees and employee representatives to speak on behalf of the employees. Also, some companies have had the Code of Conemployees. duct translated into their local language to ensure that the Approx. 44 per cent of all Grundfos companies use some employees understand it. kind of security firm. Most of these activities are outsourced For example, Grundfos Greece has distributed small refand all companies confirm that their security staffs have been erence cards to all employees, which among other things trained on how to intervene and how to use as little authorinclude the name of the contact person for Code of Conductised support as necessary. related matters. Furthermore, at Group level, the Code of Conduct is supported by The Ethics Committee, an internal whistle-blowing body, where all Grundfos employees are Future focus areas invited to raise concerns about any internal wrongdoings. The Ethics Committee covers all aspects of the Code of Conduct. In the future, we will continue to focus on the development 2 of our people and organisation at large as this is crucial for our continued success. Grundfos’ strategic focus in terms of PEOPLE will therefore be on: Growing people and the organisation A truly global workplace Innovating leadership Talent management reports received by Ethics Committee and investigated by Corporate Internal control 32 | 33 Process Grundfos is present all over the world and we set high Content Process standards in all our companies. We're taking a dose of 34 We're taking a dose of our own medicine our own medicine by minimising our negative environ36 Excellent Management mental footprint, thus reducing our own costs and 38 Performance 2010 preserving the environment as the sound basis for our 41 Community engagement success as a business in the long run. Furthermore, we create economic growth for the communities in which we operate. This is done through our engagement with stakeholders and our support to improve the living conditions of local people. This is our social license to operate. article We’re taking a dose of our own medicine Grundfos has an important target in view: We must never emit more CO2 than we did in 2008. One way to achieve CO2 reductions is to check operations at our own factories. Since 2009, the factories in Bjerringbro alone have replaced some 800 pumps and motors, and the savings made have sparked an interest in speeding up the replacement process even more. Global Compact 34 | 35 Grundfos supports the UN Global Compact principle 8 by promoting environmental responsibility – both internally and externally. Reviews and replacements • More than half of the Grundfos companies have reviewed their pumps The energy-efficient circulator pump, ALPHA2, is one • A third of the companies plan to reof the pumps used in the replacement of pumps in place pumps the factories in Grundfos, creating great reductions • Just over a third have decided not to in the energy consumption. Replacing an old CR replace pumps pump, for example, with a new ALPHA2 pump led to an effect reduction from 460 W to only 5 W. M any pumps and motors are Some of the pumps have on the motto: If the energy consumption used at the world’s largest been functioning for can be reduced, it should be reduced. pump factory. Many of them many years without ”At present, the companies are busy any problems. After have worked really well for years and all, they are Grundfos examining and mapping their pumps and they have been left in place to do their products and they are motors, and we are getting lots of feedjob. Without causing any problems. Now, still running. But in back. It is still too early to say anything however, the old pumps and motors will many cases it is possible about the total potential offered by all to replace them with be replaced because large amounts of CO2 more energy-efficient companies. In Denmark, we believe that can be saved by doing so. Also, there is alternatives we will be able to reduce our electricity the financial benefit of changing to more Mogens Olesen, consumption for pumps and motors by energy-efficient motors as the pay-back Environment Coordinator at grundfos more than a third”, says Jesper Møller time is very often surprisingly short. Nielsen, Environmental Engineer of Group ”Some of the pumps have been funcEnvironment. tioning for many years without any probThe idea for this initiative comes from lems. After all, they are Grundfos products Grundfos’ own pump audits which have Increased focus and they are still running. But in many been offered to numerous customers of Since 2009, the factories in Bjerringbro cases it is possible to replace them with the Group for many years. Since 2009, this alone have replaced some 800 pumps more energy-efficient alternatives”, says concept has been applied to the approx. and motors, and the savings made have Mogens Olesen, Environment Coordinator 12,000 pumps and motors that are to sparked an interest in speeding up the responsible for examining and replacing be found in the Group’s Danish factories replacement process even more. pumps and motors. alone. ”We are very busy identifying the pumps that will lead to the greatest Targeted effort All companies engaged savings. So far, we have mainly been He says that, with some pumps, it is posIt goes without saying that not all pumps looking at pumps on the outer shell – that sible to reduce the energy consumption will be replaced, but the high numbers is in heating plants, and in hydraulics, venby as much as 73 per cent. ”Previously, we involved offer real prospects of future tilation and cooling plants. In some cases were inclined to replace the pumps only savings. we will replace the pumps on a one-towhen they were worn out. Now, we are At Group level it has been decided that one ratio – while in other cases it is possimaking a targeted effort to reduce CO2 every company all over the world will be ble to replace a pump with a significantly emissions and save electricity while at the required to find out whether there is a smaller, but more efficient pump”, says same time reducing costs”, he says. need to replace pumps and motors, based Mogens Olesen. REporting Process W e understand PROCESS as all the activities inThe assessment results in an evaluation of the company’s volved in operating and managing our company, performance, which can be benchmarked against other including production, logistics, properties and companies. Furthermore, the assessments also create a great utilities. Furthermore, PROCESS includes our presence in the opportunity for sharing best practice among all Grundfos’ local community – our social license to operate. companies. With more than 80 companies in more than 50 countries, More than 75 per cent of Grundfos companies use BusiGrundfos is present all over the world and has a great impact ness Excellence as a management tool, and at approx. 70 per on the environment and local communities. Grundfos’ objectcent of these companies one or more cross company assessive is to expand and to become a truly global company by ments have been conducted. 2025, employing 75,000 people and to increase our business activities significantly. Our company is growing and, conseProjects 2010 quently, so is the impact of our actions. 2010 was a transition year in terms of Business Excellence. Therefore, our main focus in 2010 was on our own footAmong other things, we tested an updated model of Business print, i.e. reducing the CO2 emissions in our companies and Excellence and developed new assessment concepts. Three setting targets for future reductions. In terms of managing different pilot projects were conducted in 2010: our company, 2010 saw the completion of a number of pilot Cross-company assessments based on an updated projects in order to test a new version of Business Excellence. Business Excellence model Value Chain Assessment Talent Management and Business Excellence Excellent Management Piloting the updated Business Excellence model Grundfos utilises Business Excellence as a holistic approach In 2009, the European Foundation for Quality Management to manage business performance. Business Excellence serves (EFQM) updated the Business Excellence model in order to as a useful framework for running our business in accordance increase focus on innovation, sustainability and risk managewith our mission, vision and values. The model is a manment. Grundfos was involved in this process, and we have deagement tool used to assess companies’ performance and cided to implement the changes. Three pilot cross-company manage improvements in relation to a set of nine criteria. assessments were therefore conducted in 2010 to test the Furthermore, the model includes focus on sustainability and updated version of the model. The pilot assessments were responsibility. conducted in Grundfos Canada, Grundfos Manufacturing Ltd. An assessment of a company – called a cross-company asUK and Grundfos Turkey. sessment – is conducted by a team of Grundfos employees The results from the three pilot cross-company assesswho are trained Business Excellence assessors. The assessors ments were considered a success as the updated model have different backgrounds and represent various Grundfos creates more value for the companies. Therefore, all future companies. Grundfos cross-company assessments will be based on the updated model. The goal for 2011 is to conduct 15 cross-company assessments. Business Excellence Model Enablers Results Leadership People Processes, People Results Key Results Products & Services Strategy Customer Results Partnership & Society Results Resources Learning, Creativity and Innovation 36 | 37 Value Chain Assessment Footprint strategy A new concept, Value Chain Assessment, was piloted in 2010. With this concept, the Business Excellence model is – no more CO2 used to evaluate the performance in a value chain. In this assessment, focus is on the links and interactions between the Future expansion in Grundfos will have great environmental numerous activities that form part of a value chain – logisimpact unless the required initiatives are taken to reduce our tics, operations, marketing, sales and service etc. This differs environmental footprint. If we continue to grow and nothfrom a cross-company assessment, where focus is on one ing is done, Grundfos will double its CO2 emissions within specific company. the next five to seven years. The pilot Value Chain Assessment was conducted on The Climate White Paper identifies five commitments, the Machining Industry segment, a Grundfos segment that and one of them is to take a dose of our own medicine. This focuses on machining processes in industry. The assesscommitment is directly linked with the Grundfos Footprint ment was based on the value chain in the segment; from Strategy which was launched in 2009, and which focuses on developing the business strategy, identifying and prioritising reducing Grundfos’ CO2 emissions and thereby some of our opportunities for the development of new products and negative impact on the environment. services to the fulfilment of orders on a daily basis. The assessment included site visits and interviews in Europe, Asia A systematic approach to climate initiatives and the USA. Based on the Innovation Intent and the Climate White The Value Chain Assessment also turned out to be a sucPaper, our Footprint strategy provides the framework for cess, as this kind of assessment can identify gaps and potena systematic approach to climate initiatives. Our ambition tial problems in a value chain. In future, similar assessments with the Footprint strategy is to never emit more CO2 than will be conducted in order to further develop the concept. we did in 2008. The strategy focuses on CO2 emissions caused by our own Talent Management and Business Excellence manufacturing processes, building operations and logistics, Another new initiative in 2010 was a pilot project that links including transport of goods and people between our own Business Excellence with the development of talents, i.e. operations as well as from and to suppliers and customers. employees who take part in the talent development proFurthermore, the Footprint strategy describes the methods gramme at Grundfos . The concept is that talents facilitate and tools that are required to meet the objectives: Business Excellence kick-start workshops with Grundfos Managing CO2 (energy monitoring and reduction) companies that have not yet been through a cross-company Introducing Green Lean assessment. The talents offer Business Excellence training to Identifying and implementing energy-saving projects the management team of the company, and this is a learnSecuring a greener energy supply ing-based assessment preparing the company for the future cross-company assessment. This project is two-dimensional Strategic initiatives as it develops the competences of the talents in Grundfos The long-term ambition is for Grundfos to become a CO2 and facilitates business development. neutral company, and a number of strategic initiatives were In 2010, kick-start workshops were held in Grundfos India launched in 2010 to help reach this goal. and Grundfos South Africa with good results, and another In cooperation with an external partner, Grundfos has workshop is planned for Grundfos Brazil in the beginning of launched a project to identify areas for energy reduction and 2011. responsible investments in CO2-reducing projects outside Grundfos. This project will result in a strategy for CO2 neuBusiness Excellence goals for 2011 tralisation with Grundfos Denmark as the scope. The goal for 2011 is to further implement the results and reAnother strategic initiative, Energy Value Stream Maplated impact from the cross-company assessments based on ping (e-VMS), was launched in 2010. The objective is to map the new model. This includes updating and training Business the energy consumption in any given manufacturing proExcellence assessors in the new model. cess, thus providing an overview of areas in which potential Furthermore, at Group level, we will continue to develop reductions and improvements can be made. This initiative our approach to Business Excellence. The goal is for Grundis still in the pilot phase and will be further developed and fos Management (headquarters) to become a role model in improved in 2011. terms of utilising Business Excellence, ensuring aligned and Also, a method for measuring transport suppliers’ CO2 successfully deployed processes and thereby driving excelemissions was tested in 2010. The method has not yet lence throughout the entire Group. been fully developed and will be further developed and improved in 2011. REporting Also, we are developing a model for energy assessment at Performance 2010 the production companies globally. The objective of the assessment is to identify potential energy reductions in a The Grundfos strategy clearly states that we put sustainsystematic way and to assess the “energy awareness” in the ability first and that we want to take a dose of our own companies. In 2010, one pilot assessment was conducted medicine. Therefore, there is great focus on reducing CO2 in the Grundfos-owned Peerless Pump Company in the US emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and and another pilot assessment was conducted in early 2011 hazardous waste. Every year, we set targets for selected in Grundfos Manufacturing Russia. Both pilot assessments focus areas. gave great knowledge and input to the further development of a model, which will be finalised in 2011. Finally, we will initiate global assessments in 2011. Environmental performance for all Grundfos companies in 2010 Difference Difference Reduction initiatives 2008 2009 2010 in % in % The growth in our manufacturing activities greatly influences our ability to reach our ambition in terms of CO2 ‒ to Total metric tonnes CO2 125,544 108,572 -13 % 122,690 -2 % never emit more CO2 than we did in 2008 and, in the long emissions run, to become CO2 neutral. Therefore, energy reduction initiatives at company level are essential to Grundfos. Total MWh In 2010, we identified the top 10 Grundfos production energy con344,815 300,156 -14 % 340,344 -1 % sumption companies with the highest environmental impact in terms of CO2 and energy consumption. These 10 companies are Total water 645,510 530,847 -18 % 670,612 4% responsible for approx. 84 per cent of Grundfos’ total CO2 usage m3 emissions. They therefore received extra attention during Total 2010 and they have implemented a variety of initiatives to hazardous reduce their CO2 emissions and energy consumption. waste rela100,549 121,526 21 %* 146,041 n/a* tive to 1 milEvery year in February the Future Now Award is granted lion working to the best CO2 reduction initiative internally in Grundfos. hours In 2010, the award was given to the Grundfos-owned DWT Holding in Italy. The company won the award for the idea The data reported in this table includes all Grundfos-owned companies and the base year is 2008. Data for transportation is not included in the of reusing waste heat from a compressor in a heating oven, above due to incomparable data in base year 2008. resulting in a 40,400 kg CO2 reduction. *) Special condition for these numbers, see “Hazardous waste” below. Furthermore, to support the companies in their effort to realise energy reductions, resources where made available CO2 by the Grundfos Group. All Grundfos production companies could therefore apply for extra resources to help realise The ambition of the Footprint Strategy is to never emit reduction initiatives. Many initiatives have been supported, more CO2 than we did in 2008. With a reduction of two per and just as many ideas have been identified for other comcent in CO2 emissions (122,690 metric tonnes in 2010 companies to adopt. Idea sharing is an important aspect in pared with 125,544 metric tonnes) this ambition was met. Grundfos’ quest to reduce energy consumption. Furthermore, 17 production companies had a reduction tar2% get of five per cent compared with 2008. These companies achieved a three per cent reduction in CO2 emissions in 2010 (99,373 metric tonnes in 2010 compared with 102,546 metric tonnes in 2008), and thus, the target was not met. In 2010, Grundfos companies experienced the highest manufacturing volume in Grundfos’ history, making it a great challenge to meet our ambitious goal of the Footprint strategy. However, we achieved a two per cent reduction reduction in CO2 compared with 2008 and thus managed to remain below the 2008 CO2 level, meaning that – to a certain extent – Grundfos was able to EHS Group audits isolate growth from CO2 emissions. We are proud to have A Group Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) audit made this result. tool was developed in 2008. The tool makes it possible to compare Grundfos companies’ EHS performance. The goal Energy for 2010 was to conduct five audits. However, these audits In terms of energy consumption in 2010, two targets where were postponed as we are currently testing the possibility to set for 17 of Grundfos’ production companies. The first make the EHS audit part of the energy assessment model. target was a five per cent reduction in fossil-based energy 38| 39 while the second target was a reduction in total energy conFirst of all, as in 2010, 2011 targets have been set for the 17 sumption compared with 2008. With a three percent reduclargest Grundfos production companies, as they are respontion in energy (270,599 MWh in 2010 compared with 279,957 sible for most of Grundfos’ environmental impact. Secondly, MWh in 2008) and a five per cent reduction in fossil-based no overall and general target was set for these 17 companies, energy (262,412 MWh in 2010 compared with 278,341 MWh rather company-specific targets in absolute numbers. in 2008) both targets were met. Furthermore, the total These company-specific targets are based on target letenergy consumption for all Grundfos companies in 2010 was ters from previous years, indicating a 10 per cent reduction reduced by one per cent (340,344 MWh in 2010 compared by in 2011 compared with 2008. Also, they are based on the 344,815 MWh in 2008). specific company’s expected performance and they take The high manufacturing volume in 2010 also affected the growth and CO2 reductions into account. energy consumption in the Grundfos companies, and we Reduction targets have not been set for the remaining therefore consider a one per cent reduction satisfactory. production companies. However, their target is to remain under the 2008 level in terms of CO2 emissions. 4% As our focus is on the production companies, no targets have been set for our sales companies in 2011 in terms of CO2 emissions, energy consumption, water consumption and hazardous waste. The sales companies will handle energy and water reduction initiatives through their work with “Sustainable buildings” (p. 40). increase in water consumption Initiatives for water consumption and 2011 target in 2010 compared with 2008 Grundfos believes that one of the most significant effects of climate change can be found in relation to water. Grundfos agrees with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Water (IPCC) and we believe that water, its availability and quality As the focus for 2010 was mainly on launching CO2 reducwill experience growing pressure as climate change will make tion initiatives, no target was set for water consumption for its ever increasing impact on society and the environment. 2010. However, with a four per cent increase in water conGrundfos companies are located in different parts of the sumption (670,612 m3) we note that our water consumption world, and therefore, the amount of water they use, their in 2010 was higher than in 2008. Water is a local resource, access to water and water balance in their local commuand it is therefore not possible to determine the impact of nities differ from company to company. As a consequence, generally higher water consumption. we want to investigate and identify the locations in which Grundfos experienced very large manufacturing volumes Grundfos needs to be aware of water consumption in order in 2010, which explains the increase. to avoid contributing to water stress. In 2011 we will develop a guideline on how to map the water footprint and we plan Hazardous waste to initiate a Private-Public-Partnership project to define For 17 production companies the target for hazardous waste mechanisms to ensure water balance. for 2010 was a 10 per cent reduction relative to working Furthermore, a 50 per cent reduction of domestic water hours compared to 2008. The amount reported was 230,109 used for irrigation is the target set for 2011. This target has kg/million working hours. However, this cannot be combeen set for the 17 largest Grundfos companies, as is the pared to the amount reported in 2008 (156,089 kg/million case with the targets for CO2 emission, energy consumption working hours), and we therefore cannot conclude whether and hazardous waste. the target was met or not. The reason is that, in 2010, we engaged in more comprehensive reporting of hazardous ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 waste than our base year 2008, meaning that more types In order to manage our impact on the environment, it is of hazardous waste were included in the reporting. We are a basic requirement that all Grundfos branded produccurrently working on setting a new baseline for hazardous tion companies with more than 100 employees have waste. implemented environmental management systems The total amount of reported hazardous waste in 2010 according to ISO 14001, and OHSAS 18001 as regards for all Grundfos companies was 146,041 kg/million working health and safety management systems. The companies hours. have to be certified within three years of acquisition or production start. Today, 11 out of 16 Grundfos branded companies are certified according to ISO 14001, and 10 2011 targets for CO2, energy consumption and hazardous waste out of 16 are certified according to OHSAS 18001. The certification of the remaining companies will be initiA new process for setting targets for CO2 emissions, energy ated as soon as possible. consumption and hazardous waste was launched in 2010. REporting Sustainable buildings Energy use in Grundfos sales companies in 2010 Sales Sales Consumption companies companies On a global scale, buildings account for more than 40 per kWh/m² without with cent of the world’s total energy consumption and 24 per assembly assembly cent of the world’s CO2 emissions. Therefore, there is great Class 1 < 150 17 13 potential for reducing global CO2 emissions by focusing on Building Class 2 150 < x < 210 7 3 making buildings sustainable. Code Class 3 >210 11 4 It is Grundfos’ ambition to be a front runner within the area of energy-efficient and cost-efficient buildings. We are Total 35 20 taking a dose of our own medicine by focusing on sustain55 per cent of the sales companies are categorised as buildability when constructing new buildings and renovating ing code class 1 according to energy consumption. It is a satexisting ones. This is described in our policy for sustainable isfying improvement compared to 2009 where 50 per cent buildings, which was launched in 2008. Furthermore, targets were building code class 1. for sustainable buildings have been set and a building code defined in order to classify the level of sustainability in our Water consumption in Grundfos sales companies in 2010 buildings. Sales Sales Consumption companies companies m3/m² without with Building code assembly assembly The defined building code is based on our own building Class 1 < 0.75 25 10 performance in 2010. As regards energy consumption, Building Class 2 0.75 < x < 1.5 5 6 we have also compared the performance with the averCode age energy consumption on LEED* certified buildings. Class 3 >1.5 5 4 Class 1 is buildings with low energy and water consumpTotal 35 20 tion or which can achieve LEED, level Gold awards or higher 64 per cent of the sales companies are categorised as buildClass 2 is buildings with medium energy and water coning code class 1 according to water consumption. It is a very sumption or which can achieve LEED, level certification satisfying improvement compared to 2009 where 38 per awards cent were building code class 1. Class 3 is buildings which, as a minimum, comply with local energy demands and building regulations Focus areas in 2011 The action plan for 2011 includes three focus areas: *Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) • Implementation and construction • Maintenance and improvements Also, in 2009 we signed the Manifesto on Energy Efficiency • Visibility and information in Buildings published by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development. In terms of implementation and construction, our goal is to set specific sustainability targets for each new building Performance in 2010 project started, with focus on energy, CO2 emissions and From 2010, building code class 1 has been the class to strive water. Furthermore, the goal for all new buildings is to live for in terms of building performance. Therefore, the goal for up to the requirements of LEED’s (Leadership in Energy and 2010 was to improve building performance and our main Environmental Design) Gold level or similar in accordance focus was on energy and water consumption in our sales with local standards. Where relevant, we will strive to obtain companies. As regards sustainable buildings, we have given certification. special priority to our sales companies, as the performance In terms of maintenance and improvements, the goal is of our production companies’ buildings are covered by the for all existing companies to prepare long-term maintenFootprint strategy. ance reports. This goal has been set in order to create a We have set targets for our buildings in relation to our pro-active approach in the companies to prioritise and plan policy on sustainable buildings. These targets include: the required building improvements in a sustainable manBy 2012, no domestic water may be used for irrigation ner. In addition, before the end of 2012, all existing Grundfos By 2015, the consumption of fossil-based energy will be buildings in building code class 3 must conduct an energy reduced by 30 per cent assessment. By 2015, the reuse of grey wastewater and rainwater harIn terms of visibility and information, the objective is vesting will account for more than 30 per cent of the water to communicate our use of the sustainable solutions that consumption in all existing Grundfos buildings have been implemented in our facilities. The target group includes employees, customers, suppliers and other relevant However, no specific targets have been set for 2010 or 2011. stakeholders, whom we hope to inform and inspire. 40 | 41 Community engagement Grundfos Hilge GmbH & Co. KG in Germany put great efforts into building relations with their local universities, high In 2010, Grundfos companies all over the world engaged in schools and the German Engineering Federation, which is various local community involvement initiatives in order to acone of the largest engineering industry networks in Europe. commodate our important principle of shared value and grant In 2010, Grundfos Hilge provided cases for technical developus a social licence to operate. Hence, more than 70 per cent of ment projects, pump lectures and supported PhD projects. all Grundfos companies engaged in local community initiaAltogether, the partnership between Grundfos Hilge and the tives. Globally, more than 130 initiatives were either launched local schools and confederations has created value for both in 2010 or continued from 2009. The initiatives reflect three Grundfos Hilge and the young talents who may become fumain tendencies, namely: engagement in natural disaster reture employees. lief, support of local educational institutions and provision of help to locally disabled and disadvantaged people. Grundfos helps disabled and socially disadvantaged people 70% Historically, Grundfos has engaged in social responsibility initiatives by supporting disabled and socially disadvantaged people in local communities all over the world. In 2010, this was a high priority in many Grundfos companies, among others in the USA, Denmark, China and Russia. Grundfos Manufacturing Russia in the Moscow region engaged in a number of partnerships with charity organisaof all grundfos companies engage in initiatives tions. Among others The Regional Fund for Children with Pancreatic Diabetes, The Khabarask Fund for Disabled ChilMany of these initiatives build on strong partnerships. Most dren, The SOS Children’s Village for orphans and The Old of the initiatives are philanthropic and consist of donations People’s Home. In total, Grundfos in Russia contributed with of money and equipment. However, several are strategic in 85,000 euro to these organisations. nature too, as they are linked with our business strategies and thereby serve the purpose of creating even greater shared value for both society and Grundfos. The Poul Due Jensen Foundation In 2010, The Poul Due Jensen Foundation, which is the main shareholder of the company, donated more than Grundfos engages in natural disaster relief in Australia 1,000,000 euro to causes that are not business-oriented as such. These donations mainly focus on research, deWater is synonymous with Grundfos, and several of our sign and innovation, environment and nature and social community engagement initiatives are characterised by responsibility. this. By doing what we do best – producing innovative and Also, the Foundation donated 20 SQFlex pumps systems sustainable pump solutions – Grundfos companies utilised for the relief work in Haiti via the non-profit organisation this ability in connection with natural disaster relief in 2010 Water Mission International. Grundfos has partnered in Australia, Haiti and Hungary. with the organisation for several years. The organisaSouth Australia suffered from immense flooding in 2010. tion’s objective is to provide people in developing counTherefore, Grundfos Pumps Australia partnered with the tries and disaster-struck areas with clean and safe water. Salvation Army Flood Appeal to whom they donated 10,000 Australian dollars and loaned suitable products to assist in the clean-up and rebuilding of communities. These efforts Future focus areas enabled people to return to their houses and resume day-toIn the future, Grundfos will effect changes throughout our day living. To Grundfos Pumps Australia, the image as a truly own organisation in order to reduce the environmental imcommitted company was reinforced as we were able to prove pact of our operations. First of all, we will live up to our comthe efficiency of our products and concern for our employees. mitments in the Climate White Paper, where the focus is on CO2 emissions and energy consumption. Therefore, our goals Grundfos creates shared value include the following: by partnering with educational institutions Not to emit more CO2 than we did in 2008 and Grundfos companies engage in partnerships with local uniBecome a CO2 neutral company versities, high schools and research centres on a world-wide scale in order to contribute to educational levels of high qualAlso, in the future more focus will be on the management of ity and to provide access to education. By cooperating with our company. educational institutions, Grundfos helps to develop the comFurther developing and implementing Business petences of future generations while at the same time getting Excellence in Grundfos a unique opportunity to attract new, qualified employees and Further implementing our strategic shared value to gain access to invaluable knowledge. approach to sustainability and responsibility. 42 | 43 Purchase Securing high-standard suppliers is essential for Content Purchase Grundfos and we therefore aim to improve the sup44 Requirements to ethical behaviour positively received pliers’ standards by focusing on responsible supplier 46 Supplier Relationship management. By building up trustworthy Management relationships, we want to ensure that our suppliers 48 Compliance and audits comply with the Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct, 49 Reducing CO2 in the supply chain the UN Global Compact, local laws and international norms. Our actions hereby contribute to increasing local labour standards and growth. article Requirements to ethical behaviour positively received Potential supplier sees new opportunities in forming a binding collaboration with Grundfos ously been supplying valves to Grundfosises, did not show any clear signs that the owned PACO in the US for some time. company does not meet our quality and And they were mentioned as a potential responsibility requirements. However, a supplier in connection with a new project few things concerned us, especially in relaat PACO. tion to the working environment due to the high noise levels and fumes from the painting booth.” Shinil in brief Following the usual practice, Flemming Founded in 1972, Shinil currently Matthiesen wrote his audit report on site employs a staff of 50 employees and Sangwon Lee, Marketing Manager, presents and presented the results to the supplier the valves produced at Shinil Korea. had a turnover of 10 million US dollars in 2009. before going back to Denmark. ”Shinil is already a supplier to a number W The South Korean valve producer holds hen compared with Grundfos, more than 50 patents in South Korea of South Korean companies, including Korean Shinil is a small comand a number of patents in the US and Samsung, which, on a global scale, is a Taiwan. The company has formulated pany. Nevertheless, Shinil has an objective for company growth, by major company – not only within eleca great wish to contribute to increased developing one unique product every tronics and white goods, which are probsustainability and does so by producing year and positioning themselves as a ably the most well-known areas – but valves that stand out from those offered Green Valve Manufacturer. also within the construction of factories, by their competitors. Because of their power plants and high-rise buildings. We multi-functional design, the valves help take that as a sign that Shinil is a serious Doubt about working environment simplifying the systems they are used in, company”, says Flemming Matthiesen. He Shinil explains. As a result, customers can As part of the standard procedure before continues: make savings on materials, and this is a concluding a supplier agreement, Grund”Nevertheless, the company is not significant reason for Grundfos to show an fos performed an audit at Shinil in the quite where we would like it to be. We interest in purchasing valves from Shinil spring of 2010. Senior Quality Engineer found, however, that it would be possible and using them within our systems. Flemming Matthiesen, Strategic Purchafor the company to reach the required The Korean valve producer was identising, was responsible for the audit. He level and that it had the ambition to do so. fied as a potential supplier to the entire explains: ”The audit, which examines the That is why we decided to continue with Grundfos Group because they had previactual conditions at the supplier’s premthe process.” 44 | 45 Requirement for action The prospect of future Still, Sangwon Lee welcomes the interest The next step for Shinil was to map the collaboration is a shown by Grundfos. working environment by having a third motivation for us to plan ”The prospect of future collaboration party set threshold values and check initiatives regarding the is a motivation for us to plan initiatives whether they were observed. working environment and regarding the working environment and ”If the supplier fails to meet our resocial responsibility and to social responsibility and to provide clear quirements, they must prepare an action provide clear documentation documentation regarding the conditions plan for improvement. In addition, they regarding the conditions among our subsuppliers”, Sangwon Lee must present a plan that explains how among our subsuppliers says. they will ensure that the suppliers in their Sangwon Lee, In his opinion, it may not only be posiMarketing Manager in Shinil own supply chain will meet our Supplier tive to Shinil and other companies to meet Code of Conduct”, explains Flemming requirements like the ones presented by Matthiesen. Grundfos: Collaboration will be valuable to ”These requirements caused problems Grundfos as we, as a company, need to Business opportunities in the production process and have led to be able to ensure high quality among our Sangwon Lee, Marketing Manager of growing costs. It would be unacceptable suppliers and get an opportunity to creShinil, confirms that new opportunities if they tied up too many resources and if ate trustworthy and long-term relationmay arise if they meet the requirements the potential offered by new business was ships. And this collaboration will offer requested by Grundfos. negligible in relation to our total business Shinil new business opportunities. ”This will give us the chance to reach an volume.” According to Flemming Matthiesen, international level and strengthen our opthe incentive for the supplier will be to portunities for developing business with Global Compact have Grundfos – a leader in its field – as customers overseas”, he says. The Grundfos Supplier Code of a customer. ”If Shinil gets Grundfos as a Shinil has never before been subjected Conduct is based on the 10 principles reference, this could open doors to other to such a detailed and systematic set of of the UN Global Compact and focuses on human rights, labour customers globally – so far, 95 per cent questions about the company – especially rights, the environmental impact and of their business comes from South Kornot as regards ethical behaviour and social anti-corruption at our suppliers. ean customers.” responsibility. REporting Purchase W e understand PURCHASE as all sourcing activities The Supplier Management process in Grundfos related to procurement and supplier manageIn Grundfos, management of direct suppliers is supported by two ment in Grundfos. When building trustworthy main processes: Strategic Sourcing (STS) and Supplier Relations relationships with suppliers, sustainability and responsibility Management (SRM). In combination with Supplier Quality Assurance (SQA), it covers the complete cycle from screening of the supply marare essential factors, and we believe that our responsibility ket to final approval of the supplier as well as ongoing monitoring of goes beyond the sourced products and components. existing suppliers. Grundfos wishes to do business with suppliers who inThis model illustrates the interaction between the SQA, STS and SRM tend to meet the same high standards as regards quality, processes: environment, ethics, flexibility and security of supply as we do. We therefore expect all direct suppliers to respect and Supplier Quality Assurance (SQA) comply with the Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct, which is based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Strategic Sourcing (STS) These minimum requirements are a prerequisite for doing business with Grundfos. However, our ambition is to go beyond compliance and be considered a partner, who creates value by inspiring our suppliers to improve within the areas of sustainability and responsibility. Supplier In 2010, our main focus has been on further development Relationship of tools and models to strengthen responsible supplier Management (SRM) management, ensuring compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct and mapping CO2 emission among suppliers. Furthermore, our vision is to incorporate sustainability and STS: Screening of market, requesting general supplier information, responsibility in our purchasing activities, and responsible evaluating potential supplier portfolio, requesting additional supplier management should therefore not be a separate information, negotiating and entering Framework Agreement process or activity, but an integrated part of the entire purSRM: Continuous supplier improvement and evaluation chase process. SQA: Audit of potential and existing suppliers Definition of supplier Direct: Suppliers of direct materials such as raw materials and components consumed by production. Supplier Relationship Indirect: Suppliers of indirect materials such as services, transport, advisory services, Management maintenance, etc. Group supplier: Suppliers to several Grundfos companies. Supplier Relationship Management is about maintaining Local supplier: Suppliers to a single Grundfos company. and developing supplier relations and partnerships. 46 | 47 In Grundfos we recognise that, as a company, we are influFurther implementation of enced by our supply chain as the quality of our products is highly dependent on the quality of the components and Supplier Code of Conduct materials supplied by our suppliers. We understand quality in a broad perspective as this does not only cover products During 2010, the Supplier Code of Conduct has been furor components, but also processes, production methods and ther implemented in both Grundfos companies and at our business approach in general. suppliers’ premises. In Grundfos we differentiate between group suppliers and local suppliers, where Group Purchase is Key supplier focused initiative responsible for Group suppliers, and local purchase departWith our Supplier Relationship Management process we ments in each of our production companies are responsible continuously strive to develop supplier relations in accordfor local suppliers. ance with our business strategies. 2010 saw the introduction All suppliers of direct materials to Grundfos, both group of a new initiative, Key supplier focused initiative. and local suppliers, must comply with our Supplier Code Four Group Key suppliers were selected and dedicated of Conduct, which is ensured by concluding written agreeworking groups were appointed at both Grundfos and at ments with the suppliers. One of the main goals within the suppliers’ premises. The purpose is to identify areas of Group Purchase is to have Group Framework Agreements improvement, e.g. to strengthen the underlying processes with all Group suppliers. Suppliers who are not covered by a and business relations. With this initiative we wish to take Framework Agreement are still expected to comply with our responsibility in our supply chain and support our supSupplier Code of Conduct, and it is a mandatory topic on the pliers in their development. We believe that it is possible to agenda for all supplier meetings. obtain mutual benefits from these projects and evidence shows that this is indeed the case. Our intention is to use Training in Supplier Code of Conduct the experience gained in the 2010 project to formalise and In order to further implement the Supplier Code of Conduct, incorporate the ideas behind the initiative in the Supplier several relevant people in Grundfos have received training in Relationship Management process. This is done to further the Supplier Code of Conduct. Our global Category Manager increase the mutual benefits of engaging in partnerships team has received training in order to be well prepared for with the suppliers. the dialogue with the suppliers. This team is geographically divided between China, Hungary, France, Germany and Denmark. 63% Partnership with local suppliers Approx. 40 per cent of the Grundfos production companies report that they have entered into a partnership with a supplier in order to improve the supplier’s performance in terms of sustainability and responsibility. The results have mainly been positive. of grundfos production companies train purchasers in supplier Code of Conduct REporting Audits focusing on sustainability and responsibility Additionally, Purchasing Managers, who are heads of local purchase departments in our productions facilities, have In 2010, the Supplier Quality Assurance team also completed been trained. They also hold the responsibility to ensure that two audits, where focus was mainly on sustainability and all local purchasers are well prepared to implement the Supresponsibility. The findings from all audits primarily relate to plier Code of Conduct at local suppliers. employee safety and sub-supplier management. In 14 out Furthermore, approx. 63 per cent of Grundfos’ production of the 17 cases where focus on sustainability and responcompanies state that they have included training of pursibility requirements were included in the audit reports, chasers in their implementation of the Grundfos Supplier sub-supplier management was mentioned as an area of Code of Conduct. improvement. Grundfos requires all suppliers to not only 34 comply with the basic sustainability and responsibility requirements, but also to pay attention to their own suppliers and their approach to sustainability and responsibility. This is what we define as Responsible Supplier Management, and we believe that it is essential to make such demands in order to influence the entire supply chain. We are aware that sub-supplier management is a potential area of improvement, and this area will receive more existing group suppliers autited in 2009 focus during 2011. Suggested actions to be initiated at the 5 suppliers’ premises are formulated in the audit reports, and specific actions are then agreed upon, signed and included in the Group Framework Agreement. In general, our suppliers are very positive about the requirements we make to them, irrespective of whether the supplier is able to meet our demands initially. Use of external partner to conduct audits potential group suppliers autited in 2009 The past years have been a pilot phase, providing significant learning when considering how to further implement and strengthen responsible activities within Grundfos Purchase. Compliance and audits In compliance with the strategy of strengthening not least the auditing activities, we engaged with an external partner Grundfos evaluates both new and existing suppliers against in 2010, who will conduct audits at Grundfos suppliers on our a set of main criteria which we consider essential for our behalf in 2011, focusing on sustainability and responsibility. long-term business success. This key process is called Supplier Quality Assurance. In 2010, we did business with a total of 276 existing Group suppliers. In 2010, 39 regular Supplier Audits at local suppliers Quality Assurance audits were completed at Group SupIn 2010, approx. 48 per cent of Grundfos’ production pliers, which among others include compliance with the companies audited one or more local suppliers of direct Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct. 34 of the audits were materials to ensure compliance with the Supplier Code conducted at existing suppliers and five were conducted at of Conduct. potential new suppliers. 48 | 49 Usage of external purchase materials in production External purchase of material for production Divided into the geographical regions of the consuming Divided into the geographical regions of the suppliers production companies from whom the materials are sourced America, 5% America, 3% Asia (excl. China), 4% Asia (excl. China), 11% China, 7% China, 6% Europe, 84% Europe, 80% Reducing CO2 in The graphs illustrate that, in 2010, there was a reasonable balance between consumption and external purchase the supply chain of materials for production in Grundfos. For example, seven per cent of the total consumption of production material As a result of our commitment to reduce our carbon footwas consumed in China and similarly, six per cent of the print, Grundfos Purchase’s aim is to contribute positively to consumed production materials were sourced within this this overall goal by focusing on our suppliers. region. Of the total consumption of production materials, 84 per cent relate to the European region, and 80 per cent of Mapping CO2 emission among suppliers the total consumption was sourced within this region. This During 2010, we have obtained information from current leaves a minor overweight of sourcing within the Asian resuppliers about their ability to measure CO2 emissions and gion compared to the geographic area of consumption. reductions, as well as their goals, if such goals have been set. 38% Out of 216 group suppliers asked, 38 per cent have initiated specific activities to reduce their CO2 emissions, 34 per cent are currently able to measure their CO2 emissions, and a total of 28 per cent have defined CO2 strategies. We want to prepare for future agreements on CO2 strategies and reductions at the suppliers’ premises. Policy on company cars suppliers have initiated activities In 2010, a policy for company cars was adopted concerning to reduce co2 emmissions cars for sales people and executives in our Danish companies. The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the purchase of company cars is based on sound economic, safety Future focus areas and environmental considerations. The policy includes guidelines for maximum CO2 emissions per kilometre, which One of the focus areas for 2011 is to further strengthen and will be reduced annually until 2015 in order to gradually improve the process of auditing external suppliers, which tighten the requirements. will include the following activities: Focus on regional sourcing • Conduct audits focusing on sustainability and responsiThe strategy for Grundfos is to conduct the main part of bility in cooperation with an external partner based on a sourcing in the region where the products are used for pronewly developed auditing tool. duction. This means that we would like our organisational • Review and improve existing auditing tools used by the structure to reflect the purchasing structure by allocating Supplier Quality Assurance team. This is done by further more responsibility to the geographic regions where the incorporating sustainability and responsibility aspects. sourced materials and components are consumed by pro• Conduct specific training of the Global Quality Assurduction. Previously, the division was made between global ance team to ensure a higher level of sustainability and sourcing and local sourcing. The future division will be made responsibility in regularly conducted supplier audits. between global, regional and local sourcing. GRUNDFOS about the report T his is Grundfos’ fifth annual Sustainability Report. The In 2008, the first part of a stakeholder analysis, a document main purpose of the report is to provide stakeholders with review, was prepared by Deloitte. The purpose of the analysis a comprehensive, fair and balanced picture of Grundfos’ was to identity areas of sustainability and responsibility that our contribution to sustainable development. Also, the Sustainability stakeholders find relevant. The analysis emphasised four signifiReport functions as our annual Communication on Progress (COP) cant issues: required by signatories of the Global Compact. The theme for Grundfos’ 2010 Sustainability report is “Sustain1. Climate, energy, water and environment ability through partnerships”. 2. Employee conditions 3. Business conduct Scope 4. Involvement in society The report covers all companies owned or controlled by Grundfos. Newly acquired companies are recognised in the Grundfos Group Other stakeholder processes such as Employee Satisfaction Surdata as at the time of acquisition. It should be emphasised that veys and Customer Satisfaction Surveys are also used in Grundfos the report concerns Grundfos at global level and it has not been to gain an insight into subject that our stakeholders find relevant. the intention to include detailed information that is primarily sigIn order to further identify stakeholders, an internal stakenificant to individual sites, processes, activities and products. holder analysis was conducted in 2009. Several of the main group functions, such as Purchase and People & Strategy were Reporting guidelines interviewed, identifying their main stakeholders and their expectIn order to ensure a transparent, balanced and reasonable preations. sentation of our sustainability and responsibility performance, As regards the Sustainability Report we have only identified our Grundfos follows generally accepted accounting and reporting stakeholders on a general level and in a generic stakeholder map. policies: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG). Data processing The GHG protocol is used as a guideline for how to manage, Financial data is obtained from the Group’s accounting system. account for and report on greenhouse gasses, which is of great The Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) data has been colimportance to Grundfos. However, our goal is to report on all lected, compiled and validated by Grundfos’ Group Environment aspects of sustainability and responsibility. Therefore, the GRI department, and the HR data has been collected, compiled and principles and indicators (G3), which focus on both financial, social validated by Grundfos’ People and Strategy department. The EHS and environmental impacts, are also relevant. We have assessed data and the HR data are collected annually according to a fixed the 2010 report to be at the B level. reporting procedure. Furthermore, the report includes results from an annual sustainability and responsibility survey with the Materiality purpose of collecting data about local sustainability and responOur report focuses on environmental and social challenges which sibility activities related to community involvement, responsible have an impact on or can be affected by Grundfos and which are business conduct and supplier management. relevant for our key stakeholders. Therefore, it is important that 2010 saw the launch of pilot projects to implement a new and the content of a sustainability report is relevant for stakeholders improved EHS data collection platform. The pilot projects only and reflects our business goals and strategies. influence Grundfos-owned manufacturing companies, and data In Grundfos, sustainability and responsibility are used as means collected by means of the new system will be available in the to create value for society and for our company, i.e. we see it in the 2011 report. Also in 2010, the process for collecting HR data was framework of shared value creation. Four main areas of value crerevised, and part of our HR data is now collected via SAP. This data ation has be identified; PURCHASE, PROCESS, PEOPLE and PRODwill be available in the 2011 report. UCT, please see the Shared Value Model. Among other things, this model is used to create structure and priority in the content of Perspective 2011 Grundfos’ Sustainability Report. We continuously focus on improving our reporting practices. In In addition to the Shared Value Model, the report content is 2011, Grundfos will initiate a process of developing a sustainabilalso prioritised on the basis of the focus in Grundfos’ Group stratity strategy document that clarifies our focus areas and future egy, Innovation Intent , the Climate White Paper and various unit efforts in terms of sustainability and responsibility. This process strategies, e.g. Group Purchase’s unit strategy. will include a materiality assessment, which will strengthen the relevance of the content of the Sustainability Report even further. Stakeholder inclusiveness Our stakeholders are the target group for our sustainability reDetailed reporting principles and practice porting, and it is essential to know what they find to be relevant For further information about reporting principles and practice, and essential in terms of sustainability and responsibility. Grundplease visit www.grundfos.com, the document can be found fos addresses a wide range of stakeholders, and we have identiunder: About us > Sustainability & Responsibility > Reporting fied them to be customers, current and potential employees, suppliers, business partners, opinion leaders, NGOs, governments For questions concerning the report or its content, please contact and media. Grundfos Group CSR, sustainability@grundfos.com. Auditor’s Report 50 | 51 To the Group management of Grundfos Management A/S Our review is based on an evaluation of risk of material errors. We have performed a review of the Grundfos Sustainability ReWe have evaluated the reporting practice and analysed correlport 2010 (“the Report”). The purpose of our review was to subations with the company’s audited annual accounts, and we have mit a statement on the employee, environmental and financial performed spot check comparisons with documentation. The data in the Report. The management of the company is responreview is limited first of all to include inquiries from management sible for the Report. Our responsibility is to provide a conclusion and employees as well as analytical procedures, and a limited based on our review of the Report. level of assurance is thus lower than the assurance which would have been obtained if we had performed an audit. The performed review We have performed our review in accordance with the Danish Conclusion auditing standard on assurance engagements RS 3000 (“AssurDuring our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us ance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical not to believe: 1) that the employee, environmental and financial financial information”). It has been our purpose to obtain limited data for the Group are generally in accordance with the described assurance that the employee, environmental and financial data reporting practice and information reported by factories and at Group level in the Report are in accordance with the described other business units, and 2) that employee and environmental reporting practice and information reported by factories and data from the company’s factories in Sunderland, UK and Fresno, other business units. By agreement, we have visited the comUSA have been documented, collected and calculated in accordpany’s factories in Sunderland, UK and Fresno, USA, in order to ance with Group instructions. evaluate whether data regarding employees and the environment has been documented, collected and calculated in accordance with Group instructions. Copenhagen, 12 April 2011 Deloitte Statsautoriseret Revisionsaktieselskab Anders Dons Preben J. Sørensen State-authorised Public Accountant State-authorised Public Accountant Grundfos in brief Grundfos was established in 1945 by the late Poul Due Jensen. Today, Grundfos is one of the world’s leading pump manufacturers with an annual production of more than 16 million pump units. Furthermore, Grundfos is the largest manufacturer of circulator pumps covering approx. 50 per cent of the world market. Products Our range of efficient and reliable pump solutions is continuously extended. Comprehensive know-how and intensive research and product development allow us to develop new and trendsetting products, which meet the increasing demand for better energy efficiency and reduced environmental impact. Our main products include circulator pumps for heating and air-conditioning as well as other centrifugal pumps for industry use, water supply, sewage and dosing. In addition to pumps and pump systems, Grundfos develops, produces and sells energyefficient motors and advanced electronics. Built-in electronics Sales companies make our pumps intelligent and mean that they can determine the need for water and adapt their performance accordingly. This Production companies leads to significant reductions in energy and water consumption. Other brands Values Our values are summed up with the words: BE>THINK>INNOVATE. It is our responsibility, our foresight and our focus on creating ground-breaking solutions and ideas that have made us one of the world’s leading pump manufacturers. Ownership structure Grundfos was established in 1945 by the late Poul Due Jensen. In 1975, the self-governing institution The Poul Due Jensen Foundation was established, and today it owns 86.7 per cent of the shares in Grundfos Holding A/S. The remaining shares are divided between the Grundfos employees (2.0 per cent) and the founder’s family (11.3 per cent). Management Turnover developments divided by OECD and OTHER The Grundfos Group Management is domiciled in Bjerringbro, (in MILLION EURO) Denmark, and has the following members: OECD Other Total • Carsten Bjerg, CEO and Group President • Heine Dalsgaard, Executive Vice President 2010 1,883 751 2,2634 • Lars Aagaard, Executive Vice President 2009 1,727 564 2,291 • Peter Røpke, Executive Vice President* Growth 9% 33% 15% • Søren Ø. Sørensen, Executive Vice President Grundfos Holding A/S Board of Directors: Investments in fixed assets divided by OECD and OTHER • Niels Due Jensen, Group Chairman (in MILLION EURO) • Lars Kolind, Executive Director OECD Other Total • Niels Christian Nielsen, Professor of Copenhagen Business School 65 18 83 2010 • Thomas Lund, 78% 22% 100% Managing Director of Dansk Teknologi Udviklingsselskab 79 36 115 • Ingelise Bogason, Managing Director of Alectia 2009 69% 31% 100% Growth 18% 50% 27% *Peter Røpke joined Group Management on 1 January 2011 North American Region Central European Region 52 | 53 Emerging Markets China Western European Region Asian-Pacific Region Turnover developments divided by region (in MILLION EURO) Western Eastern The The Middle East East Asia Total Europe Europe Americas and Africa 2010 1,298 341 326 522 147 2,634 2009 1,221 279 291 384 116 2,291 Growth 6% 22% 12% 26% 28% 15% Investments in fixed assets divided by region (in MILLION EURO) Western Eastern The The Middle East East Asia Total Europe Europe Americas and Africa 2010 50 20 5 8 0 83 2009 49 33 10 21 2 115 Growth 2% 39% 50% 62% 100% 27% Subject index Absence ..................................................................................................................... 28 Hazardous waste....................................................................................... 38-39, 55 Accidents ............................................................................................................ 28, 55 Human Rights.......................................................................... 20, 25, 31-30, 45, 55 Awards ........................................................................................................................ 55 Innovation Intent .................................................................... 9, 14, 21, 27, 36, 50 Business Excellence............................................................................. 36-37, 41, 55 ISO 14001............................................................................................................. 39, 55 Child labour..........................................................................................................31, 55 Labour Rights....................................................................................... 20, 30-31, 45 Climate....................................................... 3, 6, 9, 12, 17-18, 20-21, 27, 37, 39, 50 LEED............................................................................................................................. 40 Climate White Paper.................................................. 9, 14, 24, 27-28, 37, 41, 50 Materiality ................................................................................................................ 50 CO2............................................................................ 6-7, 9, 12-13, 19, 34-41, 46, 49 Millennium Development Goals ........................................................... 6, 21, 25 Code of Conduct............................................................................. 9, 26, 30-31, 55 OHSAS 18001 ..................................................................................................... 55, 39 Community engagement............................................................ 9, 26, 30-31, 55 Partnerships................................................ 4, 6, 12, 17-19, 25, 39, 41, 46-47, 50 Corporate Internal Control............................................................................ 30-31 Product development ............................................................................. 14-16, 52 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Corruption........................................ 9 Pump audit .................................................................................................. 18, 21, 35 Customer satisfaction...................................................................... 19-20, 50, 55 Scope .......................................................................................................................... 50 Discrimination......................................................................................................... 31 Security forces .................................................................................................. 31, 55 Diversity.................................................................................................................... 29 Shared value............................................................. 8-9, 11, 13, 22, 25, 41, 50, 55 Electricity consumption ................................................................... 13, 18-19, 35 Social licence to operate...................................................................................... 41 Emerging markets ........................................................................................... 17, 53 Solar ........................................................................................................ 16-18, 25, 28 Employee development .......................................................................... 26-27, 55 Sustainability ................. 4-9, 13-21, 24-25, 27, 30, 36, 38, 40-41, 44, 46-50 Employees on special terms ....................................................................... 29, 55 Sustainable buildings........................................................................................... 40 Energy audit ............................................................................................................. 18 Supplier audit ......................................................................................................... 49 Energy consumption ................................................ 6, 12-16, 18, 20, 34, 37-41 Supplier Code of Conduct ..................................................................... 43, 45-48 Energy labelling ...................................................................................................... 19 Supplier Management............................................................... 8, 42, 46, 48, 50 Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) ................................................. 38,50 Talent Management .................................................................... 26-27, 31, 36-37 EHS Group audit ..................................................................................................... 38 Target group............................................................................................................. 50 Ethics Committee .................................................................................................. 31 Training hours.................................................................................................... 27, 55 EuP directive............................................................................................... 12, 16, 20 Turnover ....................................................................................... 6, 15-14, 17, 52-53 European Foundation for Quality Management (EFQM).........................36 UN Caring for Climate ............................................................................................ 7 Europump.................................................................................................................. 16 Warranty rate.................................................................................................... 20, 55 Footprint strategy............................................................................... 9, 37, 38, 40 Wastewater ............................................................................................... 14-16, 40 Freedom of association ................................................................................. 31, 55 Water consumption.................................................................... 18, 38-40, 52, 55 Future focus areas ............................................................................. 21, 31, 41, 49 Working environment ..................................................................... 26, 28, 44-45 Global Compact.................................................7-9, 13, 21, 25, 35, 43, 45, 46, 50 World Business Council for Sustainable Development ................... 20, 40 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)................................................................. 50, 55 Read more www.grundfos.com: Other relevant links: Annual Report 2010 Deloitte www.deloitte.com Climate White Paper Europump www.europump.org Grundfos’ values and policies Global reporting initiative www.globalreporting.org The Grundfos Code of Conduct HR Leadership Alliance www.hrleadershipalliance.com The Grundfos Supplier Code of Conduct ISO www.iso.org LEED www.usgbc.org/leed Grundfos.com>about us>sustainability and OHSAS www.ohsas.org responsibility>reporting: Red Cross www.ifrc.com and • Reporting principles and practices for Grundfos’ Sustainability www.kenyaredcross.org Report 2010 UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org World Business Council for Grundfos links: Sustainable Development www.wbcsd.org Biobooster www.grundfos-biobooster.com Energy movement www.grundfos.com/energy Grundfos HVAC OEM www.grundfos.com/hvacoem Grundfos Sensor www.grundfos.com/directsensors LIFELINK www.grundfoslifelink.com Power by the impossible www.powerby.grundfos.com Pump audit www.grundfos.com/pumpaudit Grundfos performance 54 | 55 summary The Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines are a source of inspiration to Grundfos in the preparation of sustainability reports. The performance summary comprises all the GRI performance indicators that Grundfos complies with in whole or in part as well as an overview of those of the 10 Global Compact principles that Grundfos supports. Result Page GRI Global Compact Management Management statement 6 1.1 All principles statement Commitment to Global Compact 6 4.12 Corporate susShared value 8 5 tainability and responsibility Management approach 8 5 Product Customer satisfacImpacts, risks and opportunities related to climate change Customer loyalty 82 14 19 1.2 PR5 Environment 8-9 tion and loyalty Warranty rate Products reported faulty within the two-year warranty period 0.48% 20 PR5 Energy Energy saved through sales of A-labelled pumps (billion kWh) 1.1 19 EN7 Environment 9 Economic value Investment in the development of new products (percentage of turnover) 5.2% 15 EC1 Public policy Participation in public policy development 21 SO5 Compliance Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 0 20 SO7 and monopoly practices Sanctions for non-compliance 0 20 SO8 Non-compliance concerning information and labelling of products 0 20 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing 0 20 PR7 communications Complaints regarding customer privacy 0 20 PR8 Sanctions for non-compliance concerning provision of products 0 20 PR9 Stakeholder Memberships of associations 21 4.13engagement 4.17 Approach to stakeholder engagement 50 People Access to water Number of LIFELINK systems financed via Grundfos Brings Water2Life 4 28 SO1 Environment 8-9 Human rights 1 Number of companies that have organised activities in order 45% 28 n/a Anti-corruption 10 to raise money to Grundfos Brings Water2Life Awards received Talent Innovation Award 26 n/a Workforce Workforce size (total number of employees) 16,609 26 LA1 Employees on special terms 4.27% 29 LA3 Labour standard 6 Freedom of association 31 LA4/HR5 Labour standard 3 Child labour 31 HR6 Labour standard 4 Forced labour 31 HR7 Labour standard 5 Employee Loyalty 68 28 n/a motivation and Satisfaction and motivation 80 28 n/a satisfaction Security Grundfos companies that use security personnel 44% 31 HR8 Human rights 1-2 Health and safety Number of accidents per million working hours 9.13 28 LA7 Lost working hours due to lost time injuries (per thousand woring hours) 1.07 28 LA7 Employee Training hours (per white collar) 17 27 LA10 development Training hours (per blue collar) 12.4 27 LA10 Employee Development Dialogue (white collar) 77% 27 LA12 Employee Development Dialogue (blue collar) 71% 27 LA12 Business ethics Compliance workshops held 3 30 SO3 Anti-corruption 10 Group entities audited in relation to Grundfos Code of Conduct 56 30 SO2 Response to incidents of corruption 2 31 SO4 Process Business Excellence Governance Grundfos companies using Business Excellence ISO 140001 and OHSAS 18001-certified production companies 75% 21 36 39 5 n/a (number of certifications) CO2 Total CO2 emissions (metric tonnes) 122,690 38 EN16 Environment 8-9 Energy Total energy consumption (MWh) 340,344 38 EN3 Water Total water usage (m3) 670,612 39 EN8 Waste Total hazardous waste (kg relative to 1 million work hours) 146,041 39 EN22 Sustainable Number of sales companies in building code class 1 in terms of energy 55% 40 n/a buildings consumption (< 150 kWh/m²) Number of sales companies in building code class 1 in terms of water 64% 40 n/a consumption (< 0.75 m³/m²) Local community Grundfos companies with one or more initiatives supporting the local 70% 41 n/a All principles engagement community Purchase Suppliers Group suppliers of direct material Spending on locally based suppliers 276 48 49 n/a EC6 Audits Screening of group suppliers and potential group suppliers regarding 39 48 HR2 Human rights 2 human rights Number of Grundfos production companies that have conducted audits 48% 48 HR2 at local suppliers’ premises About the report Reporting parameters 50 3.1-3.11 Grundfos in brief Company profile 52 2.1-2.8 Auditor’s report External assurance 51 3.13 Performance GRI and Global Compact performance summary 55 3.12 summary Annual report Governance 4.1-4.10 Being responsible is our foundation Thinking ahead makes it possible Innovation is the essence Headquarters DK-8850 Bjerringbro Denmark Tel.: +45 87 50 14 00 Email: info@grundfos.com CVR no.: 83 64 88 13 Further information: www.grundfos.com The name Grundfos, the Grundfos logo, and the payoff Be–Think–Innovate are registrated trademarks owned by Grundfos Holding A/S or Grundfos A/S, Denmark. All rights reserved worldwide.
