August 25, 2011 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations 3 United Nations Plaza New York, NY 10017 Re: Communication on Progress (COP) report for August 12, 2010 through August 25, 2011 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, DigiCert pledges its continued support of the United Nations’ Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption and provides its annual Communication on Progress in these four areas over the past year as follows: Implementation of the Human Rights and Labor Principles Specifically, in this area we report that over the past 12 months DigiCert and its employees have engaged in humanitarian efforts to curb homelessness by contributing time to Habitat for Humanity and putting together care packages for the homeless. We have also provided employee training on the prevention of sexual harassment and other kinds of discrimination in the workplace. DigiCert also complies with U.S. laws regarding the posting of notices concerning the workplace rights of its employees. We continue to encourage our business partners, suppliers, and customers around the world as we’ve visited with them in Europe, Asia, and elsewhere to respect the human rights of all persons. Implementation of Environmental Principles DigiCert has distributed blue recycle bins throughout the office and encourages employees to recycle paper, plastics, and aluminum. DigiCert also endeavors to maintain paperless operations and encourages its business partners and customers to replace paper workflows with paperless ones. In one of our upcoming monthly training seminars we plan to raise the environmental awareness of our employees by discussing the wasteful use of resources and the sources and controls of environmental pollution. Implementation of and Adherence to the Anti‐Corruption Principles DigiCert is aware that in many countries corruption, in many forms, including extortion, bribery, terrorism, or other criminal behavior undermines the stability of government, the economy, and the respect for the rule of law in such countries. DigiCert is publicly committed to the principle that its customers provide truthful and accurate information in their dealings with DigiCert and third parties. DigiCert’s customers are contractually required to comply with applicable laws. DigiCert also supports efforts to prevent denied persons and entities from engaging in terrorism, money-laundering, etc. Sincerely yours, Benjamin T. Wilson Senior Vice President of Industry Relations and General Counsel 355 South 520 West • Canopy Building II, Suite 200 • Lindon, Utah 84042 • (P) +1.801.877.2100
