Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2010 Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S Content A word from the Board of Management 3 Environment 7 Governance in NORDEN 4 Social dimensions 13 UN Global Compact and GRI 5 Economic 18 NORDEN and contribution Technical terms and abbreviations 19 to the world economy 6 NORDEN in brief Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S (NORDEN) These are operated commercially by the 50% Annapolis (USA), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) and operates globally in dry cargo and tankers with owned Norient Product Pool, which also operMumbai (India) as well as site offices at yards one of the most modern and competitive fleets ates vessels from INC and is one of the largest in Asia. The Company has 233* employees on in the industry comprising 209* vessels. product tanker pools in the world. shore and 570* at sea. Norient Product Pool has 44* employees in Hellerup, Singapore, AnIn dry cargo, NORDEN is active in all major NORDEN’s core fleet consists of owned vessels napolis and Limassol (Cyprus). vessel types. The Company is one of the world’s and vessels on long-term charters with purlargest operators in Panamax and Handymax, chase option. The core fleet is supplemented NORDEN was founded in 1871 and is one of in addition to having growing activities in the by vessels chartered on a short-term basis or the oldest listed shipping companies in the Handysize and Post-Panamax vessel types as for individual voyages, and this mix allows the world. Management focus is long term and is well as activities in Capesize. NORDEN HandyCompany to rapidly adjust the size of the fleet based on the Company’s vision, mission and size Pool and NORDEN Post-Panamax Pool and the costs to changing market conditions. values. The goal is for the Company to continuoperate the Company’s owned vessels in adA large number of purchase options for both ously develop for the benefit of its stakeholddition to tonnage from Interorient Navigation active vessels and vessels for delivery increase ers and to achieve high, stable earnings. The Company Ltd. (INC). flexibility and contribute to the value creation. NORDEN share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen A/S, and the Company has apIn tankers, NORDEN’s activities comprise NORDEN has offices in Hellerup (Denmark), proximately 18,000 shareholders registered Handysize, MR and LR1 product tankers. Singapore (Singapore), Shanghai (China), by name. *Numbers are stated at 31 December 2010 Vision Mission Values The preferred partner in Our business is global tramp shipping. Flexibility We seek excellence through a dedicated global tramp shipping. Adapt and find better solutions. team effort from competent and motiUnique people. vated people. With ambition, reliability, Open minded team spirit. flexibility and empathy, we Reliability Number one. • focus on customers who benefit from Honest, good intentions and our constant commitment to being an independent long-term partner no cheating. • continue our long history of building valued relationships with shipowners Empathy and shipyards. Respect diversity in people and We will maintain a large modern fleet of owned and chartered tonnage, and – in a opinions. volatile market – we manage risks to constantly be able to develop our business Ambition and create shareholder value. Think ambition into every activity. A word from the Board of Management 3 A word from the Board of Management In 2010, we defined our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy which has Overall CSR policy been approved by the Board of Directors. ”Based on our core values, we strive on a voluntary basis to improIn NORDEN we believe that our CSR efve our corporate social efforts by integrating social, environmental, forts should benefit both the communiclimate, health and safety concerns in our activities. We will estabties in which we operate and our busilish appropriate reporting systems to help us meet our targets while ness – our focus is on business-driven at the same time focusing on continuous improvements. We will CSR. This can be seen in the work we are conducting to become more efficient communicate openly with our stakeholders on these matters.” when it comes to consumption of bunker fuel – both in installing equipment onboard our vessels and in optimising strengthen the Company and directly based on our values and CSR policy. The voyages. Focus on fuel efficiency benebenefit the surrounding society together CSR strategy will be linked to our overall fits both the climate and the bottom line. with our stakeholders. corporate mission, vision and strategy, Also in 2010, we have had much focus and is expected to be ready for impleon safety and quality onboard our vessels In December 2009, NORDEN signed up mentation during 2011. and this has proven to be a competitive to the UN Global Compact, and our first advantage for us. CSR report covering 2009 served as the You have just started reading our second Company's Communication on Progress. CSR report which will give you an insight When dealing with CSR, the areas most We continue to integrate the principles of into how we perceive CSR in NORDEN. It important to us are employee health, the UN Global Compact into our strategy, will also shed light on some of the chalsafety and security, climate, environbusiness procedures and operations in lenges we faced during 2010. ment, and education. Efforts are directevery relevant area of our business, and ed towards the parts of the value chain this CSR report 2010 serves as our secwhich we are able to control. Furtherond Communication on Progress. more, we seek influence where possible Carsten Mortensen and in the value chain. Common to our efforts In 2011, we commenced the work of imMichael Tønnes Jørgensen, in the different areas is that they must plementing a CSR strategy which will be The Board of Management 4 Governance in NORDEN Governance in NORDEN NORDEN has a two-tier management ures and new initiatives relating to CSR NORDEN's primary stakeholder groups structure consisting of a Board of Direcand reports to the Board of Directors. tors and a Board of Management. There Employees off and on shore is no duality between the 2 bodies. The Furthermore, as of 1 January 2011, Board of Directors approves strategies, NORDEN has established a new dediCustomers and Brokers action plans, goals and budgets, sets out cated corporate CSR function to oversee NORDEN Suppliers the risk management framework and suCSR matters. This function constitutes pervises procedures. The Board of Direcpart of the CSR Executive Body and will External organisations tors appoints the Board of Management especially strengthen the efforts and and sets out its terms and responsibilicontinue investments in resource saving Investors and Analysts ties. The Board of Management prepares solutions. Local communities and implements a business strategy and is responsible for the day-to-day manStakeholders and engagement Authorities and Regulators agement, organisation and development Stakeholders play a key role in NORof NORDEN, for managing assets and DEN’s CSR work. They have the ability Media, NGOs, etc. commitments, accounting and reporting. to influence the success or failure of the The Board of Directors evaluates the perCompany’s business in various ways. formance of the Board of Management. Without interaction and dialogue with The figure above shows the most imporstakeholders, NORDEN risks making tant stakeholder groups for NORDEN. The Board of Directors currently consists poor decisions or missing important opof 8 members. 5 members are elected portunities which are not beneficial to the NORDEN engages with its stakeholders by the shareholders at the annual genCompany. in various ways. In 2010, this engageeral meeting and 3 members are elected ment was expressed for instance in the by the employees of NORDEN.1 In order to engage stakeholders in the attending of road shows and investor business, NORDEN has identified a wide meetings where NORDEN together with Organisation of CSR range of stakeholders, and the most imcurrent and potential investors have the CSR in NORDEN is rooted in the manportant ones have been defined. These opportunity to discuss NORDEN’s busiagement. The Board of Directors has have a high ability to impact NORDEN’s ness and the market. The interest from the overall responsibility of ensuring that business and/or are highly concerned investors on CSR matters has seen a sigNORDEN has a systematic management with CSR matters even though they might nificant increase during the past years. approach to CSR. The Board of Directors not be able to impact the Company’s has appointed a CSR Executive Body to business much. The latter group is imCustomers in both business segments oversee NORDEN’s CSR efforts. The CSR portant since CSR initiatives include takhave shown an increased interest for the Executive Body, which is chaired by Chief ing responsibility of one's business and Company’s efforts relating to CSR. In the Financial Officer Michael Tønnes Jørgenthereby taking responsibility for the ones tanker segment, NORDEN is in dialogue sen, develops strategies, policies, measthat are concerned with ones activities. with leading oil companies in order to ensure quality performance during vetting. Dry cargo customers and brokers have increased their attention regarding environmental, social and governancerelated matters which are now significant factors in tenders. An employee survey (Company Performance Driver) analysing the employees’ perception of the culture in NORDEN was conducted. The analysis puts focus on initiatives to attract, retain and develop competent people. As part of the upcoming CSR strategy, the Company will continue to develop its dialogue and interaction with stakeholdChairman of the Board of Directors Mogens Hugo’s report ers in order to ensure awareness of its at the annual general meeting in 2010. stakeholders’ concern with and view of NORDEN’s business. 1) Further information on corporate governance in NORDEN is available on the Company’s website, www.ds-norden.com/investor/corporategovernance, where a white paper on NORDEN’s corporate governance practices is also available. UN Global Compact and GRI 5 UN Global Compact and GRI This report is NORDEN’s second CSR of the performance indicators is available report. The first report, which was pubon www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr where The 10 UN Global Compact lished in July 2010, was structured in a short introduction to GRI’s application principles accordance with the 10 principles of the levels is also available. Human rights UN Global Compact, which NORDEN Principle 1: Businesses should joined in December 20092. This year, Since this is the first time NORDEN resupport and respect the protection the report is aligned with the Global Reports in accordance with the GRI frameof internationally proclaimed human porting Initiative (GRI) since this initiawork, an application level C has been rights; and tive operates on 3 CSR reporting areas, aimed for, although more performance Principle 2: make sure that they are namely environment, social aspects and indicators have been included than what not complicit in human rights abuses. economic aspects, which are highly relwas required for this level. For future evant to NORDEN’s business, and widely reporting, NORDEN aims to report on Labour accepted by the Company’s peers and all standard disclosures relevant to the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the other companies3. Company, which will ultimately imply reeffective recognition of the right to porting at application level A. collective bargaining; The CSR report, which serves as NORPrinciple 4: the elimination of all DEN's Communication on Progress to Report boundary forms of forced and compulsory the UN Global Compact, is published anThe report boundary is set in such a way labour; nually and covers the financial year. In that focus primarily is on activities directly Principle 5: the effective abolition of the scope, boundary, or measurement controllable by NORDEN. These include child labour; and methods applied in the report no signifiemployees and assets in the parent comPrinciple 6: the elimination of cant changes occurred from the previous pany, subsidiaries and joint ventures4. In discrimination in respect of addition hereto, the Company will seek to employment and occupation. reporting period. influence other parts of the value chain, Environment Deciding on report content including industry organisations, owners Principle 7: Businesses should supIn order to determine which performance of long-term chartered vessels, shipyards port a precautionary approach to indicators to report on, an analysis was and other key suppliers. environmental challenges; conducted, looking at all performance Principle 8: undertake initiatives to indicators in GRI’s Sustainability ReIn order to influence parts of the value promote greater environmental porting Guidelines together with the chain where NORDEN has less impact, responsibility; and GRI Logistics and Transportation Sector a code of conduct is in the process of Principle 9: encourage the developSupplement. The indicators relevant to being established. The code of conduct ment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. NORDEN’s business were discussed in will cover new and existing NORDEN polithe CSR Executive Body and resulted in cies, positions and guidelines relevant to Anti-corruption 22 performance indicators, mainly relatemployees in NORDEN and will be useful Principle 10: Businesses should work ing to environmental, climate and labour as a reference for dialogue on CSR matters against corruption in all its forms, matters. A table identifying the location with existing or potential business partners. including extortion and bribery. NORDEN's spheres of influence The Danish Sponsorship Shipowners' Shipyards, programmes, Association, owners of Key suppliers, Employees and assets in NORDEN, Mines, Government health insurance ­International long-term vessel owners, subsidiaries and joint ventures oil majors bodies schemes, Chamber of chartered T/C partners scholarships Shipping, vessels Intertanko Sphere of control Sphere of influence Decreasing influence Source: Inspired by the UN Global Compact. 2) For more information, please see www.unglobalcompact.org. 3) The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation that has developed a widely used sustainability reporting framework. GRI’s core goals include the mainstreaming of disclosure on environmental, social and governance performance. GRI’s reporting framework is developed through a consensus-seeking, multi-stakeholder process. Participants are drawn from global business, civil society, labour, academic and professional institutions. For further information, please see www.globalreporting.org. 4) Reporting figures in the 3 sections, Environment, Social dimensions and Economic, are for the NORDEN Group as defined in the annual report 2010. Minor deviations from this practice are stated together with the reporting figure. 6 NORDEN and contribution to the world economy NORDEN and contribution to the world economy In terms of volume, 80-90% of world Transports, Dry Cargo 2010 NPP transports, 2010 trade is carried by sea, and conseCoal Iron ore Fuel oil Gas oil quently, demand for seaborne transport Grain Salt Gasoline Naphtha is closely linked to the development of Cement and clinker Other Jetfuel Other the world economy.5 NORDEN transports raw materials and refined oil products.6 8% 19% 4% Just under 60% of the dry cargo volumes 10% transported by NORDEN are transported 7% 45% to emerging markets where the goods 48% 8% 13% are contributing to industrialisation and urbanisation in the areas. 9% 12% 17% NORDEN plays a dual role – not only is the Company shipping cargo, thereby In total transported: 42.1 million tonnes In total transported: 18.8 million tonnes supporting the development of a growing global economy, it is also responsible for conducting this transport in the most enair are harmful to the environment, transincrease tenfold. However, the shipping vironmentally friendly way possible. port by ship is the most environmentally industri emitted about 2.7% of the global friendly means of transport. If the same emissions of CO2 in 20077, and therefore, The cargo volumes transported by NORamount of goods were to be transported NORDEN will continuously work towards DEN are significant. During transport, by airfreight instead of by ship, the CO2 reducing emissions to air. consumption of bunker fuel is substanemission would be 100 times greater. If tial which also implies that emissions to lorries were to perform the same funcair are significant. Although emissions to tion, the world’s CO2 emission would 5) Review of Maritime Transport, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), 2008. 6) Dry cargo transports in the figure only relate to the Company’s Contract of Affreightment business which constituted 42 million tonnes in 2010. In addition hereto are the Company’s spot business activities and cargo carried on vessels chartered out. The tanker business is conducted by Norient Product Pool and the 19 million tonnes encompass all spot business conducted by the pool. 7) IMO’s “Second IMO GHG Study 2009”. NORD MARINER discharging salt in Kalundborg. Environment 7 Environment Through the Danish Shipowners’ AsCO2 emissions are affected by a number parameters relevant to the Company’s sociation, the International Chamber of of conditions: The number of ship days, business as discussed on page 5. DiShipping (ICS) and the International Asvoyage duration, speed (slow steaming) rect energy consumption and direct CO2 sociation of Independent Tanker Owners and routes, volumes transported, balemissions (scope 1) relate to all vessels (Intertanko), NORDEN supports giving last voyages, weather conditions together and company cars owned by the Comthe International Maritime Organisation with climate and environmental initiapany. Indirect energy consumption and (IMO) the mandate to enforce global clitives. Therefore, the Company’s emisindirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) relate mate and environmental regulation with sions are not directly comparable from to land-based activities, including elecequal requirements for all shipping comyear to year. tricity and heating. SOx, NOx and waste panies. Concurrently, NORDEN works consumption, like direct CO2 emissions, with initiatives that benefit the Company The table below displays NORDEN’s relate to all vessels owned by the Comtogether with the climate and the envienvironmental performance on various pany. ronment in a wide sense. CO2 emissions from NORDEN's owned Policy on environment vessels increased by more than 30% in 2010 to 510,200 tonnes (see the ta”NORDEN wishes to help improve maritime safety and limit polble below). This should be seen in the lution from vessels. The continuous improvement of NORDEN’s light of the fact that the number of own environmental performance is not only best for the environment, vessels at year-end 2010 had grown by but also the best solution for NORDEN’s stakeholders. NORDEN 50%. Emissions from operated vessels have also increased due, however, partly is aware that its activities may contribute to climate change, and to a significant increase in the number of NORDEN has therefore established numerous initiatives to reduce ship days. air emissions – both off and on shore.” Environmental performance Unit 2008 2009 2010 Energy consumption Intermediate fuel oil (from owned vessels) 1,000 tonnes 157.4 128.4 162.6 Marine diesel oil and marine gas oil (from owned vessels) 1,000 tonnes 2.2 2.7 6.2 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source(a) TJ 6,623.9 5,442.8 7,015.8 Electricity and district heating MWh 2,166.1 2,039.5 1,691.2 Indirect energy consumption by primary source TJ 7.8 7.3 6.1 CO2 emissions(b), (c), (d) Total from owned vessels 1,000 tonnes 374.0 379.4 510.2 Other dry cargo vessels operated by NORDEN 1,000 tonnes 2,268.3 1,798.4 1,918.3 Other tanker vessels operated by NORDEN via Norient Product Pool 1,000 tonnes 378.5 447.1 359.7 Total direct CO2 emissions (scope 1) 1,000 tonnes 374.0 379.5 510.2 Total indirect CO2 emissions (scope 2) 1,000 tonnes 0.6 0.6 0.5 Total other indirect CO2 emissions (scope 3) 1,000 tonnes 2,647.3 2,247.5 2,279.9 Other air emissions (from owned vessels) SOx emissions (weighted as SO2)(e) 1,000 tonnes 6.8 NOx emissions (weighted as NO2)(f) 1,000 tonnes 10.8 Other resource consumption (from owned vessels) Waste (average per vessel per month) Cubic meter 6.0 5.6 4.7 (a) The figure includes energy consumption from owned vessels, not owned company cars. (b) The basis for calculations has been expanded which explains the small deviations in the emissions figures from the ones published in the CSR report 2009. (c) CO2 emissions from vessels are calculated from the fuel quantity consumed on a voyage times the duration of the voyage (calculated pro rata) times the CO2 emissions factor for each bunker type (for residual fuel oil the CO2 emissions factor is 3.13, and for marine diesel oil and marine gas oil the CO2 emissions factor is 3.19. Source:”Second IMO GHG Study 2009”). (d) Scope 1 emissions include emissions from owned vessels and also emissions from owned company cars. Scope 2 emissions include emissions from land-based activities at NORDEN’s offices worldwide, except the Annapolis office since electricity is integrated in rental costs. Scope 3 emissions include emissions from chartered vessels, business travel by air transport and leased company cars. (e) SOx emissions are weighted as SO2 emissions since this is presumably what the emissions will become in time. SO2 emissions are calculated from the fuel quantity consumed during the year times the average sulphur content in the bunker fuel (in 2010: 2.09%) times 0.02 since sulphur is about twice as heavy as oxygen. The formula is provided by MAN Diesel & Turbo SE. (f) NOx emissions are weighted as NO2 emissions since this is presumably what the emissions will become in time. NO2 emissions are calculated from the fuel quantity consumed per vessel during the year divided by the specific fuel oil consumption (which depends on the vessel’s engine type). This figure is multiplied the NOx limit which is assumed 12 for all vessels since the rated engine speed for all NORDEN’s vessels is 720-900 revolutions per minute. The formula is provided by MAN Diesel & Turbo SE. 8 Environment CO2 emissions Permitted and actual sulphur content in bunkers Carbon dioxide (CO2) is a greenhouse gas (GHG) which is believed to cause changSulphur limit, globally Sulphur limit, ECAs Sulphur content, NORDEN, globally es to the climate. International shipping, % which carries 80-90% of global trade, is estimated to have emitted 870 million 5 tonnes, or about 2.7% of the global emis4 sions of CO2 in 2007. CO2 is the most 3 important GHG emitted by vessels. Both 2.51 2.30 2.27 2.09 2.00 in terms of quantity and of global warm2 ing potential, other GHG emissions from 1 vessels are less important. For NORDEN, the majority of CO2 is emitted when burn0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 aim 2012 aim 2015 aim 2020 aim ing fossil fuels in the operation of vessels. NORDEN’s CO2 emissions are calculated climate change strategies. NORDEN uct Pool. The target for 2010 was to in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas was included in the Carbon Disclosure reduce the sulphur content to 2.2% on Protocol using the financial control apLeadership Index 2010 as one of the 20 average, and the target was met with an proach where emissions are divided into best reporting companies in the Nordic actual content of 2.09% on average. This scope 1, 2 and 3 as displayed in the tacountries and the best shipping commeans that NORDEN has reduced the ble on page 7. Emissions from vessels pany. This as well as previous responses sulphur content in bunker fuel by 17% compose the vast majority of the emisare available on the Company’s website, in 4 years since policies where implesions and therefore NORDEN’s efforts in www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr. mented in 2007. reducing emissions are mainly concentrated on initiatives that will reduce the Other emissions to air The limit of sulphur content in bunker consumption of bunker fuel. Even though sulphur oxide (SOx) disfuel is determined by IMO, and NORDEN solves easily in water, it is harmful to is well positioned in reaching the progresNORDEN supports disclosure of CO2 people and the environment in general. sive limitations which will apply in the emissions in order to bring focus on 5% of all SOx emissions come from ships future.8 Besides the decreasing average the issue, and the Company has thereand therefore NORDEN focuses on initiacontent of sulphur in combusted bunker fore in 2010, for the third consecutive tives that reduce emissions of SOx. fuel, NORDEN complies with applicable year, responded to the Carbon Disclorequirements which also comprise resure Project (CDP). CDP is a project NORDEN continuously seeks to reduce gional differences, including Emissions driven by institutional investors where the sulphur content in bunker fuel which Control Areas (ECA). 3,000 organisations globally measis being purchased for all vessels operure and disclose GHG emissions and ated by the Company and Norient ProdNitrogen oxide (NOx) causes smog and acid rain, and it harms people, animals and plants. In addition, NOx creates NORDEN's efforts on reducing emissions are focused primarily on emissions ozone which harms the climate. from vessels which compose the vast majority of the emissions. Where emissions of NOx are concerned, a reduction in emissions of about 1214% per tonne of fuel consumed has been identified for regulated (Tier I) engines as compared to pre-regulation (Tier 0) engines.9 Vessels built after 1 January 2000 are assumed to be Tier I-compliant.10 Since NORDEN operates a young fleet, with the average years of operation for the core fleet being only 2.9 years, the vast majority of the vessels are Tier I-compliant. 8) Today the limit is 4.5%, which will be reduced to 3.5% in 2012 and to 0.5% from 2020. In the Emissions Control Areas (ECA), including the North Sea, the Baltic Sea and the English Channel, the sulphur content limit is currently 1.5%, and will also be further reduced in the future. (source:”Prevention of Air Pollution from Ships” regulated under MARPOL Annex VI, IMO resolution A.719(17)). IMO is in the process of making Canada and North American ECAs which is scheduled to commence in 2012, however, it remains to be decided. 9) IMO’s “Second IMO GHG Study 2009”. 10) IMO’s “Second IMO GHG Study 2009”. Environment 9 Reduction of emissions Since 2007, NORDEN has sold 38 vesable nozzle ring, which means that the Since 2007, NORDEN has followed a sels on which several of the mentioned air pressure of the turbo charger can be plan with initiatives in order to improve initiatives have been implemented. This adjusted to the strain of the vessel. With the environment by reducing propulsion will benefit the new owners of the vessels this new turbo charger, the utilisation of resistance and optimising engine fuel efas well as the climate. Since NORDEN energy will remain the same regardless of ficiency which are important factors in buys and sells vessels on an ongoing bawhether the vessel is performing at 85% reducing emissions to air. The initiatives sis, NORDEN will never reach full impleor 60-75%. Savings in consumption of are evaluated on an ongoing basis and mentation of all initiatives. In 2010, the bunker fuel and thereby CO2 and SOx some have shown only to have a minor above initiatives were effective on owned emissions are expected to be approxieffect on emissions reductions and it has vessels in 51% of the vessel months on mately 3%. therefore been decided not to continue average. with these initiatives.11 Furthermore, the Green Ship of the Future initiatives have in 2010 been suppleIn addition to the above initiatives, NORGreen Ship of the Future is a cooperation mented with the installation of electric DEN has initiated the shift to new botinitiated during 2008 in which compaheaters on Handysize product tankers. tom paint which will decrease the vesnies across the Danish maritime industry The table below shows the initiatives sels’ propulsion resistance in water. The join forces in order to develop strategies which reduce emissions of CO2, SOx and effect is up to 2% reduction of bunker to reduce CO2 by 30%, SOx and NOx by NOx. consumption and thereby CO2 and SOx 90% as well as particulate emissions emissions. from both existing vessels and newbuildIt is calculated that the effort in 2010 ings. has reduced CO2 emissions from owned In connection with the upgrade and revessels by 4.7%, of which 2% can be atbuilding for ice class, NORD NEPTUNE NORDEN is a partner in Green Ship of tributed specifically to propeller and hull will be equipped with the newest techthe Future and the Company is part of cleaning. The effect is calculated based nology within turbo chargers. The turbo a new project as described on page 12 on assumptions about engine size, encharger in a ship’s engine is usually opwhich commenced in the beginning of gine type and ballast conditions, and the timised to a performance of 85%. If less 2011. Previously, NORDEN participated effect of the initiatives is estimated based performance is required, for example in in the maturing of the GreenSteamTM syson guidelines from IMO and Intertanko. connection with slow steaming, less cartem which is now implemented on 5 curDet Norske Veritas (DNV) has verified the go intake or, as in this case, waters withrently NORDEN owned vessels. data and calculations of the emissions out ice, a normal turbo charger will not reductions and in DNV’s opinion, NORgenerate enough pressure and thus reDEN’s data provide a fair and credible sult in poor utilisation of energy. The new representation of NORDEN’s effort.12 turbo charger is equipped with a variIntiatives to reduce emissions to air 1. Latest design of main engine slide 3. Main engine cylinder oil scrape down 9. Increased frequency of overhauls valves – ensures clean combustion analysis system – optimal lubrication of the vessel's scavenge air coolin the ship’s engine. and better combustion. ers. 2. CASPER system – Computer Analy4. Alpha-lubrication system – minimises 10. Increased frequency of overhauls sis of Ship PERformance monitors the combustion of lubricating oil. of the vessel's fuel oil pumps and makes it possible to achieve 5. Torque measuring system – best posand injectors. optimal speed in relation to fuel sible calibration of the engine. 11. GreenSteamTM – a system for consumption. trim optimisation. 6. Full blasting of underwater hulls. 7. Propeller polishing. 12. Electric heaters – improves energy efficiency. 8. Increased frequency of overhauls of 2 11 the vessel's turbo chargers. 3 5 7 8 9 10 12 1 4 6 7 Focus areas on a typical product tanker. 11) The FLAME system has been excluded since the scope of this system is covered by initiative 3 and 5 above, and part of general main engine performance monitoring. Furthermore, waste monitoring does not assist in reducing emissions to air, however, the initiative is still applicable for monitoring waste. 12) The assurance statement from DNV is available on NORDEN’s website, www.ds-norden.com/profile/csr. 10 Environment NORDKAP heading towards Rio Tinto Alcan's facilities in La Baie, Canada. Resource saving initiatives Besides the initiatives on existing vesAchievement of both environmental and financial gains sels, on which NORDEN can impleIn collaboration with Jiangmen Nanyang Shipyard (JNS), Shanghai Bestway Mament measures to a certain extent, the rine Engineering Design and Stone Marine Propulsion, NORDEN has optimised 2 Company has made energy efficiency Handysize vessels on order by installing a larger main engine and a larger propelan important parameter when the Comler. The change will reduce the consumption of bunker fuel by 11%. pany contracts new vessels or enters into agreements on long-term chartered ton“This is not rocket science, this is basic naval architect knowledge, but until now, nage. This is good for the environment the time has not been right for such strong focus on fuel consumption and redebut also for NORDEN on the bottom line. sign as we have today. Now, the opportunity was there, and we had to grab it,” The Company is in dialogue with shipsays Senior Newbuilding Manager Alex Hjortnæs. yards and business partners in optimising vessel designs. Just 3 years ago when the shipping industry was on its highest and there was a shortage of yard capacity, the main priority was to get the ships sailing as quickly NORDEN has in 2010 entered into 2 as possible whereas fuel consumption was of less importance. Now, times have long-term agreements to charter new changed, and projects to optimise the value of ships and fuel economy are welJapanese-built Panamax vessels, socomed by both yards and shipping companies. called “eco-ships”. The new design of the vessels are expected to reduce the “According to our calculations, the investments in redesigning the 2 Handysize consumption of bunker fuel and thereby vessels will be paid back within 4 years. Furthermore, we expect that the design CO2 and SOx emissions by 15-20% per will increase the market value of the ships. The initiative is a prime example that vessel compared to the conventional deenvironmental and financial consideration go hand in hand,” says Senior Vice signs. The decrease equals a reduction President Lars Lundegaard, Head of the Technical Department. of bunker fuel worth USD 2,500-3,000 per day on average based on current bunker prices (March 2011). create an automated platform for voyage substantial time savings since all inforand vessel control, and thereby reduce mation is consolidated into one system. Slow steaming and voyage optimisation and optimise the workload for operators. The 4.7% reduction in CO2 emissions as In the operation of the Company’s dry mentioned on page 9 is calculated withIn 2010, MOEPS was applied to operate cargo vessels, the voyages are also conout the effect of slow steaming. Norient on average 34 vessels in the spot marstantly monitored and calculations are Product Pool which operates all NORket, and it is estimated that MOEPS has manually made to optimise speed and DEN’s tanker vessels has developed the resulted in savings of bunker fuel of more consumption. This implies that slow system MOEPS (Master’s Operations Enthan USD 10 million. In terms of emissteaming is conducted when appropriate. vironmental Performance System) which sions, MOEPS reduced CO2 and SOx by is a tool for voyage optimisation and 16%. Besides the USD 10 million saved thereby reduction in the consumption of on bunker, which is directly related to the bunker fuel. MOEPS was developed to bottom line, the system has also meant Environment 11 Ballast water management on page 7, NORDEN has reduced the environment or quality and the slight Ballast water is used to stabilise a vessel amount of disposed waste by just under increase in operating costs on tanker when sailing in ballast from one destina9% annually the previous 2 years. vessels is attributable to the increased tion to another. Ballast water taken up efforts on vetting. in one part of the world and discharged Vetting inspection and Port State Control elsewhere implies microorganisms beNORDEN constantly strives to improve Another measure for safety and qualing introduced to new waters where they occupational safety and quality on board ity at sea is deficiencies per inspection might do harm. When loading ballast waowned vessels in order to reduce the risk conducted by the Port State. A Port State ter, NORDEN will do what it can to avoid of injury, grounding, wrecks, spills and Control (PSC) is the inspection of foreign the uptake of potentially harmful aquatic any other incidents that might impact the vessels in national ports to verify that the organisms.13 The Company’s ballast waexternal environment. condition of the vessel and its equipment ter management is in compliance with comply with the requirements of interthe IMO rules from 2004.14 In order to ensure that a vessel is suitnational regulations and that the vessel able for chartering, vetting inspections is manned and operated in compliance NORDEN conducts a systematic benchare conducted. It is mainly oil compawith these rules. The PSC regime is an marking of ballast water management in nies that conduct vetting inspections instrument to control and protect the the fleet to ensure constant focus and since they are highly concerned with the safety of the crew and to protect the envipressure on improving results. The Comhandling of cargo in order to avoid spills, ronment. The increased focus on vetting pany measures the extent of ballast water etc. In the past years, the quality requireinspections has had a positive effect on per vessel, conducts statistics of the rements from the oil companies have been the results of PSCs, where the number of sults, and shares this knowledge with the tightened. NORDEN has a very high foremarks for NORDEN’s vessels has been vessels both continuously and at officers’ cus on vetting inspections, and the goal almost halved during 2010 to an average seminars. is maximum 3 vetting remarks and zero of 0.67 against 1.41 the year before.17 rejections per inspection. This increased Disposal of waste focus has meant that the average numIn the Company, disposal of waste is ber of remarks decreased significantly Vetting and Port State Controls handled in accordance with the rules from 2009 to 2010, and is also well beVetting remarks per vessel (left axis) PSC deficiencies per vessel (right axis) set out by IMO.15 Discharge of waste to low the average of the industry which for port facilities is given first priority in NOR2010 was 5.95 compared to NORDEN’s Vetting remarks PSC deficiencies DEN although disposal at sea is possible 3.94.16 NORDEN was in 2010 approved per vessel per vessel under the MARPOL Annex VI. All disfor time charter voyages by all leading oil 9.0 3.6 posal of waste is closely monitored in the companies. Costs are under strict man7.5 3.0 Company and, as displayed in the table agement without compromising safety, 6.0 2.4 4.5 1.8 3.0 1.2 1.5 0.6 0.0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 NORD FAST (IMO no. 9316608), in technical management by third party, was detained by the authorities for a day in Fawley, England, on 8 September 2010 due to a faulty lifeboat release mechanism. The mechanism was overhauled and the lifeboat could thereafter be set out in the usual way. NORD FAST was released the following day, on 9 September 2010. NORDEN has a very high focus on vetting inspections the goal is zero rejections and maximum 3 remarks per inspection. 13) Uptake of ballast water is minimised or, where practicable, avoided in areas and situations such as areas identified by the Port State; in darkness when bottom-dwelling organisms may rise up in the water; or where propellers may stir up sediment. Furthermore, when exchanging ballast water this will be conducted in deep water, in open ocean and as far as possible from shore. The ballast water will be discharged until suction is lost, and stripping pumps or educators will be used if possible. Where the flow-through method is employed in open ocean by pumping ballast water into the tank or hold and allowing the water to overflow, at least 3 times the tank volume will be pumped through the tank. 14) ”Guidelines for the Control and Management of Ship’s Ballast Water to minimize the Transfer of Harmful Aquatic Organisms and Pathogenes”, IMO resolution A.868(20). 15) ”Prevention of Pollution from Ships” regulated under MARPOL Annex VI, IMO resolution A.719(17). 16) As industry benchmark for 2010 the Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark is used. 17) The Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark for 2010 was on average 0.82. 12 Environment NORDEN will continue the efforts on initiatives to reduce consumption of bunker fuel and emissions to air. On shore initiatives implementation is to ensure a more au2015. The basis for the project is a newly Even though operation of vessels has tomated optimisation of voyage planning. built 38,500 dwt. tanker from NORDEN, the greatest impact on the environment, and the project partners are expected to initiatives on shore to improve the enviNORDEN expects to strengthen its work deliver results during 2011. In the proronment have also been taken where it with energy efficiency on future vessels ject, the use of low-sulphur fuel/distilmakes sense. through the internal project “NORDEN late will function as reference case as to Eco vessel of the future” with participathe feasibility of the other 2 investigated On shore, NORDEN introduced resource tion of several departments. The aim of technologies. The alternative technolosaving solutions in 2010 in a number of the project is to select a set of practicable gies will be evaluated by means of variareas, including IT, lighting, copying maemission reduction technologies, using ous scenarios considering operational chines and the use of video conferencing an MR product tanker as reference vesprofiles and fuel, and evaluation will take facilities. Furthermore, the Mumbai office sel. The aim is to reduce emissions of up into account that the vessel will be sailing moved to new locations where the office to 25%. in both ECA and non-ECA waters. is now situated in the LEED Platinumcertified building, Kalpataru Square.18 Moreover, in the beginning of 2011, In 2011, NORDEN will maintain focus on NORDEN chartered 3 Panamax vessels, vetting inspections and PSCs with goals Initiatives in 2011 the so-called eco-ships , for a period of for vettings of maximum 3 remarks and The efforts to make existing vessels and 8 years, and fuel consumption for these zero rejections per inspection and for the significant number of newbuildings vessels is 15-20% lower than for standPSCs of zero detentions. more energy efficient continue with the ard designs. implementation of NORDEN’s current During 2012, a new international coninitiatives together with a few new initiaThe sulphur content in bunker fuel on vention on vessels' ballast water is extives, including installation of frequencyall operated vessels is expected to be repected to enter into force. The convenregulated main engine cooling pumps duced to 2% on average in 2011 against tion implies that all vessels, regardless of and installation of Coriolis flow metres the average content of 2.09% in 2010. building date and ballast water capacity, which provide an opportunity to more acmust either change ballast water or hancurately measure bunker consumption. NORDEN is part of a new project under dle it with approved equipment on board. The former will be installed on vessels Green Ship of the Future which comIt is expected that the first mentioned when in dock, the latter will be installed menced in the beginning of 2011. The possibility will be phased out within the on 2 Handysize product tankers. The project will compare 3 different technolonext few years. With NORDEN’s contintarget is to further reduce CO2 emissions gies, low-sulphur/distillate, LNG as fuel ued focus on ballast water management, from the owned fleet. To this should be and scrubber technology. The aim is to the Company will be prepared for the added the effects of MOEPS, which will meet the future IMO requirements statnew international convention. be implemented in a special version on ing that the sulphur content in bunker the Dry Cargo core fleet in 2011. This fuel in ECAs must not exceed 0.1% from 18) LEED certification is an independent, third-party verification that a building project is environmentally responsible, profitable and a healthy place to live and work. Social dimensions 13 Social dimensions NORDEN’s focus on the social dimension mainly relates to ensuring a healthy, Policy on human rights safe and secure working environment, ”NORDEN supports and respects the protection of human rights and especially for employees off shore since they are exposed to the greatest risks. On refrains from any actions that may encourage or contribute to infrinshore as well as off shore there is great gement of these rights.” focus on employees' welfare, education and development. Policy on labour rights “NORDEN strives to ensure a safe and healthy working environment for The above will also benefit NORDEN on its employees. Safety and working environment conditions must at all the bottom line since it will minimise employee turnover and sick leave. times meet current legislation as a minimum. NORDEN seeks to prevent and avoid occupational injuries and accidents as well as other work-reHealth and safety at sea lated suffering and to limit absence due to illness among the employees.” NORDEN constantly strives to improve occupational health and safety for emmust not exceed 0.4‰ at any time and number of incidents that has resulted in ployees on board owned vessels in order must be zero for watch-keeping personmedical treatment (total recordable case to reduce the risk of incidents. The unnel. Abstinence for 24 hours before arrivfrequency – TRCF) is measured on an altered aim is zero incidents, obtained ing in port and during the entire port stay ongoing basis, and was reportedly 5.68 by computer-based training, campaigns, must be observed. Violations of the policy per 1 million working hours in 2010, unbriefings and safety meetings, inspecare subject to disciplinary actions and posfortunately up from 3.68 in 2009. There tions and Key Performance Indicators sible dismissal with immediate effect. The is no clear-cut explanation for this in(KPIs) for officers. relatively liberal position on alcohol is due crease, and focus will continue on the to the Company’s wish for the crew to be development. Again in 2010, no incidents were reable to enjoy an occasional beer or a glass ported that had an impact on the exterof wine for off duty personnel. Compliance Crucial in the prevention of accidents nal environment. However, there was a with the alcohol policy is ensured by ranand incidents is the reporting of nearslight increase in other incidents which dom and unannounced tests of the crew. misses – incidents that could have resultcould be a result of growth in the fleet. ed in injury. Campaigns as an integrated The most serious incident was a fire in Off shore, NORDEN measures workpart of safety meetings and officers’ the auxiliary engine on NORDPOL. The related incidents per 1 million working seminars encourage crew members to fire was quickly extinguished due to a hours which result in occupational illness report instances where they are faced with fast and determined effort from the crew. causing absence from work for more a near-miss. These reports are evaluated than 24 hours – also called the LTI (lost continuously on each vessel, and reports The Master on NORD FAST, in technical time injury) frequency rate. The LTI freof a more fundamental nature are made management by third party, was in auquency rate is measured as an average available across the fleet for best practice tumn 2010 reported to the authorities for over the past 12 months. The previous 3 sharing. In 2010, the number of near-miss being under the influence of alcohol and years, this rate has been at a stable level reports was again on a satisfactory level was therefore dismissed with immediate below 2, and below the industry standand almost twice as high as the average effect. NORDEN has an alcohol policy ard for 2010.19 None of the incidents in for the industry. This is attributable to the stating that the blood alcohol content the Company were life-threatening. The high focus on reporting of near-misses.20 Near-miss reporting LTI frequency rate Near-misses Near-misses per vessel per week Lost Time Injuries per 1 million working hours Total number of near-miss reports Near-miss reports per vessel per week 480 2.4 5.0 400 2.0 4.0 320 1.6 3.0 240 1.2 2.0 160 0.8 1.0 80 0.4 0 0.0 0.0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2009 2010 19) The Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark for 2010 was 1.38 on average compared to NORDEN’s 1.20 on average. 20) The Tanker Safety Forum’s benchmark for 2010 was 39.69 per vessel compared to NORDEN’s 76.96 per vessel. 14 Social dimensions Piracy Pirate attack on NORD STRAIT Over the years, piracy has become an In December 2010, pirates attacked NORD STRAIT approximately 950 nautical increasing problem. In 2010, 445 piracy miles off the coast of Somalia and shot at the vessel. The crew followed all safety attacks – 39 more than the previous year procedures professionally, and the attack was fended off with no harm being done – were reported according to the Internato crew or vessel. tional Maritime Bureau.21 Of these, 219 occurred off the coast of Somalia, in the Not only did the number of attacks increase in 2010, also the area in which the Gulf of Aden and the Red Sea. pirates operate was expanded. This development could be due to the pirates’ increasing use of captured merchant vessels as mother ships. This enables them to Piracy represents a growing threat to remain at sea for longer periods and consequently, extend their area of operation. international shipping, and the problem Since this has the additional effect that the naval forces have to spread over a should be solved at an international level. larger area, it means that the perceived risk for pirates of being caught by naval NORDEN therefore seeks, via the Danforces is very low, which of course incentivises the pirates. Also, pirates are raish Shipowners’ Association and ICS and pidly becoming more organised in the sense that they are able to continuously run through direct dialogue with politicians, the bigger operation of bunkering and provisioning the mother ships, as well as to maintain pressure on international re-fuelling and re-provisioning the skiffs from the mother ships. As a consequence society in order to have significant naval of the long-range capability, the pirates have been able to mount more attacks but forces in threatened areas. due to the effectiveness of the BMP3 measures, the number of actual highjackings has not risen significantly. At the same time, NORDEN increases the efforts to protect crew, cargo and “Under special circumstances, or if the pirate attacks escalate, NORDEN is open vessels. In 2010, new precautionary to the idea of bringing armed guards on board the vessels to protect the crew, measures were introduced on board vescargoes and vessels,” says Senior Vice President Lars Lundegaard, Head of the sels, including, among other things, citaTechnical Department. dels for crew on vessels having to transit threatened areas. The measures taken by NORDEN fully live up to the BMP3 standard and go even further than the standard in some areas.22 The Company constantly monitors threatened areas, and risk zones are only transited after a case-by-case evaluation. At present, the Company has chosen not to call certain ports, while in other areas, vessels are being rerouted. In the Gulf of Aden, the Company’s vessels only transit in groups through safe corridors under the protection of naval forces. Furthermore, NORDEN takes a number of individual measures to prepare the vessels for the transit. The vessels sail at maximum speed and with the highest possible freeboard, and they must be equipped with various safety measures, including NATO razor wire, dummies, fog nozzles to create water sprays and waterfall along the sides of the vessel. Water sprays and waterfalls are some NATO razor wire is one of the measures of the measures used to avoid pirates to prepare a vessel for transit through boarding the vessel. the Gulf of Aden. 21) ICC International Maritime Bureau’s annual report on Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships, 1 January – 31 December 2010. 22) BMP3: Best Management Practices to Deter Piracy off the Coast of Somalia and in Arabian Sea Area, Version 3 – June 2010. Social dimensions 15 Employees on and off shore rest.24 At sea, there can be special cases new trainees and apprentices. 10 shipThe distribution on gender and position where it may sometimes be difficult to ping trainees, 4 at the head office and for the head office and each overseas comply with the rules for rest hours. These 6 at the overseas offices, were recruited office is displayed in the figure below.23 cases concern vessel safety such as emerunder NORDEN’s own international trainThe majority of the employees in NORgencies, incidents or sudden changes to ing programme, which was launched in DEN are male. On shore, about 2/3 are the schedule for loading or discharging. 2010. In 2010, 6 Danish and 5 internamale and off shore the vast majority are tional trainees completed their training, male. Historically, shipping is mainly a NORDEN has much focus on compliand at the end of the year, the Company male profession with the female share ance with the rules for rest hours at sea. had 13 shipping trainees enrolled for being low. Reportings from the vessels are closely education. monitored and measured. In 2009, The retention rate on shore was particuthe Company had 0.44 rest hour nonBesides recruitment of trainees, investlarly under pressure during the first half conformity per full-time equivalent.25 ments in training own officers continof 2010 and ended at 82.5% for the full In 2010, this figure decreased to 0.40 ued in 2010. NORDEN hired 10 new year, compared to some 90% in recent which is considered very low. The 2010 students from Svendborg International years. There was no clear-cut explanation figure means that on a vessel with 20 Maritime Academy (SIMAC) and Marstal for this development, and the Company crew members, there were 8 violations of Navigationsskole (MARNAV) and now Performance Driver survey conducted in the rules for rest hours per month, or less has 32 apprentice officers from Danish February 2010 indicated a high level of than half of the crew members on averinstitutions and 40 apprentice officers employee satisfaction. More than 90% age experienced a violation of the rules. from the Holy Cross of Davao College in of the respondents would recommend the Philippines. NORDEN as a good place to work. NevTrainees and apprentices ertheless, the survey also showed relaAgain in 2010, the Company employed tively low scores on aspects concerning internal communication and feedback Distribution of workforce on gender and position between employee and immediate superior and across departments. To improve Employees, female Management, female Employees, male Management, male on these parameters, NORDEN initiated % a communications initiative including 100 training for all employees on shore. 80 The number of sick days decreased 60 slightly from the year before. NORDEN has much focus on healthy nutrition and 40 offers various forms of sport. 20 On shore, the Company has a commit0 Copenhagen Singapore Shanghai Mumbai Rio de Janeiro Annapolis tee covering matters relating to the working environment. For the head office, this comprises 5 members: 2 employee Workforce representatives and 3 management repUnit 2008 2009 2010 resentatives. In 2010, a workplace asWorkforce, average for the year sessment was carried out which did not Offshore staff No. of people 356 310 445 identify significant problems. After the Head office No. of people 158 152 148 assessment, sun screens were put up on Overseas offices No. of people 52 71 74 an extension to the head office in order to improve the indoor climate. Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Offshore employees Percentage 100% 100% 100% Off shore, all of NORDEN’s owned vesOnshore employees Percentage 0% 0% 0% sels have a safety organisation consisting Retention rate and sick days of a safety representative, a supervisor Retention rate officers Percentage 73.2% 76.3% and the Master of the vessel. Retention rate on shore Percentage 88.4% 88.8% 82.5% Rest hours Average sick days on shore (a) Days 3.3 4.0 2.8 In order to maintain high quality perfor(a) Sick days off shore are not included in the figures since this is contained in the LTI and TRCF as described on page mance at work, it is important to ensure 13. 23) Management level is defined as employees at and above general manager level. 24) NORDEN follows the rules for rest hours set up by the International Labour Organisation, Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping and relevant collective agreements. 25) 0.44 non-conformity per full-time equivalent equals 0.44 violations per 1 crew member onboard a vessel during 1 month. 16 Social dimensions Crew on board The crew on board NORDEN’s owned Head office trainee with a strong eye for detail and a systematic approach vessels are mainly Danish and Philippine. Daniel is 17 years old. His school life was characterised by defeats, he was conIt is required that vessels flying one of the sidered unmotivated and was tired of school. 2 years ago, he was diagnosed with EU flags have Masters of EU nationality. Asperger’s syndrome. Persons with Asperger’s syndrome have a passion for detail In NORDEN, it has been decided to have and order and a systematic approach but find it difficult to interact socially. Danish Masters on Danish registered dry cargo vessels and Danish Masters For 6 months, Daniel was playing World of Warcraft between 18 and 20 hours and senior officers on Danish registered a day at home until his mother succeeded in getting into contact with Speciatanker vessels. This is due to the need of listerne (the Specialists) through the local authorities.26 Specialisterne is an IT a pool of talent to recruit from, requireconsulting firm specialised in making use of skills like the ones Daniel has in the ments from customers, and a wish to business community. Specialisterne provided training for Daniel and offered him support maritime employment in NORa traineeship with NORDEN’s IT Department. 1 or 2 days a week he solves tasks DEN’s country of origin. The majority of for the IT Department, such as testing computer screens, setting up wireless netall other seamen are Philippine together works on NORDEN’s owned vessels and correcting errors on PCs and laptops for with a growing number of Indians. This the benefit of his colleagues who now have more time to solve other tasks. is due to NORDEN’s access to talented crew from, among other places, the Holy Cross of Davao College and NORDEN’s good experience with Philippine crew. It has proved a challenge, however, to retain seamen from the Philippines, where the market is under pressure as more shipping companies have started recruiting Philippine seamen. As part of its effort to attract and retain seamen, NORDEN offers training, cadet programmes and scholarships, and health care insurance for seamen and their families. Also, the Company offers a wide range of seminars, including training, development of officers and topical issues, as well as internet access and sport facilities, etc. on board vessels. The retention rate off shore, calculated according to Intertanko’s standard, is at the same level for Danish and non-Danish officers. The Philippine crew are only employed with NORDEN when signed on to a vessel. However, NORDEN pays an attractive salary compared to an average Philippine salary, enabling the crew to provide for their families when not at sea. Furthermore, NORDEN provides medical care for the Philippine crew including It is cool to be a trainee here at NORDEN. They take me seriously and allow their closest family. me to do lots of things. For the first time in my life, I feel responsibility for the tasks I am given and towards the people I work with,” Daniel says. Sponsoring of maritime education In 2010, NORDEN once again sponsored maritime educational institutions. (Singapore) and the Holy Cross of Davao employees. In addition to this, NORThe agreement with Shanghai Maritime College (the Philippines) continued. The DEN has arranged for a donation of University (China) was renewed, and the goal is to create dialogue with professors DKK 3.8 million to the SIMAC/Svendcooperation with other institutions such and students as well as to broaden the borg Søfartsskole (Denmark). as Nanyang Technological University knowledge of NORDEN among potential 26) For further information about Specialisterne, please see www.specialisterne.dk. Social dimensions 17 Anti-coruption With reliability being one of NORDEN’s Policy on anti-coruption values, the Company aspires to demon“NORDEN neither accepts nor offers bribes.” strate a behaviour that reflects no cheating, honest and good intentions and building trust in the Company’s internal as well as external relationships. NORencouraged and safeguarded, NORDEN crease in the number of owned vessels. DEN is setting up policies to reflect this has decided to establish a whistleblowThis will involve focus on retention of the and to guide employees in their business ing scheme covering potential issues on best employees, hiring and acceleration relationships. The policies are inspired and off shore. The scheme will allow emof the promotion of junior officers to senby Transparency International.27 ployees, the Board of Management and ior officers. the Board of Directors to report existing Transparency International defines “bribor potential violations of law and regulaNORDEN will continue the focus on comery” as “the offering, promising, giving, tions, NORDEN policies and guidelines plying with the rules for personnel rest accepting or soliciting of an advantage as to an independent ombudsman. The hours where the goal is 100% compliance. an inducement for an action which is ilscheme is subject to approval by the legal or a breach of trust.” Danish Data Protection Agency. The The communications initiative will be new whistleblowing scheme will replace carried on by an appointed cross-departBribery is illegal and NORDEN neither the current system applicable off shore mental and cross-level task force definaccepts nor offers bribes in any form. To which again in 2010 did not give rise to ing focus areas, implementation and avoid any conflict with this rule and to any reported incidents. measurements to obtain a permanent ensure that no giving or receiving of gifts effect. can be confused with bribery, NORDEN Initiatives in 2011 is setting up policies on the subject apAt sea, NORDEN will maintain its focus Another employee satisfaction survey plying to all NORDEN employees. on the “zero incidents” efforts to avoid inwill be conducted, and the Company will juries on employees and incidents which seek to develop employee and manageFacilitation payments are harmful to the external environment. ment competences and identify other Transparency International defines “faAlso the measures to increase safety and measures to further strengthen cross-decilitation payments” as “small unofficial security on board the vessels will have partmental relations within the Company. payments made to secure or expedite the high priority. The target for the LTI freFocus will be particularly on retaining performance of a routine or necessary quency rate is a rate of less than 0.75 employees. action to which the payer of the facilitaand the target for near-miss reporting is tion payment has legal or other entitleabove 1 per vessel per week. NORDEN will continue the work towards ment.” a future elimination of facilitation payThe Company will continue recruiting ments, and the Company’s whistleblowNORDEN strives to avoid the use of facilisenior officers to handle the steady ining scheme will be implemented. tation payments. Facilitation payments are customary in some geographies, and NORDEN employees are therefore occasionally faced with situations, where facilitation payments are common for services which should be provided without any payment. The Company supports the Danish Shipowners’ Association, ICS and other international forums in their work to eventually eliminate such payments. Furthermore, NORDEN is part of a newly established network of international shipping companies on anti-corruption which places great focus on how to avoid facilitation payments. Whistleblowing scheme NORDEN will maintain its focus on the zero incidents efforts to avoid injuries To provide an environment in which on employees and incidents which are harmful to the external environment. high standards and best practices are 27) Transparency International is a non-governmental organisation working to fight corruption. For further information, please see www.transparency.org. 18 Economic Economic 2010 was a good year for NORDEN. NORDEN's active core fleet at 31 December 2010 Earnings increased even though the DIS flag, SRS flag, Other flags, Avg. years of dry cargo market was unaltered and the no. no. no. operation tanker market was challenging. The table Owned vessels, Dry Cargo fleet 4 10 4.2 below shows some key figures.28 Owned vessels, Tanker fleet 9 5 3.3 Chartered vessels with purchase option, Economic performance Dry Cargo fleet 32 2.2 USD million 2008 2009 2010 Chartered vessels with purchase option, Group revenue 4,364 1,756 2,190 Tanker fleet 10 1.7 Profit for the year 708 217 245 Total active core fleet 13 15 42 2.9 Liabilities 341 227 252 Equity 1,700 1,805 1,998 for the Company, whereas on the other Another example is the hard ice winter in hand, lower port dues for eco-friendly 2009-2010, which closed several ports in At year-end 2010, NORDEN operated vessels will benefit NORDEN. the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea. How209 vessels. The majority of the vessels ever, the ice winter of 2009-2010 proved are not owned by NORDEN but charFurthermore, the Company may be afthat extreme weather conditions could tered in for a period of a few months up fected by the more frequent rough also provide opportunities as it caused to several years. The core fleet consists of weather, increasing the risk for damage increased demand for NORDEN's and owned vessels and long-term chartered to the vessels, which would imply more Norient Product Pool’s many ice-class vessels with purchase and extension opdays in dock and fewer days for earnvessels. tion. These vessels are shown in the table ings. Rough weather may also mean deon the right distributed on segment and lays for the vessels or changes in trade Finally, NORDEN’s large contracts on vessel flag. For owned vessels, NORDEN patterns and freight rates. An example transport of wood pellets and wood chips uses 2 different flag registrations – the is the flooding in Australia at the turn of used for coal replacement are examples Danish International Ship Register (DIS) the year 2010-2011, which is estimated of new business as a result of greater foand the Singapore Registry of Ships to have reduced exports of coal from the cus on greenhouse gases. (SRS). Owners determine the flag regisarea by as much as 15 million tonnes. tration on long-term chartered tonnage which for NORDEN’s chartered vessels typically is the Panama Register of Ships. NORDEN has entered into contracts regarding the transport of wood chips. In addition to the currently operated core fleet, NORDEN has 26 vessels for delivery to the core fleet in 2011, and 14 vessels for delivery in 2012-2013. NORDEN operates a young fleet which, together with the fact that all tanker vessels are double-hulled, make the Company’s fleet one of the world’s most modern and fuel efficient fleets. Forward-looking statements Risks and opportunities This Corporate Social Responsibility report contains certain forward-looking In its annual report 2010, NORDEN destatements reflecting management’s present judgment of future events. scribes how risks, mainly financial and market-related, are managed by the Statements relating to 2011 and the years ahead are inherently subject to uncerCompany. In addition to the more busitainty, and NORDEN’s realised results may therefore differ from the projections. ness-related risks, NORDEN has experienced a number of risks and opportuniFactors that may cause NORDEN’s realised accomplishments to differ from ties attributable to climate change which the projections include, but are not limited to: Changes in macroeconomic and have financial implications for NORDEN political conditions – particularly in the Company’s principal markets; changes in several areas. to NORDEN’s rate assumptions and budgeted operating expenses; volatility in freight rates and tonnage prices; regulatory changes; counterparty risks; any disIn case green taxes will be imposed on ruptions to traffic and operations as a result of external events, etc. bunker fuel, this will result in extra costs 28) Further information on NORDEN’s financial situation and expectations for 2011 can be found in the annual report 2010 which is available on the Company’s website www.ds-norden.com/investor. Company details and Technical terms Group structure and abbreviations The Company B Bunker Fuel used by the vessel. Design and graphic production: Meyer & Bukdahl as Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S C CDP Carbon Disclosure Project – Organisation 52, Strandvejen registering company data, particularly on CO2. DK-2900 Hellerup Telephone: +45 3315 0451 CO2 Carbon dioxide. Greenhouse gas. Fax: +45 3315 6199 COA Contract of Affreightment – Agreement to CVR no.: 67 75 89 19 transport one or more cargoes at a predetermined Financial year: 1 January – 31 December price per ton. Municipality of domicile: Gentofte Commercial management Agreement on operating a vessel for the account and risk of the shipowner. Fax, Tanker Department: +45 3393 1599 Fax, Dry Cargo Department: +45 3271 0799 Core fleet Owned vessels and vessels on long-term Fax, Technical Department +45 3393 3733 charters with purchase option. Website: www.ds-norden.com D Danish Shipowners’ Association Represents the Email: direktion@ds-norden.com Danish shipping industry when dealing with governments and organisations nationally and Board of Directors internationally. Mogens Hugo, Chairman Alison J. F. Riegels, Vice Chairman Dwt. Deadweight ton – A measure of a vessel’s Erling Højsgaard carrying capacity. Karsten Knudsen E ECA Emission Control Area, including the North Arvid Grundekjøn Sea, the Baltic Sea and the English Channel. Benn Pyrmont Johansen (employee representative) Bent Torry Kjæreby Sørensen (employee representative) I ICS International Chamber of Shipping – InternaLars Enkegaard Biilmann (employee representative) tional trade association for merchant ship operators. IMO International Maritime Organisation – shipping Board of Management organisation under the UN. Carsten Mortensen, CEO Michael Tønnes Jørgensen, CFO Intertanko International Association of International Tanker Owners – Forum for the tanker owner indusAuditors try. PricewaterhouseCoopers, Statsaut. Revisionsaktieselskab L LTI Lost time injuries. The number of lost-time 44, Strandvejen incidents calculated per 1 million working hours. DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Long-term charter – Agreement to charter a vessel for a period of more than 3 years. Annual General Meeting M MARPOL Marine Pollution – Set of international The annual general meeting will be held on Monday, 11 April 2011 at 3.00 conventions (6 annexes) on preventing pollution p.m. at Audience, Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Center, from ships. The IMO is responsible for the adminis9, Falkoner Allé, tration of MARPOL. DK-2000 Frederiksberg. MOEPS Master’s Operations Environmental Contact regarding content of this report Performance System. Birgitte Jeppesen, CSR & Compliance Manager Email: bje@ds-norden.com N NOx Nitrogen oxide. Telephone: +45 3271 0881 S SOx Sulphur oxide. Spot market – Market in which vessels are conGroup structure tracted for a single voyage for immediate delivery. Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S T T/C Time charter – Lease of a vessel whereby the vessel is hired out for a short or long period. Norient Norient NORDEN Nortide NORDEN NORDEN Cyprus Ltd. Product Pool Shipping Shipping III Tankers & Tankers & Technical management Agreement to manage a vesApS (Singapore) Ltd. Bulkers Bulkers sel’s technical operations and crew for the account Pte. Ltd. (Dormant) (USA) Inc. (Brazil) Ltda. and risk of the shipowner. Cyprus Denmark Singapore Bermuda USA Brazil 50% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% Transparency International Non-governmental organisation working to fight corruption. NORDEN Tankers & Bulkers NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. III (India) Private Ltd. India 100% (Dormant) Singapore 50% NORDEN Rep. Office NORD SUMMIT Pte. Ltd China Singapore 50% NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. I ANL MARITIME Services Pte. (Dormant) Singapore 50% Ltd. Singapore 50% NORD EMPROS Pte. Ltd. II Normit Shipping S.A. (Dormant) Singapore 50% (Dormant) Panama 51% Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S 52, Strandvejen DK-2900 Hellerup Denmark Telephone: +45 3315 0451 Fax: +45 3315 6199 www.ds-norden.com CVR no. 67 75 89 19 www.ds-norden.com
