Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 design commitment initiative environment education awareness energy Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 2 Contents Policy statement Witteveen+Bos provides engineering solutions that shape Policy statement 3 the societies we work in. Therefore, the company has a reCompany profile 4 sponsibility to do the ‘right thing’. Strategic choices we make Corporate governance 6 have a significant impact on the social, environmental and Key figures 10 economic well-being of the areas in which we operate. It is our Performance 2010 12 responsibility to constantly discuss what is the ‘right thing’ Our objectives for 2011 14 in a given context, based on common sense and professional Our daily practice 16 expertise. This calls for a constant process of balancing reliUN Global Compact progress 20 able solutions and proven technologies with a focus on techSummary: Results and targets 22 nical and societal innovations. Many technical innovations Management disclosure 24 for sustainable development are ready for implementation. GRI index 26 The challenge now is to overcome the barriers for implemenGRI Application Level 30 tation of these innovations. Addresses 31 Witteveen+Bos set long-term targets for carbon emission reduction in 2010, extended its existing environmental management system and drafted an energy efficiency programme. We achieved a 9.5 % reduction in the per capita CO 2 emissions in 2010, compared to 2007. In 2020 we want to achieve an emission reduction of 30 % per capita in comparison with the 2007 level. Promotion of the Witteveen+Bos sustainable design principles led to the development of carbon-friendly design alternatives. Four Witteveen+Bos consultants are now certified Cradle to Cradle ® consultants. This has helped us embed CSR principles in products and services. Based on this philosophy, Witteveen+Bos developed the Factory of the Future, in cooperation with Akzo Nobel and DSM. This is a conceptual production environment based on sustainable principles, in terms of people (equity), planet (ecology) and profit (economy), for the total value chain. The virtual facility closes the biological and technological cycles of a product and its manufacturing as much as possible. Saxion Hogeschool launched an Honours Programme with the Utrecht University, Witteveen+Bos and other companies in September 2010, aimed at applying and further developing this concept. In 2011 we will continue to work on four priorities. Our main focus will be to further roll out our sustainable design principles, to implement the Cradle to Cradle ® design philosophy, to develop concepts that overcome the barriers for implementation of technical innovations and to achieve emission reduction through CO 2 friendly design. This Corporate Social Responsibility Report is based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) guidelines. For this report, we have used the GRI G3 matrix to achieve GRI level B. In 2011 we will continue to endorse and implement the United Nations Global Compact principles. This integrated sustainability report covers the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 and is based on a balance of economic, environmental and social performance. H.A.A.M. Webers H.E. Nieboer Managing Director Director 4 Company profile Witteveen+Bos is a company based in the Netherlands that ... Operational structure provides consultancy and engineering services for projects The Witteveen+Bos organisation is made up of 28 productin the fields of infrastructure, water, the environment, spatial market combinations (PMCs). With its own products each development and construction. We adopt a multidisciplinary PMC serves a distinct segment of the market. The PMCs work approach to all our projects. This means that specialists from alongside each other on integral and complex projects. Our various disciplines work together to solve complex problems. PMCs are clustered into seven divisions: Ports and hydraulic We count governmental, commercial and industrial organisaengineering, Infrastructure and construction, International, tions among our clients, including various types of joint venEnvironment, climate and energy, Spatial development and tures and public-private partnerships. We serve our clients mobility, Urban development and Water. These PMCs are from eight offices in the Netherlands and five international assisted by our support departments: Finance and adminoffices. istration, Personnel and organisation, Legal affairs, Quality affairs and General affairs. A Sustainability Team consisPartnership is a keyword for our employees, which ting of experts from various divisions operates within the applies both to their relationship with our clients and with company to assure that sustainability opportunities are Witteveen+Bos itself. Personal development is also a sigseized and cross-connections are made. nificant priority because our work constantly demands new expertise. Accountability to our clients is important to us. … Financial highlights Witteveen+Bos is an employee-owned company; the interOperating revenues increased by 0.7 % to € 104.5 million. ests of shareholders and employees are aligned. Outsourced work totalled € 16.3 million. Added value rose by 5.7 % and operating income dropped by 10.0 %. Net profit … Mission came to € 12.1 million. Our net margin was 11.5 %. Witteveen+Bos offers its clients value-added consultancy and top-quality designs for water, infrastructure, construcTable 1: Key financial figures tion, spatial development and environmental projects. 2010 2009 We deliver reliable and sustainable solutions built on the Turnover* 104.5 103.9 Salaries and social security payments* 49.6 47.5 knowledge, experience, intellect and social insight of our Result before taxation* 17.3 18.9 employees. At Witteveen+Bos we provide an exciting and Result after taxation* 12.1 13.7 inspiring working environment from which we tackle the Net profit margin (in % of the turnover) 11.5 % 13.2 % Cash flow* 13.8 15.4 fascinating challenges of the present and future. ProfessionTotal number of staff at year in FTE (consolidated) 869 815 alism, respect and integrity are our core values. Total turnover per FTE** 120.3 127.5 Value per share € 6.41 € 6.19 Dividend per share € 0.98 € 1.14 … Vision Community investment*** € 244,000 € 140,301 At Witteveen+Bos we are committed to being a first-rate engineering and consultancy firm. An international outlook on * Amounts in millions of euros. ** Amounts in thousands of euros. *** In 2010 Witteveen+Bos invested in several projects in the fields of sports, education, products, markets and the labour market is essential if we health, renewable energy and culture and in the Art+Technology Award. Additionwant to fulfil a leading role in our field of work. It is what ally, we delivered a significant in-kind contribution to socially relevant projects. makes Witteveen+Bos an attractive employer for talented personnel. A high degree of ethical awareness and action, ... Workforce composition good networks and complete flexibility are imperative. Our workforce includes 42 % of personnel with university qualifications, 34 % have higher vocational qualifications and … CSR vision 24 % have intermediate vocational or administrative qualifiPlanning, shaping and designing society in a responsible cations. The age of our workforce averages 36.7 years. The way is the core business of an engineer, balancing the conaverage number of years of experience is 12.7 and the aversequences of his or her choices for people and society. We age number of years of service is 8.4. The workforce consists have elaborated basic principles that are directly linked to of 26 % women and 74 % men. the principles of sustainable development. When designing, we think of ‘here and now’ and we create designs for people ... Workforce who live in contemporary society and who will directly benefit Witteveen+Bos’ average number of FTEs in 2010 was 869, from the objects designed. We also think of ‘there and later’, excluding six employees working under on-call contracts however: We favour the use of sustainably extracted raw (included in last year’s accounting). In absolute numbers, materials and we apply the principle of lifecycle analysis to the company employed 945 people at 31 December 2010, solutions that are fit for purpose in every moment of their including 78 employees working at our international offices. lifespan. We wish to pass on a better world to future generaThe inflow of 98 employees confirms that we succeeded in tions, in which they can make their own choices. We apply recruiting personnel for most disciplines. At 77 persons our the principles within the limitations of our economic practice. employee turnover was below the 10 % mark. Exit interviews are helping us analyse the reasons why people leave the ... Code of Conduct company. A Code of Conduct has been in force at Witteveen+Bos since 1998; this Code of Conduct contains the standards and … Witteveen+Bos awards values that are characteristic of our company and to which we The Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award was presented are committed. In 2010 the Association of Consulting Engifor the ninth time in 2010. The winner was media artist Geert neers (NLengineers) established a CSR expert network that Mul, who uses special algorithms to convert images into prepared a CSR Manifest for engineering companies. The interactive installations. The Jaap van der Graaf Award for Manifest was adopted by the Association. Witteveen+Bos the best article published in English about the treatment of actively contributes to the Association’s CSR expert network. effluent went to Merle de Kreuk. 6 Corporate governance ... Employee ownership ... Strategic Advisory Council Since 1992, Witteveen+Bos has been a private limited The Strategic Advisory Council advises Witteveen+Bos company with full financial participation by its personnel. on such matters as products, markets, strategy, policies The participation system is very vital and provides an and organisation. The members act as a sounding important stimulus for commitment and entrepreneurship. board for the Board of Directors. Additionally, each Participation stands at 76 %. Senior partners (20) hold member of the Strategic Advisory Council identifies rele63.9 % of the shares, while partners (79) hold 22.6 % and vant developments in his or her network. In 2010, the Board participants (469) 13.5 %. At 1 July 2010, the internal price focused on the company’s image among stakeholders. of the Witteveen+Bos share stood at € 6.19 (compared with € 5.65 at 1 July 2009). … Social commitment Many of our employees express their commitment to ... Stakeholder involvement society by holding key positions in professional organisaThe employees of Witteveen+Bos are the main in-house tions and industry associations. We are helping to build up stakeholders of the company. They provide the knowledge, the knowledge infrastructure in the Netherlands through creativity and experience for our products and services. our active policy on published articles. Various staff memAt the same time, they are our shareholders. Our clients, bers work as part-time lecturers or professors while many society as a whole and the communities we work in are our students are undertaking work experience placements external stakeholders. We listen carefully to the views of our or completing their graduation projects within our company. in-house and external stakeholders. These views are We support Stichting Technasium in its efforts to make educareflected in our priorities. In 2010, Witteveen+Bos conducted tion in engineering subjects more attractive. Witteveen+Bos a number of interviews among major stakeholders about the supports Delft University of Technology financially in its company’s image. The findings of this image survey form the innovation campaign to align education more closely to basis for our further focus on sustainability issues both in social issues. Various innovative initiatives are under way our business operations and in our products and services. In within our company in the field of sustainable design. addition, Witteveen+Bos is maintaining contact with leading environmental NGOs to jointly achieve a CO 2 reduction in the … Student involvement engineering sector. In 2010 Witteveen+Bos actively took part in the project ‘I research water’ by supporting five students in writing ... The Works Council a paper on water-related topics. The water sector is facThe Works Council looks after the interests of all ing a labour shortage and this shortage is expected to Witteveen+Bos employees. It has a maximum of thirteen grow in the coming years. Therefore, the water sector is members who are elected by the sectors, PMCs and staff investing in attracting college and university graduates. departments. The rights and duties of the company and the Professionals in the water sector are supporting students in Works Council are set out in the Works Council Act (WOR). their research. Witteveen+Bos also aims to engage more In some cases, proposed policies can only be implemented women in engineering positions. In 2010 we started an enif both the Board of Directors and the Works Council agree gagement programme for girls in technical professions. In a on the matter. one-day workshop, a group of high school girls learned about engineering, drainage, permits and planning guidance and In 2010 the three-yearly elections for the Works Council took environmental issues like odour, noise and soil. Several girls place. The new Works Council commenced in May 2010. reported that technology really is more fun than they thought. The motto chosen by the new Works Council is ‘Family in Transition’. Family in transition, because we (still) feel we are … Cultural commitment a family a family in an important transition phase, among We give substance to our commitment to culture through the other things in terms of the (growing number of employannual Witteveen+Bos Art+Technology Award. Through this ees in relation to the organisation and ownership, the deaward we want to boost the image and standing of engineermands of clients and the retirement pension. Due to the ing. We sponsor several institutions and initiatives in the art input of the Works Council, the future retirement penand culture fields. The Art+Technology Award expresses our sion has been improved for all employees and for the special appreciation of the creativity that plays a major role employees with lower salaries in particular. Furthermore, in the work of both engineers and artists. Awarded by a panel the annual Health and Safety Report has been assessed of independent judges and presented annually in November, and more attention is now being paid to health and safety. the prize comprises a sum of € 15,000, the publication of a Internal communications are no longer printed on paper, book on the award-winning artist and an exhibition. but are supplied through our intranet, to protect the environment. In 2011 the Works Council wants to focus on the ... FIDIC and DUBO ownership/participation structure, further improvement of The International Federation of Consulting Engineers and more robust retirement pensions, improvement of com(FIDIC) is the global representative of the consulting engineermunication with employees and the ageing of employees. ing industry. As such, the Federation promotes the business interests of companies supplying technology-based intellec... Women at the top tual services for the built and the natural environment. FIDIC One of the goals of Witteveen+Bos is to proactively recognises that the services provided by the consulting engiappoint more women in management positions. The Netneering industry are critical to the sustainable development work of Female Engineers, facilitated by Witteveen+Bos, of society and the environment. Witteveen+Bos subscribes to expanded its activities focused on career development in the FIDIC principles. We are also listed in the DUBO register 2010. Figures show that the number of women in key positions for sustainable construction. remained the same in 2010 compared to 2009. 8 ... Network Green Consultants ... Nominations and awards Witteveen+Bos is a member of the Network Green Consultants Our employees individually and Witteveen+Bos as a compa(NGC). Companies belonging to this network specialise in ny also regularly receive awards, such as the European ‘Best ecological consultancy pertaining to spatial planning and of the Best’ award which Witteveen+Bos received together area management. The network’s mission is to improve the with the Rijnland district water control board for their survey quality of the environment and society, keeping the interests on a new purification technique for the Leiden South-West of future generations in mind. Members of the NGC subscribe waste water treatment plant. The concept B-shore won the to a Code of Conduct that indicates how to provide professecond prize of the Vernufteling contest in 2010. As a fastsional, responsible, respectful and incorruptible/upright congrowing company we received a certificate for our 121st sulting services in the fields of nature and landscape. place in ‘Europe’s 500 Top Growth Companies 2010’. The education course ‘Pioneers in Construction’ (Baanbrek... NLengineers Code of Conduct ers in de Bouw) initiated by Witteveen+Bos won the 2010 The NLengineers Code of Conduct is a code for Dutch Impact-Audience-Award, an annual prize for initiatives with engineering companies and consultants. Members of the greatest impact in the practical field. NLengineers are obliged to be independent and avoid potential conflicts of interest, to be aware of the importance of the … Strategic policy-making (human) environment to society, to closely follow new develEvery year we focus on a selected number of topics and opments in technology, to accept orders and perform servthemes which are of special importance to our business and ices only if they have the professional capacity to perform the society. These annual policy priorities are selected in a joint task, to respect confidentiality and to practice compliance. process and assigned to responsible persons. In 2010 the NLengineers can impose sanctions if these principles are not priority topics included CSR and sustainable cities. observed. ... Operational structure In 2010 the Association of Consulting Engineers (NLengiOur operational structure, including main divisions, operatneers) established a CSR expert network. This network preing companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures is as follows: pared a CSR Manifest for engineering companies. The Manifest was adopted by the Association. Witteveen+Bos actively Figure 1: Operational structure contributes to the Association’s CSR expert network. Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. ... Environmental management system Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos Russia B.V. (100 %) In 2010 Witteveen+Bos adopted a new environmental Deelnemingen B.V. (100 %) management system, based on cyclic principles and enviFishFlow Innovations B.V. (40 %) ronmental aspects. In accordance with this management Witteveen+Bos Projectrealisatie B.V. (100 %) SIA Witteveen+Bos Latvia (100 %) system a special Environmental Team was set up and a separate environmental report is now issued annually. In Witteveen+Bos PT. Inowa Prima Consult (25 %) 2010 Witteveen+Bos was certified at level 3 of the ProRail Procurement B.V. (100 %) CO 2 performance ladder. This implies that Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V. achieved the following goals: Kazakhstan B.V. (100 %) (99.2 % and understanding of its carbon footprint (the 2009 CO 2 0.8 %) emissions inventory declaration was verified by KEMA Emission Verification Services) Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan reduction targets formulated in the CSR report Deelnemingen B.V. (100 %) transparency in internal and external communication participation in sector initiatives on CO 2 reduction. WBK Castor LLP (100 %) … Environmental Team Witteveen+Bos Witbog B.V. (25 %) The Environmental Team is responsible for the preparation, Onroerend Goed B.V. (100 %) monitoring, implementation and updating of the environmental management programme. The environmental management Witteveen+Bos Leeuwenbrug B.V. (100 %) programme consists of three parts: energy related to our (office) buildings mobility Tunnel Engineering Consultants environmental care (waste, paper use, recycling). V.O.F. (33.33 %) … CO 2 compensation Railinfra Solutions V.O.F. (rato turnover) We compensated for all CO 2 emissions from air travel in the year 2010 by contributing to the construction of a hydropower Adviesbureau Noord/Zuidlijn V.O.F. plant in India. Groenbalans issued a certificate of CO 2 com(rato turnover) pensation to Witteveen+Bos. General Partnership ‘Projekts3 & Witteveen+Bos’ (50 %) … Integrity Committee The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s integrity policy and is assisted by the Integrity Committee. This Committee consists of three people, at least one of whom is a member of the statutory Board of Directors. 10 Key figures Witteveen+Bos reports on performance indicators that relate Table 4: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and country 2010 2009 to the Performance Indicators outlined in the Global ReportFull-time 559 402 ing Initiative (GRI) G3 sustainability reporting guidelines. Part-time 308 276 Fixed term or temporary contract 105 134 Indefinite or permanent contract 762 722 … Economic Netherlands 867 856 The financial highlights of Witteveen+Bos are listed in the Indonesia 16 16 chapter ‘Company profile’ on page 5. Kazakhstan 48 44 Russia 2 2 Latvia 7 9 … Environment Belgium 5 2 Environmental protection means more than just complying Total workforce in NL (FTE) 796 779 with legislation and official regulations. In terms of sustainTotal workforce globally (FTE) 867 844 (Number of employees) ability, it is a management issue. We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from business operations to the impact The breakdown shows that a large majority (88 %) of the of our designs. To ensure a systematic approach in our busiWitteveen+Bos workforce has a permanent contract. For ness operations, we apply an environmental management the year ending at 31 December 2010, voluntary employee system based on international guidelines and standards, inturnover as a percentage of the total workforce populacluding the monitoring of our performance. To our products tion amounted to 8.8 %. The average length of service was and services we apply sustainable design principles. 8.4 years. Witteveen+Bos does not publish the employee turnover by region. ... Materials In 2010, Witteveen+Bos used approximately 48 tons of The approximate breakdown of the total by gender was photocopying paper in its offices in the Netherlands, none 74 % male and 26 % female, no change compared to of which had recycled content. 2009. Witteveen+Bos does not register the composition of governance bodies according to gender or age group. ... Energy Witteveen+Bos does not register minority group membership. Witteveen+Bos uses natural gas for office heating purposes. The remaining direct energy consumption results from the Table 5: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group and gender use of fuel by our fleet. The direct and indirect energy con2010 2009 sumed by the various areas across the company is shown in Employees leaving 77 73 Female employees leaving 32.5 % 31 % the tables below. Employees < 30 leaving 42.9 % 48 % Employees 30-45 leaving 37.6 % 38 % Table 2: Consumed energy Employees > 46 leaving 19.5 % 14 % 2010 2009 Average number of years with the company 8.4 8.1 District heating (hot water, GJ) 331 152 Use of gas for heating purposes (m 3 ) 243,678 209,007 Business travel with business cars (km) 2,788,070 2,756,713 In our company, employees with a temporary contract and reCommuter travel with business cars (km) 430,242 417,039 gular part-time employees receive the same benefits as fullUse of electricity (kWh) 1,770,326 1,823,726 time employees, except for stock ownership, which is only Air travel (km) 3,972,736 2,706,424 Use of private cars for business travel (km) 2,836,058 2,668,113 possible for employees with a permanent contract. Paper use* (kg) 48,604 45,398 Commuter travel with private cars (km) 1,978,168 1,872,445 Table 6: Benefits provided to employees Use of public transport (km) 5,348,759 5,078,089 Benefits Full-time/part-time employees Accident insurance with life and all employees * Only office paper, printing of books and leaflets excluded. disability/invalidity coverage Collective health care insurance all employees can participate Maternity/paternity leave all employees Table 3: Emissions per activity and/or source in tons of CO 2 Retirement provision all employees 2010 2009 2007 Stock ownership full-time and part-time employees Electricity 1,045 1,076 849 with permanent contract Heating 451 384 258 Tax free saving programme and all employees Paper 46 43 44 life course savings scheme Public transport 313 328 181 Business travel by air 890* 620 807 Business travel by car 1,035 1,097 1,210 ... Training and education Commuter travel by car 469 459 478 Witteveen+Bos has a system of internal training sessions for Total 4,249 4,007 3,827 its employees. Additionally, the company contributes finan* The calculation method for business air travel differs form the method used in cially to relevant private studies by employees and to external the previous years. For 2010 we calculated the distance flown not by final destiseminars, workshops and training sessions. As the various nation, but per airport stop. business segments have specific training needs and training programmes that are not centrally managed, Witteveen+Bos ... Employment does not expect to be able to report enterprise-wide statisOur workforce of around 850 people forms the basis for our tics on the annual average number of training hours. In 2010, sustained success. At 31 December 2010 Witteveen+Bos Witteveen+Bos spent over € 654,674 on leadership and ememployed 867 employees. In 2010 we withdrew the on-call ployee development. contracts from HR-accounting. This has caused a bias in the total employee figures. In 2010 a total number of six employTable 7: Internal training and trainees at Witteveen+Bos 2010 2009 ees were contracted in a so called on-call contract. This total Number of employees that received internal training 789 654 can be classified according to employment type, employment Money spent on training per employee € 755 € 851 contract and country. Number of trainees 128 139 12 Performance 2010 Our main goals for 2010 were to promote the sustainable ... Reporting and vision development design principles within the company, to implement a sustainThe 2008 and 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Reports ability check for planning purposes, to promote internal rewere based on GRI principles (application level C). The cursearch projects for the development of sustainable products rent report merits application level B and includes additional and services and to involve young engineers in innovative environmental and social key performance indicators. projects, to carry out an exit audit to analyse employees’ reasons to leave the company and to reduce the carbon footprint ... Carbon footprint of the company’s business operations in the Netherlands. Our carbon footprint for 2010 includes emissions generated by the company’s offices and employees in the Netherlands, ... Promotion of sustainable design principles including our participations in the Netherlands, but excludes In 2009 Witteveen+Bos developed sustainable design princiemissions related to workplaces of employees operating at ples. These principles include all major sustainable developour clients’ offices. Our carbon footprint for 2010 includes ment issues. In 2010 we organised a number of internal and scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. The carbon footprint for 2010 external workshops to allow our engineers and consultants has not been verified by a certification company. Since 2009 to focus on applying these sustainable design principles. In we use the ProRail emission factors (Memorandum ‘CO 2 -conone series of workshops we focused on carbon-friendly deversiefactoren ProRail versie 1, mei 2009’) for the calculation sign of civil works and we revealed construction options that of the company’s footprint. For the 2009 CSR Report we regenerate substantially less carbon emissions than the tradicalculated all previous emission inventories with the emistional, exclusively cost-driven solutions. Clients have been ofsion factors used for 2009. fered the option of a carbon-friendly alternative based on a life cycle emission calculation. In another series of workshops In 2010 we used a different calculation method for our we drafted the terms of reference for a sustainable urban emissions from business air travel: we calculated the dismaster plan with local stakeholders. tance flown not by final destination, but per airport stop. As a consequence, the emission level calculated is substantially ... Sustainable planning higher than in 2009, although the number of journeys and the The sustainability check for planning purposes has been destinations did not differ significantly from last year. In 2010 applied in two major infrastructure projects and has we achieved an emission reduction of 9.5 % per capita comresulted in a commitment to implementing at least four subpared to 2007. Applying the 2009 calculation method to our stantial sustainability measures in the field of energy and emissions from business air travel in 2010, this reduction carbon emission reduction. The main bottlenecks for implepercentage increases to 11 %. mentation of sustainable measures are project planning and control processes. A shift from a rather one-sided focus on Table 8: Emissions per activity and/or source in tons of CO 2 2010 2009 2007 technical possibilities towards more complicated societal Electricity 1,045 1,076 849 innovations is necessary. This shift is a major challenge for Heating 451 384 258 an engineering company and requires a new way of thinking. Paper 46 43 44 Public transport 313 328 181 Business car travel 1,035 1,097 1,211 ... Young engineers in innovative projects Business air travel 890 620 807 In 2010 Witteveen+Bos successfully involved young Commuter travel by car 469 459 478 Total 4,249 4,007 3,827 talented engineers in new, innovative projects. An obvious example is the design of the Factory of the Future model. Together with AkzoNobel, Beco, DPI Value Centre DSM, The average number of employees per year (in FTE) rose Royal Cosun and Search we have developed a conceptual from 815 in 2009 to 869 in 2010. The CO 2 emissions per production environment based on sustainable principles, in capita decreased from 4.92 tons of CO 2 in 2009 to 4.89 tons terms of people (equity), planet (ecology) and profit (econof CO 2 in 2010 (according to ProRail emission factors). omy), for the total value chain. The virtual facility focuses on closing the biological and technological cycles of a prodWitteveen+Bos drafted an emission reduction schedule for uct and its manufacturing as far as possible. the period up to 2020. Our intention is to reduce our emissions by 17 % in 2011, by 25 % in 2012, by 29 % in 2015 and ... Exit audit by 30 % in 2020, compared to 2007. In 2007-2009 a total number of 143 exit interviews were conducted in which departing employees were asked to name The following initiatives were taken in 2010 in order to reduce their main reason for leaving the company. In 2010 we anagreenhouse gas emissions: lysed these exit interviews. The main conclusions of this exit opting for energy-efficient, electric or hybrid lease cars audit show that people’s reasons to leave the company were posting tips on efficient electricity use on the intranet related to work/career or personal factors. Over 35 % of the purchasing energy-efficient copiers with a standard doublepeople leaving indicated that their main reason to leave was sided printing option for all offices in the Netherlands either the company culture and company structure, the emsetting up a company-wide environment team. ployee regulations or the level of guidance and attention. In 2011 we intend to purchase green electricity for all our energy consumption in our Netherlands offices. ... Women in key positions We decided to enhance the in-company Network of Female The emissions related to business air travel during the year Engineers in 2010 and provide two seminars focusing on ca2010 were compensated for Voluntary Carbon Standard reer development and job quality for female engineers and credits in the Malana Hydro Power Project in India, a project consultants. In 2010 the number of women in key positions set up to overcome Indian power sector issues and to ensure had not significantly changed compared to 2009. environmental/social benefits. 14 Our objectives for 2011 ... Priority 1: Embedding CSR principles in products and ... Priority 2: Education and research services Witteveen+Bos contributes to education and research in Witteveen+Bos considers the major technical innovations the field of engineering. Witteveen+Bos values high-quality for sustainable development to be ready for implementation. engineering and we understand that innovation requires conThe main challenge for the near future will be to develop stant investments in education and research. Partnerships concepts that overcome the barriers for implementation of with knowledge institutes are being either initiated or supthese innovations. ported by Witteveen+Bos. Actions and objectives for 2011: Actions and objectives for 2011: to form partnerships for sustainable design with partners to invest in education to enhance the company’s expertise in possessing complementary expertise sustainability assessment tools (BREEAM, DuboCalc, CO 2to further develop a standard carbon calculation for prestatieladder) engineering designs, based on a lifecycle emission to continue to promote internal research projects for the calculation development of sustainable products and services to offer all our employees an internal workshop ‘Sustainto continue partnerships with knowledge institutes on able Development and Sustainable Design’. sustainable development topics. The Witteveen+Bos sustainable design principles are: ... Priority 3: Being a preferred employer 1. We endeavour to make our designs nature based and Witteveen+Bos aims to be a preferred employer. We try climate proof. Our designs take into account the natural to achieve this by offering diversity of workforce, discussenvironment as much as possible. The ecosystem is our ing employee satisfaction and increasing our internal trainstarting point and we strive to use natural processes ing programmes. In 2010 the company conducted an exit wherever possible, thus maintaining or even improving audit to gain a better understanding of employee satisfaction biodiversity. and reasons for employees to leave the company. 2. We employ the Trias principle for our sustainable solutions. Actions and targets for 2011: The Trias principle is applied to design subjects such as to raise awareness among line managers of employees’ energy, commodities, water, soil, waste, CO 2 and other reasons for leaving the company greenhouse gas emissions, mobility and operation, and to continue facilitating the network of female engineers and maintenance. The three steps of the Trias principle are: consultants. step 1: limit the demand and prevent unnecessary use step 2: use renewable resources ... Priority 4: Reducing the ecological footprint of the step 3: use non renewable resources intelligently and company’s operations efficiently. Witteveen+Bos calculates the carbon footprint of the company’s business operations in the Netherlands using the 3. In our designs we strive to regard the entire chain of ProRail emission conversion factors. According to these processes and projects in its coherence. Our aim is to conversion factors CO 2 emissions from our operations in provide sustainable solutions which offer optimum results 2007 accounted for 5.40 tons of carbon per capita. In 2008, from the point of view of the entire chain, such as in the CO 2 emissions from our operations were reduced to 5.03 life-cycle analyses. Where possible, we aim to apply a tons per capita and in 2009 the CO 2 emissions were further Cradle to Cradle ® approach by taking the closing of reduced to 4.92 tons per capita. In 2010 the carbon emisbiological and technological cycles into account in our sions caused by our operations accounted for 4.89 tons per designs, enriching the environment and using sustainable capita. energy options. Thus, we strive to provide upcycled products with a new life-cycle. Actions and targets for 2011: to raise employees’ awareness of the carbon consequen4. In developing the built environment, we endeavour to ces of business air travel allocate the right function to the right place and search for to develop an emission reduction communication plan for the optimum use of existing values. In combining functions internal and external communication such as living, employment and recreation, this enhances to purchase green electricity. sustainable development. Multifunctionality and flexibility are important requirements for sustainable design. For the existing built environment we focus on efficient revitalisation. 5. We recognise the importance of public participation by stakeholders and end users when it comes to decision making within the design process. We value effective communication because sustainable design requires extensive public support. 6. The well-being of human beings physiological needs, safety, social contact, respect by others and self-actualisation is our basic principle for the design process. 16 Our daily practice … Natural catch … Participation ladder An area near the village of Rhoon in Zuid-Holland province Alongside its consultancy services in technology and sushas been earmarked for nature development to compentainability, Witteveen+Bos is regularly retained as a specialsate for the ecological impact of the Tweede Maasvlakte ist in process management and in promoting project particiland reclamation project. The area includes a former landfill pation, i.e. public consultation. Good interaction between the site which has been a source of problems for several years, stakeholders in any project is a form of ‘social sustainabilwith organic pollutants leaching into a nearby watercourse. ity’, and is just as important as technical sustainability. To Adviescombinatie Volgermeerpolder (ACV), a joint venture foster this interaction, we use the ‘participation ladder’. A sucbetween Witteveen+Bos and Tauw, has surveyed the landcessful participation and consultation process has recently fill site and produced a decontamination plan. Conventional been undertaken in the Dutch town of Anna Paulowna, where methods, such as complete excavation and removal or the local residents were invited to contribute their ideas and opininstallation of a foil barrier, do not appear to be viable. ACV ions about the usefulness and siting of a planned business has therefore developed an alternative approach known as park. We opted to apply a far-reaching form of participation: ‘natural catch’. This involves restructuring the contaminated ‘coproduction’. Special attention was devoted to explaining area as a buffer zone with optimum conditions for the longall the phases of the planning process, how decisions are term biodegradation of the waste. This would create a robust made and by whom, and the backgrounds and interests of and vital water system with its own natural purification effect. the various project stakeholders. The approach enabled the The approach is seen as cost-effective and can be easily consultation and decision-making process to be completed integrated into the larger landscape redevelopment project. within one year. … Innova Complex at Floriade Venlo … Energy scan for wastewater treatment plants In 2012, the international horticultural exhibition ‘Floriade’ Wastewater contains more energy than is required to purify is to be held in and around the city of Venlo in the southit. At large wastewater treatment plants, some of this enereast of the Netherlands. The main exhibition site will include gy is reclaimed and put to a useful purpose. Nevertheless, two prestigious new buildings: the Innova Complex and Villa efficiency can be further increased. Each of thirteen Dutch Flora. They will form the basis of the ongoing ‘Greenpark’ water authorities is now to examine one of its treatment programme, under which Venlo will see further development plants to determine whether it will be possible to achieve as one of the Netherlands’ main agrifood centres. As a key entirely energy-neutral operation. Witteveen+Bos has been member of the Urgenda Limburg consortium, Witteveen+Bos asked to develop the necessary business plans and technical is advising the provincial authority about all aspects of the requirements for five of these plants. We shall look at ways in concept, the plan development process, permit application which to reduce energy consumption through the ‘smart’ use procedures, design, tendering and site management. After of modern technology and/or new management processes. the Floriade exhibition, the Innova Complex will become We shall also seek opportunities for energy exchange close a centre of expertise for innovation in the agrifood sector, to the plants themselves. housing various businesses and organizations. There will also be regular events designed to promote innovation and … Offshore wind energy strengthen the sector. The complex is particularly sustainHuge offshore wind farms are being built at several locaable and energy-efficient. Both the design and the constructions worldwide. The advantages of offshore wind energy are tion method rely heavily on the Cradle to Cradle ® -concept. obvious: there is no shortage of space at sea, the wind farms The interior climate is regulated by means of subterranean are not visible from land so there is no visual pollution, and heat sinks, together with a hybrid ventilation system which there is almost always enough wind to turn the turbines. Howhas a ‘solar chimney’. Energy consumption is therefore miniever, the construction and maintenance of the turbines raises mized. Users can adjust the interior climate themselves and certain challenges, as does the transport of the electricity the windows in all rooms can be opened to provide fresh air. generated. In order to maximize the potential of this sustainable energy source, Witteveen+Bos has joined forces with its … Almere 2030 SEEN partner NIRAS of Denmark in seeking innovative and Almere is one of the fastest-growing cities in the Nethereconomically viable new solutions. The combination of our lands. A formal document known as the Almere Integrated expertise with NIRAS’ experience enables us to operate very Agreements Framework 2010 (IAK 2010) sets out the roles competitively within the market. of the Almere local authority, the Province of Flevoland and central government in managing Almere’s growth over the … De Scheg Ice Rink coming twenty years. Almere is an acknowledged leader in Witteveen+Bos has conducted an initial sustainability study the sustainable development of new urban districts. To mainon behalf of Sportbedrijf Deventer, which owns De Scheg tain this position, it must keep abreast of all the latest inice rink in Deventer. The study examined the various energy sights and innovations. It therefore relies on the know-how of flows and ways in which they can be optimized. Because the engineering consultancies. Witteveen+Bos has two special existing energy supply equipment is due for replacement multidisciplinary knowledge groups, Sustainable Cities and (having reached the end of its technical and financial life Cradle to Cradle ® , which enable it to provide an effective cycle), various sustainable alternatives were assessed response to all regional development issues. We entered into against predetermined criteria. The findings were then incora partnership with the Almere Sustainability Lab, in which porated into an ‘energy matrix’ to allow a comparison of the we work together to find concrete, sustainable solutions to total life cycle costs and payback period of each alternative. spatial development challenges. We have advised on the The client eventually opted for a combined power-and-heat sustainable design of one of Almere’s main traffic routes, the generating system. This will result in an initial 24 % reduction use of subterranean eat sinks and heat exchangers in a water in CO 2 emissions, which will fall yet further when the system extraction area, and on the siting of wind turbines. is connected to the planned biogas supply. 18 … B-Shore … Finding zinc slag Witteveen+Bos has developed the Biodegradable Shoreline In the past, it was common practice to use zinc ‘slag’ as a Protection (B-Shore) concept in association with Anome material for road foundations and road-hardening. (‘Slag’ is Project. Using Ground Consolidators (GCs), thread-like the residue produced by the process of smelting zinc ore.) elements which can be woven together, a biodegradable Unfortunately, zinc slag can contain contaminants which retaining barrier is created to encourage nature development are harmful to both human health and the environment. on the banks of rivers or other watercourses. The GCs form Witteveen+Bos has surveyed several areas in the Nethera mesh which protects the underlying soil against erosion by lands to identify the presence of zinc slag using innovative waves and currents. Over time, this protection is afforded by geophysical techniques. The method is much less expensive the new vegetation which develops and the GCs break down than the traditional approach of boring and lab testing, and into natural, entirely harmless substances. This innovative also results in less inconvenience to road users and local concept has many advantages. There are no maintenance residents. The tests involve detecting the radio-activity typior removal costs and all materials are either biodegradable cal of zinc ore. We also examined the depth of the road’s or reusable. There is also significant added value in terms foundations and hardcore layer, the electrical conductivity of of biodiversity: vegetation can grow unhindered between the subsoil (which is distorted by the presence of slag) and the GCs, providing a sheltered habitat for various wildlife movements of the road surface itself. The results of these species. In 2010, the B-Shore concept reached the finals of tests help to quantify the risk and the urgency of decontamithe ‘De Vernufteling’ innovation awards competition. nation measures. … Sustainable mobility … The Factory of the Future An increasing number of organisations are adopting sustainWitteveen+Bos is one of several partners to have been able mobility management practices. Mobility management is invited by chemicals concern AkzoNobel to design the ‘Facconcerned with reducing unnecessary transport movements tory of the Future’. Although currently still only in virtual form, and hence energy consumption. It can involve a variety of the Factory of the Future will be a fully sustainable producmeasures such as recruiting local staff to reduce commuttion environment in which Cradle to Cradle ® -principles are ing distance, ‘telecommuting’ whereby staff work from home, applied to the greatest extent possible. The overall aim is the use of ‘green’ vehicles and car-sharing. Witteveen+Bos to close the biological and technological cycles of both the has conducted transport management studies for two Dutch product and the production process. To arrive at the best business parks, De Mars in Zutphen and Apeldoorn-Noord. possible design, it has been decided to form a ‘learning comWith the help of the companies based at the locations, we exmunity’, with close cooperation between the industry, private amined mobility patterns, problems and ongoing initiatives, sector consultancies and research institutes. This partnerwhereupon we were able to make certain recommendations ship is based on openness and a willingness to share knowfor improvement. Our report was submitted to the mobilledge with each other. ity managers who will now implement measures in order to achieve more sustainable mobility management. … Climate module and sustainability Witteveen+Bos is working alongside IVAM Research and … Algae farming Consultancy on Sustainability to produce a climate module Several species of algae are cultivated for industrial and as an ‘add-on’ to the DPL computer model. DPL stands for commercial purposes. This process, known as ‘algaculture’, ‘DuurzaamheidsProfiel van een Locatie’ (Site Sustainability currently relies on large open-air tanks, to which artificial Profile) and is a nationally recognized instrument used to fertilizers are added as a source of nutrients. In the Netherassess the sustainability of a new or existing residential lands, algae can only be grown like this during the warm sumestate. It provides a ‘benchmark’ score based on a comparimer months. However, the nutrients which the algae need are son with the average residential area. DPL is now used by often found in the ‘rejection water’ at wastewater treatment some thirty local authorities to optimize sustainability. The plants. This water can therefore be used to feed the algae, new climate module will measure the degree to which a or as a source to recover nutrients which would otherwise be neighbourhood or area is ‘climate-proof ’, examining aspects lost and which can be used for other agricultural purposes. such as energy efficiency, carbon emissions and the adaptive Witteveen+Bos and algae producer Ingrepo are currently measures in place to counter the effects of climate change. working to develop an algaculture concept which makes use The module will therefore reveal which choices made during of this alternative source of nutrients. the design process can help to achieve a completely climateneutral district. A prototype was tested in two pilot projects … Master plan for IJsselsprong Zutphen during the first half of 2010. As part of the ‘IJsselsprong’ integrated regional development programme, a master plan is now in preparation for ... Quick scan for Borneo a central zone to the west of the river IJssel near Zutphen In 2007 the governments of Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei (Netherlands). Experts from the Sustainable Cities cluster committed to the ‘Heart of Borneo Initiative’, a conservaof the Strategic European Expertise Network (SEEN) have tion and sustainable development programme addressing produced proposals for ways in which sustainability aspects the tropical forests on the island of Borneo. Borneo has one can be embedded into the planning process. They have also of the most biodiverse habitats on earth, with many unique devised a number of design principles and have developed indigenous species. Witteveen+Bos conducted a quick scan a ‘sustainability monitor’ for assessing spatial development of local watershed services to identify the beneficiaries and policy and plans. The practical experience of SEEN partners to select one or more river basins where a full watershed from Denmark, Sweden and France provides an additional services evaluation study can be carried out successfully. guarantee that sustainability will indeed form an intrinsic part This is the first step towards the implementation of a funding of the planning process. system for forest conservation. 20 UN Global Compact progress Witteveen+Bos is pleased to be able to report on the followIn 2010 Witteveen+Bos continued to commit to Corporate ing key actions in terms of progress on each of the UN Global Social Responsibility and increased efforts to contribute Compact principles: to sustainable societies. Our objectives and intentions for 2010 were listed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Re... Principle 1: port for 2009. Our UN Global Compact Communication on Our Code of Conduct states that ‘Assignments in contraProgress (CoP) has been integrated into our existing comvention of national and international law and rules will not munication with stakeholders via the annual CSR Report. All be accepted’. We support and respect the protection of inemployees and major clients receive a paper copy of the ternationally proclaimed human rights. Safe and good workreport and it is published on our external website. ing conditions for employees in the Netherlands are also of concern to the company. Thanks to the input of the Works The UN Global Compact principles are: Council more attention was paid to health and safety in 2010. 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of ... Principle 2: internationally proclaimed human rights. Corruption is not a significant issue in the Netherlands; our performance in other countries has not yet been analysed for 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit risks related to corruption yet. No cases of complicity in huin human rights abuses. man rights abuses were reported in 2010. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association ... Principle 3: and the effective recognition of the right to collective Witteveen+Bos is an employee-owned company. Through bargaining. shareholder meetings, employees can influence the company’s policy. Furthermore, employee involvement is guar4. Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of anteed through the Works Council. The Works Council looks forced and compulsory labour. after the interests of all employees. Witteveen+Bos is not bound to formal agreements with trade unions as the com5. Businesses should support the effective abolition of child pany has its own agreements with employees. These agreelabour. ments have been ratified by the Works Council and laid down in the Employee regulations and the Quality manual. 6. Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ... Principle 4 and 5: Our Code of Conduct prohibits these forms of labour in our 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to operations. Witteveen+Bos endorses the ILO Declaration on environmental challenges. fundamental principles and rights at work. 8. Businesses should undertake activities to promote greater ... Principle 6: environmental responsibility. In 2010 Witteveen+Bos worked actively on appointing more women in key positions. Further information on progress in 9. Businesses should encourage the development and this regard can be found on page 12. diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ... Principle 7, 8 and 9: 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, Finding solutions to environmental challenges is one of including extortion and bribery. the core activities of our company. We promote innovative technologies and approaches and enhance partnerships. We provide our clients with unsolicited advice on environmentally friendly alternatives in investment projects. We promoted the sustainable design principles within the company in 2010 and implemented them in a number of projects. Further information can be found on page 16: Our daily practice. ... Principle 10: We will not engage in bribery and we will not accept any assignment which has been assigned to us on dubious grounds. We reject payments which can influence our objective and socially responsible approach. Corruption-related issues have been incorporated in the employee regulations, in the chapter on standards and values. By signing the employment contract, every employee agrees to comply with these values. An Integrity Commission looks after our business code and employees can contact a trusted person, appointed by the directors, to report integrity dilemmas. In 2010 no incidents were reported. 22 Summary: Results and targets Priority: Embedding CSR principles in products and services Priority: Education and research Target 2009 Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Sub-priority Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond To focus on low-energy soluWe developed design princiTo promote our sustainable deSustainable design principles To form partnerships for susDesigning a programme to inThe number of female partTo monitor the results of our Numbers of female partners/ To continue to facilitate the tions and emission reduction ples, process steps and assign principles within the comwere implemented in a sustainable design with partners crease the number of women ners/senior partners has in2009 coaching programme for senior partners did not innetwork of female engineers in planning and design. sessment indicators for suspany and implement at least tainable master plan project. possessing complementary in key positions. creased from three in 2008 to female engineers and consultcrease in 2010. and consultants. tainable cities. two major pilot projects. expertise. four in 2009. ants. To design and propose the A sustainability quick scan for To implement a sustainability The sustainability check was To organise a symposium on Setting up a mentoring proFourteen female high potensocio-ecologically most profitprojects was developed. check for planning purposes implemented in two major insustainable area development. gramme for female engineers. tials were linked to a key manable alternatives; to introduce in at least one urban planning frastructure projects and in our ager in a coaching programme. a sustainability check for all and one area development advise. projects. project. Increasing internal training opThe total number of employees tions. that received internal training To reduce the environmental Clients were offered the option Internal workshops on design To offer clients a standard carincreased. impact of our designs. of a carbon-neutral or carbonprinciples for carbon-friendly bon calculation for engineering friendly alternative based on a design were conducted. designs, based on a lifecycle To carry out an exit audit to An exit audit was carried out To raise awareness life cycle emission calculation. emission calculation in 2012. analyse employees’ reasons and the main conclusions were among line managers of for leaving the company. communicated in the CSR Reemployees’ reasons for To develop a company-wide We worked on an integral To set up an internal training Internal workshops on Cradle To offer a training module port 2010. leaving the company. CSR vision. vision on CSR in two workmodule ‘Sustainable Developto Cradle ® and sustainable ‘Sustainable Development and To additionally monitor shops with senior partners and ment.’ development were conducted Sustainable Design’ as part of regular performance and the Works Council. at the majority of our offices in standard internal training. career development reviews. the Netherlands. To monitor the implementation The Works Council monitored To evaluate the revised emTo report on corporate social The number of indicators and To develop a CSR Report for Develoment of a CSR Report To develop the CSR Report of the revised employee reguthe implementation of the reployee regulations in 2011. responsibility. the level of reporting were in2009 based on the GRI G3 based on the GRI and G3 for 2012 based on the GRI G3 lations. vised employee regulations. creased. guidelines, application level C guidelines, application level B. guidelines, application level A. and to have it GRI-checked. Priority: Education and research Priority: Reducing the ecological footprint of the company’s operations Target 2009 Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond Sub-priority Result 2009 Target 2010 Result 2010 Target 2011 and beyond To set up a coaching system in Involvement of junior employReducing the CO 2 footprint per We reduced the carbon footTo reduce the carbon footprint The carbon footprint was To reduce the carbon footprint projects. ees in complicated integral capita. print per capita by 9 % comper capita by 30 % in 2012 reduced by 9.5 % in 2010 per capita by 30 % in 2020 projects. pared to 2008. compared to 2007. compared to 2007. compared to 2007. To continue to invest in eduWe continued our research To invest in education for susWe set up a Cradle to To invest in education to enDrafting a long-term energy A long-term energy saving proTo implement our enerWe introduced an extended To introduce the young procation, research and traineeinto carbon-friendly design tainable development. Cradle ® knowledge group. large the company’s capacity and mobility programme. gramme and long-term mobilgy efficiency and mobilenvironmental management fessional engagement proships. and into sustainable cities. We educated four employin sustainability assessment ity programme were drafted. ity programmes and introduce programme and we received gramme in cooperation with ees to be certified Cradle tools (BREEAM, DuboCalc, renewable energy sources, if the certificate on the ProRail partners (and/or engineers to Cradle ® consultants. CO 2 prestatieladder). feasible. CO 2 prestatieladder (level 3). without borders). We conducted several business courses with a Creating awareness among The first internal communicaTo report twice a year on our Our emission reduction was To develop an emission reducsustainability focus. employees on energy effitions expressions on emission progress with regard to atreported in the CSR Report. tion communication plan for ciency, mobility and emission reduction and the company’s taining the emission reduction We issued press releases on internal and external commuTo involve young talented We involved young engineers To involve young talented The development of the ‘FacContinuation of partnerships reduction policies. policies were issued. target. CO 2 certification and other nication. engineers in new, innovative in several innovative projects engineers in new, innovative tory of the Future’ concept. with knowledge institutes on items. projects. (e.g. Energy Factory, Columprojects. sustainable development topbus Quarter Almere). ics. To contribute actively to naWe participated in the Building Continuation of contributions tional research initiatives in with Nature initiative. to national research initiatives the field of sustainable develin the field of sustainable deopment. velopment. To promote internal research Continuation of research into To continue promoting interprojects for the development carbon-friendly design and nal research projects for the of sustainable products and into sustainable cities. development of sustainable services. products and services. 24 Management disclosure This index summarises the approach of Witteveen+Bos to Social: labour practices and decent work managing sustainability topics associated with risks and opportunities, and was drawn up in accordance with the Global Employment; labour/management relations; Our approach is driven by our CSR policy: Reporting Initiative G3 guidelines. occupational health and safety; training and education; diversity and equal We aim to be a preferred employer. We try to achieve this by offering opportunity diversity of workforce, discussing employee satisfaction and providing training programmes. Witteveen+Bos values high-quality engineering and we understand that innovation requires constant investments in education and research. Economic Various educational and research programmes are either initiated or supported by Witteveen+Bos. Information on our approach to occupational health and safety can be found on Economic performance, market presence and indirect economic impact Our management approach to economic and financial performance is described page 9 of the annual report. Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten in our annual report and our sustainable design principles. principles of UN Global Compact. Goals, performance and contextual information Goals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on goals and performance can be found in the chapters Detailed information on financial goals and performance can be found in our annual report, as well as in the progress towards targets, and the economic ‘Summary of targets and results’ and ‘Performance 2010’. performance data (page 6). Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of this CSR Report. Monitoring and follow-up See the table ‘Summary of targets and results’ on page 22. Further information can be found at the link below: Annual report www.witteveenbos.com/annualreport Further information can be found at the links below: CSR Report www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo Environmental UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Overall; materials; products and services; compliance; transport; emissions; We carefully manage our impacts at all stages, from business operations to the effluents and waste; water; biodiversity impact of our designs. To ensure a systematic approach in our business operations, we apply an environmental management system based on international guidelines and standards, including the monitoring of our performance. To our products and services we apply sustainable design principles. Goals, performance and contextual information See Performance 2010 and Our objectives for 2011, Social: human rights page 12 and 14 of this report. Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of this CSR Report. Investment/procurement practices; non-discrimination; freedom of association Witteveen+Bos endorses and implements the ten principles of UN Global and collective bargaining; abolition of child labour; prevention of forced and comCompact. Monitoring and follow-up­ Monitoring and follow-up takes place within our environmental management system. pulsory labour; complaints, grievance and security practices; indigenous rights Goals, performance and contextual information Detailed information on goals and performance can be found in UN Global Compact progress and the company profile, pages 20 and 4. Further information can be found at the links below: Organisational responsibility See our policy statement, page 3 of this CSR Report. CSR policy www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo Monitoring and follow-up See UN Global Compact progress on page 20. Energy and climate change www.witteveenbos.nl/energie-en-klimaat Fish flow innovations www.fishflowinnovations.nl/nl/over-fishflow Further information can be found at the links below: Building with nature www.ecoshape.nl/home CSR Report www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo UN Global Compact http://www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos Social: product responsibility Customer health and safety; product and service labeling; marketing communicaThe safety assurance system applicable to relevant services of Witteveen+Bos tions; customer privacy; compliance is certified against the SHE Checklist Contractors standard (SCC**). The Witteveen+Bos instructions ‘Safety and Health in the design phase’ prescribe the preparation of Health and Safety plans and records and Risk Assessment and Evaluation for all designs that are planned to be constructed. The plans contain Social: society answering questions about safety and health in the design and implementation. Goals, performance, policy Information on goals and performance and policy can be found on our website. Community; corruption; public policy; anti-competitive behaviour and compliance We endorse and implement the ten principles of UN Global Compact. We understand that acting responsibly means taking social expectations into account Organisational responsibility Witteveen+Bos Constructionand Industrial Safety Group. without losing sight of our business targets. Training and awareness SCC instruction courses at two levels are provided to employees providing relGoals, performance and contextual information Information on goals and performance can be found in UN Global Compact evant services progress and the company profile (pages 20 and 4). Monitoring and follow-up Available certificates: SCC**, ISO9001 Organisational responsibility See our policy statement on page 3 of this CSR Report. Monitoring and follow-up See UN Global Compact progress. Further information can be found at the links below: Policy on health and safety in design phase www.witteveenbos.nl/bouwveiligheid Further information can be found at the links below: www.witteveenbos.nl/risicomanagement CSR Report www.witteveenbos.nl/mvo www.witteveenbos.nl/veiligheid UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/10135-Witteveen-Bos 26 GRI index Table 9: GRI index GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page Vision and strategy 1.1 Vision and strategy statement (Board of Directors) Policy statement, company profile, priorities, summary of targets 3, 4, 22 3.11 Significant changes compared to previous reporting periods (scope, Key figures 10 and results boundary, measurement methods) 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Performance 2010, our objectives for 2011, mission and 12, 14, 22 priorities, summary of targets and results GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the Table 9: GRI index, Management disclosure 26, 24 Profile report 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. 4 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external No external assurance sought assurance for the report 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Company profile 4 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, Company profile, Corporate governance, Operational structure 4, 6, 9 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Governance 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Van Twickelostraat 2, 7411 SC Deventer, the Netherlands 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Corporate governance, Operational structure 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names Five countries with major operations: Indonesia, Russia, 4 4.2 Independence of board members Corporate governance, Operational structure 6 of the countries Kazakhstan, Latvia, Belgium 4.3 Independence of unitary governance body Not relevant 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Employee-owned, private limited company; more information can be 6 found in the chapter ‘Corporate governance’ 4.4 Shareholder and employee feedback mechanisms Corporate governance 6 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, National, regional and local government and private companies 4 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Corporate governance: the company’s shareholding system is the 6 and types of customers/beneficiaries) in the Netherlands and other countries where we operate, internagovernance body, senior managers, and executives, and the linkage between compensation and performance for economic, tional financial institutions. organisation’s performance (including social and environmental social and environmental performance. performance) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Key figures 10 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate governance 6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period None that conflicts of interest are avoided. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Nominations and awards 8 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Corporate governance 6 members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Governance structures and management systems 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Company profile, Corporate governance, Sustainable design 4, 6, 14 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and principles 3.1 Reporting period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 3 social performance and the status of their implementation 3.2 Date of most recent previous report July 2010 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Corporate governance 6 organisation’s identification and management of economic, 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual environmental, and social performance 3.4 Point of contact for questions regarding the report or its contents H.E. Nieboer, Director 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own Corporate governance 6 info@witteveenbos.nl performance Report scope and boundary Commitments to external initiatives 3.5 Process for defining report content The Witteveen+Bos Corporate Social Responsibility Report is aligned 3 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Sustainable design principles and the chapter ‘Our daily practice’ 14, 16 to GRI G3 level B sustainability reporting guidelines; see also the chapter principle is addressed by the organisation ‘Policy statement’. Based on workshops with senior partners and the Works Council, the company’s board of directors has formulated 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Certificates and commitments 6 an integral vision on Corporate Social Responsibility and four longcharters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation term CSR priorities. We report on progress in these priority fields. subscribes or which it endorses 3.6 Boundary of the report While this report covers Witteveen+Bos overall, the performance 3 4.13 Memberships of associations Corporate governance (certificates and commitments) 6 data is focused primarily on operations in the Netherlands. The report content does not include sustainability performance data from external organisations or activities over which the company has limited control or influence, such as contractors and suppliers. More Stakeholder engagement information can be found in the chapters: Company profile, Key figures, Corporate governance and Operational structure. 4.14 List of engaged stakeholders Corporate governance 6 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary See 3.5, 3.6 and the chapter ‘Policy statement’ 3 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to Stakeholder identification and selection is based on Witteveen+Bos 6 http://www.globalreporting.org/ReportinFramework/G3Online/ engage employee regulations and Stakeholder Analysis Tool. Profile/ _ftn1 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Corporate governance 6 3.8 Reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries No significant impacts 4 engagement by type and by stakeholder group 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Key figures 10 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder No specific concerns raised. The current stakeholder dialogue is 6 engagement focused on the topic of carbon management in design practices. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information Key figures 10 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatements 28 GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page GRI reference Description References in Corporate Responsibility Report Page Performance indicators social performance indicators: society (SO) economic performance indicators (EC) SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks 0 %, Corruption is not a significant issue in the Netherlands; our EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic key figures, Table 1: Key financial figures 5 related to corruption performance in other countries has not yet been analysed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption 0 %, Corruption-related issues have been incorporated in the policies and procedures employee regulations, in the chapter on standards and values. By environmental performance indicators (EN) signing the employment contract, every employee agrees to comply with these values. EN1 Materials used by volume Key figures 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy None EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Key figures 10 development and lobbying EN4 Indirect energy consumption by source 100 % generated by non-renewable source 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, No contributions Table 2: Consumed energy politicians and related institutions by country EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Our daily practice 16 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, No legal actions in the Netherlands products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes result of these initiatives SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonNo fines and/or sanctions in the Netherlands EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Our objectives for 2011 14 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations achieved EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Table 3: Emissions per activity in tons of CO 2 10 social performance indicators: human rights (HR) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Table 3: Emissions per activity in tons of CO 2 10 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved Performance 2010, Our objectives for 2011 12, 14 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements No significant investment agreements that include human rights and contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. social performance indicators: labour practices (LA) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business 0 %, no actions undertaken partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Employment, Table 4: Total workforce by employment type, 11 contract and region employment contract and region HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures No employee training provided, 0 %; employees; human rights concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, issues are incorporated in the employee regulations (standards and LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Table 5: Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group 11 including the percentage of employees trained. values and responsibilities to our stakeholders). gender and region and gender LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Employment, employee’s benefits 11 social perfomance indicators: product responsibility (PR) temporary or part-time employees LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 0 %, see LA9 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Management disclosure product responsibility 24 agreements services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational illnesses, lost days and absenteeism, 0% and total number of work-related fatalities by region * These indicators are partially reported on, where all the other indicators are fully reported on. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade 0 %, Witteveen+Bos is not bound to formal agreements with trade unions unions as the company has its own agreements with employees. These agreements have been ratified by the Works Council and laid down in the employee regulations and the quality manual. LA10* Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Table 7: Internal training and trainees at Witteveen+Bos 11 category LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Performance reviews in 2010: 38 % Career development reviews development reviews in 2010: 8 % LA13 Composition of governance bodies and break-down of employees Key figures 10 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 30 GRI Application Level Addresses The Netherlands Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Deventer Breda Head office Willemstraat 28 Van Twickelostraat 2 Postbus 3465 Postbus 233 4800 DL Breda 7400 AE Deventer the Netherlands the Netherlands t +31 76 523 33 33 t +31 570 69 79 11 f +31 76 514 44 42 f +31 570 69 73 44 Den Haag Office building ‘Leeuwenbrug’ Alexanderstraat 21 Leeuwenbrug 8 Postbus 85948 Postbus 233 2508 CP Den Haag 7400 AE Deventer the Netherlands the Netherlands t +31 70 370 07 00 t +31 570 69 75 11 f +31 70 360 00 98 f +31 570 69 71 23 Heerenveen Office building ‘Stationsplein’ K.R. Poststraat 100-3 Leeuwenbrug 27 Postbus 186 Postbus 233 8440 AD Heerenveen 7400 AE Deventer the Netherlands the Netherlands t +31 513 64 18 00 t +31 570 69 75 11 f +31 513 64 18 01 f +31 570 61 99 48 Maastricht Almere Leidenlaan 16 Louis Armstrongweg 6 Postbus 1080 Postbus 10095 6201 BB Maastricht 1301 AB Almere the Netherlands the Netherlands t +31 43 328 12 22 t +31 36 548 29 00 f +31 43 325 37 99 f +31 36 533 38 33 Rotterdam Amsterdam Willemskade 19-20 Hoogoorddreef 56 F Postbus 2397 Postbus 12205 3000 CJ Rotterdam 1100 AE Amsterdam the Netherlands the Netherlands t­ +31 10 244 28 00 t +31 20 312 55 55 f +31 10 244 28 88 f +31 20 697 47 95 info@witteveenbos.nl www.witteveenbos.com Trade register Enschede 38020751 Belgium Vietnam Witteveen+Bos Belgium N.V. Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Posthoflei 5 Le Quy Don Street 31 2600 Antwerpen-Berchem, Belgium Ward 7, District 3 t +32 3 286 75 75 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam f +32 3 281 86 01 t +84 839 30 92 90 e info@witteveenbos.be­­ f +84 839 30 92 72 e info@witteveenbos.vn Indonesia Witteveen+Bos Raadgevende ingenieurs B.V. Kazakstan Park View Plaza, 6th floor Witteveen+Bos Kazakhstan B.V. Jl. Taman Kemang no. 27 Aktau Kemang Jakarta Selatan 12730 Building 39B(PUS), 1st floor P.O. Box 1687 JKS 12016, Indonesia Microdistrict 8 t +62 21 719 12 82 130000 Aktau, Republic of Kazakhstan f +62 21 719 12 83 t +7 7292 30 04 50 e info@witbo.co.id f +7 7292 30 04 51 e aktau@witbo.kz Russia Witteveen+Bos Russia B.V. Atyrau Nab. Reki Moyka 24, Office 16 Novaya Street 2 191186 St. Petersburg, Russia 060005 Atyrau, Republic of Kazakhstan t +7 812 570 02 13 t +7 7122 32 01 21 / 97 00 69 f +7 812 312 71 45 f +7 7122 97 00 70 e spb@witbo.ru e atyrau@witbo.kz Latvia Witteveen+Bos Caspian LLP SIA Witteveen+Bos Latvia Almaty Torna iela 4, III-C, App. 203 Begalin Street 130 1050 Riga, Latvia 050010 Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan t +371 6 722 31 44 t +7 727 341 09 98 f +371 6 722 38 30 f +7 727 341 09 97 e witbo@apollo.lv e almaty@witbo.kz Witteveen+Bos Participations Adviesbureau Noord/Zuidlijn V.O.F. TEC Tunnel Engineering Consultants V.O.F. Postbus 233 Barbarossastraat 35 7400 AE Deventer Postbus 108 the Netherlands 6500 AC Nijmegen t +31 570 69 75 11 the Netherlands f +31 570 61 99 48 t 024 382 04 30 f 024 322 95 89 Railinfra Solutions V.O.F. e info@tec-tunnel.com Jutfaseweg 1 Postbus 24088 FishFlow Innovations B.V. 3502 MB Utrecht Van Twickelostraat 2 the Netherlands 7411 SC Deventer t +31 30 283 39 00 the Netherlands f +31 30 283 39 01 t 0570 61 92 92 e info@railinfrasolutions.nl f 0570 61 93 31 e info@fishflowinnovations.nl Colophon Editing and design Corporate communications and Studio Witteveen+Bos Photography and illustrations Studio Witteveen+Bos Print Te Sligte, Enschede
