Korea Resources Corporation (KORES) is committed to fulfilling the dream of becoming an advanced resources CONTENTS powerhouse through responsible resources development. 0 0 4 Message from the CEO 0 0 6 2010 Highlights Summary of the report 0 0 7 About the Company The reporting period is from Jan. 1 to Dec. 31, 2010. For some quantitative records, data from the past 3 years were used to help the readers understand the relevant trends. The reporting scope 0 0 8 Present state of KORES’s Projects includes the performance of KORES's, head office and branch offices within Korea; the records of some workplaces abroad are included in terms of some indicators. We have specified the reasons Unlimited KORES in linkage with the details concerned when the information provided in the previous report was 0 1 2 Vision and Strategy revised. This 2010 Sustainability Report is our third one, and we are opening various opportunities 0 1 4 Governance to communicate with stakeholders through the publication of the sustainability report each year. 0 1 6 Risk Management 0 1 8 Stakeholder Engagement Principles and guidelines The report was drawn up based on GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines. Material Unlimited Economy issues were drawn using AA1000SES, an international standard for stakeholder engagement. 0 2 5 Public Benefits This report connects ISO 26000, an international standard for social responsibility, with the GRI 0 2 8 Growth Index. To enhance the credibility and quality of the report details, DNV Certification, Ltd has 0 3 1 Economic Efficiency undertaken assurance work in accordance with DNV's Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (V.3.0). Readers may check the details of the assurance results through the third-party Unlimited Society assurance statement contained in this report's appendix. 0 3 7 Ethical Management 0 4 0 Employees Additional information and contact details 0 4 4 Customers Additional information on this report is available on our homepage (www.kores.or.kr). For further details, feel free to contact the following: 0 4 6 Partner Firms 0 4 8 Health and Safety KORES Creativity Management Team, 606 Shiheung-dearo, Dongjak-gu, Seoul, Korea 0 5 0 Communities Office 82-2-840-5664 Fax 82-2-833-0564 E-mail unlimited@kores.or.kr 0 5 2 Social Contribution Unlimited Earth 1) GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) : Guidelines for sustainability reports jointly produced by CERES and UNEP 0 5 7 Integrated Environmental Management System 0 6 0 Eco-Technology Development 0 6 4 Responsible Resources Development 0 7 0 Putting Green Growth into Practice KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 0 7 1 Environmental Management Achievements Appendix 0 7 3 Organization, Status of Participation in Associations UNLIMITED KORES and Bodies, and Awards 0 7 4 Chart of Ethics 0 7 5 Sustainability Initiatives 0 7 6 UN Global Compact I 02 I I 03 I 0 7 7 10 Principles of ICMM Cover story 0 7 8 Third-Party Assurance Statement The KORES Sustainability Report is titled Unlimited Earth, which means that our planet, 0 8 0 GRI 3.1 Guideline Index and ISO 26000 Index Earth, is a resource that we humans should coexist with unlimitedly. We have arranged 0 8 5 Terminology Explanation stones into the infinity symbol shape and have portrayed children playing happily to depict the healthy images of our future generations who will dream of a better future and happier tomorrow on this unlimited Earth. *Background photo: View of the Salt Desert of Uyuni in Bolivia Message from the CEO My dear stakeholders! Second, we shall preserve environmental values through responsible resources development. Thank you for your unwavering support and encouragement. KORES will create a new resources development paradigm through We published our sustainability report for the first time in 2009, which natural environment destruction caused by resources and I am pleased to share KORES’s economic, social, and development can be prevented and environmental values can be environmental responsibilities and performances with our maximized. We shall establish an environmental management (Mgt.) stakeholders through this third sustainability report. policy to actively solve environmental problems arising in the course of Looking back at 2010 Mgt., activities and put such policy into practice. In terms of technology, 2010 was a year when KORES solidified its sustainable growth base. we shall thoroughly review environmental factors by the resources We invested KRW 366.4 billion in 33 projects in 15 countries worldwide development stage including exploration, development, production, and to achieve our autonomous development objective earlier than expected restoration through eco-production and development system adoption and ensure global competitiveness. and eco-refining technology development and reflect these on the As a result, KORES realized autonomous development valued at KRW projects. KORES shall make all-out efforts to save energy and minimize 6.96 billion for an autonomous development rate of 27%. In particular, greenhouse gas emissions by actively taking part in the government’s we strove to acquire new strategic minerals including lithium and green growth policy. preoccupied lithium triangle markets in South America by penetrating Third, we shall grow together with communities. the markets of Chile and Argentina as well as Bolivia, which boasts of Resources development should be implemented for mutual the largest lithium reserves in the world. development with communities, not to mention the achievements of KORES also increased personnel in our South African Branch Office for KORES. We shall actively pursue local economy activation, job creation, investment activation in the African region where our entry base is weak and human resources nurturing through the resources development and opened an investment support center in the Democratic Republic of business. The infrastructure improvement in Lapu-Lapu, Philippines and Congo. KORES actually participated in 7 projects in 6 countries accessible road construction and reservoir development in Corocoro, including the projects on uranium in Niger, bituminous coal in South Bolivia are typical cases, and KORES shall continue to implement such Africa, chrome in Zimbabwe, cobalt in Zambia and Congo, and projects. We shall also share our warm hearts with communities through manganese in Tanzania and South Africa in addition to the Ambatovy “ various social contribution activities including the Beautiful Shop ” KORES will spearhead the protection of nickel project in Madagascar. Concerning our domestic business, we improved profitability and value-added through metal mine operation in Korea. Lastly, we shall nurture employees who are equipped for global redevelopment and modernization. resources territory, extending it to cover Our management activities were acknowledged externally, having received the highest grades in the assessment of agency head, agency, competitiveness. In the course of its growth, KORES shall help employees become equipped for global competitiveness. Toward this end, we shall expand and audit during the 2010 public agency management assessment. five oceans and 6 continents. Management environment in 2011 job training for employees and consolidate practical work and experience-centered field training so that they will be capable of implementing projects anywhere in the world. We shall establish With regard to the business environment in 2011, risks including the measures for employees’ safety and health in implementing projects and global financial crisis, unstable raw material prices, fierce global make our utmost efforts for employee protection. In addition, we shall KORES has grown into the only public corporation specializing in resources development in Korea. competition to acquire resources, and environmental destruction as a KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 strive to implement a sound performance-oriented Mgt. system to offer result of resources development are widespread. KORES is committed We seek to be one of the top 20 global resources developers by 2020. to implementing the following activities to become a sustainable, fair assessment opportunities to employees. respected company in resources development, by regarding such My dear KORES stakeholders rapidly changing situations as an opportunity to grow: UNLIMITED KORES KORES has taken off as the only resources development public First, we shall consolidate the base to achieve the W.I.T.H. KORES corporation in Korea, thanks to its stakeholders’ constant interest, α 2020 strategy through economic responsibility. support, and encouragement. We shall do our very best to be one of the We shall accelerate the 2+2+ strategy to penetrate the African and top 20 major resources development companies in the world by 2020. South American markets, aggressively targeting minerals such as We shall exert our best efforts to reflect your various opinions on I 04 I I 05 I uranium, copper and scarce metals whose autonomous development is business Mgt. KORES is committed to consolidating its role as your weak. Toward this end, we plan to participate aggressively in large-scale partner in sustainable development. production and development projects by establishing big, balanced I hope for your continuous support and encouragement. detailed strategies pursuing substantiality through efforts to find stellar projects and investment balance between new and existing projects. President. Shin-Jong Kim Highlight 2010 About the Company First public agency to be rated A in the Government°± KORES is a public resources development corporation. Management Assessment “” As a public resources development corporation established in 1967, KORES contributes to national development by promoting the KORES was rated A (excellent) in three sectors: agency, agency head, and audit --in the 2010 stable supply and demand of mineral resources. All this can be done by efficiently carrying out the following: exploration and management (Mgt.) assessment targeting 100 public agencies, the first public agency to achieve such a development of mineral resources at home and abroad, support in the form of technologies and funds to develop mineral resources, feat. This result can be attributed to the high assessment on our conspicuous business Mgt. stocking of scarce metals to cope with national crises, mineral ores tests, and analyses and valued-added technology development and competence including autonomous development rate enhancement through remarkable international dissemination. resources development achievements, performance-based annual salary system expansion, early adoption of the time-off system, job creation for young people, and crisis Mgt. system. Key businesses Securing new growth engines through the 2+2+ strategy á Supporting resources development at home and abroad Stocking mineral resources Technology development and support Direct investment in developing mineral resources at home and abroad KORES channeled all its competencies into a system to acquire resources abroad so as to concentrate α on international investment projects and implemented the 2+2+ strategy in 2010. This strategy involves Exploration, development to acquire mineral resources at home and Stocking mineral products to establish a stable supply base of Technology development and dissemination for mineral tests and Direct investment in mineral resources development at home concentrating all our competencies on the stable supply of core raw material minerals by adding scarce abroad, and support in the form of mineral resources analyses and value-added and abroad metals such as lithium to the existing 2+2 strategy. The strategy entails mainly investing in two types of technologies and funds improvement minerals -copper and uraniumwhose autonomous development rates are low and in two regions, South America and Africa, where new countries with rich resources are located. Consequently, we have secured resources development bridgeheads by participating in copper and lithium projects in America and 7 projects in 6 African countries. Company profile As of the end of December 2010 History Established a copper belt and lithium triangle in America Company name Korea Resources Corporation (KORES) 1960s 쪾1967. 06: Established as a general mining shaping agency In 2010, KORES established the copper belt in America along with the projects of Boleo in Mexico, 쪾1977. 11: Completed construction of a technology research institute Cobre Panama, and Marcona in Peru, which we have already joined through entry into the copper Establishment June 5, 1967 1970s 쪾1978. 03: Supported resources development abroad mining project in Rosemont, USA. As a result of efforts to acquire new strategic minerals, KORES has date 1980s 쪾1988. 12: Supported the stone and aggregate business and founded a labor KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 union Korea Mining Promotion Act No. 1935 achieved the feat of preoccupying the lithium triangle market in South America by penetrating the Grounds for (enacted on Mar. 30, 1967) 쪾1990. 04: Began to invest in the overseas resources development business markets of Chile and Argentina as well as Bolivia, which boasts of having the world's largest reserves of establishment KORES Act No. 9182 (revised on Dec. 26, 2008) 1990s 쪾1994. 04: Carried out resources development in North Korea lithium. 쪾2001. 03: Launched the KOMIS To contribute to national economic development by promoting 쪾2001. 07: Established a branch office in Toronto, Canada 쪾2004. 12: Signed a project financial agreement for the first time in the history UNLIMITED KORES Establishment the stable supply and demand of mineral resources through the Consolidated sustainable management activities purpose nurturing of and support for mineral resources development at of KORES home and abroad, and the mineral resources industry 쪾2005. 11: Established a branch office in Almaty, Kazakhstan Since KORES declared sustainable Mgt., in 2008, it has continued with its efforts to systematize 2000s 쪾2006. 10: Signed a joint venture agreement to develop the Ambatovy Nickel sustainable Mgt. In 2010, KORES established the EHS (environment, health, and safety) Mgt. standard Mine for the first time among public agencies in Korea. The EHS standard is an integrated environmental, No. of employees 369 쪾2007. 05: Completed construction of the Molybdenum refinery of Gwangyang Ferroalloy I 06 I health, and safety Mgt. standard that stipulates not only medical checkups for workers, hazardous 3 Divisions, 7 Departments, 35 Teams, 8 Overseas Branch 쪾2007. 10: Stored mineral products I 07 I Organization Offices, 2 Branch Offices in Korea 쪾2007. 11: Established a branch office in Lima, Peru substances Mgt., health education, and energy consumption measurement but also toxic materials 쪾2008. 12: Revised the KORES Act control, facility inspection, and safety education and training. Based on the continuity of social Capital KRW 790.3 billion 쪾2009. 10: Established a branch office in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia 쪾2010. 05: Open an investment support center in the Democratic Republic of (government: 99.7%; Korea Finance Corporation: 0.3%) contribution activities operated focusing on 18 tasks in the existing 4 fields, we have consolidated Congo community communication and environmental protection activities further in international resources 쪾2010. 06: Established a branch office in Jakarta. Indonesia Net profit KRW 23 billion 2010s development sites. 국내외 자원개발지원 광산물 비축 기술개발 및 지원 국내외 광물자원 직접개발 Status of Business The head office of KORES is located in Seoul, Korea. KORES operates 2 domestic branch offices and 9 overseas branch offices (as of the end of 2010). For the stable supply of the top 6 strategic minerals, we are directly investing in 33 projects Head quaters & Domestic offices Overseas offices in 15 countries and maintaining a stable portfolio in 3 stages of exploration, development, and production. Status of head office and domestic and overseas branch offices Head office 606 Shiheung-dearo Dongjak-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel. 82-2-840-5600 Project name Domestic investment projects Iksan branch office Mineral type KMC Co., Ltd Gwangyang Ferro Korea Alumina Youngwoo Korea Mineral GMC Co., Ltd 750-1 Namdang-ri, Hamyeol-eup, Iksan-si, Jeonbuk, Korea Annual output Alloy Co., Ltd Co., Ltd Resources Co., Ltd Shakespeare Cree-East Tel. 82-63-862-0041 Investment amount Molybdenum Molybdenum Special Alumina Talc, Dolomite Iron Zinc Copper Uranium Development status 674 tons 6K tons 48K tons 22K tons 314K tons 2.5 billion KRW 5.13 billion KRW Taebaek branch office Stake of KORES(Korea) 3.1 billion KRW 20.5 billion KRW 14.7 billion KRW 3.7 billion KRW 500 billion KRW 800 billion KRW Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Production Stage Development Stage Exploration Stage Development Stage Exploration Stage 80-2 Hwangji-dong, Taebaek-si, Gangwon-do, Korea 49% 45% 49% 44% 15% 30% 5.7%(5.7%) 12.5%(50%) Tel. 82-33-552-1261 South Africa Korea Resources Corporation Pretoria Office Overseas investment projects Lord Charles Office Park, Cnr Charles and Brooklyn Street, Zhangjiagang Bel Fang Tong Ye Lishutan Xi'an Maxsun Baotou Yongxin Montrose Basin Brooklyn 0181, Pretoria, South Africa Limestone Copper Zinc Rare earth oxide Rare earth resources Copper Tel. 27-12-460-5824 Quicklime 450K tons Metal 100K tons Rare earth oxide 1K tons NdFeB 1.5K tons Canada metal the 87th tons 13 billion KRW 31.9 billion KRW 850 billion KRW 3.7 billion KRW 2.5 billion KRW 24 billion KRW Mongolia Production Stage Production Stage Exploration Stage Production Stage Development Stage Development Stage Korea Resources Corporation Mongolia Office 49%(100%) 6%(45%) 33.3%(66.7) 44% 29% 10%(20%) Sukhbaatar district 1th khoroo chinggis avenue Kazakhstan Mongol Monnis Tower 7F, Ulaanbaatar Mongolia Tel. 976-1132-6875 America Cobre Panama Copper Indonesia Korea Metal 25K tons Korea Resources Corporation Indonesia Office Gedung Bursa Elek Jakarta(Jakarta Stock Exchage Building), Erdenet Copper China Boleo Mexico 10.25 billion KRW Development Stage Ⅰ Tower , Suite 304, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kav, 52-53, Copper 10%(20%) Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Metal 60K tons Tel. 62-21-5140-0311 Exploration Stage 43 billion KRW Panama Niger 25%(51%) Development Stage Marcona Celendin China 10%(30%) Copper Copper Korea Resources Corporation Beijing Office Philippines 50K tons Rm 1106/C, Star City 10 Jiuxianqiao Rd, Chaoyang 20.6 billion KRW District Beijing 100016, China Development Stage Exploration Stage Tel. 86-10-5827-9086 Tegida Vlakplaatz Democratic Republic Ambatovy Rapu-Rapu Indonesia 15%(30%) 40%(40%) Uranium Bituminous Coal of the Congo Nickel Copper Kazakhstan 700 tons Metal 60K tons Metal 25K tons Peru Korea Resources Corporation Almaty Office 17.1 billion KRW 18.7 billion KRW 689 billion KRW 24.5 billion KRW 39 Gogolya Str., 1201 050002, Almaty, Kazakhstan Development Stage Exploration Stage Development Stage Development Stage NX Uno Bolivia Corocoro Tel. 7-3272-590-117 4%(4%) 37%(37%) 17.5%(27.5%) 28%(70%) Lithium Copper KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 40K tons South Africa Madagascar Canada 18.3 billion KRW 4.9 billion KRW Korea Resources Corporation Toronto Office Development Stage Exploration Stage Chile 8 King Street East, Suite 712, Toronto, Ontario, Australia 12%(30%) 23%(45%) CANADA M5C 185 Springvale Togara North Athena Cockatoo Minerva Wallarah Tel. 001-416-929-8183 Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Sal de vida Argentina UNLIMITED KORES 3,300K tons 2,000K tons 2,500K tons 4,500K tons Lithium Democratic Republic of the Congo 23.8 billion KRW 1.76 billion KRW 1.58 billion KRW 12.05 billion KRW 7.2 billion KRW 48.45 billion KRW Korea Resources Corporation Congo Office Production Stage Development Stage Exploration Stage Production Stage Development Stage Development Stage No.54. Avenue Justice, Commune de la Gomba Kinshasa 3 billion KRW 25%(50%) 8.33%(33%) 4%(4%) 6.9%(39.1%) 4%(4%) 82.25%(95%) Tel. 243-818-201-736 Exploration Stage 10%(30%) Taroborah Togara North Angus Place Moolarben Marree Narrabri Boulia Peru Bituminous Coal Nickel Bituminous Coal Bituminous Coal Uranium Bituminous Coal Copper, Zinc Korea Resources Corporation Lima Office I 08 I 2,000K tons 3,200K tons 16,000K tons 6,000K tons Av.Principal 190, Piso 10, La Vitoria, Lima, Peru I 09 I 80 billion KRW 1.75 billion KRW 24.9 billion KRW 59.05 billion KRW 1 billion KRW 59.6 billion KRW 1.1 billion KRW Tel. 51-1-226-6034 Exploration Stage Exploration Stage Production Stage Production Stage Exploration Stage Production Stage Exploration Stage 50%(100%) 25%(50%) 25%(50%) 4%(10%) 20%(50%) 2.5%(7.5%) 33.33%(100%) Australia Korea Resources Corporation Sydney Office Suite 901, 132 Arthur Street North Sydney NSW 2060 Australia Tel. 61-2-9959-5444 UNLIMITED KORES strives to go beyond its limitations, KORES for everyone’s happiness to continue. KORES goes forward beyond Korea and toward the world, beyond today and toward an innovative tomorrow, beyond separation toward warm-hearted people. We earnestly strive for all stakeholders’ happiness based on core technologies with global competitiveness. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 UNLIMITED KORES I 10 I I 11 I Vision and Strategy KORES Vision Sustainability management strategy of KORES W.I.T.H. KORES 2020 Strategy direction KORES established the W.I.T.H. KORES 2020 strategy under the objective of ensuring the stable KORES regards stable resources supply and demand, responsible resources development, and supply and demand of energy and mineral resources. We are doing our very best to achieve an transparent and ethical Mgt. as the strategic direction of sustainability Mgt. Toward this end, we are autonomous development rate of 43% as well as asset size of KRW 11 trillion by 2020 through four committed to building a balanced economic, social, and environmental growth base by reflecting strategies -Worldwide business, Innovation, Technology and Human-oriented (W.I.T.H.) Mgt.as various stakeholder issues. well as balanced growth in each field. Contribute to national economic development by promoting the stable supply and Sustainability Mgt. Mission demand of mineral resources. of KORES Domestic and international Fostering and supporting the Main businesses mineral resources development mineral resources industry [Economic responsibility] [Social responsibility] [Environmental responsibility] Acquire stable mineral Consolidate social contribution Develop eco-mines. Resources. activities. Transparent and Pursue green growth. Contribute to economic Fair Mgt. Strategic objective One of the world's top 20 mining companies development. Pursue mutual growth. (autonomous development rate of strategic minerals: 43%, asset size: KRW 11 trillion) Consolidate win-win Trusted corporation, Cooperation. Embodying fair society Vision W.I.T.H KORES 2020 Implementation system Organization chart for sustainability Mgt. KORES founded a sustainability management subcommittee under the board of directors to supervise social contribution activities, customer-oriented Mgt., ethical Mgt., and environmental Mgt. Board of Auditor directors President (corruption prevention) activities. The committee supervises the sustainability Mgt. strategies and implementation results Worldwide Business Innovation Technology Human Autonomous Value-oriented Mgt. Self-reliance in terms Excellent level of and plays a role in identifying sustainability Mgt-related issues and offering advice in the mining development rate:43% Financial of core technologies customer satisfaction business decision-making process in board meetings. Asset size: KRW 11 independence Advanced technology Environment-valued Mgt. KORES trillion level Key tasks in 2010 지속가능경영 KORES drew implementation tasks in six fields for social responsibility implementation, established Sustainability management subcommittee implementation plans, and implemented them in 2010. Midand Long-term Roadmap KORES is a public corporation specializing in overseas resources development, a large corporation aiming at becoming one of the world's top 20 companies in line with the government' s policy direction of acquiring overseas resources and consolidating expertise. We plan to reorganize 사회적 책임] Category [ [ 경제적 책임] Detailed tasks 쪾Selected as an excellent agency in a customer [ 환경적 책임] Dept. in charge 사회공헌활동 강화 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 functions from domestic mining support to overseas resources development, change our investment 투명쪾공정경영 1. Improvement of customer 안정적 광물자원확보 satisfaction assessment 친환경 광산개발 쪾Activation of VOC(Voice of Customer) collection channel Creativity Mgt. Team Strategic Mgt. Resources Development strategy from equity investment focused on exploration into mid-and large-sized projects along with 쪾동반성장 추구 쪾경제발전reform 기여 쪾녹색성장 추구 satisfaction 쪾CS(Customer Satisfaction) Division Development Support Division 쪾신뢰받는 기업 쪾상생협력 강화 Social Contribution Division Resources M&A, and ensure global competitiveness by fostering specialized personnel and technological and Economic Resources Development prowess. Having built a growth base through the expansion of legal capital, organizations, and 쪾공정사회 2. Consolidation of 구현 쪾Consolidation of sustainability Mgt. system Creativity Mgt. Team Achievements Development Considering Considering Environment and sustainability Mgt. system UNLIMITED KORES Environment and Community manpower, KORES will seek to achieve its objectives as a global mining company by : 쪾Implement PR via multi-channel and multi-function Community 광물자원의 Biz안정적인 수급을 도모하여 3. KORES’s brand value methods. PR Team 쪾Publicity system establishment 국민경제expansion 발전에 이바지 enhancement MISSION Base : establishment size and domain Realization of vision Short-term (2010~2011) Mid-term (2012~2015) Long-term (2016~2020) 4. Improvement in human 쪾Consolidation of performance-based HR assessment system HR Development Team 쪾Establishment of HR integration system Ensure global growth base thru M&A at I 12 I Concentrate on Mgt. competence in Create a global company operated resources Mgt. system I 13 I 주요산업 : the early stage. 국내 및 해외 광물자원 개발 광물자원산업의 육성쪾지원 resources development abroad. independently by a stronghold 쪾Advancement of industrial relations laws and systems Implement the '2+2+ ' strategy. 1. Strengthen technological prowess to enter 2. company abroad. 쪾Expansion of position system and advancement of pay 이사회 사장 감사(부패방지) Establish performance-based pay system into the refinery and distribution biz. Develop capabilities and an 5. Establishment of advanced Improve competitiveness and Labor and Welfare Team and consolidate performance Mgt. organization system as a global industrial relations Develop company-wide integrated Mgt. productivity with enhanced performance mining company. system 광업메이저 system. Mgt. system. Enhance the change implementation 6. Strengthening social 쪾Strengthening social contribution activities 전략목표 : Establish a risk Mgt. system. Stabilize company-wide integrated system and integrated Mgt. system. General Affairs Team Global Top 20 Mgt. system. contribution activities 쪾전략광종 지주개발률 43% 쪾자산규모 11조원 지속가능경영 소위원회 VISION : W.I.T.H. KORES 2020 Governance Composition and operation of the board of directors Activation and consolidation of the board of directors Composition Key performance indicator (KPI) management KPIs for Board Operation The board of directors is the highest decision-making organization; the appointed non-standing KORES set five KPIs and objectives for the evaluation of board operation performances. KORES director assumes the chairmanship of the board, and the ratio of non-standing directors is larger than carries out the board’s own evaluation of role responsibility, composition, operation, and result No. of board meetings held Unit : No. the majority to enable them to fulfill their role faithfully in duty supervision and support. The President utilization for performance assessment and feedback consolidation and operation performance and standing directors are selected and appointed at the recommendation of the Office evaluation of the expertise, rational decision making, and business contribution of non-standing Recommendation Committee and the process specified in the Act on Public Agencies' Operation to directors. The evaluation results are disclosed externally on our homepage by being included in the enhance the quality and expertise of the management and ensure fairness in the selection and Mgt. disclosure. Internally, the evaluation results are reflected in the establishment of the following appointment procedure. year’s board operation direction and activation measures and non-standing directors’ competence The non-standing directors are selected and appointed by the same Act mentioned above at the consolidation measures. recommendation of the Officer Recommendation Committee among the candidates meeting the competence criteria in each job for rational decision making and expertise in the economic, social, Attendance rate Unit : % and environmental sectors. In 2010, the board meeting was held 16 times; 45 items on the agenda Consolidation and use of non-standing directors’ expertise were handled including 32 cases of resolution and 13 cases of reporting. KORES has made efforts to support non-standing directors’ role consolidation through the establishment of measures to strengthen expertise and build their use means with a system. [ List of board of directors] As of the end of September 2011 Position Name Age Work experience Tenure Category Main Activities in 2010 쪾Orientation by field (4 sessions) Resources Policy Office Manager of the Ministry of Industry and Support for 쪾Offering Mgt. information (3 fields) 쪾Enhancement of understanding of social contribution (2 sessions) Kim Resources (MIR)/ Trade Committee standing member of MIR/ ClimatePresident 1950(61) 2008. 7. 30 ~ 2012. 7. 29 competence Shin-jong Energy Measures Task Force Committee member of Presidential Transition Committee/ Current president of KORES consolidation 쪾Visit to the resources development site (2 times) No. of adequate item handling cases Unit : Case Auditor Kim Gangreung Municipal Council Chairman/ Standing committee member 쪾Visit to the resources development site (2 times) 쪾Participation in Mgt. activities (3 times) 1962(49) of Democratic Peaceful Unification Advisory Committee/ Vice president 2011. 3. 14 ~ 2013. 3. 13 (standing) Hong-gyu Status enhancement of Gangwon Municipal/Gun Chairman Council Director (standing) Park Seong-ha 1957(54) KORES Planning & Coordination Dept. manager/ KORES Audit Office manager 2011. 8. 29 ~ 2013. 8. 28 쪾Activation of the board’s functions by presenting rational alternatives -Specialized opinions (44 cases), revised opinions (7 cases), policy suggestions(11 cases), Director Song Investment Development Dept. of KORES/ Investment Business Dept. Role consolidation 쪾Consolidation of pre-deliberation thru subcommittee activation 1955(56) 2010. 1. 27 ~ 2012. 1. 26 action requests(24 cases) (standing) Jin-seok Manager of KORES/ Overseas Energy Team 2 Leader Director (standing) Gang cheonn-gu 1955(56) PR Dept. Manager of KORES 2009. 4. 1 ~ 2012. 3. 31 쪾Checking the management thru revised opinions presentation on the items in the agenda Director Gwak Current Korea Mgt. Strategy Institute Director/ Vice President of Korea Development of a 쪾Use of non-standing directors’ expertise (internal training and thesis/report contribution) (Chairman of Young-sang 1942(69) Small Business Association/ Director of Korea Consultant Association 2009. 6. 22 ~ 2012. 6. 21 system for the 쪾Proposal to the government on the policy suggestions in the board meeting Non-standing directors statement rate Unit : % the board) Director Sul Representative of Park Valley Golf Club/ Busan and Daegu Branch measures to use nonstanding directors ’ 쪾Institutionalization of assignment of support infrastructure consolidating team to the worksite, 1948(63) 2009. 9. 1 ~ 2011. 8. 31 training, and site visit (non-standing) Seong-du Manager of National Intelligence Service expertise Current CEO of GYK TAX CONSULTING/ Outside director of KEB, LG Director Kim Card, GM Daewoo/ Manager of National Tax Service/ Bureau director 1951(60) 2009. 9. 1 ~ 2011. 8. 31 ’ (non-standing) Gap-yong of Local Tax Office/ Dept. Manager of NTS (ranked 12 thin the highranking officers' civil service examination) Director Ahn Current adviser of New Fashion Pro., Jamew West (Mexico)/ Current Consolidation of board s competence 1939(72) chairman of the US Green Action Association, CEO of Modas America 2010. 4. 2 ~ 2012. 4. 1 (non-standing) Jong-shik (Guatemala) KORES has made great efforts toward board function activation through board operation enhancement via activities such as inspection and improvement of organizations and processes and Status of Subcommittees Meetings reinvigoration of the board meeting operation. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Operation of the Subcommittees Revised opinion rate Unit : % Held in 2010 KORES has three subcommittees affiliated with the board of directors to enhance the decisionCategory Items on the agenda making efficiency of business Mgt. and consolidate the expertise of the board of directors. The ’ Category Main Activities in 2010 Strategic Mgt. Subcommittee ­ Strategic Mgt. plan (2011 2020) Strategic Mgt. Committee supervises KORES s economic performance. The Investment Advisory Regularizing the board 쪾Enhance the opinion presentation rate by promoting systemized, fair meeting procedure and free 쪾Reflect the internal auditor’s opinions by offering the auditor an opportunity to present his/her (one meeting) Subcommittee handles issues on overseas resources development. The Sustainability Mgt. debate process. ’ meeting’s procedure UNLIMITED KORES and process Reporting of the planned bituminous coal Subcommittee expands KORES s sustainability Mgt. activities by activating communications with opinions (100% of auditor’s attendance rate). exploration project in Vlakplaats, South Africa external stakeholders and reports sustainability Mgt. achievements and plans. Composition of 쪾Expanded operation for balanced three subcommittees (3 sessions in 2009 → 7 sessions in ’ balanced 쪾Strategic Mgt. Subcommittee (1 session), Investment Advisory Subcommittee (4 sessions), 2010) Investment Progress in sales of equity in Ambatovy subcommittees and Advisory Subcommittee Nickel Mine development project Assessment of the board of directors performance and reward expanded operation Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee (2 sessions) (four meetings) Status of Australia's resources tax The operation of the board of directors is assessed by an external assessment group during the 쪾Regular board meetings to be held every last Thursday of the month and temporary board I 14 I reorganization Status of 2009 overseas resources government Mgt. assessment each year. Internally, the board s internal evaluation by board ’ Support for timely decision making 쪾A special report is made at a non-standing director’s request on Mgt. conditions/resources meetings to be held for the deliberation on pending issues related to emergency Mgt. I 15 I members and operation performance evaluation by working-level team leaders are carried out semi environment and already decided items. ’ development analysis Sustainability Establishment of EHS Mgt. standard proposal annually. The assessment results are reflected on the following year s board operation plan Regularizing non쪾Joint presentation in the senior non-standing director’s office 2 days before the board meeting -Through the joint presentation, the direction for the supplementation/revision of items can be Mgt. establishment. The KORES President presents specific Mgt. objectives to realize the Mgt. standing directors’ pre쪾The revised opinion decision rate rises, due to enhanced understanding of items through the Reporting of sustainability Mgt. results in presented, and efficient debate is enabled in the board meeting. Subcommittee presentation on the (2 meetings) the first half of 2010 and plans in the philosophy and visions, signs a Mgt. agreement with the Knowledge Economy Minister, and receives items second half of 2010 joint pre-presentation. performance-based pay differentially depending on the Mgt. performance evaluation results. Standing directors sign a performance agreement with the president and receive performance-based pay depending on the evaluation results. Risk Management Risk management system Risk management and monitoring process KORES develops its own risk assessment method, assesses the risks, and reports the assessment results to the Risk Mgt. Committee and routinely carries out enterprise Mgt. for efficient risk Mgt. We Risk management strategy also monitor whether risk Mgt. is faithfully carried out in compliance with the defined strategies and KORES has devised a system through which clear role and policy establishment can be reflected on ’ the business during normal times based on management s solid commitment to manage risks regulations. We establish and operate a system through which the data created in the risk Mgt. process are converted into useful information for decision making and reported. Through this, we efficiently and successfully. We have also been carrying out a strategy to enhance corporate values and promote sustainability management by implementing key businesses successful operation and ’ can cope with potential risks in advance. ’ main functions without obstacles thru employee s voluntary participation in education/training programs for risk management competence consolidation by developing such programs. Enterprise risk management system (ERMS) Risk Mgt. Risk Mgt. Reporting KORES operates procedures to recognize, measure, evaluate, respond to, monitor, report, and feed Verification of integration Tracing & •Changes analysis Report by module between modules Risk Mgt. •Risk •Action result back risks by building ERM (enterprise risk management) to cope proactively with new types of risks Practical Work measurement/ Analysis analysis Unit reporting by RMC RCSA according to business sector expansion. Furthermore, we actually expanded ERM into ERMS. department Through this system, we expect to carry out business efficiently and stably by checking and Exception •Exception and Cross Cross •Risk integration key issue Check Check responding to risks prior to business implementation. Monitoring Status Check from the occurrence Mgt. ERM enterprise Major perspective Risk Accident •DB development •Overall Index case Aggregate for risk Mgt. situation/trend Monitoring analysis Enterprise risk ERMS Risk Mgt. •Establishment of management evaluation/ risk Mgt. strategy Detail Allowable feedback •Decision-making •Confirmation/Mgt. limit Monitoring support of detailed input System Organization Process Establishment of risk reporting Risk Mgt. Committee Risk identification system Dept. in charge of risk Mgt. ERMS establishment Systematization of risk Work Unit to manage risks Establishment of policy to measurement and Mgt. Accumulate risk DB. respond to risks Risk management measures KORES operates ERMS by dividing risks into 12 types: 3 financial risks and 9 non-financial risks. Risk management organization For financial risks, we systematically manage them by adopting a quantified system. For nonThe Risk Mgt. Committee is the supervising and deliberating organization on overall risks generated financial risks, we manage enterprise risks by identifying them in general through the organic in Mgt. activities. The committee deliberates on the basic enterprise risk policy, strategy and actualization of risk identification, analysis, responsiveness, and monitoring. We also cyclically regulations, and risk Mgt. limit and comprehensive plan as well as risk-related items on the agenda. control non-financial risks through the risk control self-diagnosis menu. The Risk Mgt. Team is a newly established team to enhance enterprise risk control and communication system efficiency. The team mainly carries out risk policy strategy establishment, risk Category Type Responsiveness Mgt. system development, risk measuring model improvement and risk reporting system operation. 쪾Develop measures to cope with each type of risk by collecting and analyzing 리스크 관리 모니터링 보고 The Risk Mgt. Practical Work Council mainly reviews items on the agenda as presented to the Credit risk KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Financial each risk factor. committee, risk trend and extent, and risk limit setting control and operates to consolidate practical Market risk 쪾Manage risk thru foreign exchange hedge according to measures to cope with [ 모듈별 보고서 ] [ 모듈간 통합성 검증 ] risks review. 리스크 관리 쪾부서별 리스크 Liquidity risk 추적 및 분석 쪾부서별 each risk type. 리스크 측정 / 보고 실무반Investment 측정risk / 보고 쪾Upon making a decision on the investment business, (Tracing & Analysis) 이사회 RMC manage within the risk RCSA 전사적 allowable limit and establish adequate measures. [Risk Mgt. Organization System] [Status of 2010 Risk Mgt. Committee 예시사항 관리 쪾예외 및 주요 UNLIMITED KORES Cross Cross Board of Director President 리스크 관리 Auditor Meetings Held] Meeting 쪾전사적 Government policy risk 전사적Operation관점에서의 리스크 관리 쪾리스크 리스크 risk 통합 쪾Establish 현 (Exception (Status Check) 황 measures to cope thru Mgt. indicator Monitoring. 쪾Devise 파 사항 발생관리 Monitoring)measures and manage 리스크 to cope with government policy change 관리팀 Checkby scenario. 주요 Check 사고 sequence Details 관리를 악 통합 정보 쪾Consolidation 리스크 사례 쪾Review the interest rate swap of 위한 Law compliance DB구축 risk 관리 쪾전반적인 of internal 상황 / control system 추세분석 본부 레벨 지표 쪾Monitoring(Aggregate 1st Nonsyndicated loan. Moniitoring) 쪾Report the status of foreign exchange risk. 시스템 조직 프로세스 financial Environmental risk whether regulations and job standards are observed, carrying out cyclical education/training 쪾리스크 관리 쪾Develop a system to respond to business environment change. 리스크 관리 Risk Mgt. Committee I 16 I risks I 17 I 쪾Report the ERM establishment. Mgt. risk전략수립 쪾세부입력사항 쪾리스크Risk 보고체계Mgt. 정립 쪾리스크 관리 위원회 2nd 쪾Report the쪾리스크 파악 status of foreign exchange risk. 평가/피드백 쪾의사결정 지원 통합 쪾Check possibilities정보 관리 확인 / 관리 허용한도 쪾리스크 측정 및 관리 시스템화 Team 쪾리스크 관리 전담부서3rd 쪾리스크 관리of체계 구축 loan. PR risk that negatively (Detail Monitoring) 팀 레벨 affect KORES thru press/media monitoring. 쪾리스크 DB축적 쪾리스크 관리 실무반 쪾Decide the쪾리스크 쪾Check possibilities of labor-management disputes and collective civil petitions. 쪾Report the status of 대응 방침 rate수립 interest rate syndicated Conflict risk interest risk. 쪾Decide the interest rate of syndicated loan. 쪾Control items that can damage the physical and personal resources of KORES 쪾Report the status of interest rate risk. 4th Disaster risk including the number of fire incidents and number of power failure days. Staff in charge of Risk Mgt. Practical Risk Mgt. Dept. Work Council Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder communication Materiality test KORES divides the stakeholders that wield huge economic, social, and environmental influence on KORES conducted a materiality test on the sustainability Mgt issues drawn from internal and the organization's Mgt. activities into customers, investment partners, partner firms, government, external stakeholders. Through a priority test by issue, KORES selected key issues for which communities, associations and research institutes, media, employees, and NGOs. We effectively leadership needs to be acquired intensively in the future. respond to stakeholders' demand by identifying each stakeholder group's main interests. STEP 01 ▶ Confirm internal issues. ▶ Confirm external issues. Issue 쪾Mgt. strategy analysis 쪾Media analysis confirmation 쪾Interviews with employees 쪾Interviews with external stakeholders Sus 쪾Questionnaire for employees 회 쪾Questionnaire for지속external 가 stakeholders 쪾Benchmarking 능사경보영위원회 ta 노사처협리의위원회 Com inability cil pan oun tee y ne Mgt. Co gt. C it wsle mm 고충 abor-M e Comm tter ittee L c van Grie NGO ▶ Analyze influence on ▶ AnalyzeNstakeholders’ 임건직전한원노사관계 Env STEP 02 GO iro 환경 효율적영analysis s min nmenta tion organization. interest. e loye r-Mgt. rela im Effic ization l impact orp s Priority 쪾Strategic materiality analysis 쪾Frequency 향 최소by화 issue Empund labo efits ie 친 환 에너 품 구지 사용analysis gC d 복리후생 Eco nt ener So ge b en -pro duc gy use rin ate ito gr selection 쪾Issues urgency analysis 경 쪾Stakeholder제materiality on Inte m 매 단 니터링 Pre Frin ts p urch r M op yste 기 고객공모동 워크리샵시스템 Pre ss s s ase me ksh gt. s 프레자스간담회 d em uctio r sidie n on sto or 적 집행 ss ocia Cu int w er M Min ission n of g me sub utio enti gt. 투어 온 디어 객관 tou l g 고국객고 보조해금의예방효율 Jo stom sto ury xec rev on M 통합 고 r ath e ra s ree cu STEP 03 광물실비가스 배 eri Se Cu Treas ient e ster p isfacti cur l sto nh ng ing ckp ou se Materiality test 에너지 축 출 감축 광산객재만족 경영 en ilin ga fic sa at Me erg g s -ef e di er s 미 자원 확 yr d Re ia eso urc n Mi stom 보 고 es Cu 쪾Securing energy resources ing ent t KORES 쪾 Investment pa men velopm 너 Min 관 Autonomous 협회산기및술 연개발구기 성 Sustainability Mgt. strategy 투자파트 elop dev y 광 개발 전문가 양 e elopment rate 쪾Environmental 쪾Mine disasters prevention자주 t academ dev urces d ring Working-level 패키 개발률 향상 and e 투 improvement 미 rtner 자원개나발및아컨카퍼데런스 자원 민 홍보 세미자나실및무컨협퍼의회 o te Res list fos ens tion lopmen 상생의지형파트자너원십개발 t impacts identification Package-type ocia h institugy cou cia citiz es deve 대국 Seminar/Confere ncil for investment resources s spe ong 런스 s 쪾Win-win strategy with partner firms 구축 세미 development A arc m Resourc /Conference a rese tech nolo PR 쪾Mine restoration External Stakeholders Establishing a win-win 쪾Nurturing talented people Seminar nce/Forum partnership 지역 통합 지역 업체양성 원 l 쪾Risk Mgt. ta en en t 력 m 사 on th pm ity nvir 쪾 협 가 지대 wi lo firm eve 쪾Cope with 사회 Mgt. 쪾Ethical 환 회 d un e t ion an Use and investment of new renewable energy er s d ing rch m ted n at 신뢰 경경영 문및 확 발 술전연구자규모 m ra me lid rtn ource foster resea ion 정부 o a ns climate change Co Inte anag cons ities 강화 g e P Res rts gy pa pe lo x 개 자원 기 투 m st un g rin s Government ex chno ee u Tr mm he ie Te por ent t siz 쪾Management지leadership 자주개발률 향상 사회역사쪾회Balance between work and life 에너지 회 at ivit Autonomous development rate p efi ts 간담제도 co l g act su estm 자원 확보 g cia n improvement Inv rin ben the blic so tio ity ibu Securing energy resources a l g pu 공헌 간담 광물비축 사업 업체 고 un tr cia or 쪾Employees’ welfare활동 회 협력공익신 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 m on Mineral stockpiling business so em f m lc firm syst Co ocia 쪾Social contribution er S rtn ting Pa por Re Monthly meeting of the Ministry of 정책위원회 자원협력위원회 Knowledge Economy Policy Committee Resources Cooperation Committee 지식경제부 월례회의 Internal Stakeholders Energy resource procurement, sustainability Mgt. strategy, identification of environmental UNLIMITED KORES Material with impacts of resources development, mine disasters prevention activities, win-win partnerships great potential Stakeholder communication channels with partner firms I 18 I KORES operates communication channels in line with stakeholders' characteristics, collects Mine restoration activities, nurturing talented people, risk Mgt, ethical Mgt. new renewable I 19 I Material opinions and requirements, and continuously supplements and improves weaknesses through the energy use and investment feedback of stakeholders. We built a system for immediately responding to the Voice of Customer Coping with climate change, management leadership, employees' welfare, balance between through the integrated Mgt. of all VOCs including a customer consulting section on the homepage, Mediocre work and life, social contribution activities civil petition via telephone, electronic Shinmungo (through which citizens can lodge complaints), and customer suggestions. The accumulated customers' opinions are used as service improvement data by inputting them into a database. High 쪾에너지 자원확보 쪾지속가능경영 전략 쪾환경영향 파악 쪾광산재해 예방 외 부 쪾광산복원 활동 쪾협력회사 상생 Interviews with stakeholders Jin-gyun, Han Tae-gu, Kim Mineral Division Manager of Daewoo International Playing a role in enhancing the overall mineral industry level Warm-hearted corporation that shares its heart with communities Director of the Daebang Social Welfare Center Today is the era of competition in acquiring resources. For Korea, which imports about 99% of resources, KORES has been actively supporting the underprivileged class in the community as a key sponsor of our acquiring resources is essential for future sustainable economic development. To achieve the W.I.T.H. welfare center for 5 years since 2007. I regard KORES as a corporation having an advanced culture since it KORES 2020 strategy beyond the current position of KORES in the market, we need to be equipped with respects the welfare center’s autonomy to the fullest by notifying us of their annual plans in advance through several weapons. First, we need to have specialized and typical minerals. Although various minerals are pre-consultation and by coordinating the plans at any time according to our opinions. I believe welfare is an developed by strategic selection, we can ensure international competiveness only when we have specific and activity based on integrated society-oriented distribution, and it is important to share warm hearts with typical minerals. Second, we need strong bonds with communities. I have seen some cases wherein a communities in addition to physical distribution. Although many companies participate in social contribution business collapsed due to conflict with local residents. In other words, we need to share the perception that activities, there is a strategic aspect to enhancing corporate image partially in such activities. In this context, countries can grow together through resources development. To build credibility, a specific, patterned CSR corporate social contribution activities need to consolidate moral purity through the institutionalization and program should be operated in advance from the early stage of resources exploration. Lastly, I hope KORES activation of volunteering that can expand communication and contact with communities, not to mention plays the role of a leader to enhance competence on minerals at the national level. I believe the role of physical donation and sponsorship. In the social welfare field where private and public sectors’ participation is KORES is important in enhancing the overall industrial level through strong partnerships with private essential, companies’ participation has far greater influence compared to individuals. Thus, volunteering companies from the business, technical, and talented people perspectives. consolidation at the corporate level will have great effects and social ripple effects. In the past, physical volunteer work was the mainstream in volunteering focusing on facilities such as welfare centers or orphanages. Note, however, that the concept of volunteering is changing today when more interest should be given to relative rather than absolute poverty. The talent donation type of volunteering programs using human resources’ personal capabilities of companies can be a good model of volunteering. I expect many companies to strengthen their participation in and support communities through volunteer services. Finally, I pray that our relationship with KORES Volunteer Corps, which has made great efforts for our welfare center and the local residents for five years, will last a long time. Jin-soo, Lee Dae-gyeong, Kim Assistant Division Manager of LS Nikko Reliable corporation in the future as well Leading role expected in sustainable resources development Team Leader of Mine Damages Research Center, Mine Resources Development Mgt. Office Reclamation Corp. LS-Nikko forged a business relationship with KORES for the purpose of acquiring raw materials at the initial Resources development has not only huge economic and social ripple effects but also colossal environmental KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 stage of business. Nowadays, however, we implement projects in almost all fields related to resources impacts; hence the need for great efforts to protect the environment at all stages. Environmental and personal development from the business exploration stage together with KORES. Despite the high risk of the resources damages that inevitably arise in the mine developing process are regarded as mine damages. The mine development business, we could take advantage of KORES's high credibility and competence in the course of damages prevention activities carried out by KORES can be an environment-friendly green business for carrying out projects with KORES. KORES has strong merits in business implementation abroad thanks to the sustainable resources development, becoming an essential part to secure resources development rights in combination of KORES's high credibility, best R&D competence in the mineral resources field in Korea, and developing countries. Therefore, cooperation between KORES and Mine Reclamation Corp., is very important UNLIMITED KORES various overseas market penetration experiences with LS-Nikko's overseas network and resources utilization not only in the environmental aspect but also in the international competitiveness enhancement aspect in capabilities. Currently, LS-Nikko regards the resources development business along with stable supply and overseas resources development and mine damages prevention markets. There are two suggestions that can demand as its future growth engine; toward this end, LS-Nikko maintains a close partnership with KORES. For be considered when KORES undertakes resources development. First is the maximization of synergy by KORES to develop continually, I hope KORES establishes continuous and long-term strategies and commercializing resources development and mine damages prevention technology package and by implements them aggressively. Through active investment in new projects, I hope KORES's new and existing penetrating domestic and international resources development markets. Supporting mine damages prevention I 20 I I 21 I businesses will be in good harmony to create a virtuous cycle. I also wish KORES turns those projects into technologies for eco-resources development enables the enhancement of the domestic and international good assets given its unique capabilities. I believe two-way communication consolidation is necessary for the autonomous development rate and international competitiveness; differentiation from other countries is ensured competence concentration of KORES. KORES operates many programs including symposiums abroad for through the establishment of an eco-mining image. Second is building a mine damages cooperative system in human resources capabilities improvement in the mineral resources field, and these activities help a lot in all stages of the resources development life cycle from exploration to mine closure. Integrated environmental management is enabled through preprivate companies' resources development. Still, I think the operation of more personal exchange and environmental impacts assessment, step-by-step environmental restoration via the establishment and development of mine damages prevention programs are necessary beyond simple education/training. I hope KORES will be a reliable corporation in the facilities, and monitoring and establishment of measures to close the mine in question. In maximizing eco-resources use efficiency, I expect KORES future, as it has been in the past and as it is at present. -a public corporation for resources developmentto be a global leading company in sustainable resources development, taking into account both resources development and environment through a close cooperative system with Mine Reclamation Corp. UNLIMITED KORES brightens the future through stable resources supply. Economy KORES supplies energy and mineral resources essential to national environmental development through the stable procurement of mineral resources, domestic and international resources development, domestic mine industry activation support, and research on technology with high value-added. KORES fulfills its mission as Korea’s leading public corporation for resources development. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 UNLIMITED ECONOMY I 22 I I 23 I Public Benefits DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Our Approach Supporting resources development abroad The economic responsibilities and achievements of KORES are divided into economic efficiency for stably securing mineral resources, realizing growth that shows its potential competence & possibility in the future, and ensuring public benefit for public value creation as a public corporation. We are actively investing in developing resources abroad for stably securing mineral resources. In addition, we lead the reinvigoration of Korea s mining industry ’ Consolidation of resources information support and cooperation No. of International exchange and cooperation cases by reassessing mines and supporting mine development. Through the business of storing mineral resources, KORES consolidates abilities to cope with KORES strives to provide companies preparing for overseas resources development with useful ’ Unit : No. national emergencies and contributes to economic stability. With all these, KOREA plays its part as Korea s ideal public corporation for resources resources information and price-forecasting data at an appropriate time. To bolster real-time 28.6% increase development. information acquisition, we additionally secured two types of specialized information centers for overseas resources and communications centers in 3 countries in 2010. We upgraded KOMIS, our information offering system operated for the improvement of content accessibility and user Overview Stably securing mineral resources satisfaction, built a one-stop service system and improved customers' search convenience. As a Public KORES strives to enhance the autonomous development rate of mineral resources, which serves as the backbone of national industrial activities. We also make great efforts to result, the number of KOMIS page views rose about 50% to 713,778 views compared to our target. benefits contribute to the national economy through the stable acquisition of mineral resources. We also recorded an information system failure rate of 0.126%, which was lower than the target rate of 0.5%; thus implying the much more stable system operation. In securing new business for KORES Investment in and strategy for resources development minerals whose autonomous development rate leaves a lot to be desired including uranium, copper, Economic KORES establishes and implements a growth strategy for the expansion of resources and scarce metals, we bolstered resources cooperation; the number of cases of international Growth development investment size and for competitiveness consolidation, aiming at the stable responsibilities exchange in 2001 stood at 36, up 30% compared to the targeted 28 cases. We plan to expand the and efforts supply of energy and minerals for industrial raw materials. information offering scope including in-depth price analysis service for strategic minerals and resources statistics system and establish the mid-and long-term resources cooperation master plan Supporting citizens and laying the foundation for green growth as well as enhance our execution ability with regard to the plan. Economic efficiency KORES realizes the public benefit for national resources security by aiding in domestic and international resources development, conducting highly valuable technology research, and 36 storing scarce metals. Consolidation of exploration support and technology No. of overseas 28 survey service cases Unit : No. KORES supports overseas resources development projects through overseas survey and exploration technology development. In 2010, through the efficiency enhancement of the overseas 28.3% increase Major achievements Category Main issues Target in 2010 Achievement in Target in 2011 Key stakeholders survey business, we linked KORES with private investment and lending businesses in 15 projects. 2010 KORES also implemented a treasury subsidy support system improvement for the survey service Target Achievement Support for private KRW 163.8 billion KRW 163.8 billion KRW 167.8 billion Customers, partner firms, government Public businesses benefits substantiality and base for mutual growth. In particular, we secured three lithium mining projects in Storing scarce metals 1,679 tons 1,905 tons 6,866 tons Government, associations, research institutions South America, five projects for rare-earth and scarce metals, and an investment support system in Sales KRW 135.1 billion KRW 166.2 billion KRW 152.4 billion Government α Africa by aggressively backing the '2+2+ ' strategy. With regard to technical support, we adopted an 공익성 광물자원의 안정적 확보 Investment Overseas KRW 350.0 billion KRW 366.4 billion KRW 450.0 billion Investment partners, partner firms, government, advanced deposit modeling, built a geological 3D modeling system for geology and ore body, and Growth size Domestic공사는 국가 산업활동의 근간이 되는 광물자원의 자주개발률 제고에 힘쓰고 있으며 KRW 7 billion KRW 4.2 billion KRW 3.2 billion associations and research institutions, media , confirmed 22 areas for potential uranium development using an aerial sensing technique. In view of Investment Overseas광물자원의 안정적 확보를 통해 국민경제에 기여하고자 노력하고 있습니다 KRW 38.9 billion KRW 40.4 billion KRW 48.3 billion . all this, KORES continuously implements support function consolidation backed by its technological return Government, investment partners prowess. We plan to improve the survey service support system to nurture Korea’s resources Domestic KRW 1.6 billion KRW 500 million KRW 1.2 billion KORES development service firms and SMBs and consolidate African resources survey support through 성장성 자원개발는투자규모의 자원개발 투자 및 전략 Economic Autonomous Investment partners, partner firms, government, 경제적 27% 27% 29% efficiency development rate associations and research institutions, media financial and human resources. We shall also bolster support capabilities and effects by establishing 국민생활에 필요한 에너지 자원과 산업원료 광물의 안정적 공급을 목표로 책임과 성과 KORES 확대와 경쟁력 강화를 위한 성장 전략을 수립하여 추진하고 있습니다 . and executing our own ore body modeling plan. 2010 Consolidation of fund and technology support 36 Loans for overseas resources 77 development 60 경제성 자원안보를는 위한국내외●공익적자원개발가치를지원실현하고 stakeholder questionnaire 대민 지원 및 녹색성장 기반 마련 Economic responsibility level of KORES KORES implements a policy financing project to come up with the funds required 28 for resources KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 고부가가치 기술연구 및 희유금속 비축 등을 통해 국가 survey: Unit : No. KORES , development abroad so as to foster the continual growth base of the resources development ● Fields where KORES is doing well 있습니다 Areas for improvement . industry. KORES provided financial support worth KRW 67 billion or 98% of the 2010 budget of KRW 68.4 billion in strategic minerals to achieve the target autonomous development rate for 6 Target Achievement Target Achievement strategic minerals and induce the activation of overseas resources development in the private α UNLIMITED ECONOMY Miscellaneous Infrastructure sector. In implementing the '2+2+ ' strategy, KORES provided financial support worth KRW 22.9 Securing future Technology research growth engines via investment for the billion for 5 projects including uranium in Imouraren, Niger. We also shelled out KRW 9.6 billion for Miscellaneous public benefit new business development five projects including Cobre in Panama to secure copper mines. In addition, we made an effort to improve lending efficiency and system improvement, having procured an additional KRW 164.0 Technology research Sales increase via billion for the Mineral Resourced Development Fund 2 and overcome our financial resources I 24 I I 25 I business expansion Storing of Sales expansion limitation by stably raising the investment/loan fund of KRW 600 billion. In terms of technology scarce metals at through business the national expansion support, we succeeded in developing lithium core technology in Uyuni, Bolivia including lithium Fair distribution of Improvement of the autonomous level economic achievements carbonate manufacturing technology. We also registered rare-earth metals technology in China, a development rate Securing future growth and social contribution engines via new powerful country when it comes to rare-earth metals. In other words, KORES realizes major business development achievements in the R&D sector, a future growth engine. We will continually consolidate the 36 acquisition of intellectual property rights to enhance technological prowess. 77 684 684 28 60 Target Achievement Target Achievement Target Achievement Support for domestic business Securing scarce metals Secure new mineral volume Exploration support consolidation Securing scarce metals through direct resources development Autonomous development rate of new Unit : million tons KORES supports the exploration probe of new mine development and existing mine redevelopment KORES implements direct resources development abroad for stably securing scarce metals. We strategic minerals Unit : % 300.0% increase to secure essential minerals for industrial raw materials for the purpose of mutual growth. Since designated lithium, rare-earth metals, manganese, chrome, molybdenum, and tungsten as the 2000, we have been carrying out a precision probe of potential mining areas nationwide. By probing minerals to be secured through overseas direct development, and we are developing promising 70% increase 480 mining areas nationwide until 2010, we secured 15.84 tons of new reserves. In 2010, we business-finding strategies in line with domestic and international environmental changes. To secured 2 billion tons of mineral reserves, about four times more than the targeted 500 million tons. capture a Blue Ocean at the early stage, we promote entry into the markets of African countries Supported since 1967 to secure reserves of private mines with development potential, mining and including South Africa and DR Congo. In securing new energy resources such as lithium through the drilling seek to identify the size, quality, and geological structure of ore body to determine the status preoccupation of the lithium triangle in South America, we have established customized lithium mine of natural resources of ore body. We recorded 1,484 tons/m in 2010 and secured 1,419 tons/m of portfolio by stage; we are also bolstering a strategic partnership through diplomatic resources ore volume by digging through tunnels targeting the confirmed ore body. Concerning direct cooperation. exploration, we plan to explore 50 mines for 10 minerals including copper and zinc by 2020 to secure new metal mines. Of these, we plan to link 22 mines through redevelopment by KORES and private companies. We actually performed direct exploration of 8 mines from 2004 to 2010 and Plan Secure new scarce metals projects abroad through direct developed the Geumeum and NMC Moreland mines. Target resources development Productivity of modernized mines Supporting the enhancement of the domestic mining industry s ’ Unit : tons/person competitiveness 0.6% increase To bolster the follow-up action of the mineral resources industry advancement plan established in Investment penetration Penetration strategy Discovering scarce 2009, KORES made detailed plans by business and selected mines to support and reorganized the Strategy strategy development development metals business relevant committees. We also induced the industrialization of raw materials through improvement of Establish measures to Establish lithium portfolio Secure new rare-earth metals projects productivity and high value-addition. In keeping with government policy, we disbursed national secure scarce metals Consolidate strategic Look for promising projects on scarce 20 35.0 treasury funds 35.2 early and improved 901 and processes. In 900digging projects loan support for tunnel Implementation Establish strategy to partnership via diplomatic metals in Africa enter Africa resources cooperation Strengthen cooperation with partner addition, we bolstered assistance to lay the foundation for high value-added limestone market share plan Lead direct overseas firms abroaddiplomatic resources in terms of supply. All in all, KORES strives to improve its support system. For the smooth investment cooperation implementation of support services, we activated a stakeholder cooperative system including 5 support service presentations, symposiums for mineral resources industry advancement, and social gatherings to advance the mining industry law and system. As part of efforts to improve the law and Strategic storing of scarce metals ’ Equivalent days of minerals storing system of Korea s mining industry, we reviewed the system for importing minerals and the sales KORES actively consolidates the foundation for storing scarce metals and their purchase Unit : days surcharge system and lobbied for the legislation of mining industry laws and systems. To prevent rationalization for sufficient, strategic storing of scarce metals. 2.5% increase mine disasters, we established a rescue system for large-scale mine disasters and rationally ㅣ Consolidation of foundation for storing projects We designated potassium as a new mineral to improved the mine safety facilities support system to minimize damage and losses. In 2010, we store given its high future growth possibility and expanded the stored quantity of rare-earth metals conducted mine safety education/training for 3,169 people and inspected 456 cases of facilities. For and antimony. By reflecting domestic demand and supply change, we change the volume to be eco-mine development, KORES carried out support activities to establish the eco-development stored and reestablish annual storing plans. In view of all this, we establish and operate midand system such as mine environment technology support in direct investment projects. We also long-term operation plans for minerals resources storing. We bolster international cooperation established a greenhouse gas inventory using a post-combustion capture technology applying wet 전략목표 직접자원개발을 통한 through regular meetings among Korea, the US, and Japan, and the expansion of information 희유금속 해외신규사업 확보 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 absorbent and devised measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. exchange and :cooperation channels with agencies to store such minerals abroad. KORES strives to 8.5 20 35.0resources35.2 Funds for domestic industry 900 901 secure financial resources including increase in the relevant budget and storing stations through Unit : billion Support for funds and technologies communication reinforcement with the government. 0.1% increase KORES disbursed support funds worth KRW 90.1 billion in 2010, 70% of which were for facilities ㅣ Rationalization of purchase of minerals to store up KORES bolsters market trend analysis 5.0 UNLIMITED ECONOMY funds with huge economic ripple effects and KRW 13.0 billion for mineral processing funds. For 추진전략 투자진출 리튬자원 희유금속 capability and purchase/management ability of minerals to be stored internally. We also activate domestic economic activation, we executed 75% of the funds early in the first half, established a new loan system for funds to store minerals, and induced the stable development of metal mines. From : opinion exchanges 전략개발 조기확보 사업개발 with Korea’s user companies and distribution companies including social gatherings for the scarce metal industry and operation of rare-earth metals demand and supply the technical support aspect, we carried out R&D to support the development of scarce metal mines inspection unit. All in all, we promote purchase rationalization through efforts to revitalize clients and 쪾리튬 포트폴리오 구축 쪾희토사업 신규 확보 실행계획 쪾희유금속 확보방안 수립 and won R&D orders targeting rare-earth metals, lithium, and uranium. In particular, we recorded 10 advisory organizations. 쪾자원외교로 전략적 쪾아프리카 희유금속 I 26 I cases of technology development. : Target and performance of 쪾아프리카 진출전략 storing ㅣ 수립 In 2007, business 강화 began a유망사업 제휴관계KORES storing발굴business for 9 I 27 I minerals -chrome, molybdenum, niobium, antimony, 쪾해외직접개발 선도 selenium, tungsten, titanium, 쪾해외파트너사 협력강화metals, rare-earth and galliumconsidering factors such as production reorganization, unstable market, and raw materials of the cutting-edge industry. As of the end of 2010, we stored 10,494 tons, which is equivalent to 8.3 days of consumption of Korea. Through annual investment of about KRW 50 8.5 billion, we plan to store about 78,400 tons or 60 days of Korea’s consumption by 2016. 8.3 8.1 5.0 Growth Expansion of resources development value chain Direct resources development expansion KORES focuses on the expansion of resources development value chain and direct development of Consolidation of direct development project base Direct development investment amount resources overseas for resources development investment expansion and competitiveness Unit : billion New investment strategy development and consolidation of cooperation on government policy consolidation. ㅣ In 2010, KORES developed a new investment strategy and devised a suitable portfolio to lay the 6% increase foundation for balanced investment between new and existing projects. Through comparative [Resources development value chain] analysis on the world’s top 20 companies’ portfolios, we devised a short-term strategy, a big & Strategic M&A domain balanced investment strategy until 2011, and a midand long-term strategy and a 2-track investment strategy until 2020. Based on these strategies, we will increase our typical revenue Exploration Development Production Processing Distribution business, concentrate on minerals with high profitability, and secure and manage strongholds in Main 쪾Select target area 쪾Design and 쪾Mining and 쪾Metal: Refining and 쪾Distribution strategic regions. In addition, we jointly made the 4th overseas resources development basic plan activities by through broad area establishment of 쪾dressing of ores 쪾smelting channel (direct and set up a new organization to concentrate our competence on Africa by bolstering cooperation in 쪾 probe infrastructure Safety Mgt., mine Non-metal: sale, agent, B2B) value chain Precision probe (drilling disasters Processing to Means to expand the value chain keeping with the policy to enhance strategic implementation capability. In this manner, KORES laid in each field 쪾 exploration) Scope study, Pre-FS, FS prevention improve valueadded the foundation for takeoff as a major global company. Required 쪾Core technology of 쪾General design 쪾Efficient mining 쪾New materials and 쪾Secure stable Stable financial resource procurement for investment and operation efficiency enhancement 쪾exploration technology technique high value-added clientsRequired ㅣ Category Details capability by Basic geological (environmental processing 쪾 Consolidate practical work capability value 쪾Data accumulation related knowledge 쪾 damage minimization, productivity increase) technology Our direct development investment amount at home and abroad rose to KRW 370.6 billion, thanks by sending experts for investment chainSupply to forecast tool on markets Efficient ore dressing to our all-out efforts in 2010. This represents a 1.6 times increase in 2 years, and a 6% (demand, supply) technology business 쪾 Specialized overachievement versus the existing target. Investment size is considered to increase continually personnel Operate manpower pool in the processing, distribution/marketing given our leading role in investment. Toward this end, stable financial resource procurement is nurturing fields The mineral resources development business consists of the exploration, development, production, 쪾 Establish and operate a roadmap to processing and distribution stages. Of these, KORES participates only in the exploration, essential. We issued Global Bonds worth USD 300 million with long-term, low interest rates in 2010 for secure advanced technological the first time in our history and diversified investment financial resources through CP issuance and prowess development and production stages. To grow into one of the global top 20 mine industry majors in increase of government investment. In addition, we organized a new team in charge of fund Bolstering cooperative 쪾 Bolster cooperation with user 2020, we implemented the expansion of value chain step-by-step. For the value chain expansion of procurement and financial and risk Mgt. For the efficient operation of investment resources, we companies/distribution and direct investment business, we have penetrated into the processing, distribution and marketing improved the financial structure by converting short-term borrowings into long-term ones and made an system marketing, service companies businesses. Toward this end, we are securing a domestic sales network, and carrying out joint Bolstering 쪾 Enhance existing measures for research on refinement/smelting technologies with Korean partner companies. KORES has also built effort to improve the equity structure with the exit of non-performing partner firms. As a result, our financial expenses for fund procurement in 2010 went down 0.4% to 2.9% compared to the 3.3% target. procurement cooperative 쪾 Improve earnings structure a cooperative system, through which we can procure minerals for raw materials abroad with 전략적 영역 system 쪾 Compose optimal portfolio M&A overseas partner companies. As part of all these efforts, we are currently building a nickel smelting [New investment strategy] 탐사 개발 factory, and we strive to consolidate value chain expansion capability. 생산 가공 유통 Big & Balanced investment strategy 2-Track investment strategy 쪾광역조사로 쪾설계 및 쪾채광 및 선광 쪾금속 :정쪾제련 쪾유통채널 short-term (2011) mid-term (~ 2020) 3.3% target area 선정 인프라 구축 (직접판매, Value Chain별 쪾안전관리 광해방지 쪾비금속 : 주요활동 쪾정밀조사(시추탐사) 부가가치향상가공 대리인, B2B) BIG investment strategy Intensive investment in strategic minerals Build nickel 쪾Scopingsmelting Pre-FS, factory for stable raw materials -Secure STAR project-centered earnings business development/production projects (mid-term) -Enhance the autonomous development rate and balance 2.9% ES Balanced investment strategy in profitability. procurement -Balanced investment and substantiality of new and 쪾탐사 원천 기술 쪾종합설계 기술 쪾효율적인 채굴기법 쪾신소재 및 쪾안정적인 existing projects Intensive investment in scarce metals and exploration KORES Value Chain 별 promotes쪾지질학전 기초지식 of a nickel smelting factory the building (환경 훼손 생산성as증대part 고부가가치 최소화,of the bid to enter the processing 가공하기 수요처 확보 and projects (long-term) 필요역량 쪾시장(수요 대한 distribution/marketing , 공급)에 예측tool과 businesses for the value chain쪾효율적인 ) 선광기술 expansion of the direct investment business. We -Expansion of sustainable new growth and operation rights play the role of 관련 data축적 of international consortiums and offer know-how and organize a window ’ KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 distribution/marketing joint sales team with Singapore s Noble and Korean partner companies. Noble Discovery of resources development projects International exchange cooperation ㅣ will be in charge of securing an overseas sales network and procuring raw material minerals, with Enertec and Orion (Korean partner companies) carrying out smelting technology research and securing Global resources network expansion To secure a stable supply source in the resources market, Unit : cases a domestic sales network. After signing an MOU in August 2010 and reviewing the legal issues, we KORES co-invests through linkage with domestic agencies focusing on the consolidation of 29% increase 3,706 purchased a factory site in Donghae City in November and entered into a HOA (Heads of Agreement) 3,507 networks between countries. In particular, for the efficient implementation of the '2+2 strategy', we UNLIMITED ECONOMY for an international consortium in December. Once the construction of the factory is completed, raw material minerals are expected to be secured stably, profitability is forecast to be bolstered, and stable try to build a network of high-ranking executives and expand the working-level network through Signing of the international consortium HOA supply of the raw materials used for stainless steel manufacturing and export base preparation is cooperation with the government on the penetration of the Africa and South America markets, along 투자전략 투자전략 projected through the vertical integration of domestic smelting factories. with securing uranium and copper, which are insufficient in terms of autonomous development. We also Big & Balanced devised 2-Track system focusing on partner measures to consolidate the Korea-Japan cooperation Supply of raw ore Processing Korea Sales right International Marketing International 단기 투자전략 년 companies which 중장기 투자전략 ) already our invested companies and make(~2020 (2011 are an effort 년 ) to find promising I 28 I Singapore (Noble) 쪾 Supply of raw ore of 쪾Bukpyeong Industrial consortium 쪾Korean consortium: consortium 쪾Compose joint sales team Big businesses.투자전략 전략광종 개발 생산사업 중점투자 중기 Moreover, we try to secure large-scale projects by organizing a Korea-Japan-Russia I 29 I Complex in Donghae, STAR consortium. 프로젝트 중심의 수익사업 확보 , / 자주개발률 및 수익성 규형 제고 ( ) Acquisition of new mining rights abroad Role allocation by value chain 투자전략 ㅣ nickel Supply in Korean -Korean consortium: Korean Unit : cases 쪾 Annual supply 희유금속 탐사사업 중점투자 장기 Gangwon 쪾 Balanced in finding overseas projects and leading investment in domestic projects As 신규 및 기존사업의 균형투자 및 내실화 market market and Overseas , ( ) 쪾 Consolidation 100% increase Annual production of quantity 75,000 tons of ferronickel -Nickel content: 20% Noble: Other than the Korean market markets via joint sales team -Noble: Overseas market via a stronghold in the US, an eastern belt part of efforts to find promising projects abroad, we secured 지속가능 신성장 및 운영권 확충 joint sales team of the American continent, and laid the foundation for belt expansion through M&A. We also penetrated the African continent’s bituminous coal project. By bolstering leading investment to enhance the domestic self-reliance rate, we implement mine redevelopment through direct exploration and domestic mining activation by building a nickel smelting factory. Through all this, we laid the foundation for value chain expansion. All in all, we actively induce private companies ’ investment. Economic Efficiency α [ 2+2+ strategy] ] Two minerals, Two regions, in core material development importance the strategy which advances Autonomous development rate improvement By securing strongholds in two regions -Africa and Central & South Americaas our core penetrating regions for reserves of two minerals, Importance of autonomous development uranium and copper for which our autonomous development rate is low, we implement the expansion of the network of high-ranking executives Autonomous development rate refers to the resources volume secured by investing in overseas using the 2+2 strategy in 2010 as an overseas business strategy to implement the stable procurement of mineral resources. resources development through methods of equity participation, etc. This is an indicator of the stability of securing resources in resources supply crisis situations. Actually, the importance of autonomous development is increasing on the national resources security dimension according to frequent incidents occurrence, which can be an emergency situation in raw materials supply Africa Lithium including mineral prices hike caused by speculated fund inflow, deepening monopoly and oligopoly Uranium Gabon president s visit to Korea in October CEO Kim Shin-jong's visit to Chile in November Visit by Kazakhstan's president in April Send research delegate for the discovery of Signed a joint venture agreement to develop of major mining companies, and using resources as a weapon stemming from new resources Sign MOU for nuclear energy cooperation promising projects lithium in Chile among KORES, KEPCO, and KAZATOPROM Congo president s visit to Korea in March Lithium Institute Management's visit to Korea in June nationalism. KORES recognizes national economic stabilization through the stable procurement and Debate cooperation with state companies Signed a joint venture agreement to develop lithium in supply of mineral resources as an economic responsibility and sets an autonomous development ArgentinaDebate cooperation with state companies rate target to build a stable supply system of energy and mineral resources. Toward this end, we concentrate all our capabilities on mineral resources development abroad. Copper President s visit to Panama in June Central and South America Ecuador president s visit to Korea in September Rare earth metals ㅣ Strategy to enhance the autonomous development rate KORES concentrates on substantiality Promise to amend Panama s Mining Industry Act Sign cooperation agreement with state companies CEO Kim Shin-jong's visit to China in May through balanced investment in new and existing projects along with securing large-scale earnings Peruvian president s visit to Korea in October Bolivian president s visit to Korea in August Signed a joint venture agreement to develop rare earth metals projects to enhance the autonomous development rate from the short-term perspective and on Debate cooperation on Marconi development Sign basic agreement to develop lithium project resources15 development project investing in developing and producing strategic minerals from the mid-and long-term perspectives. Simultaneously, we plan to invest in scarce metals and large-scale exploration businesses to secure a growth engine source. ㅣ Six strategic minerals Bituminous coal, uranium, iron, copper, zinc, and nickel are six major Autonomous development rate of strategic minerals selected under the strategic mineral criteria specified in the basic plan for strategic minerals Unit : % overseas resources development. Although the impact on the national economy is high with more Enhancement of investment project operation and management Follow-up linkage of Research project Unit : cases System establishment for systematic operation and Mgt. of investment business KORES ㅣ than USD 100 million import size, they are minerals with an unstable supply structure with more than 90% import dependence. Actually, they are selected and managed by the Ministry of Knowledge laid the foundation for efficient operation for investment business Mgt. through the closing and sale Economy every 3 years. The strategic minerals’ autonomous development rate is the ratio of of non-core businesses, adoption of a global financial Mgt. system, and new establishment and autonomous development amount to the total import amount and is used as a government policy expanded reorganization of the relevant organizations. We also enhanced job efficiency by target. In 2010, 27.0% was recorded, up 1.9%, compared to the previous year. KORES plans to improving the investment business Mgt. system via improvement of the direct development and raise the autonomous development rate of strategic minerals to 42%. Toward this end, we establish investment process and new establishment of the investment business Mgt. system. Through the and operate a strategy to achieve the target through demand and supply analysis and outlook by development of the enterprise risk Mgt. system, we have secured a proactive, systematic ability to mineral. No. of Technology trainees cope with risks. Consolidation of follow-up linkage of exploration development projects and improvement of ㅣ New strategic minerals Although demand for scarce metals such as lithium and rare-earth metals Unit :people ㅣ production business Mgt. conditions KORES makes an effort to improve exploration projects' rises given the recent industrial enhancement, their supply is unstable because of control over these resources by countries with such resources. KORES continually invests in new strategic minerals to 70.6% increase efficiency. For the Marree project, we reinforced supervision on the operator through the cope with demand pattern change, and it has achieved an autonomous development rate of 5%. cooperation of domestic participant companies. We recorded good achievements by applying a new This exceeds our 3% target. We will be the cornerstone for the new growth engine industry of Korea exploration technique to the Cree East project. In the Boleo and Ambatovy projects wherein largeby continuously securing scarce metals. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 scale investment has been injected, we stably implemented mine development infrastructure construction by solving the partner company's fund problems. For Panama's Cobre and Marcona projects, production is likely to begin shortly through the diplomatic cooperation of high-ranking Status of achievements and implementation In 2010, the volume for autonomous development rose thanks to the consolidation of existing major officials for the Mining Industry Act revision and environmental impact approval. KORES also makes projects. With production in the Mulaven and Narrabri projects, we increased the bituminous coal UNLIMITED ECONOMY all-out efforts for return maximization in the production business. The Lapu-Lapu project recorded a supply base to about 3 million tons. Through the Northern partnership project’s early-stage surplus by improving the futures operation system. An Australia subsidiary that has raised coal delivery contract prices through the enhancement of negotiation ability also posted the highest normalization, the autonomous development volume rose 132% compared to the previous year. We 27.0 revenue. also laid the foundation to enhance sustainable autonomous development through new project 25.1 Returnfrom direct development Expansion and activation of sustainable resources development base We established the ㅣ discovery. In September 2010, we acquired equity in the US’s Rosemont Copper Mine development project. In November 2010, we acquired a stake in the Vlak Plaatz bituminous coal project, and we 23.1 investment Unit billion EHS job standard for sustainable resources development, and set up a sustainable resources I 30 I are continuously expanding the stable supply base. In addition, we promote the M&A of specialized I 31 I 1% increase development base through measures to reduce environmental and social risks and technology overseas companies to strengthen specialized capabilities and autonomous supply base at the early research. Thanks to our eco-resources development efforts, environmental impacts were minimized stage. We also try to acquire bituminous coal development right in the Warilla 2 project along with 2008 2009 2010 through noise, dust expansion modeling in the Mulaven project. In the Ambatovy project for win-win pilot production in the Ambatovy nickel mine by reinforcing the Mgt. function for the existing largeMgt., with the community, an assistance initiative for the demobilized workers program for current scale development projects’ early production system. workers was devised. In the Marcona project, natural disaster restoration support was launched. In the Cobre project in Panama, we offered training support, medical assistance, and rescue activities. KORES is implementing resources expert fostering for sustainable Mgt., expanding the target and programs for education/training, and newly opening and operating negotiation expert nurturing programs. 15 15 Measures to achieve the autonomous development rate of each Economic value creation and distribution mineral KORES establishes and implements customized strategies considering each mineral s features to Economic value creation ’ Total assets increase rate Unit : % achieve the target autonomous development rate. KORES seeks to be one of the world s top 20 mineral resources companies in 2020; it posted sales Status of autonomous development rate of each mineral of KRW 166.2 billion in 2010, having been posting stable sales for the past 3 years. KORES Strategy Country penetrated Autonomous recorded a net profit of KRW 23 billion, up 8% compared to 2009. Bituminous coal Unit : % Mineral development Increased production from the existing Strategic rate target in Role sharing and supplementation with the Key invested project and consolidation of new invested relevant company country 2019 investment project discovery efforts 48.3 country [Summarized 2008-2010 income statements] 쪾(Existing Projects) Linkage 43.7 쪾 Success rate enhancement via KORES's technology offering Australia, South Unit: KRW 1 million 쪾KORES: Finding, review, implementation, with production increase and Canada, Africa, 37.9 in 35 projects production Indonesia, Russia, 2010 2009 2008 and management of projects Account (44th period) (43rd period) (42nd period) including Mulaven, Wallarah2 projects 쪾 User: Purchase guarantee and use of China Mongolia, Mozambique, Bituminous coal 쪾 (New 2008 2009 Projects) 28 projects external credibility (KEPCO, POSCO) 쪾 Specialized2010 companies: Use of expertise New 50% Sales 166,213 147,702 173,121 discovery including Kapuas, on region and technology (Samtan, Zealand Indonesia and production Kyungdong) Cost of sales 128,091 113,528 147,319 Uranium Unit : % linkage 쪾 Distribution company: Use of expertise on region and trade (SK, LG, Samsung C&T Gross profit 38,122 34,174 25,802 Corporation) 3.4 쪾(Existing Projects) Linkage of 쪾 Success rate enhancement via KORES's Kazakhstan, Selling and administrative expenses 16,067 15,136 13,654 five projects including Tegida, technology offering considering the user's Canada, 1.1 investment activation trend Operating profit 22,055 19,038 7,732 쪾 Marree, Cree East (New Projects) 40 projects 쪾 Finding new investment projects in Australia, Uzbekistan, cooperation with KEPCO and Korea Uranium discovery including Namibia, Niger, US, 30% Non-operating income 7,884 4,700 2,454 Water Resources Corporation (KWRC) 2008 and Canada and Australia, production linkage 2009 쪾 KORES's2010 exclusive investment under South Africa, KWRC's purchase guarantee in the case Non-operating expense 3,725 2,453 831 of impossible joint investment Namibia 45.2 45.2 Iron Unit : % Gross income and loss 26,213 21,284 13,770 쪾(Existing Projects) 쪾KORES:16.5 Finding, review, Australia, Africa Income tax expense 3,176 33 Contribution to private 14.2 implementation, and management of India, Brazil including companies' invested existing projects South Africa Net profit 23,038 21,284 13,770 10.5including Posmec, projects 쪾 User: Purchase guarantee and Roy Hill external credibility use (POSCO, * The 42nd period's net profit changed, as equity investment in the copper mine project of China's Bel Fang Tong Ye was 쪾 Iron 35% (New Projects) 40 project Hyundai Steel) converted into loan. 2008 2009 2010 finding cases including 16 in 2008 2009 2010 promising regions such as South Africa and Indonesia Copper Unit : % and production linkage Distribution for stakeholders 쪾(Existing 10 Projects) 쪾KORES: Manage projects as the largest shareholder on the part of Korea and Chile, Peru, Myanmar, KORES distributes the economic value created by business activity to stakeholders in various forms Implementation of large-scale Indonesia, Argentina, mines in existing projects such manage, find, review, and implement Australia, Mongolia, including tax payment, job creation, contribution to communities and win-win partnerships with projects 6 Copper 쪾 as Boleo 5.1 (New Projects) Participation in 쪾 User: purchase guarantee and external Canada Zambia, Congo, 38% partner firms. credibility use (LS Nikko, etc.) projects focusing on operation right acquisition via M&A of 쪾 General trading companies: Use expertise Russia, Kazakhstan on region and international trade (LG specialized companies Corporation, Samsung C&T Corporation) 2008 2009 쪾 2010 Construction/plant projects: Infrastructure KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 investment Capital expense Dividends Zinc Unit : % 쪾(Existing Projects) Production 쪾KORES: Finding, reviewing, implementing, and managing large-scale Canada, Democratic 67.3% 2.7% increase and production of 6 China, Republic of exploration projects existing projects including Lishutang 33.8 쪾User: Purchase 32.3guarantee and external Australia, Peru, US, Congo, Iran KRW 84,909 million KRW 3,456 million 쪾 credibility use (Korea Zinc, Young Poong) 쪾General trading companies: Use expertise Kazakhstan UNLIMITED ECONOMY Zinc (New Projects) New 42% 27.6 in 15 projects investment on region and international trade Taxes Wages and welfare including Australia and China, (Samsung C&C Corporation, Daewoo and production linkage International, SK Networks) 0.2% 12.7% 쪾 Construction/plant projects: Infrastructure 2008 2009 investment2010 KRW 313 million KRW 16,067 million Nickel Unit : % 쪾(Existing Projects) Production 쪾(Existing Projects) Production linkage Madagascar, linkage and normalization of and normalization of existing projects Indonesia, I 32 I existing projects including including Ambatovy New Investment in communities Economic value reserve I 33 I Ambatovy 쪾(New Projects) 36.8 New investment in 9 Caledonia, 1.4% 15.5% 쪾 (New Projects) New 32.6 projects including Indonesia and Australia, Nickel investment in 9 projects including Indonesia and production linkage Philippines 40% KRW 1,770 million KRW 19,582 million 25.7 linkage production 2008 2009 2010 자본비용 (67.3%) 배당 (67.3%) UNLIMITED KORES builds up a friendly world by sharing together with others. Society We believe that the most valuable resource that humans have is love. KORES builds a trust-based relationship through active communication with stakeholders. KORES Volunteer Service Corps is committed to being a warm-hearted neighbor through our active volunteering service. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 UNLIMITED SOCIETY I 34 I I 35 I DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Ethical Management Our Approach Ethical management system KORES is committed to growing as a trusted company for employees, customers, and communities through transparent and clean Mgt. We will also foster a Mgt. culture that can increase mutual profits with stakeholders through effective communication. Communities are our closest neighbors in a winKORES-style ethical management model win cooperation. KORES pledges to grow and serve as the partner of communities as a community member through win-win partnership and KORES redefined the concept of ethical Mgt. in 2010 to develop a resources development management of sharing. company-style ethical Mgt. model and established the KORES Ethical Mgt. Model consisting of clean Mgt., social responsibility, and environmental responsibility. Overview Ethical and Ethical and transparent (clean) Mgt. transparent KORES establishes and operates an ethical Mgt. system to form an integral corporate culture as well as an (clean) Mgt. ethical Mgt. monitoring system and a Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee under the board of directors. The most important assets of KORES Employees We will grow into a company boasting of competitiveness through the fair treatment of our employees, offering various career opportunities and shaping a work environment where people work joyfully. ISO 26000 Economic Offering differentiated values Clean Mgt. responsibility Customers KORES improves customer satisfaction by offering differentiated values through customer satisfaction Mgt. (clean) (Economy) and actively reflects customers opinions through the advancement of a customer monitoring system. Clean Mgt. Secure stable mineral KORES -trusted company resources Various programs for mutual development -fair society -economic development Social Partner firms To bolster trust with stakeholders, mutual active understanding and joint efforts are required. KORES -win-win cooperation responsibilities promotes reinvigorated communication through a variety of win-win situation support programs. KORES and efforts Health and safety Ethical Mgt. Health KORES continuously carries out internal and external monitoring for the consolidation of and safety EHS(Environment, Health, Safety) and advancement. Social responsibility Environmental (Society) responsibility Consolidate social (Environment) A sound, trusting relationship with communities contribution activities Develop eco-mines Communities We want to be a company that can share the difficulties and agonies with communities through sound, trust-Pursue mutual growth -green growth based relationships and active communication with communities. GRI Guidelines A citizens corporation that serves the people Social KORES will fulfill its role and mission of becoming a citizens corporation, continuously making great efforts contribution to build a better world with resources and serving underprivileged people with more care and interest. Major achievements Category Main issue Target in 2010 Achievement in 2010 Target in 2011 Major stakeholder Employment Total number of employees 375 369 410 Employees, communities Diversity ’ Women s rate 18.5% 19.5% 20.1% Employees, communities, NGOs Disabled people s rate 3.0% 3.5% 3.8% Employees, communities, NGOs Ethical management system KORES ethical norm Health and safety Number of industrial accident victims 0 0 0 Employees KORES has established the internal/external integrated implementation system based on the ethical Ethics Participants in ethical education 1,144 1,267 1,381 Employees norm. KORES’s ethical Mgt. system systematically supports ethical education, programs to put Anticorruption Violations of code of ethics 0 0 0 Employees, communities, NGOs, government ethics into practice, monitoring and assessment, and social contribution activities so that an ethical Charter of ethics Top value standard of corporate culture can firmly take root. ㅣ Training Average training hours per person 44 hours 60 hours 55 hours Employees ethical Mgt. Product and service Customer satisfaction Excellen Excellen Excellen Customers, communities Ethical norm KORES’s ethical Mgt., is based on an ethical norm consisting of the charter of ethics, Code of ethics Community Volunteering hours per person 13 hours 13.4 hours 13.5 hours Customers, communities code of ethics, code of conduct, officers’ job integrity regulations, and standard of conduct. KORES Ethical value judgment standard of executes the 'KOREA Internal Control Standard' it enacted, which contains the value judgment and job performance 청렴한 기업문화 조성 2010 윤리.투명 경영 청렴한 기업문화를 조성하기 위해 윤리경영시스템을 수립 운영하고 있으며 윤리경영 basic conduct procedure and criteria to be observed in performing jobs. We also declared the code 투명 공정 경영 ISO 경제적 책임 Code of conduct KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 stakeholder questionnaire Social responsibility level of KORES 모니터링제도와 이사회 산하에 지속가능경영소위원회를 운영하고 있습니다. of ethics that should be observed by all employees26000 in job performance. Through these, an performance Code of conductombudsman of law and regulation compliance can review compliance with laws and regulations and 지역사회와의 건강한 신뢰관계 (Clean) (Economy) 지역사회 survey: ethical attributes in advance; thus contributing greatly to legal and ethical risk reduction. KORES Officers job integrity regulations 지역사회와의 건강한 신뢰관계와 활발한 커뮤니케이션을 통해 지역사회의 어려움과 고민을 투명하고 공정한 경영 안정적 광물자원 확보 ● Fields where KORES is doing well 함께 나눌● 수Areas 있는 기업이 for 되고자 합니다 improvement 신뢰받는 기업 actually prohibits the donation of political funds in kind. 경제발전 기여 Stipulate officer s integrity obligation ㅣ 공정사회 구현has created an organization consisting of internal 상생협력 강화external individuals UNLIMITED SOCIETY 봉사하는 국민의 기업 Organizations KORES and Worker s career 사회공헌 KORES Standard of conduct 윤리경영 development and Customer satisfaction 공사는 자원으로 행복한 세상을 만들기 위해 부단히 노력하고, 우리 주위의 어려운 이웃들에게 competence to put ethical Mgt into practice. The Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee supervises ethical Mgt. policy Integrity standard, EHS management standard 더 많은 관심을 가지고 봉사하는 국민의 기업이 되도록 그 역할과 사명을 다하겠습니다support Criteria of contracting with 사회적 책임 환경 책임 improvement improvement . establishment. To substantiate ethical Mgt. activities internally, KORES operates a monitoring foreign companies KORES Miscellaneous 의 가장 중요한 자산 임직원 organization such as the anticorruption and integrity promotional body, the ' Integrity Reform 사회적 Win-win partnership Social contribution KORES 임직원에 대한 공정한 대우, 경력계발을 위한 다양한 기회 제공, 즐겁게 일할 수 있는 근무환경 Miscellaneous with partner firms Planning Group',(Society) and Law and Regulation Compliance Ombudsman(Environment) 책임과 노력 activities and to check whether the internal business launch 조성 등을 통해 경쟁력 있는 기업으로 성장해 나갈 것입니다. I 36 I Disaster prevention 사회공헌활동 강화 control policy and ethical regulations are observed. 친환경 광산 개발 I 37 I 동반성장 추구 녹색성장 추구 안전보건 의 선진화 and risk Mgt. at EHS GRI 가이드라인 domestic and 공사는 EHS강화 및 선진화를 위해 자체 및 대외 모니터링을 지속적으로 실시하고 있습니다 . international workplaces Compliance with fair trading 차별화된 가치 제공 고객 Efforts to prevent Fair assessment Employees fringe benefits Health and safety bribes and corruption 공사는 고객만족 경영을 통한 차별화된 가치를 제공함으로써 고객 만족도를 향상 시키고 고객 and reward 모니터링 체계의 선진화를 통해 고객의 의견을 적극 반영하고 있습니다. 윤리헌장 activities 상호발전을 위한 다양한 프로그램 윤리경영 최상의 가치기준 협력회사 이해관계자와의 신뢰를 강화하기 위해서는 상호간 적극적인 이해와 공동의 노력이 필요합니다. 공사는 다양한 상생지원 프로그램을 통해 활발한 커뮤니케이션을 도모하고 있습니다. 윤리강령 직무수행의 윤리적 가치판단 기준 행동강령 구체적 행동지침 임원직무 청렴규정 Ethical management activities Ethical management for employees No. of employees completing ethical KORES has conducted education for the internalization of ethical awareness among employees. An education Unit : people average of 1,276 personnel including officers received ethical education on anticorruption and Management s effort to disseminate ethical management integrity in 2010, such as external expert invitational lectures and in-house education on the code of KORES disseminates the importance of and need for ethical Mgt. through strategy meetings and an conduct. Since 2008, ethical Mgt. education has been offered through Mine-Edu, an internal online internal notice board as part of the CEO s mentoring activities for the promotion of commitment to ethical Mgt. In April and December 2010, the CEO gave two lectures on ethics, business, and ethical ’ education site. We will strive to enhance employees integrity awareness and root out unjust conduct through various and cyclical ethical education. norms. We simultaneously make an effort to diffuse ethical Mgt. externally through SNS including Twitter, an ethical Mgt. SM forum and the UN Global Compact. KORES made some 20 cases of [Status of ethical education operation] Unit: people newspaper contributions and granted broadcast interviews through press/media activities to 2008 2009 2010 disseminate its commitment to ethical Mgt. Program Officers Employees Officers Employees Officers Employees Operation of ethical management task control system Education on code of conduct 216 279 265 Ethical management task control system KORES operates a task control system online to check and evaluate in real time the ethical Mgt. Expert instruction s education 9 545 9 465 9 381 tasks by team and the status of implementation of management s instructions. Through this, quick 81 Cyber education 245 356 feedback on the task performance is possible, and action is carried out for each team to execute the Externally entrusted education task concerned in a timely manner. Government agency integrity and 31 265 ethics program [ Key systems and activities to institutionalize ethical management] Total 9 873 9 989 9 1,267 Activities Details Reflection of ethical Mgt. Weight of efforts for ethical and environmental Mgt.: 5-10 points (100 points as full marks) KORES ensures ethical Mgt. is implemented with responsibility through carrying out enterprise upon evaluating internal Weight of system improvement for integrity reinforcement and anticorruption: 2 points ethical Mgt. sector evaluation by team. We link the completion hours of integrity and ethics education Mgt. performance ’ The service concerned is offered free of charge again when a customer s request is placed due to by team and the results of an anticorruption system improvement effort with personal mileage points, ’ Clean recall system an employee s fault/mistake. team bonus, and performance ratings. Externally, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies, Strategy Clean budget reporting and Finance Ministry/Knowledge Economy Ministry, and Anticorruption & Civil Rights Commission of center Receiving unjust budget execution reporting and ideas to save on the budget 1,276 Korea (ACRC) regularly evaluate the ethical Mgt. system and integrity level of KORES. Likewise, we For transparency enhancement of company credit card use, a clean card limiting 13 business types Clean card system continually improve internal systems and institutions based on the evaluation results and actively is used, and the card mileage points are used as a fund for social contribution activities. reflect them in the performance rating. 998 Job-related crime prosecution guidelines Job-related crimes such as accepting money and valuables/entertainment worth more than KRW 3 882 million and embezzlement will be prosecuted in addition to internal punishment. Guidelines for integral The conduct standard will be applied more strictly than the code of conduct upon contact with jobconduct upon contact related people through meals and golfing. with job-related people Detailed conduct Unjust job instruction types are specified and a detailed conduct standard is devised so that a 2008 2009 2010 ¯ standard for unjust superior s unjust instruction can be prevented, and a subordinate s objection and reporting can be instructions facilitated. KORES, selected as an excellent agency in Clean monitoring group By operating a clean monitoring group consisting of customers, corruption activities reporting and public agency s̄ anticorruption integrity enhancement are induced and loan service quality is evaluated. KORES was selected as an excellent agency in the anticorruption sector at the 2nd Civil ombudsman The ombuds man is set up under the CEO, with rational measures for civil services pursued, and People’s Sinmoongo Awards organized by ACRC. As a result, KORES received the Prime system irrational systems and practices improved. Minister’s Commendation and a Sinmoongo -a large drumas a prize. In the personnel KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Public benefit reporting Upon reporting unjust activities through the cyber reporting center, the reporter is thoroughly sector, the auditor of KORES, Nam Joon-woo, received the Presidential Commendation protection and for his anticorruption efforts. The anticorruption policy evaluation involves ACRS’s annual protected. When losses/damages are prevented in advance, a reward is offered. rewarding system comprehensive evaluation of the establishment of an anticorruption infrastructure, the Promotion period In the case of the ethics violator, the promotion limiting period is extended by two times compared public agency head's effort, the efficiency and adequacy of system improvement and to general violators, i.e., promotion will be restricted for the following period: reprimand -12 months, anticorruption policy, the public official’s code of conduct, and comprehensive integrity “ extension system probation -18 months, pay cut -24 months. UNLIMITED SOCIETY targeting public agencies (105 agencies in 2009). This is the most meaningful award Three-strike out system An individual will be dismissed regardless of punishment extent and amount when unjust activities among the many awards that KORES received so far, I think. I take pride in KORES as a of corruption are detected 3 times or more while in service. clean public corporation, and we will do our very best not to break the tradition of a Guardian system When a newcomer is employed, a senior employee is designated as a mentor who can give some ” corporation without corruption. Auditor Nam Joon-woo said. KORES focused on advice on social life and ethical dilemmas. equipping itself with apreventive system including e-audit system adoption, a law and Conferment ceremony of the Shinmungo Through an in-house survey on officer's integrity, internal job integrity, and integrity toward citizens, regulation compliance ombudsman system, and a corruption impact assessment in the Integrity survey the integrity situation and implementation level will be examined; in particular, the survey results previous year. We will focus on autonomous cultural establishment through integrity I 38 I are used as HR data in the case of an officer. I 39 I debate, education activation, and customer monitoring group operation via intranet. Ethical education Education through code of conduct education, external instructor invitational education, e-learning Thanks to our efforts, we received an excellent grade in the 2009 public agency’s integrity system, etc. measurement; we were also named best corporation in the ethical Mgt. sector out of the Revision of employees Require external lecture reporting; accepting of money and valuables is limited. code of conduct 190 agencies of IIA Korea. KORES actually swept all the recognized awards evaluating Preparation of special public corporations’ integrity in the previous year. Devise a conduct standard in contracting with foreign companies as the other party in the contract. rules for contract work Employees Status of employees Nurturing talented people Policy of employees Talented people nurturing system KORES focuses on the transparency and activation of HR Mgt. through fair HR Mgt., solves discrimination through job separation between regular and irregular employees via irregular Education/ Foster resources development personnel manpower operation in line with the government policy, and improves treatment between irregular training vision equipped with global competitiveness occupation types reasonably. We prohibit discrimination according to gender, age, religion, education, and physical disability and conform to the Labor Standards Act and ILO's coercive work Competitiveness Person Person carrying out Person trusted by prohibition regulations. Discriminative treatment on grounds of gender, religion, race, and age upon Model talented person armed with Top-tier responsible resources internal and external expertise development customers recruitment is banned. KORES also bans child labor and coercive labor at all workplaces pursuant to ILO's Child Labor Prohibition Agreement and Pact on Coercive Work Abolishment along with Korea's Labor Standards Competence-oriented training system Act, and there has been no case of such a violation. Since the number of workplaces abroad is Education/ training Common forecast to increase, however, we plan to devise systematic programs and execute them to avoid Leadership training Job training system competence training child labor and coercive labor for the purpose of cost savings at the workplaces concerned. KORES manpower CompetenceKORES HCI [Status of employees] [Employment of the socially based training underprivileged] Career development index system Job competence-based training HR system-level diagnosis Internal employees Education/training Measure job suitability Select competence by job satisfaction infrastructure Measure job expertise Curriculum by competence HR, training, organization, Present curriculum Link with competence leadership-level examination direction assessment KORES implements education and training focusing on the improvement of employees’ specialized resources development competence, global competence, and change competence, aiming at nurturing specialized resources development personnel armed with global competitiveness. KORES has adopted KORES Manpower, a career development index that improved the existing career development system by reflecting the public corporation’s organizational culture features: complexity in operation and limited HR movement and assignment. This way, we analyze personnel expertise and career development direction and support our employees’ growth as job experts. Fair performance evaluation 교육비전 글로벌 경쟁력을 갖춘 자원개발 전문인력 양성 KORES fairly evaluates all employees’ performances and gives benefits to high-performing people in ㅣ Total No. of employees The total number of employees at KORES as of the end of 2010 was the HR rating such as: promotion and reward. For low-performing employees, we carry out 369, increasing by 15 compared to the previous year. Of these, 367 were regular positions and 2 education/training according to plans by sending them a job capability improvement encouragement were contractual positions. The women's ratio was 19.5% (72 people), which is on a gradual rise. letter and requesting them to draw up a job capability improvement plan. For those who are specially The wage of a college graduate newcomer is 233% higher than the legal minimum wage, and there 인재상 최고의 전문성을 책임있는 자원개발을 내외부고객이 신뢰할 controlled after having garnered 60 points or less in the personnel assessment for two years in a 보유한 인재 수행하는 인재 수 있는 인재 row, their basic annual :salary is reduced, and the performance-based annual salary is not paid. For KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 is no difference in wages between male and female newcomers. KORES plans to continually Education/training hours per person increase the hiring of newcomers and expert employees. We forecast the total number of employees those who get 80 or higher points in the work assessment, KORES nurtures them as core personnel Unit : hours 역량중심 교육체계 in 2014 to reach 680. by selecting them as trainees at graduate schools at home and abroad. ㅣ Employment of the socially underprivileged KORES operates various programs to employ the socially underprivileged; thus embodying an employment policy that respects diversity and shuns 교육훈련체계 Education/training : achievements 공통역량교육 리더십역량교육 직무역량교육 UNLIMITED SOCIETY discrimination. We also implement a recruitment policy (additional points on document) considering KORES maps the personnel competence factors and curriculum and registers them in the the socially underprivileged including disabled people and patriots. In 2010, we newly employed 22 education/training system so that employees can receive better education/training by identifying patriots. The current employment rate of the disabled is 2.7%, 2008 and that of patriots is 5.7%. areas for improvement. In 2010, KORES employees’ education/training hours per person stood at 2008 288 ㅣ Industrial disaster rate KORES discloses statistics on employee's industrial disaster rate as of the 61 13 20 67 hours, up 63% compared to the previous year. KORES Man Power 역량기반 교육 직무역량 교육 end of June each year and supports 349 all labor union members in receiving compensation 33 for various 교육훈련인프라 (82.5%) (17.5%) (3.7%) (5.7%) I 40 I disasters. The industrial disaster rate from July 2009 to June 2010 was 0%; only one case was : 경력개발지수제도 직무역량기반교육 인사제도 수준진단 I 41 I 직무적합도 측정 직무별 역량선정 내부직원 만족도 2009 2009 Basic program Middle program Language program In-depth program Expert program recorded from July 2010 to the end of June 2011 for a rate of 0.12%. 업무 전문성 측정 역량별 교육과정 쪾1인사 /교육/조직/ 290 64 13 21 (81.9%) (18.1%) 354 (3.7%) (5.9%) 34 쪾18 newcomers 쪾88 technology 쪾5 experts on 교육과정 방향제시 쪾역량평가와 1 expert on overseas regions 연계 리더십 수준조사 expert on overseas 쪾43 negotiation 쪾8 resources development 쪾8 resources development specialists domestic regions regions 2010 2010 쪾172 miscellaneous 쪾Expert invitational 쪾Expert invitational experts academy specialists academy specialists 297 72 369 13 22 35 (80.5%) (19.5%) (3.5%) (6.0%) trainees training: 18 people training: 18 people Male Female Disabled people Patriots Welfare for employees Sound industrial relations ’ Employees WLB (Work-Life-Balance) program Establishment of win-win labor-management culture KORES consolidated linkage with an upper hierarchy strategy, i.e., human-oriented Mgt. through the reestablishment of an advanced strategy of industrial relations jointly by labor and management in 2010; thus developing a labor-management relations strategy through workshops organized jointly Health enhancement Family support No-smoking program Publication of new company by labor and management. We set the following as the top 3 strategy directions: dissemination of operation Support in the form of e-newsletter (Pine Tree) supplies for not smoking and New establishment of advanced labor-management culture, consolidation of trust-based relations between labor and congratulatory money messenger of love management, and bolstering of labor-management participation and cooperation. Based on these Reselection of medical Newsletter (Resources & Life) checkup institution and items sentto home directions, we have drawn the top 9 strategic tasks and implement them. increase Plural selection of Health Family Feature article Family all-year medical checkup institutions enhancement support round [Strategy to advance industrial relations] Invitation of retirees families Work and life/ Promotion of annual leave use Individuals & Performance Establish partnership in labor-management relations based organizations objective on trust and respect with competitiveness Social contribution Self-development One village one company Social SelfEducational/training system campaign contribution development improvement Values pursued Continuity Trust Cooperation KORES volunteer service Educational situation analysis corps operation and improvement tasks Participation in Beautiful Shop identification Public benefit activities in Operation of online education investment project sites contents Support for neighboring Operation of Mine-Edu credit Disseminate advanced Consolidate trust relations Bolster labor-Mgt. participation labor-Mgt. culture between labor and Mgt. and cooperation elementary schools of mines system Systematic response to Expansion of labor-Mgt. joint Operation of labor-Mgt. Strategy direction advanced legislation organization participation and cooperation and system Management of industrial relations Operation of various communication programs Rational improvement ㅣ under the laws and principles channels between labor and Mgt. of collective agreement Consolidation of labor-Mgt. Laying the foundation for grievance Consolidation of industrial Welfare for WLB (Work-Life-Balance) To promote productivity improvement through employees' strategy system handling activation relations Mgt. competence Diagnosis results of labor-management work-life-balance, KORES offers various, specialized general welfare services. We create working cooperation level Unit : % conditions that strike a balance between work and home through the adoption of a flexible work Activation of communication between labor and management Q. Cooperation extent of labor with management system and child birth promotion subsidy system. KORES has been forming rational industrial relations based on mutual understanding including joint Greatly investigation to identify working condition improvement tasks, at the same time expanding cooperative communication channels such as regular labor-Mgt. council to instill partnership awareness between Not greatly Fringe benefit system ㅣ labor and Mgt. In 2010, we set the second Thursday at the end of each quarter as the regular laborcooperative Internal employees satisfaction survey Tailored welfare system KORES operates a welfare system a la carte wherein employees can Mgt. council meeting date and laid the foundation for efficient operation by reducing the number of Not cooperative Cooperative Unit : points select fringe benefit items within the welfare points. We operate the home loan and Cheonsei (lease 성과목표 신뢰와 존중을 통한 파트너십 노사관계 구축 council members. In this manner, we activated the labor-Mgt. council. Furthermore, KORES focused of home paying key money) loan system for non-home owning employees and living stability loan on activities to activate :grievance handling by newly establishing a retiree interview system along system for their living stability. We also have resort facilities that our employees can use as corporate members. In addition, we support internal club activities and souvenirs on KORES s ’ with a grievance handling committee by department. 지향가치 지속 신뢰 협력 foundation anniversary and labor union foundation date as well as reward employees working for the Labor-Mgt. Council, Labor-Mgt. CEO’s open management Cooperative:Body Fair KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 company for a long time. ㅣ Retirement preparation programs KORES operates programs to support employees during their Labor-Mgt. Council: Made the council Participation in meetings: Labor-Mgt. Council, etc. 건강증진 가족지원 meeting regular and expanded the number Close relationship Mgt.: Social gathering service period and even after retirement. We also run an occupational transfer support program of items on the agenda to encourage employees, site visit, etc. 쪾금연프로그램 targeting retirees 운영 쪾전자사내보 wishing to change their occupation as well as re-employment 신설(소나무 training to help ) them Labor-Mgt. cooperative bodies: Labor선진 노사문화 확산 노사 신뢰관계 강화 노사 참여 . 협력 강화 design금연용품 지원, 축하금 life 지원 after retirement. Moreover, we pay allowances사랑의each메신저 코너for신설up to 21 Mgt. joint T/F, T/F with participation of the their second month 전략방향 및 과제 UNLIMITED SOCIETY 쪾건강검진업체 to retirees재선정 및 쪾사보 <자원&Life> 가정 배송 labor union 선진화 입법 체계적 대응 Communication Channel 노사공동기구 운영 확대 노조참여 . 협력프로그램 항목 건강 가족 확대 from overseas construction sites until they get a job. '가족' 연중기획 : months 검진업체protection ㅣ 복수 선정 등activities KORES conducts maternity protection 쪾퇴직자가족 초청 for female 법과 원칙에 의한 노사관계 관리 노사간 다각적 소통채널 운영 운영 노사관계 관리역량 강화 검진 중심 ’ Maternity activities ’ employees working condition improvement in line with the government 쪾연차휴가 사용 촉진with the low policy dealing 노사관계 전략 체계성 강화 Mgt. presentation and workshop 고충처리 활성화 기반 마련 Intranet/questionnaire survey 일과 삶 Mgt. presentation: Business launch and Intranet®: EIS, BPS, business Mgt., Mgt. birth problem. We make an effort to improve female employees working conditions by implementing ’ completion reporting to all employees or tasks I 42 I 경쟁력 있는 the following: female employee s resting room operation, child birth congratulatory bonus payment ’ 조직 ’ labor union Questionnaire survey: Diagnosis of I 43 I 개인 Workshop: Workshop for advancement, labor-Mgt. cooperation level, etc. (KRW 500,000), adoption of spouse s child birth leave system (paid 3 days leave), & ’ workshop for change Mgt. 매우그렇다 자기 acknowledgement of female employees breastfeeding time (an hour a day) and divided use of Status of labor union membership 사회공헌 봉사 ’ 자기계발 maternity leave. The female employees return rate to KORES was maintained at 100% for past 계발 three years, and there is no disadvantage in employment, salary, and career path. Status of the labor union 전혀아니다 아니다 Category 10.5% 2008 Unit : people 2009 2010 쪾1사1촌 운동 쪾교육제도 개선 In the labor union established in 1988, all our employees can freely join and engage in activities 6.6% 그렇다 교육실태분석 및 개선과제 도출 Total No. of employees 쪾KORES 봉사단 운영 except grade 3 or higher team leaders, staff in charge of HR, labor, pay, audit, and secretaries and (people) 349 354 369 쪾아름다운 가게 참여 쪾온라인 교육 컨텐츠 운용 쪾투자사업지 공익활동 마인에듀(Mine-Edue) 이수 drivers of the CEO and the auditor. As a result of autonomous labor-Mgt., culture establishment, we No. of Labor union 278 48.7% 281 292 쪾광산 인근 초등학교 지원 학점제 운영 recorded zero labor disputes for 22 years from the first year of 1988 when the labor union was objects (people) No. of labor union founded to 2010. 32.9% 278 280 291 members (people) 89.3 보통이다 82.3 노사협의회 및 노사협력기구 CEO 의 열린경영 71.1 쪾노사협의회 : 쪾회의체 참여 : 개최시기 정례화 및 상정안건 확대 노사협의회 등 쪾노사협력기구 : 쪾스킨십 경영 : Customers Customer satisfaction system CS management activities Objectives and strategies Development of a customer feedback system KORES has set as strategic directions customer satisfaction(CS) Mgt. mindset enhancement, KORES developed a system to collect and feed back VOC for the improvement of 2010 field stabilization of voice of customer(VOC) system, CS capability consolidation, and reward bolstering to services and systemized the collection channels and history Mgt. of the Customer Contact Center. establish the best grade in agency status via a systematized CS Mgt. system. We identify the As a result, the number of customer consulting cases through phone, visit, and Internet rose 16.7% relevant tasks and implement them. compared to the previous year, and immediate handling rate of 99.6% was recorded. Consulting results of Customer Contact Center Unit : case Systematization of CS management system 16.7% increase Objective for the best grade in CS System to collect and feed back VOC Customer Contact Channel Center TOM Team CS capability CS management VOC system Direction mindset enhancement stabilization consolidation and Consulting via Happy Completed Enter consulting reward bolstering phone call Business Consultant details Consulting via Team Customer visit (primary Mgt. system (secondary Homepage consulting) CS Mgt. consolidation for Securing systematic VOC Education/training to consulting) moment of truth (MOT) collection channel advance CS KOMIS CS organization activation Customer-oriented VOC Consolidation of CS Twitter Key tasks Eco-Mgt. program growing handling activities and reward Enter consulting Customer Info and together with customers VOC handling and request requested details Consulting request feedback consolidation Status of 2010 CS Mgt. Committee Meeting Implementation organizations Sequence of KORES tried to bolster the role of the CS Mgt. Committee as an organization to induce CS activities Communication channel operation depending on customer type Item meeting and as a decision-making body by reinforcing its activities from 2010 for CS Mgt. organizations' KORES divides customers into seven types: service using customers, consulting customers, partner 1st Collection and handling of second VOC reinvigoration. In April 2010, we set up 'High Think,' an organizing council for a customer contact firm customers, general customers, internal customers, community customers, and resource industry customers. We try to consolidate opinion collection activities by operating direct 고객의 소리 수집 및 피드백체계 center, and bolstered the two-way communication function by setting up a Twitter account in keeping Screening and selecting in the contest for with the activation of the social networking service (SNS). communication channels by type of customer. 2nd closing words via telephone 11,652 Screening and selecting in the contest for Integrated customer management system operation 채널 Category 고객컨텍센터 Channel 접점팀 Frequency 3rd KORES operates an integrated customer Mgt. system (KO-CRM), unifies channels for online/offline 쪾CS survey 쪾VOC campaign 9,985 상담내용 closing words via telephone Service using customers Annually, one time VOC, and offers services focused on customer convenience so that customers can receive 전화상담 해피콜 쪾Survey via happy call 완료 입력 Mineral test fee receiving system 방문상담 Consulting customers 상당요원 고객관리 All-year round 사업팀 7occasions specialized consulting in each field without waiting. By simplifying MOT to the customer contact 홈페이지 쪾Working-level 4th (1차상담) 시스템 (2차상담) improvement Partner firm customers council (metals, bituminous coal) operation center, we offer one-stop services to our customers. For monitoring consolidation on the MOT 성과목표 고객만족도 최우수등급을 위한 경영시스템 체계화 쪾Homepage operation of 'customer’s suggestion' KOMIS department, we : run the CS Team leader system and induce CSservice quality improvement by General customers 트위터 All-year round reflecting service implementation standard performances on the department's internal assessment. Internal customers 쪾CS survey 쪾Social gathering for CS 1occasion/ 년 목표 년 실적 상담요청(시작) 고객정보 및 요청사항입력 상담요청 41 occasions 2010 2010 Community customers 쪾Hearings by project One time each 추진방향 : 경영마인드 제고 시스템 안정화 CS 역량 강화 및 쪾쪾Demand VOC collection via provincial customer죓s visit 보상강화 survey for lending supporting companies All-year round CS VOC Resources industry customers KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 KORES-CS Master 고객접점 CS경영강화 체계적인 VOC 수집채널 CS선진화를 위한 중점과제 KORES reorganized the CS : CSCoP 활성화 추진조직KORES-CS Master ’learning 확보 as internal employees교육 실시 space through which the features of the함께하는 고객과 에코 CS supervision 고객지향적 Dept. andVOC 처리 Dept. can-be TOM CS활동 성과 및 simultaneously 경영프로그램 can be 실시 VOC 피드백we 처리 및 this, 보상 강화KORES-CS 강화plan to utilize UNLIMITED SOCIETY applied and CS competence consolidated. Through Master to improve KORES's competence considerably as a learning organization, enhance the 2010 PCSI PCSI results Unit : points CS mindset, and promote knowledge acquisition further. KORES drew measures to improve CS by analyzing the 2009 PCSI. We earned an CS supervision team s excellent grade of 93.9 points -up 4.2 points policy dissemination Sharing activities of compared to the previous yearin the 2010 CS CoP TOM departments and competence I 44 I enhancement Public Agency PCSI. Such can be attributed to I 45 I the financial sector service improvement via Sharing activities of CS capability administrative procedure simplification and TOM departments enhancement CS activity sharing support for scope expansion as well as diagnosis CS note CS knowledge Our Team s CS Reporting of policy and dictionary slogan sector service improvement via specialized CS Mgt. activities Grievance handling Our customer of the mineral analysis service consultant system Reporting CS monthly unit month operation A day of contact center operation. Partner Firms Support for mutual growth Mutual entry into overseas resources development Overseas resources development is an industry with a broad scope of linked industries including plant, infrastructure construction, transport, and processing, not to mention mine construction. Strategic direction Although Korea’s private companies recognize such facts and want to participate in overseas KORES backs partner firms' competence consolidation, recognizing the need for growth together resources development projects, it is difficult to decide on investment due to the lack of specialized with, and strategic nurturing of, partner firms. We establish measures to support small and medium capabilities. KORES contributes to national economic development by sharing investment businesses' penetration into overseas markets and improve domestic small and medium mines' opportunities with private companies and inducing domestic private companies participation after productivity as a key direction in support of mutual growth. In November 2010, KORES set up a new finding promising projects using the advantages of a public corporation and aids in private Task Force to implement mutual growth and systematically put the strategy into practice. companies’ profitability increase including infrastructure construction. For example, in the case of the [Major achievements in 2010] Ambatovy project, we won an order worth USD 470 million through a joint investment with Korea’s private companies. For KORES s efficient role boost, KORES identified the needs of overseas Tasks Achievements resources development companies in July 2010, established the role of KORES, and developed an 쪾 Establishment of SMBs’Info and technology support system Devise overseas ’ Building the Africa Investment Support Center in May 2010; Publication of six countries resources optimal cooperation system. As of the end of 2010, 26 out of 33 construction projects were joint 쪾 Improvement of thelegal and support system investment guide in November 2010 investments with private companies. We will consolidate continual efforts for resources development investment support system of SMBs through entry in foreign markets together with Korean companies. Devising measures for the preferential treatment of SMBs engaged in overseas resources development business 쪾Selection and nurturing of mines to support by selecting 35-40 mines through selection and concentration Productivity: 34.3 tons/person in 2009 →35.2 tons/person in 2010 New projects discovery achievements thru consortium composition Devise overseas 쪾Assisting the modernization business through improvement of value-added of non-metallic minerals with domestic and international partner firms investment support billion in 2009 → KRW 4.3 billion in 2010 Support for modernization (modernization equipment, facility +telephone within mine tunnel): KRW 2.9 쪾Newly fostering and supplying specialized mining industry manpower system of SMBs Mineral type Mine Partner firm Status of implementation (52 people in 5 fields including resources exploration) Dighipara POSCO, Korea Western Consortium MOU signing and selection of construction Power, Luxon organization company Bolstering strategic partnership Apsat Hyundai Steel, Daewoo DSME Agreement on field survey, investment negotiation, joint stake acquisition Korea Middleland Power, MOU signing for joint Sakhalin bituminous coal and port Sakhalin Supporting the establishment of a base to penetrate into domestic Bituminous Korean Southern Power development project investment projects coal Tabantolgoi Korea Rail Network Authority Joint entry, MOU signing to link resources development and railway construction KORES carries out mineral resources development by composing consortiums with competent domestic and international companies and seeks win-win partnerships based on transparent trade Alpha STX Pre-feasibility review and joint stake acquisition means under negotiation practices and trust. We expand practical resources work exchange and cooperation with investing companies via the practical work council of each mineral and induce private companies' investment Vlak Plaatz CCL, Masau (South Africa) Completion of joint equity investment contracting and execution of follow up action by bolstering forum and symposium activities. We also reduce investment risks by inducing domestic Kapuas Korindo (Indonesia) Signing of joint implementation agreement and HOA signing, financial institutions' project financing participation. KORES pledges to develop partnerships by price negotiation underway after due diligence maximizing mutual profits with private companies and investment agencies in the future as well. Signing of joint venture agreement and completion of 20% stake Rosemont LG Corporation acquisition Daewoo, Kazatompro Joint development MOU signing, technical due diligence KYZYL-TUU completion and investment negotiation underway (Kazakhstan) Copper Cases of support for private companies’ domestic investment projects in 2010 Joint implementation MOU signing, technical due diligence Avaroy Comibol (Bolivia) KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 underway Korea Resources Co., Ltd. New business of ferronickel Business implementation thru reserved Implementation of mine development and mineral s economic efficiency reassessment smelting factory establishment for the stable Udokan Daewoo, Baikal Mining (Russia) Negotiation on investment structure within Korea s consortium and technology review underway as a result of suspended/closed mines supply of scarce metals within Korea Foundation of joint ventures via participation in Signing of investment MOUs with domestic MOU signing between Korea and Kazakhstan for cooperation in KEPCO, Kazatompro private development projects to induce private companies for the promotion of Kazakhstan ((Kazakhstan) the nuclear power field domestic metal mine redevelopment activation investment projects in October 10 UNLIMITED SOCIETY Uranium in December 2010 Signing of an MOU and HOA for raw nickel Signing of joint cooperation agreement between KORES and Enhancement of domestic iron ore self-supply ore supply, equity investment, and sales right Rossing South KEPCO, Extract KEPCO and F/S under review rate through domestic production base with Noble through mutual cross investment (1.0% 1.7%) Mutual Enhancement of ferronickel self-supply rate in Korea Electric Power Industrial growth with Korea through joint investment with private Iron Yangyang Iron Mine Power, Daehan Iron Mine Shareholder agreement signing and capital payment private companies (50% 75%) companies Youngwoo Miraes Korea Alumina Nickel Nickel Smelter Enertec, Union, Noble Signing the shareholder agreement for consortium I 46 I Import substitution and import price Cope with the unstable supply of alumina, I 47 I adjustment to cope with depletion of talc which is a seller s market, by foreign resources of China, a key importing country. companies and rapid price fluctuation Establishment of joint ventures with private Smelting factory construction completed in companies by reviewing business feasibility April 10 with KORES s major investment in and acquiring mining sites and rights (KRW private companies commercialized through 2.85 billion) in non-performing loan mines government material R&D technology support Enhancement of domestic talc resources via Enhancement of the self-supply rate via the joint mine redevelopment with private supply of 51,000 tons for domestic demand companies (1.0% 1.7%) through joint investment with a private company Health and Safety EHS (Environment, Health, Safety) management Support for disaster prevention system establishment No. of safety accidents in mines in Korea Support system improvement Unit : case KORES intensively improved the equipment transport and support system and bolstered safety Enactment of an EHS management Standard facility modernization support for disaster-vulnerable mines and safety education/training. We always KORES developed an EHS Mgt. system since a health and safety Mgt. system was required, maintain various security equipment required for the prevention of mine disasters including flood focusing on the consolidation of health and safety-related laws and regulations and preventive disaster, inferior ventilation, and disaster rescue activities in an available state. Furthermore, KORES system-centered health and safety Mgt. system. We will strive to reduce the number of disasterpromptly provides backup upon request from a mine and contributes to mine disaster prevention in stricken people to 10 or less per 1 million people by 2017 by controlling and removing potential this manner. The number of safety accidents of domestic mines in 2010 was 34 cases, up 4 cases hazardous factors in the environment, health, and safety areas. Since the number of overseas compared to the previous year. KORES plans to improve the support system continuously for mine workplaces is forecast to increase, we plan to develop and apply various programs to create a disaster rate reduction. healthy and safe working environment beginning January 2011. EHS implementation organizations Mine disaster prevention activities EHS implementation organizations ㅣ Establishment of a rescue system for large-scale mine disasters Since the mine accident in Board of The EHS activities of KORES are supervised by the Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee within the Chile, 2010, KORES has systematically analyzed the existing domestic mine rescue system and directors board of directors, and the relevant departments will be in charge of detailed projects. Detailed plans drew up measures for improvement. Based on these, we devised a mine accident manual by and roles will be decided by the Sustainability Mgt. Committee through consultation. disaster type to minimize the losses of and damage to lives and property following the occurrence of a large-scale mine disaster. Sustainability EHS management areas Mgt. Committee KORES plans to set specific objectives in each of the environment, health, and safety fields by Disaster & Safety Management Office EHS Supervision Central Emergency Rescue Ministry of Knowledge workplace for the implementation of EHS and establish strategy in each sector and identify the Control Office Economy (Public Administration and Security Minister) status of implementation for performance improvement in each field. Through the regular monitoring of the head office and workplaces, we plan to measure performance in each sector, inspect the Municipal and provincial Ministry of implementation level vs. objectives and set future Mgt. activities plans and objectives. emergency rescue control offices Disaster & Safety Management Office Knowledge Economy (Municipal and principal fire (Mayor, Governor) Strategic Mgt. Division Resources Development station heads) (Mine security office) Creativity Mgt. Team Development Support Division General Affairs Team Division Support Planning [ Key issues by management field ] Labor Welfare Team Each Business Team Relevant agencies KORES Team Natural (Police, military unit, medical Use of energy, raw material, water, and land (Taebaek Branch Office) Legal Affairs Audit resources use institution, KT, KEPCO) Environment Disaster mines Emission Air emissions, Water pollution, Soil pollution, Greenhouse gas Coal mine: Mine rescue group exists Nearby mine Waste treatment Incineration, landfill, recycling General mine: No mine Coal mine: Mine rescue group rescue group exists. Community Local stakeholders permission Emergency drill to cope with mine disasters Disease related to work / Health Mgt. at the workplace / Health Mgt. for those on business trips / Noise, vibration, heat/cold, radioactivity, air, local endemic, ㅣ Emergency drill to cope with large-scale mine disasters When workers are buried or casualties Health at work occur due to tunnel fire, water leak, and large-scale fall, the KORES Taebaek Branch Office carries AIDS/HIV Health out various rescue support activities. The rescue members of the KORES Taebaek Branch Office Absent from work Absent from work, due to disease regularly carry out internal rescue drills and joint drills together with the relevant agencies such as 이사회 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Health Worker s medical checkups Fatigue and stress fire stations or with mines to prepare for unexpected disasters. ㅣ management Alcohol and drugs intake Counseling and advice on returning to normal life Additional tests Safe mine campaign Disasters arising from worker's negligence due to lack of safety awareness, rather than acts of God, account for most of the disasters occurring in mines. The KORES Taebaek Disability Industrial disaster Branch Office posts safe mine campaign banners, distributes high-frequency disaster prevention PR 지속가능경영위원회 UNLIMITED SOCIETY handouts, supplies safety gear, and offers safety education before work starts. EHS 활동 총괄 Physical hazard Accidents from cuts, hurt from fall, compression, and collapse Safety Thermal hazard Burn Safe mine campaign Consolidation of health and safety management Electricity hazard Electrocution accident at workplaces abroad 전략경영본부 Chemical hazard Choking accident due to toxic gas / Oxygen deficiency accident / Fire, explosion 중앙긴급구조통제단 As workplaces abroad are forecast to increase continuously, the importance of health and safety 소방방제청장 지식경제부 중앙재난안전대책본부 I 48 I 자원개발본부 개발지원본부 Transport accident Accident while transporting toxic substances Mgt. among(( 소방방재청장 ) those workers ) ( 행정안전부장관 and local residents around the workplaces is emphasized further. ) In the I 49 I 쪾창의경영팀 쪾각 사업팀 쪾지원기획팀 sites of underdeveloped countries that KORES tries to penetrate, the hazard of epidemic exists such 쪾총무팀 쪾법무 심사팀 쪾노무복지팀 as yellow fever, parasite infection, malaria, and HIV/AIDS. We plan to collect information on 시 도긴급구조통제단 지식경제부 시 도 재난안전대책본부 diseases ,that may develop in each exploration and development site and , consolidate education, ( 시,도소방본부장 ) ( 광산보안사무소 ) ( 시,도지사 ) counseling, prevention, and treatment targeting the dispatched personnel and their families and community members. 한국광물자원공사 광산보안사무소 ( ) ( 유관기관 경찰, 군부대, 의료기관, KT, 한국전력 ) 천연자원 사용 에너지, 원자재, 용수, 토지 사용 재해광산 환경 배출물 대기배출물, 수질오염, 토양오염, 온실가스 석탄광 : 광산구호대 有 일반광 : 광산구호대 無 ( 인근 광산 석탄광 : 광산구호대소 ) 폐기물 처리 소각, 매립, 재활용 지역사회 지역 이해관계자 허가 Communities Consolidation of communication with communities Effort to minimize the negative impacts on communities Analysis of project impacts on communities KORES inspects potential factors that may affect local communities at each stage of exploration, Business operation places priority on community values drilling, and mining. In addition to environmental impact evaluation, which is a legal obligation, we KORES makes great efforts to share the profits generated from lengthy resources development provide information on the impacts of projects on local communities by offering project status projects with communities. We also assist in preserving various local cultural values so that the presentations. KORES will endeavor to identify and cope effectively with principal interests raised in cultural heritage and natural environment can be protected and developed. We come up with and local communities at all domestic and international sites and social and environmental hazardous run various tailored programs in line with each region to minimize damage to communities through factors. business and project operation. Community participation process KORES explains the impacts of resources development on local communities from project launch to Protection of local residents rights ’ Mineral resources development can directly/indirectly influence local residents. All exploration and completion and establishes and operates community participation processes to collect local ’ ’ development activities are carried out through local residents participation as a rule. Concerning residents opinions. ’ factors that may affect local residents, we endeavor to respect local residents rights to the fullest ’ through negotiation. There was no case of breaching local residents rights due to domestic business activities in 2010. Decision of Objective Reporting the Support for community development Community participation priorities of setting and final KORES supports various cases wherein local residents can be affected in terms of assets, income, raised interests implementation achievements residential environment, and social ties arising from mineral resources development: support for ’ to communities local residents relocation due to mine or plant construction, preferential employment of local residents through manpower training and nurturing, local purchase, social infrastructure expansion, Analyze Review Accumulate Identify interests on the performances know-how and and preparation of measures for livelihood. In the case of Ambatovy, Madagascar in particular, interests of corporate and carry out research KORES supports living expenses during the re-employment preparation period through assistance communities strategy corrective improvement dimension actions direction initiative for demobilized local workers. Consolidation of trust with local residents KORES carries out assessment of the impacts of domestic mine development on underground water and pollution around closed mines. Through water system examination around mines, inAIDE (Assistance Initiative for Demobilized Workers) tunnel geological and underground water research, and site water quality probe, we have proven In Ambatovy, Madagascar, since local manpower will greatly decline from 120,000 at the current construction stage to 2,000 to 2,500 people that there is very weak linkage between mine development and drinking water source pollution. For in the future operation and production stage, labor disputes arose, stemming from unstable employment. By composing a three-party council trust consolidation with communities, we shall strive further to find and share the information required with resident representatives, the Madagascar government, and theAmbatovy Project company, they agreed to the preferential employment by local communities. 지역사회 제기된 목표 설정 및 최종 성과 of local Ambatovy-hired manpower. As a result, we implemented the AIDE program in November 2010 to prevent labor-management 참여 관심사안 우선 실행 지역사회에 보고 순위 결정 problems and back the smooth employment shift. This program seeks to subsidize minimum living expenses when the Madagascar local KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 residents hired during the Ambatovy construction period lose jobs after the completion of construction. Differential payment will be paid for 3 ~ 21 months according to the work period and work assessment. Note, however, that those who are dismissed due to illegal acts or involved 기업전략 지역사회 for Ambatovy Presentation residents 성과 검토 및 노하우 축적 및 in illegal strikes will be excluded from such support. We will continually monitor for efficient program implementation through consultation 관심사안 파악 차원에서 관심 수정조치 이행 개선방향 연구 with the local government and with community leaders in the future. We will seek co-development from the long-term perspective through 사안 분석 mutual trust-based relations. UNLIMITED SOCIETY KORES realized that the consent of local communities and local residents is needed in advance for the Ambatovy project to be carried out successfully. Therefore, we launched research on communities beginning in May 2005, and conducted prior research on the social characteristics of local residents along with a demographic analysis. KORES held more than 150 sessions of presentations and explained the impacts of the project on local communities and future development possibility and sought the consent of the local residents. We improved homes and I 50 I built new schools and clinics for the local residents who are expected to be affected by the mine I 51 I and plant construction. Since then, the Ambatovy project CSR team continued to meet with local residents at anytime and collect opinions. For the security Mgt. of pipelines, we offered education/training targeting the local residents; thus, they become the security guard members leading the protection of pipelines. Social Contribution Enterprise social contribution activities system Status of social contribution activities Support results by field in 2010 Strategy KORES has carried out domestic social contribution activities focusing on KORES Volunteer Service Support amount Category No. of beneficiaries KORES implements enterprise social contribution activities through the joint participation of labor Corps., and provided KRW 195 million in support for 642 people in 2010 centered on four major (KRW million) and management. We set the development of a cooperative system with communities and fields. In the case of overseas activities, we implement by establishing region-specific social Social welfare 75 211 specialized NGOs and activation of volunteer services as the activity direction. We preferentially contribution activities plans. We make an effort to share the profits generated through resources Community 68 348 back four fields social welfare, community, environmental conservation, and education & culture development with communities. for social contribution activities. Environment 4 39 Education 48 74 Mission of social Making KORES the company that the contribution country and its people depend on activities Social welfare Community Environment Education 1. Choice and concentration 쪾Help welfare facilities 쪾Help the 'one village one mine 쪾Environmental cleaning 쪾Support scholarships for resources쪾Help pneumoconiosiscampaign': Volunteer service in campaign for Boramae Park and related departments in Gangwon afflicted workers 쪾 Jangchimi Village, Jecheon Dorim Stream 쪾Support the 'one technical high KORES Volunteer Service Corps. 3 Main Prinicples 2. Honest participation 쪾Help the elderly/disabled 'One village one company campaign': 쪾 Forest Loving Campaign (Picking school one company campaign' 쪾Support national disasters Help a rural village in Batdo up trash) (Sunlin Internet High School) 쪾 쪾 쪾 Naemaeul, Yeongwol, Gangwon-do Volunteer Service Corps Head, Help meal-skipping homes within Support 'Beautiful Shop' Support a study room for the President the district underprivileged class (Guro-gu) 3. Sustaining durability Domestic Vice President Business Mgt. Strategic Mgt. Dept. Manager Division Manager Chairman: Mgt. Division Manager Members: Each 4 main fields 18 subjects Secretariat Division Dept. Director Manager Business Mgt. Secretary: General Dept. Manager Affairs Team Leader Social welfare Local Community Environmental Education culture Help pneumoconiosis Support the 'one village one conservation Support the 'one school one 쪾Coro Coro, Bolivia P/J 쪾Zhangjiagang, China P/J 쪾Warilla, Australia 2 P/J 쪾Zhangjiagang, China P/J patients/poor mine workers mine campaign'(social Donate and support 'Beautiful company in mining region -Environmental hearings with local -Scholarship support (3,000 yuan) Support the activation of mine contribution together with Shop' with disused articles campaign' (elementary, -Access road, reservoir construction 쪾Ambatovy, Madagascar P/J -Support for the elderly living alone residents 쪾Xian Maxunin China P/J disaster prevention services customers) Natural environment middle, and high school) 쪾 (15,000 yuan) 쪾 Marcona, Peru P/J -Scholarship support (3,000 yuan) 쪾Lapu-Lapu, Philippines P/J Head Office Branch Office Support welfare facilities Help meal-skipping homes and protection campaign Support excellent collegians in -Operate transfer of occupation Rapu-Rapu, Philippines P/J Volunteer Service Volunteer Service including for the elderly and the elderly living alone within Donate and support 'Beautiful resources-related -Protection activities for the nearby support center, retirement pension -Opened a free hospital Corps. Corps. disabled Support national disasters the district concerned Help agricultural villages thru Shop' with disused articles Environmental project in the departments in mining areas Support the 'one school one 쪾 Cobre, Panama P/J 쪾 Marcona, Peru P/J 쪾 coast from mines Ambatovy, Madagascar P/J -Free education for elementary, middle, and high school students the 'one village one company energy field company in mining region -Signed a USD 5 million support -Support for natural disaster campaign' (direct trading of campaign' (elementary and -Soil pollution improvement and forest Agreement per year. restoration agricultural products) high school) restoration projects Free meal service for Support the 'Happy Learning multicultural laborers and Arena' a children s foundation Overseas thehomeless Support facilities (goods) KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Implement social contribution including educational activities within invested areas environment within invested abroad regions abroad 봉사단장 UNLIMITED SOCIETY Organizations 부단장 전략경영본부장 KORES operates 15 KORES volunteer service corps. headed by the KORES President. We 운영위원회 organized the Steering Committee to audit social contribution services and suggestions and play the 위원장 : 전경영본부장 Achievement 사무국장 위원Unit:: 각KRW 본부실장 1 million role of offering ideas. Our social contribution activities are carried out mainly by the KORES Corps. PR to let people know about the importance of securing resources I 52 I 경영관리실장 간사 : 총무팀장 As of 2010, all 369 employees at the head office and branch offices were involved in social KORES conducts PR activities through various media to let people know about the importance of securing mineral resources and to improve the I 53 I contribution activities. industry’s image. In 2010, our activities were introduced about 13 times in the following news: 'Joint Development of Bituminous Coal in South Africa,' 'Korea to Get Green Light for Preoccupying the Market for the Next-Generation Resource, Lithium,' 'The World is Now in a War for Scarce Metals,' and Financial resource procurement 'Korea, Chile Agree to Develop Lithium Jointly.' KORES abides by the 'Autonomous Deliberation Rules on Advertising' of the Korea Advertising Review 본사봉사단 사업소봉사단 국가와 국민으로부터 KORES established basic plans for systematic contribution activities in 2005 to bolster the social 사회공헌활동 Board in relation to advertising, and there is no case of breaching the rules. We plan to spread sympathy on the importance of the resources industry activities. 신뢰받는 safety net as a public agency and to inspire citizens with hope through various social contribution In 2006, we organized the KORES KORES Mission 상 구현 Volunteer Service Corps., and began to engage in using various media such as airwave broadcast, newspaper, and online and carry out continuous PR to deal with the negative image of the mining industry. social contribution activities in full swing. We allocated KRW 207 million for 16 services and spent KRW 195 million, up about 47% compared to the previous year. 1. 선택과 집중 3 대 원칙 2. 진정성 강화 UNLIMITED The Earth, as the home of humans, Earth should be sustainably developed. What the Earth offers us under the name of resources is for both us and our descendants. KORES is committed to spearheading the protection of Green Earth, home to humans, which should be sustained. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 UNLIMITED EARTH I 54 I I 55 I Integrated Environmental DMA Disclosure on Management Approach management System Our Approach Environmental management system The environmental value of KORES is 'responsible resources development,' which is also its business philosophy on the coexistence between resources development and environment protection. Toward this end, KORES carries out global environmental management through support of and participation in Environmental management strategy the international guidelines for mineral resources development, ICMM, Berlin Guidelines, World Bank General Environment Guidelines, etc. KORES declared environmental Mgt. in 2005 for active environmental risk management, and Concerning the material debate on the environment, the issues are deliberated on and decided by the board of directors after pre-debate is held through established environmental Mgt. systems and strategies to lay the foundation for a sustainable growth the Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee affiliated with the board of directors. The subcommittee inspects the environmental performance each year, based base in 2008. We operate a Mgt. system through which development and the environment can be in on which clear objectives are set and cyclical monitoring on environmental activities within the organizations is performed. harmony by identifying the environmental impacts of mine development processes. We actually consider the environment in business management. Overview Integrated Environmental Mgt. system establishment and environmental achievement improvement To create new environmental value by actively coping with increasing environment-related risks, we environment established the environmental Mgt system; we improve environmental achievements through various al system environmental Mgt programs. [ Environmental management system ] EcoEco-technology development to conserve the natural environment KORES wants to exercise leadership in the future market --where competitors vie for eco-technology 쪾 Establishment of 쪾 Establishment of means to technology environmental Mgt. perform by sector development development --as well as contribute to the conservation of the natural environment through ecotechnology development. strategies and systems 쪾 Research on eco-technology KORES Minimization of environmental impacts Responsible KORES assesses the impacts on the environment in the exploration stage and carries out development Environmental resources in a resources developmentproject. We minimize the impacts that can arise in the development process responsibilities development through our efforts to protect biodiversity such as preservation of the organism's habitat and migration. and efforts Environmental Integrating Integrating green into growth KORES implements environmental Mgt., through energy conservation and green environmental management green into purchases from the business Mgt. aspect as well as coping with international climate change growth agreements and thenational policy of low carbon, green growth. System 쪾 Stakeholder communication 쪾 Assessment of internal 쪾 Revision and improvement vironmental Mgt. achievements Environmental Mgt. achievement of strategy direction 쪾 Government's Mgt. check 쪾 International certification system Environmental With environmental Mgt., as its mantra, KORES strives for environmental Mgt. activities. We actively management manage pollutant emissionson-site by setting stricter criteria than the global criteria for air and water achievement pollution. Through continuous environmental improvement in overall Mgt., KORES fulfills its social and guidelines responsibility as an eco-company and contributes to national and social sustainable development. -ISO 14001 -IFC EHS Guideline -Berlin Guideline Major achievements Category Key issue Target in 2010 Achievement in 2010 Target in 2011 Major stakeholder Direct energy 57.0 toe 76.4 toe 72.6 toe Environmental management organizations Energy Government, NGO, employees Indirect energy (electricity) 271.0 toe 307.6 toe 292.2 toe KORES enacted the 2010 EHS Mgt standard, and it implements environmental Mgt. by integrating Greenhouse gas Greenhouse gas emissions 683.3 tCO2_eq. 802.4 tCO2_eq. 762.3 tCO2_eq. Government, NGO health and safety activities. The Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee is in charge of decision making on important issues related to EHS Mgt, with the Creativity Mgt. Team providing supervision. Likewise, Consumption 10,196 m3 11,626 m3 11,045 m3 Government, NGO Water Investment partner, government, each relevant department takes charge of detailed implementation. The environmental Mgt No. of water quality inspections Once Once Once community, media, NGO departments involved are the General Affairs Team and Development & Environment Team, and Waste Waste discharge 40 tons 71 tons 67 tons NGO, community they make plans to cope with material issues related to environmental Mgt. They also develop No. of cases of breach of 0 0 0 NGO, community, media, General environmental laws and regulations investment partner environmental assessment indices that can diagnose environmental achievements to measure and improve those of the head office and each workplace together with the department in charge of the workplace, which then devises and applies criteria to minimize impacts on the environment from the 2010 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 stakeholder production process design stage to establish a clean production system, performs environmental questionnai Level of environmental responsibility of KORES impacts assessment considering each workplace’s characteristics, and subsequently establishes a re survey Plan Do system for reporting the results to the department supervising EHS. 쪾부문별 실천방안 수립 쪾환경경영전략 및 체계 수립 쪾환경 친화적 기술연구 ● Fields where KORES is doing well ● Areas for improvement 계획 실행 Environmental achievement check UNLIMITED EARTH KORES’s environmental achievements and performances are evaluated through mine visits by Miscellaneous Identification of environmental impacts of resources development Miscellaneous New renewable energy use and investment 환경경영 시스템 standing/non-standing directors and regular business reporting. Through the Sustainability Mgt. Subcommittee within the board of directors, various issues related to the environment are reviewed. 쪾내부 환경경영 성과 평가 Main items on the agenda are deliberated on and checked by the board. We at KORES will do our very best to substantiate environmental Mgt. 쪾정부경영평가 I 56 I Act Check 쪾국제인증제도 및 가이드라인 I 57 I New renewable energy use and investment 쪾이해관계자 커뮤니케이션 Establishment of an Promotion of resource 쪾전략방향 수정 및 개선 Compliance 개선 with international 평가system and certification ISO1 4001 IFC EHS Guideline guidelines Berlin Guideline environmental Mgt. system conservation and recycling Environmental Mgt. system establishment Workplaces abroad comply with the IFC EHS Guidelines and Equator Principles and carry out Water resources protection Efficient use of energy Identification of environmental Environmental environmental Mgt. In 2008, the Xian Maxun rare-earth metals project in China acquired ISO 14001 following mine development restoration impacts of resources development certification. KORES will strive to promote environmental international certification acquisition for each workplace. Environmental management direction Securing eco-resources development technologies The productivity of resources-related companies is constantly improving through technological development including resources development and highly sophisticated sorting technology. In Establishment of eco-resources development system enhancing social perception on the environment, the adoption of a eco-resources development KORES builds an environment-friendly green mine base through mine environmental technology method has become an essential factor. KORES makes plans to develop and acquire technologies support. We assist in mine industry competitiveness consolidation based on mine environment by sector, aiming at securing technological prowess that is on par with that of major mine companies consulting, commercialization of KORES’s patented technologies, support for environmental and independence with regard to core technologies. Through this, we wish to create value-added technology in direct investment projects, and research on environmental risks. Through all this, we and secure industrial competitiveness, not to mention the base for sustainable resources seek to establish an eco-resources development system in Korea’s mining industry. development environment. Mine environment consulting Commercialization of KORES’s 쪾Monitoring of water and soil pollution patented mine technologies 쪾Technology support for working 쪾Supply of wet dust removal device Securing eco-resources development technology (2020) environment improvement within the 쪾inthe mining area within the tunnel 쪾Independence of core technologies 쪾Acquiring factor technology at the level of major mine companies’ technology tunnel Plan to expand supply, after-effects analysis Eco-mine development and Prevention of workers’ customer satisfaction occupational diseases and mine enhancement productivity improvement Environment -friendly green mine Technological support for Research to cope with environmental risks Consolidate Enhance Develop ore direct investment business Enhance Strengthen and mine environment 쪾Classification and arrangement of resources exploration feasibility study development and dressing, smelting, 쪾Technological support for direct 쪾environmental hazard factors Analysis of resources development information analysis competence technology capability environmental and processing investment business and mine policies of advanced countries in the technologies technologies environment mining industry Enhancement of investment Specification of environmental Mgt. success rate via environmental risk SOP and criteria analysis Establishment of system to cope with climate change for greenhouse Results of 2010 environmental management tasks implementation gas emission reduction in domestic mines KORES assists in Korean mines’ greenhouse inventory establishment to lay the foundation for Tasks Detailed tasks Duration (Y/M/D) Dept. in charge sustainable growth development and contribute to check climate change and tries to realize a 493, 쪾Increase in eco-efficiency General 쪾Review of means to build eco-buildings 광산환경 컨설팅 컨설팅 수행 수행 공사 특허기술 특허기술 광산 광산 실용화 실용화 Global environmental Mgt. 2010.01 ~ 2012.12 000 tCO2eq reduction through inventory establishment. Most greenhouse gas emissions from the 광산환경 공사 Affairs Team 친환경 쪾 자원개발 기술 확보 년 mine industry are attributed to fixed combustion using fuels for kiln, and those by process in the 쪾수질·토양오염 쪾수질·토양오염 , 분진 , 분진 등등 모니터링 모니터링rocks (limestone, dolomite). When쪾갱내 쪾갱내 채광장 습식제진장치 채광장 습식제진장치 현장 fuel from현장 보급 to 보급 Total energy (2020 Establishment of total energy consumption target ) General plasticity 쪾갱내 process of 작업환경개선 carbonate 기술지원 replacing 쪾효과분석 후 보급 확대 계획 anthracite 쪾 2010.01 ~ 2010.12 쪾핵심기술 자립화 Affairs Team LPG, 쪾갱내 about작업환경개선 기술지원 쪾효과분석 후 보급직업병확대 예방계획 consumption target Enterprise energy savings 광산개발 친환경 광산개발 43% reduction 및 in greenhouse gas emissions is realized in 근로자 the fixed 및 combustion sector. 친환경 고객만족도 제고 Moreover, about 고객만족도 22% 제고 및 reduction in CO 친환경 emissions can be realized 근로자 광업생산성 향상 through 광업생산성 직업병 향상예방 the 및 development of 쪾쪾광업 수준 요소기술 메이저of biodiversity 확보 친환경 2 Implementation for balanced environment and ecological environment protection 쪾Devising measures to recycle large-scale construction waste and waste materials within the plant 녹색광산 Ambatovy capture technology for the CO2 discharged from the quicklime plasticity process. KORES develops Eco-construction within the 쪾Control of weak ground in the construction area 녹색광산 All-year round Business 쪾River and water supply management Ambatovy project 직접투자사업 광산환경 광산환경 the capture technology through fund loan support and assistance and induces facility replacement Team 직접투자사업 기술지원 환경리스크 대응을 대응을 위한 환경리스크 연구 위한 연구 such as kilns. Since Korea’s mines are mostly small, however, it is difficult to develop the CO2 기술지원 capture technology in reality. Thus, we try to support them by implementing the CDM(Clean 쪾환경위해gas 발생요소 정리 분류 및및 정리 자원정보 쪾Making the mining, 제고 value-added development 탐사기술 friendly Feasibility 개발 . 환경기술 crushing, breaking, transporting, 선광Mgt.. 제련 and smelting facilities within . tunnel ecothe mine Support 쪾환경 위해인자 쪾환경 Development 쪾민원대응을 위해인자 위한 검토 및및 유해성 검토 Mechanism) 환경 배경값 분석 We estimated the greenhouse 유해성project. 분석 확보 쪾환경위해 쪾광업선진국의 쪾광업선진국의 발생요소 자원개발분류 관련 정책 emissions 자원개발 관련 정책 분석 an through 분석 분석역량강화 Eco-mine 쪾Supporting Study 역량 강화 제고 improvement facilities for Korea’s mining 가공 기술개발 industry improvement 2010.01 ~ 2010.12 Planning Team KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 쪾민원대응을 examination of 위한 환경리스크the 환경 배경값 분석을in통한 통한 facilities at확보 each mine in 2009, secured CO2 capture 환경관리 및 technology, and reviewed whether to환경리스크 투자성공률 투자성공률 제고 2010. We plan to install a CO2 capture pilot환경관리 분석을 replace kilns 제고 기준plant 기준 구체화 구체화 및 After that, we by 2012. Establishment of a system to 쪾Nurturing specialized personnel to cope with climate change 쪾Establishment of a pilot plan for CO2 capture facility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 2010.01 ~ 2010.12 Development & Environment intend to increase the plant one by one each year. After acquiring the CO2 capture and storage cope with climate change 쪾Establishment of a greenhouse gas emission inventory Team technology as a national policy task, we are scheduled to implement the CDM project in full swing. 쪾Drawing up, presentation, and approval of environment Mgt, reports UNLIMITED EARTH Shaping the eco-exploration Exploration [ System chart of mine support through the CDM project ] base for the Zambia project 쪾Launch of broad area exploration 2010.02 ~ 2010.12 Team 1 Repayment of Sale of emission right, Shaping the eco-exploration 쪾Radioactive impacts analysis at Geumsan Mine Exploration emission right (KORES) KORES secure funds (KORES) base for the Zambia project 쪾Shaping the eco-mine development base through uranium properties research 2009.06 ~ 2013.12 Team 1 owns the I 58 I Sale of emission Facility replacement emission right Drawing up guidelines for 쪾Devising rock sample extraction criteria following an outdoor geological survey I 59 I right, secure and capture eco-rock sample extraction 쪾Drawing up eco-rock sample extraction standard guidelines 2010.03 ~ 2010.12 Exploration funds (KORES) facilities (other mines) KORES’s standard 쪾PR and internal education/training Team 3 CDM project 쪾Development of D3Q eco-exploration method and technology HR Development of D3Q method 쪾Effort to remove environmental pollution sources at exploration site 2010.01 ~ 2010.12 Development KORES owns Replacement Mine fund and site application 쪾Offering of technical data related to exploration and construction Center the emission capture facility support right (mine) Repayment of emission right (mine) Eco-Technology Development Technology development roadmap R&D Organizations Status of R&D personnel Unit: people Technology development direction KORES’s Technology Research Institute consists of the Technology Mgt. Team, Technology With the advent of environmental problems including climate change along with productivity Development Team, and Mineral Analysis Team and supervises all R&D projects. KORES had 32 increases thanks to technological development, the direction of technology development related to R&D personnel as of the end of 2010. resources focuses on modernizing outdated equipment for productivity improvement, increasing value-added and securing industrial competitiveness through factory technology development, and Technology shaping the sustainable resources development environment. For global competitiveness Research Institute Director consolidation by securing technological prowess that is on par with the world mining industry's major players, KORES establishes and implements midand long-term plans to bolster technology development and research capabilities until 2020. Technology Technology Mgt. Team Mineral Analysis Team The company devises measures to secure core technologies through an R&D roadmap and master Development Team plan establishment and plans and accomplishes all cycle technology development tasks for the first 쪾Technology planning including 쪾including All-cycle technology development 쪾Tests, survey, and research time in the Knowledge Economy Ministry’s resources development R&D. Based on midand longresources development exploration, evelopment, and technology support on R&D investment amount ore dressing, smelting, use, and technology and roadmap mineral analyses 쪾 쪾 쪾 term technology development plans, we plan to look for and carry out new R&D tasks continuously mine environment Unit: KRW million R&D planning and research New growth engine technology Appraisal, physical tests, and to acquire future growth engine technologies. Mgt. development and resources survey and research of 쪾 State research project 쪾 recycling Tests for utilization of ore minerals supervision and implementation dressing and material minerals Objectives of mid-and long-term technology development KORES induces production cost savings through the application of new technologies and largescale resources development and treatment technologies and adopts eco-resources development methods. This way, KORES enhances the social perception of environment and mine-related stakeholders R&D investment and aims at economic efficiency and environment-friendliness. We have set the following five major KORES earmarked KRW 8.7 billion or about 21% more compared to the previous year for technology 34 technology development fields: consolidation of resources information analysis capability, enhancement development investment; this accounts for about 5.2% of total sales. With a sales increase expected 32 32 of exploration technology, F/S capability reinforcement, development/ environment technology enhancement, following business expansion and acceleration of technology development, we plan to increase and ore dressing/smelting/processing technology development. We actually carry out R&D by identifying investment to KRW 10 billion in 2011. detailed tasks in each field. [ Tasks to implement by technology field ] 기술연구소 소장 Master of ore dressing, Kim Sun-soo, 2008 2009 2010 Field Benefits Tasks Deputy Division Manager of Research & Development Team 쪾Collection/analysis of resources technology information and 기술관리팀 기술개발팀 technology for eco-metal광물분석팀 Consolidation of resources Kim Sun-soo, deputy division manager of the Research & Development Team of KORES, developed a Resources information analysis information collection/analysis and adoption of a forecasting 쪾service offering-Differentiated information offering based on collection that can apply to the copper/zinc compound ore containing arsenic customer needs through the improvement of the ore dressing process at the Rapu-Rapu Copper Mine in the Philippines 쪾자원개발기술, 로드맵 수립 쪾탐사, 개발, 선광in, 제련, 활용, 2010, 쪾광물분석에 대한 시험, function 쪾Development of fusion exploration technology for uranium 등 기술기획 광산환경 등 자원개발 전주기 October 조사연구, 기술지원 and the corresponding patent was acquired. Ore dressing seeks to enhance the Exploration Enhancing the exploration success rate by securing core 쪾Development of exploration technology of tactite/porphyry deposits 쪾연구개발 계획 수립 및 기술 개발 34 쪾광물에 대한 감정 , 물리시험, value of an ore by separating the useful ingredients having economic values and other non-useful 8,676 technology technologies of resources 쪾Development of exploration technology on broad area-based 연구관리 쪾신성장 동력 기술개발 및 ingredients using the조사 연구 physical and chemical properties of the mined ore. Deputy division manager Kim 쪾국채연구과제 총괄 및 32 자원 재활용 is an expert in32 ore dressing with 28 years’ experience. Through the process improvement, the copper exploration scare metals 7,188 정책과제 수행 쪾선광, 소재광물 활용을 collection rate at the Rapu-Rapu Mine rose from 40% to 75%. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 쪾Organizing and operating the F/S strategy steam 위한 시험 6,387 쪾F/S competence consolidation Consolidating business F/S capabilities performance evaluation Technology patent that realized both environmental protection and profit through F/Sconsolidation In the Rapu-Rapu Copper Mine, it is important to make sure that zinc is not extracted along with Deputy division manager Kim Sun-soo copper, since there is more zinc than copper in the ore. The method of reducing arsenic content is also Inducing sustainable resources 쪾Research on measures to cope with environmental and social 2008 crucial because it is high in copper concentrate. When arsenic content is 0.2% or more in the copper concentrate, a2010 2009 penalty is imposed per 0.1%; in fact, some countries 2008 2009 prohibit imports 2010 when the arsenic risks following mine development/investment UNLIMITED EARTH 쪾Development of optimal design technique for tactite/porphyry development through eco-mine Development/ development content is over 0.5%. Although, arsenic content rose to 1.3% in the Rapu-Rapu Mine, arsenic content Environment deposits and eco-resources development technology technology 쪾Development of non-metal greenhouse gas emissions technology finally went down to 0.3% as the collection rate increased by applying the technology, which is an eco쪾Development of technology for environment-friendly treatment of technology. Generally, a restricted chemical called NaCN, a toxic chemical, is used to control zinc. When NaCN is drainage water of mines dissolved in wastewater and discharged, an environmental problem may arise. Therefore, the I 60 I Enhancing the business 쪾Development of physical and chemical uranium ore dressing permission procedure is complicated in the case of importing copper; the purification process and use control are also difficult. This innovative technology uses a NaCN substitute that reduces concerns of I 61 I technology 쪾Development of compound metal (lead, zinc, copper) ore success rate through mine Ore dressing/smelting/ development and F/S environmental pollution. KORES expects this technology to bring about cost savings and eco-mine processing technology technology support dressing technology-Development of carbonated lithium operation effects with low-cost reagent use and omission of post-treatment process, along with a sales manufacturing technology Rapu-Rapu Mine 쪾 Development of value-added improving technology for scarce increase through high-quality concentrate production. This technology’s patent was registered in Korea in October 2010, and patent application is pending in the Philippines. metals and non-metals R&D achievements Securing intellectual property rights KORES applied for 4 patents and registered 5 patents in 2010; thus acquiring a total of 9 intellectual property rights and realizing twice the achievements in this aspect. In particular, the rare-earth Successful core technology development for securing lithium resourcesin Bolivia, a country with the world s̄ largest lithium reserves ¯ metals technology acquired in China is the first intellectual property right acquired abroad. 2009. 2010.Succeeded in technology 2011. Shaping base to secure lithium development Commercialization 쪾MOU signed among KORES-Bolivian 쪾Brought Uyunisalt water sample into Korea 쪾Invited the Bolivian head in charge of COMIBOL and Science committee 쪾Organized and launched alithium carbonate lithium to visit Korea Patent registrations and applications Category Names of invented technologies 쪾Bolivian Science Committee approved comanufacturing technology development group 쪾Successful in developing a lithium carbonate 쪾Organized TFT to operate the lithium Unit: case 쪾Red fluorescent particles manufacturing method of oldresearch participation 쪾Secured 15,00L of Uyuni salt water sample manufacturing process battery business 쪾Sent research personnel to Bolivia 125% increase 쪾Manufacturing method of old-type cobalt metal powder type, rare-earth metals 쪾Held a presentation of the technology Patent registration 쪾Manufacturing method of old-type, high-purity nickel development results in Bolivia 쪾Eco-copper concentrate sorting and collecting method metal powder (5 cases) 쪾Wet dust removal device of mining area within mine Competition to secure lithium tunnel Lithium is a core material for the batteries used for next-generation electric cars. Although a 쪾High-purity lithium carbonate manufacturing method Lithium carbonate Patent 쪾High-purity lithium carbonate manufacturing method relatively smaller amount -0.4~0.5gwas used for IT products such as mobile phones and laptop 쪾Eco-copper concentrate sorting and selecting method application with improved collection rate computers, there was no big problem in demand and supply worldwide. Note, however, that a (4 cases) 쪾Briquette manufacturing method using mine drainage maximum of 4,300g of lithium is used per electric car, which is equivalent to 10,000 times the 년 phone. Therefore, the electric2010 car s 년 ’ commercialization is expected to 2011년 sludge amount used 2009 translate 확보기반 조성 for a mobile 기술개발 성공 사업화 추진 Bagging new national R&D projects 쪾공사-into explosive 볼리비아 demand for lithium COMIBOL, 쪾우유니 염수 샘플 국내 반입 쪾볼리비아 리튬 총 책임자 방한 초청 과학위원회 간 MOU체결 쪾탄산리튬제조 기술개발사업단 구성 쪾리튬배터리 사업추진을 위한 KORES participated in national R&D projects for future growth engine technology development and 쪾볼리비아 과학위원회 공동연구 및 출범 TFT 구성 Bolivia: 쪾탄산리튬 참여 승인country with the world’s 제조공정 largest 개발 성공 쪾현지 연구인력 파견 쪾우유니 염수 샘플 확보 쪾볼리비아 15,000L 기술개발결과reserves 현지lithium bagged three new projects in 2010. By organizing the implementing organizations industry발표회 개최 Bolivia’s lithium reserves account for about half of those in the world, but the country doesn’t have academe-research joint cluster by project and the technology development business group, we its own technology to extract lithium. Thus, Bolivia requested the development of optimal lithium carry out joint research with Korea’s leading research institutions. extraction technology using its own salt water to countries with advanced technologies. Bolivia [ 2009 3 R&D1projects won in 2010 by KORES ] Major national promised to award the preferential right as lithium development partner to the country providing Uranium convergence exploration and Development of sorting/smelting technology for the most excellent technology development result. As such, there was fierce technology Development process specifics Project physical/chemical ore dressing/smelting lithium carbonate manufacturing from lithiumcompetition among many countries including Japan, France, and China. 2010 4 5 technology development bearing mineral resources Category Basic process Development 쪾Ministry of Knowledge Economy 쪾Ministry of Knowledge Economy process Client 쪾Korea Energy Patent application Technology Assessment 쪾Korea Energy Technology Assessment Institute Successful lithium carbonate manufacturing process development Targeted salt Atacama, Uyuni, Institute Patent registration water Chille Bolivia Project duration 쪾Jun. 2010 ~ May 2013 (3 years) 쪾Jun. 2010 ~ May 201 (3 years) Korea signed an MOU for joint technology development with Bolivia in August 2009 and Lithium ≥ 80% 쪾KRW 8.280 billion 쪾KRW 1.881 billion implemented research cooperation at the national level by organizing a technology development 25% recovery rate Project cost 쪾Consolidation of exploration business capability 쪾Localization of lithium carbonate manufacturing business group with only the relevant research institutions (RIST and KIGAM) in Korea. As a result, Purity of lithium ≥ 99% ≥ 99% 쪾in advance technology advantage in black shaletechnology and industrialization Korea succeeded in developing a lithium carbonate manufacturing process (3 processes of KB 1, carbonate Benefit type uranium development with the largest 쪾Securing future demand technology via lithium 2, and 3) within one year of signing of the MOU. Bolivia’s salt water poses disadvantageous Extraction period 2~3 years About one year reserves in the world extraction from lithium-bearing ore conditions in lithium extraction compared to other salt water, and there were difficulties in developing the technology suitable for the salt features in Bolivia. The KB 1, 2, and 3 processes KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 were developed as forced evaporation, absorbent application, and no-evaporation mode, thereby Acquired intellectual property rights abroad for the first time Bolivian President's visit solving the problem of prolonged lithium extraction period due to Bolivian salt water’s low Rare-earth metals technology developed, patent registered in China, evaporation rate. Bolivian salt water has lots of impurities and a low collection rate; hence the low home to such technologies purity of lithium carbonate. Korea improved economic efficiency through a method of removing KORES acquired a patent in China for the rare-earth metals processing technology dubbed ' Method for the impurities such as magnesium and subsequently making the salt water a resource. The result was preparation of spherical rare earth red phosphor particles by droplet-to-particle conversion' in June 2010. Rare-earth UNLIMITED EARTH assessed as the best technology in the presentation held in Bolivia for the Bolivian government and metals are used for permanent magnets, fluorescent material, catalyst for electric cars and wind power generation, and metal industry and abradants. China is a rare-earth metals powerhouse, accounting for 96.8% of the world lithium experts. As such, Korea’s technological excellence was proven. Korea actually gained output. The technology developed by KORES is a new technology that turns the main raw material -rare-earth comparative advantage in the technology competition with many countries in the world. mineralinto a fine particle and circular powder type. The technology can be applied to displays such as plasma display panel (PDP) for wall mounting. Although we registered the patent in Korea in 2007, we acquired the patent Commercialization I 62 I in China within five years of filing a patent application. The fluorescent substance made by the existing method has I 63 I ㎛ bigger particles sized 3~6 as well as a problem of decreased product quality in terms of light source with regular Following the good assessment on the technology, an MOU for lithium industrialization was signed between KORES and COMIBOL in August 2010. A special delegation including width, or luminance extent, i.e., brightness of reflected substance’s surface or uniformity of light. Note, however, that the new technology of KORES can freely control the shape or size of particles measuring less than 1 ; luminance ㎛ companies related to lithium batteries visited Bolivia in July 2011 and entered into an MOU to and other features also improved. Moreover, its process is simple, and universal usability can be an advantage. The operate the lithium battery business. Through this, Bolivia officially acknowledged Korea as the fact that China -which dominates the rare-earth metal marketgave the relevant patent to a foreign company is truly strategic partner for the Bolivian lithium business. We plan to organize mutual TFT for the lithium meaningful, acknowledging the excellence of the technology. battery business, establish a joint venture, and operate the lithium business. *Background photo: View of the Salt Desert of Uyuni in Bolivia Responsibile Resources Development Mine development process Exploration Environmental impacts review A general environmental impact assessment procedure for mine development is carried out in the order of environmental impacts review (pre-review) and environmental impacts assessment. KORES analyzes in advance possible environmental impacts of exploration and establishes countermeasures. This way, we put environmental Mgt into practice. Concerning the Mukumbi project in Zambia, we analyzed the possible social, economic, and environmental impacts due to exploration along with damage to forests caused by exploration equipment and soil and water quality Exploration Development pollution due to fuel leakage and presented countermeasures to the Zambia government. As a result, we obtained approval for the environmental Mgt., report required for exploration in July 2010. Coastal belt project in Peru Ambatobi project in Madagascar Restoration Production Environmental impacts assessment Resources development begins with exploration to find resources buried underground. KORES carries out an assessment of future environmental impacts due to mine development along with economically valuable mineral exploration in the exploration stage. We carefully review the things that can affect the environment and seek methods to prevent or minimize them. Toward this end, we manage the environment beyond the legal regulations by applying mine industry-and environmentrelated international initiatives including ICMM, Berlin Guidelines, and World Bank Guidelines. After finishing the comprehensive environmental impacts review, we carry out resources development in the direction of minimizing environmental impacts. Ambatobi project in Madagascar Zhangjiagang project in China In the case of the Marcona Copper project in Peru, we carried out various environmental impacts analyses according to mine development including the main environmental factors of four seasons over 3 years from 2007 and obtained environmental impacts approval in September 2010. We are 쪾Acquisition of project information and collection of data Exploration 쪾After acquiring the exploration right, broad area exploration is carried out to identify roughly 탐사 쪾프로젝트 정보 입수 및 데이터 수집 currently preparing for development. 쪾탐사권을 취득한 후 지질구조 및 부존여건 등을 대략적으로 파악하는 Concerning the Warilla 2 project to develop bituminous coal in Wyong, Australia, ground subsidence the geological structure and reserves conditions (estimation of reserves). 쪾Precise exploration is carried out focusing on probe exploration to find out core exploration 국내 개 광역탐사 실시 매장량 추산 was cited as a major issue as a result of the environmental ( ) impacts assessment.Thus, the area was Domestic: 1 excluded from the :mine 해외 개 쪾구멍을 뚫어 암추를 확인하는 탐광시추를 중점으로 정밀탐사 실시 1 development region; we then devised a measure to change the mine 쪾사전 경제성 분석을 통한 개략적인 타당성 조사 실시 Overseas: 12 by making holes. : 12 쪾A rough feasibility study is carried out via prior economic efficiency analysis. design. Considering the community’s concerns over the depletion of underground water and pollution, we established mine water recycling and comprehensive water treatment measures and had them verified through a specialized agency. In addition, we planned the continuous monitoring Development 쪾Drilling and foundation probe in the project site 쪾Feasibility study reflecting the drilling result, estimated price, means to procure funds 개발 쪾사업 대상지역의 시추 및 지반조사 실시 of noise and flying dust caused by mine tunnel development and completed an environmental 쪾시추결과 견적가 자금조달 방안 등이 반영된 최종 타당성 조사 실시 impacts assessment through community ,hearings. , We applied for environmental impacts approval to 쪾Acquisition of various permits including an environmental impact assessment 국내 개 쪾환경영향평가 등 제반허가 취득 the Australian government in 2010 to acquire the development right. :1 쪾Plan confirmation including production, sales, funding, and remittance of investment money 해외 개 쪾생산 판매 자금 등 계획 확정 및 투자비 송금 Domestic: 1 : 11 , , 쪾채광장assessment] 및 부대시설의 건설 및 장비 구매 설치 Overseas: 11 쪾Installation and purchase of mining area and auxiliary facilities [Process of environmental impacts KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Environmental impacts assessment Production 쪾By mining the mineral, secure economic efficiency of the final outcome . 쪾Execute optimal size of performance suitable for the project feasibility study results. 쪾Weather 생산 Natural environment 쪾목적하는 광물을 채굴하여 최종산물이 경제성을 Land use 쪾Air quality 쪾사업 쪾쪾타당성조사 Living environment 결과에 맞는 최적규모의 Social갖는 가행을 and상품이 시행 되도록 작업하는 단계 economic 쪾Population쪾residence environment 쪾Topography, Water quality 쪾 Soil 쪾Waste 쪾After crushing and separating the mined ore, make the concentrate by collecting effective 쪾Fauna국내 4개 :geology 쪾채굴된쪾원광석은 파쇄하여 분리 후 유용성분을 Noise쪾vibration 모아 정광을 만듦 쪾Transportation UNLIMITED EARTH 북한 : 1개 Domestic: 4 쪾정광을쪾그대로 , 제련 등 가공을쪾거쳐 쪾landscape and flora North Korea:1 Overseas: 10 ingredients. 쪾Sell the concentrate itself or by raising value-added through processing including smelting. 해외 : 10개 판매하거나 Entertainment 부가가치를 높여 판매 Cultural assets 쪾After closing a mine, restore it to the nearly natural-environment state prior to mine Draw up measures to reduce I 64 I Restoration development. 쪾In resources development, mine closure and restoration are recently emerging as an 복원 쪾폐광 이후, 광산개발 이전의 자연환경에 impacts on the environment Select alternatives and쪾최근 가깝도록 복구하는 단계 자원개발 단계에서 폐광과 복구가 중요한 요소로 부각되고 있으며, 자금 조달 및 assess Establish a follow-up environmental impacts examination plan I 65 I Overseas: 1 important factor. The presentation of a restoration plan is essential for fund procurement 해외 : 1개 정부 승인을 위해서도 복원 계획 제출이 필수적임 and government approval. 쪾복구 자금 및 형식등에 대한 구체적인 계획이 사전에 수립되어야 함 쪾 A specific plan for the restoration fund and type should be established in advance. Review comprehensively and select an optimal proposal Development Production Biodiversity protection Development and application of eco-production technologies Eco-resources development affects development approval, permission, and fund procurement In the exploration, development, and production stages of resources development, various together with climate change and has a direct influence on national resources competitiveness. In equipment and technologies are used, and lots of energy is consumed in the drilling, tunnel digging, this context, efforts for eco-resources development can be a global trend. KORES recognizes and smelting processes. Therefore, using highly efficient equipment and technologies is an biodiversity as a core factor in coping with climate change, securing sustainable mineral resources, important activity in coping with climate change and from the cost aspect. improving the quality of life for mankind, and realizing a green economy. We apply strict criteria to Of the copper concentrates produced in the Rapu-Rapu Copper Mine in the Philippines funded and preserve biodiversity around mines. operated by KORES, the quality of copper concentrates declined due to the large amount of arsenic. We scientifically analyze the impacts on the surrounding ecosystem of mine development sites from Therefore, a toxic material, NaCN, was used to solve the problem but posed a serious environmental the planning stage, preserve biodiversity as much as possible, and apply the design and pollution risk. To solve the problem, KORES’s technology Research Institute came up with an construction method that minimizes topographic change and vegetation damages. Among various effective control method for arsenic in the copper concentrate. KORES used SMBS instead of the alternatives, we carry out an environmental impacts examination prior to the development launch so environmentally regulated material, NaCN, and effectively addressed concerns of environmental that we can select an environmentally sound, sustainable alternative. After the launch, we carry out pollution in the process. As a result, the mine was selected as an outstanding mine in environmental thorough management to monitor the surrounding region’s ecosystem change through a follow-up Mgt by the Philippine government. KORES pursues continuous growth through technology environmental impacts investigation. development and application suitable for the project’s characteristics with the environment as In the case of KORES’s head office and domestic branch offices, there have been no regions where priority. We are doing our very best to enhance business Mgt. efficiency as well as the economic environmental problems related to biodiversity occurred. Concerning overseas projects, we make efficiency of projects. various efforts for habitat preservation and migration in project areas that may affect biodiversity. Discharged materials control KORES supports the control of discharged materials through environmental consulting on domestic mines and simultaneously develops the relevant technologies. ㅣ Greenhouse gas and air pollutants KORES supports the greenhouse gas inventory Biodiversity protection activities in the Ambatovy establishment by Korean mines to reduce GHG emissions in the mine industry and minimize in advance any shock following Korea’s designation as a country for green growth base establishment Nickel project site in Madagascar and mandatory GHG emissions reduction. We plan to implement jointly the CDM project together KORES is participating in the global Ambatovy nickel mine development project in Madagascar, Africa by organizing a consortium with Korean with mines and create a new source of income to build a sustainable, eco-mine development base. companies. Madagascar is an island country located in the East of Africa, and 3/4 of the animals and plants of some 200,000 species living in the area Since 2009, KORES has been examining the facilities of each mine workplace and estimating the are scarce species that cannot be found in other areas. Madagascar is regarded as a haven for animals and plants. emission to build an inventory. Based on this, we expect 493,000 tCO2eq reduction in Korean mines’ The project area is a place where many protected animals and plants species live. To protect such an ecosystem, we have devised a plan to preserve ㅣ GHG emissions through GHG emissions reduction projects. biodiversity at the project site for execution. At the site, we manage species by dividing them into CR (critically endangered), EN (endangered), and Mine waste KORES carries out R&D to prevent environmental pollution due to mine waste, such VU (vulnerable) according to the bio species control grade designated by the IUCN (International Union for the Conservation of Nature). SOCs (species of concern: native species) are also protected by being designated as separate control objects. As of April 2011, the protected bio species as waste stone generated during mine development and ore remnants generated in the ore dressing include 327 animal species and 261 plant species. At least 4 species are CR, 8 species are EN, and 2 species are VU, and they are controlled and smelting processes. In 2010, we carried out research tasks by identifying the physical and according to the IUCN grade. SOCs include 191 species. Among mammals, 16 species of lemur monkeys endemic to Madagascar are included. Of chemical characteristics of mine drainage water, ore dressing wastewater, and anore sludge and the fish species, five are very important in terms of evolution; the remaining 4 species are native fishes. Among the plants, 82 species of orchids are heavy metal response mechanism to enhance heavy metal processing technological prowess. In included, with 12 species are classified as SOC. addition, we developed the technology of recycling the sludge generated following the mine’s acidic drainage processing mixed with coal as an auxiliary raw material of briquette. KORES also KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 IUCN Total implements projects to purify soil polluted by heavy metal in line with technological development. We Category SOC controlled CR EN VU species have been carrying out soil and underground pollution treatment such as Jinhae Naval Base for 17 ㅣ Mammal 2 3 2 49 months since June 2010 and Taereung shooting range for 34 months since January 2010. Bird 4 117 Water for mine KORES regularly measures the mine’s water quality so that water pollution may Animals UNLIMITED EARTH Reptile 1 66 not arise from polluted water flowing from the mine tunnel and to prevent water pollution due to foul Amphibian 1 1 86 water and wastewater from the ore dressing area. We also support wastewater treatment and Fish 9 technology. In Springvale and Angus Place, Australia, the leachate within the mine tunnel is used as Plants 191 261 cooling water for an adjacent thermal power plant. Through this, not only water quality improvement Total 4 8 2 191 588 but also treatment cost saving effect is realized. In particular, 5.6 billion liters of water was recycled in I 66 I 2010. I 67 I * CR: Critically Endangered * EN: Endangered * VU: Vulnerable * SOC: Species Of Concern Restoration Closed mine management When a mine, whose development was suspended owing to uneconomical reserves or economic inefficiency is neglected, environmental problems such as soil pollution, water pollution, and Environmental damage (mine damage) caused by mine development ecosystem destruction may occur. KORES carried out investigations to identify potential Generally, mine damage involves damaging nature and people due to ground subsidence, polluted environmental impacts targeting suspended or closed mines; at the same time, it develops water discharge, waste oil outflow, flying dust, noise and vibration caused by land drilling (boring), technologies related to environment restoration. destruction and crushing of rocks, transportation, and ore dressing in the process of mine development. The extent of mine damages differs depending on the mine development type and Closed mine redevelopment extent, kinds of ores and geographical environment, and industry surrounding the mine in question. As part of enhancing the domestic self-sufficiency rate, we promote the redevelopment of closed Mine damage occurs persistently and on a long-term basis. Unless actions on the environment are mines through our exploration of those closed metal mines in Korea. In 2010, KORES carried out a taken in a timely manner, chronic damage occurs in the natural and artificial environment in the area redevelopment review and implemented business involving Gagok and Hwagok mines (lead and zinc) concerned. KORES strives to minimize the impacts on the environment at all stages of mine and Pocheon mine and Yangyang (iron). We plan to redevelop 22 mines through the exploration of development. 59 mines involving 10 kinds of minerals by 2020. [Causes and phases of mine damages] Cate Mine activities Mine damage causes Mine damage phases gory Open air Forest and land damage Damage to natural landscape, landslide Development Case of the Yangyang Iron Ore Mine development Waste stone carried away, noise, Soil pollution, depletion of underground water, marsh 쪾Stable supply of mineral resources for industrial raw material in Korea through metal mine redevelopment (exploration of 50 mines with Damage taking Place Mining vibration formation, deterioration of the residential environment (noise) 10 kinds of minerals by 2020, with 22 mines for redevelopment) Outflow of acidic tunnel water (including Water pollution, damage to crops, destruction of river Background Domestic demand volume : 45,835 thousand tons. Domestic output : 576 thousand tons (import dependence rate: 99%) Drift drilling floating matter, heavy metal), ground ecosystems, soil pollution, damage to structures Imports from Australia and Brazil are pegged at 39,037 tons, accounting for 93% of total imports during work 쪾Induce metal mine redevelopment through joint projects between private and public companies via closed mine reassessment subsidence and crack including buildings, railways, roads, etc. Ore dressing Ore remnants carried away Ore Water quality deterioration, soil pollution (heavy metal) remnants carried away Flying and scattering dust, noise Air and water pollution, deterioration of the residential 쪾Play the role of consortium window Transport environment KORES 쪾Offer exploration and development technology and know-how Underground backfill Ground subsidence, depletion of water for agriculture, System Yangyang 쪾Seek to penetrate new business in resources development field Damages after (common to underground) marsh formation, destruction of structures including roads Iron Mine Korea Electric Power Development 쪾Financial resources procurement, technological prowess accumulation mine closure Tunnel water, ore remnants, leachate Water and soil pollution, Flooding around mines Daehan Iron Mine 쪾Owns Yangyang Mine mining right 쪾Secured clients Neglect of mine facilities Damage to natural landscape and aesthetics of the city 쪾Direct exploration for the first year Identify low-quality ores and recommend drill Established joint venture to confirm new ore dye extended section Established an economic (stake: 15%) 쪾 Research on the properties of deposits efficiency assessment ⑤ Identify IOA-type deposit properties and master plan in Dec. 2010 Signed exploration History contract in Oct. 2010 Case of mine damage prevention at Sanmak Mine Signed MOU in Jun. 2010 Developed from the late 1970s to the late 1980s, Sanmak Mine (gold, silver, lead, zinc) in Bonghwa-gun, Gyeongbuk was closed and abandoned in (~2013) KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 the course of development. Tailings of more than 1,092 tons were carried away to the river and ore dressing site; hence the resulting mine damage. Closed in in Feb. 2010 The Development & Environment Team of KORES carried out mine damage prevention activities for the 14,413m2 tailings yard and 15,717m2 ore dressing area around Galsan-ri, Jaesan-myeon, Bonghwa-gun. We successfully completed the mine damage prevention service, such as in 1995 prevention of soil pollution and activities to improve water quality by carrying out the following: interruption of the tailings yard, removal of ore dressing waste structures, closing of the waste tunnel through fence installation, planting of 5,620 shrub trees, road pavement, and maintenance, 쪾Activation of metal mine redevelopment projects (22 mines until 2020) slope supplementation through breast wall construction and underground and rain water pipe installation. 쪾Enhancement of domestic self-sufficiency rate for iron ore : 1.0% (576 thousand tons in 2009) æ 1.7% (769 thousand tons) UNLIMITED EARTH 쪾Local economy activation and new job creation (about 106 people from the third year at the production stage) Effects Before construction After construction After completion I 68 I Follow-up environmental impacts examination I 69 I KORES investigates whether the established measures to reduce environmental pollution and environmental impacts on adjacent areas are implemented after mine closure as necessary. When unexpected environmental damage occurs, immediate measures need to be devised. This way, the review of the environmental status is carried out, and the installation of various environmental impacts-reducing facilities is systematically investigated including topography, geology, fauna and flora, air quality, water quality, soil, waste, and noise and vibration. Putting Green Growth into Practice Environmental Management Achievements Electricity consumption and target Unit: KWh Putting Green Growth into Practice Efficient resources use 2008 2009 2010 KORES set the annual energy use target for energy conservation and efficient use and devised the Objective 1,296,700 1,300,800 1,356,610 top 8 measures to eliminate energy waste factors and 10 major issues to put into practice by team; Direct energy consumption unit: toe Indirect energy consumption Water consumption Target 1,177,874 1,327,990 1,431,203 these are then carried out at the company level. To enhance energy efficiency, we carried out the unit: toe unit: m3 repair/maintenance of worn-out facilities and conducted internal PR and checking for improvement of employees awareness through turning off of PC monitors during lunch break, automatic turning off of office lights, and notice of electricity consumption on a day-to-day basis via the internal computerization network. A total of 431 multi-outlets within the head office and branch offices of KORES were replaced with artificial intelligent outlets; thus enabling automatic power saving. As a result, about 3.3% energy saving effect is expected annually compared to the target. With the adoption of the automatic lightsout system with a timer function due to the limitation of lights-out in offices during lunch breaksthrough our own Energy Keepers (individual persons in charge of electricity savings), we carry out actual energy conservation. We actually removed halogen lamps, which consume large amounts of power, and replaced those with the highly efficient, eco-lighting LED lamps. We plan to Kerosene City gas Gasoline concentrate on energy conservation by purchasing highly efficient energy equipment, complying with cooling and heating temperature criteria, and carrying out intensive control of many energyDirect energy consumption using kerosene, city gas, and gasoline at KORES’s head office in 2010 was 76.4toe, up 27.3% compared to the previous consuming facilities. year. We also used electricity of 307.6toe (1,431Mwh) or 7.8% more compared to the consumption in 2009. These increases can be attributed to the increase in hours of using heating and cooling equipment owing to expanded TFT work and technology research institute’s sample analyses along with Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions work during holidays and overnight work due to service work augmentation by Financial & Accounting TFT. Water use volume grew 8.3% to 11,626m3 compared to 2009 because of the continual increase in the number of employees. The water used flows out to the sewer treatment plant nearby for KORES has adopted a videoconference system to enhance job efficiency between workplaces and purification. We will strive to reduce water use persistently through internal PR and adoption of efficient equipment. to promote quick and precise decision making. By replacing part of the job consultation between the head office and workplaces including overseas workplaces with videoconferencing, we minimize direct/indirect expenses including business trip expenses and an operational vacuum. In line with the public agency energy use rationalization policy, we carry out a car operation suspension system Strict control of discharged materials according to a designated day to cut indirect energy related to our employees’ going to and coming from the office. Discharged volume of waste Discharged wastewater volume Greenhouse gas emissions unit : tCO2eq. Green product purchase ratio Green product purchase unit : ton unit : ton Unit: KRW million 126% increase The government certifies products reducing environmental pollution and minimizing the use of hazardous substances as green products. Thus, KORES purchases green products preferentially. In 2010, we spent KRW 434 million or 76.3% of the total green product purchase amount of KRW 568 million on green products for a 24.6% increase compared to the previous year. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Direct GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions Recycling of resources UNLIMITED EARTH 34.0 36.6 307.6 11,626 KORES did not simply dispose of disused equipment at the HR Development Institute but sold them 23.7 The waste volume discharged from KORES’s head office in 2010 was 71 tons, up 69% compared to 2009. The waste is discharged by a designated in division to recycling companies; thus earning KRW 125 million. In this manner, we are recycling 7,871of kerosene, city gas, and waste processing company. Wastewater was 106 tons up 12% compared to 2009. Direct GHG emissions from the use 253.0 70 I resources. 16.1 gasoline were 195.9tCO2eq., and indirect GHG emissions from electricity use were 606.5tCO2eq. Total GHE emissions stood at 802.4tCO2eq., up 11.5% 71 I I compared to 2009. KORES strives to reduce GHG emissions from energy consumption in addition to the reduction of energy costs through efficient I 11.1 replacement of vehicles for business with light vehicles and hybrid cars. energy use, highly efficient energy facility installation, and 8.5 34.0 36.6 307.6 11,626 23.7 253.0 7,871 16.1 11.1 8.5 Organization, Status of Paticipation in Association and Bodies, and Awards APPENDIX 쪾Organization Board of Directors President Secretariat Chief Auditor Audit Dept. PR Team 쪾 Organization, Status of Participation in Associations and Bodies, and Awards 쪾 Charter of Ethics Strategic Mgt. Division Resources Development Division Development Support Division 쪾 Sustainability Initiatives Strategy Mgt. Division Resources Development Division Support Business Dept. 쪾 UN Global Compact Planning & Budget Team Creativity Mgt. Team Business Planning Team Collaboration Business Team Support Planning Team South-North Korea Business Team 쪾 10 Principles of ICMM Performance Mgt. Team Storing Business Team Development & Environment Team 쪾 Third-Party Assurance Statement Financial Audit Team Corporate Mgt. Dept. Investment Business Dept. Financial Mgt. Team 쪾 GRI 3.1 Guidelines and ISO26000 Index General Affairs Team HR Team Strategic Business Team Energy Business Team ·Australia Office Exploration Business Team 쪾 Terminology Explanation Labor & Welfare Team Legal Affairs Team Mineral Business Team Scarce Metal Business Team ·China Office ·Canada Office ·South Africa Office Energy Exploration Team Strategic Metal Exploration Team ·Kazakhstani Office Scarce Metal Exploration Team ·Peru Office Financial Mgt. Team Investment Mgt. Dept. ·Mongolia Office Non-Metal Exploration Team ·Indonesia Office Africa Exploration Team ·Congo Office Fund Mgt. Team Asia and Africa Team Accounting & Tax Team Oceania Team ·Chile Office Technology Research Institute Risk Mgt. Team America Team Technology Mgt. Team Ambatovy Team Technology Development Team Mineral Analysis Team Business Evaluation Group Resources Information Center Taebaek Branch Office HR Development Institute As of the end of 2010 쪾Status of Participation in Associations and Bodies 쪾Awards KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Name Details of Activities Year Details Organized by Mining Association of Details of Activities 2005 Urban Rural Exchange of the Year Award Ministry of Labor Korea Korean Energy Good Company for New ManagementExchange of information and promotion of businesses 2006 Ministry of Labor Foundation Employee Culture Public Corporations’ Takes a leading role in fulfilling social responsibilities, practicing Ministry of Commerce, Council for the Korean Pact Korea e-Business Award transparency, and adopting and promoting the ethical Industry, and Energy on Anticorruption and 2007 Transparency standards demanded by society APPENDIX Grand Prize-Korea’s Most Respected CEO Award Hankyoreh Economy 21 Recognition of ethical Mgt. as the firm’s core source of Ethical Mgt. Foruma competitiveness; pursuit of corporate sustainable Medal of Excellence -Peter F. Drucker Award for Peter F. Drucker Society of development in the domestic and international markets 2008 Nonprofit Innovation (Creative Management category) Korea Green Productivity Sector at the National Productivity I 72 I Public Agency Directors’ Establishing and implementing joint strategies with other Korea Productivity Center I 73 I Convention Innovation Forum public agencies to enhance innovation and competitiveness Korea Society for Quality 2009 Forbes Quality Management Award Contributing to building a better society by participating in Management Korean Red Cross charity fund raising Selected as an Excellent Sustainability Report UN Global Compact UN Global Compact Participating in workshops and symposiums related to Network Korea human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption UN Global Compact 2010 Selected as an Excellent COP Business Korea Network Charter of Ethics Sustainability initiatives Details on our Charter of Ethics, including the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct may be found in the Ethical To implement our global standard sustainability intiative in accordance with the expansion of overseas businesses, Management section of the company’s homepage (http://eng.kores.or.kr). KORES supports an international initiative. Through our initiatives in the mining industry, we have established sustainable management processes and systems to advance our stature as a major player in global mining. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact was established in 2000 by the UN to ensure that corporations fulfill their social responsibilities based on the principle of voluntary participation. In the 4 major areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption,the UN Global Compact presents ten principal guidelines and promotes the continuous balanced development of the global economy. KORES joined the UN Global Compact in October 2007 Charter of Ethics and has incorporated ethical management into its corporate strategies. It has also tightened supervision to prevent human rights violations and corruption. The content of the ten main principles as well as relative activities are detailed on page 15 of this Sustainability Value Report. Korea Resources Corporation is a national company that has contributed to Korea’s economic development by efficiently ICMM (International Council on Mining & Metals) providing a stable supply of industrial materials and energy mineral resources to meet the needs of the nation. The ICMM is an alliance of mining industry corporations, aligned to improve their member’s management strategies and performances. By moving our corporate vision and philosophy forward with concomitant pride and self-confidence, we aspire to be a The council has presented ten principal guidelines to achieve sustainable growth. Its principles are composed of world-class public company that specializes in resource development with trust and support from the public. details relating to corporate ethical management, stakeholder engagement,environmental protection and social contribution. KORES employs business practices based on these guidelines as part of its commitment to achieve To this end, we realize that it is essential to maintain a transparent and fair ethical culture. Consistent with that target sustainable management. platform, we intend to provide the following charter of ethics which is integrated into all our resolutions, in order to uphold the highest standards and values to which our employees shall abide. ISO 26000 We will share core values, accomplish our missions with creativity and excellence, and conduct our businesses in an ISO 26000 is an international standard aimed at supporting organizations in contributing to sustainable honest and fair manner, while observing all of the relevant laws and regulations, based on high ethical values. development by carrying out the following: offering guidelines for social responsibility integration, implementation, and promotion based on the concept, terminology, background and trends, characteristics, principles and We will seek co-prosperity with our customers by providing the finest products and services, with an emphasis on respect. practices, core themes and disputes, and organizations of social responsibility for all types of organizations regardless of the organization’s size and location as well as communications on the organization’s obligations and We will strive for continuous improvement of our corporate values and sustain growth and development through fair BERLIN performance related to the identification and engagement of stakeholders and social responsibility. BERLIN competition and innovative activities. We will respect the personality and creativity of our individual employees, treat them fairly according to their ability and Guidelines Guidelines Berlin Guidelines achievements and endeavor to enhance their quality of life. The Berlin Guidelines are a collection of environment related guidelines for sustainable growth of the mining industry and presents principles pertaining to environmental management systems and environmental laws and We will contribute to the development of the nation and society, by complying with all relevant laws and regulations at regulations. It presents the basic guidelines for the mining industry to protect the environment. In order to fully KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 home and overseas, protecting and preserving the environment, and positively participating in public service activities as a comply with the environmental principles presented in the Berlin Guidelines, KORES has established an BERLIN responsible member of society. environmental management system through which its environment strategies are established and associated environmental risks are managed. Guidelines BERLIN World Bank General Environment Guideline Guidelines World Bank Operational Directive Involuntary Resettlement These guidelines are established and presented by the World Bank to minimize the environmental damage APPENDIX caused during the development process and to stabilize the relocation of residents in the event of an involuntary I 74 I resettlement. KORES carries out its resource development at its overseas project sites in full compliance with this I 75 I environmental guideline. In Ambatovy, the company has implemented relocation procedures in accordance with ­ the World Bank Operational Directive Involuntary Resettlement. As such, KORES is voluntarily complying with the World Bank guidelines in all of its overseas resource development processes. UN Global Compact 10 Principles of the ICMM KORES joined the UN Global Compact alliance in October 2007 to become a model company that fully practices and fulfills its corporate social ICMM was organized by the world’s major mining companies in 2001 to promote good practices responsibilities. Through such action, we have publicly declared our determination to comply with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and improved performance within the sector. In 2006, in order to support the sustainable and renewed our pledge to put these principles into practice. We will disclose our compliance status with these Global Compact Principles in development of its members, this CEO-led industry group proposed ten principles. our Sustainability Value Report every year. KORES upholds these principles and continuously strives to put them into action. Category Principle Activity & Performance Index G3 BSR 1. Implement and maintain ethical business practices and sound 6. Seek continual improvement of our environmental performance 쪾Employee training HR1, HR2, PN2, PN3, systems of corporate governance. 쪾 Assess the environmental impact of all new projects. 1. Businesses should support and respect the 쪾Revised investment company personnel and welfare regulations HR3, HR4, EM7, EM8, 쪾 Develop company statements of ethical business principles, and 쪾 Rehabilitate land disturbed or occupied by mining operations in protection of internationally proclaimed human 쪾Implemented training for human rights protection and ethical management HR5, HR6, EM9, EM10, implement policies and practices that eliminate any avenues for bribery accordance with appropriate post-mining land use protocols. rights 쪾Implemented training for the prevention of sexual harassment HR7. EM30 and corruption. 쪾 Implement an environmental management system to improve our 쪾 Human Rights Comply with the requirements of all host-country laws and regulations. environmental performance. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are 쪾Total No. of discrimination cases 쪾 Work with governments to achieve appropriate and effective laws and not complicit in human rights abuses 쪾Total No. of violation cases against the rights of local residents HR4, HR8 EM7, CO2 regulations that facilitate the sector’s contributions to sustainable 7. Contribute to conservation of biodiversity and integrated approaches development. to land use planning 쪾 Respect legally designated protected areas. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of 쪾Status of labor unions and total number of union members 쪾 BERLIN HR5, EM8, EM12, 2. Integrate sustainable development considerations into the corporate Promote practices and experiences in biodiversity assessment and association and the effective recognition of the 쪾Status of labor disputes LA4, LA5 EM13 decision-making process. management. right to collective bargaining 쪾 Integrate sustainable development principles into company policies and 쪾 practices. Guidelines 8. Facilitate and encourage responsible product design, use, re-use, 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of 쪾Compliance with the Labor Standards Law, the ILO, collective agreement Implement good practices and innovate to improve social, environmental recycling and disposal of our products all forms of forced and compulsory labour HR7 EM10 and economic performance. 쪾 Improve the understanding of mineral properties and their lifecycle 쪾 Provide sustainable development training to our employees and effects on human health and environment. Labor contractors. 쪾 Promote the use of technologies and production methods that are safe 5. Businesses should uphold the effective 쪾Compliance with the Labor Standards Law, the ILO, collective agreement and efficient in their use of resources. 쪾 HR6 EM9 abolition of child labour 3. Uphold fundamental human rights and respect the cultures, customs Support the development of scientifically sound policies, regulations, and and values of our stakeholders in all our dealings product standards that encourage the safe use of mineral and metal 쪾Handicapped employment rate 쪾 Ensure fair remuneration and work conditions for all employees products. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 쪾Female employment rate HR4, LA2, LA10, EM2, EM3, EM5, EM7, 쪾 Prohibit the use of forced, compulsory or child labor and eliminate 쪾Expansion of employment opportunities to local residents BERLIN harassment and unfair discrimination in all aspects of our activities. 9. Contribute to the social, economic and institutional development of 쪾 occupation LA13, LA14 EM17, EM27 Ensure that all workers are provided with appropriate cultural sensitivity the communities in which we operate and human rights awareness, training and guidance. 쪾 Contribute to community development through project development Guidelines7. Businesses should support a precautionary 쪾Non-financial risk management 쪾 Minimize involuntary resettlement, compensate fairly for any adverse closure, in collaboration with our host communities and their approach to environmental challenges 쪾Environmental Management Policy 4,11 GR11 effects on the community where unavoidable, and respect the culture representatives. and heritage of our local communities. 쪾 Ensure that appropriate systems are in place for ongoing interaction with our communities. 쪾Environmental impact assessment EN12, EN13, EV1, EV2, 4. Implement risk management strategies based on valid data and 쪾 Encourage partnerships with governments and non-governmental 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to 쪾Environmental restoration of closed mines EN14, EN18, EV4, EV16, sound science organizations to ensure that community contribution activities are well 쪾Protection of biodiversity 쪾Environmental performance management 쪾 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Environment promote greater environmental responsibility EN21, EN22, EV17, EV23, Consult with interested and affected parties in the identification, designed and effectively delivered. 쪾Greenhouse gas reductions EN26, EN30 EV26, EV27 assessment and management of all significant areas of impact associated with our activities. 쪾 Ensure regular review and update of risk management systems. 10. Implement effective and transparent engagement, communication 9. Businesses should encourage the 쪾Energy conservation activities EN5, EN6, 쪾 Develop and maintain effective emergency response procedures. and independently verified reporting arrangements with our development and diffusion of environmentally 쪾Environmental investment cost EN7, EN10, EV4, EV5, stakeholders friendly technologies 쪾Global warming prevention activities EN18, EN26 EV18, EV23 5. Seek continual improvement of our health and safety performance 쪾 Report on our economic, social and environmental performance and 쪾 APPENDIX Take all practical and reasonable measures to eliminate workplace contributions to sustainable development. 쪾Signing and adopting an Integrity contract system fatalities, injuries and diseases amongst workers. 쪾 Engage with and respond to stakeholders through open consultation 10. Endeavor to eradicate all types of 쪾Ombudsman system operation SO2, SO3, CO5, 쪾 Implement regular health surveillance of employees. processes. I 76 I anticorruption corruption including unfair and unlawful profits and bribes. 쪾Consolidation of in-house diagnosis of ethical management SO4 EM25, EM26 쪾 Implement a management system to improve our safety performance I 77 I Third-Party Assurance Statement Introduction Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as 'DNV') has been commissioned to carry out assurance Materiality: Good. The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are most significant to KORES engagement on Korea Resources Corporation (hereinafter referred to as 'KORES') Sustainability Report 2010 (hereinafter activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. The material issues were identified and prioritised based upon the referred to as 'the Report') in accordance with the DNV Protocol for verification of Sustainability Reports (VeriSustainTM) and stakeholders' opinion considering the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 2011 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1). Completeness: Acceptable. The scope and boundary of the Report cover the issues and activities that are of most significance KORES is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. Our to KORES and relevance to its stakeholders. No material omissions were identified in data or information verified. It is evident responsibility in performing this work is in accordance with terms of reference agreed. The stakeholders of KORES are the that KORES acknowledges the need for continuous improvement and is committed to gradually expanding the reporting scope intended users of this Assurance Statement. Our conclusions are based on the assumption that the data and information and boundary. provided to DNV is complete and true. Neutrality: Good. The information in the Report is generally presented in balanced manner. Reliability: Acceptable. Data and information presented in the report are generally reliable. No systematic errors were identified. Scope of The scope of work agreed with KORES includes the following: However, internal assessment of data management and data checks need to be implemented. Assurance 쪾 Report coverage: qualitative and quantitative information on social, environmental and socio-economic performance in 2010, Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Acceptable. KORES engages with a wide range of stakeholders regarding sustainability issues in presented in the printed Report. Detailed testing of source data, the operating effectiveness of processes and internal various ways to reflect their concerns and expectations into the sustainable management. However, material issues which is controls are not included in the scope of assurance engagement. industry-specific needs to be identified via overseas stakeholder engagement as overseas investment and project 쪾 Reporting period: data and information were verified for the 12 months period from January 2010 to December 2010. development increases. 쪾 Reporting boundaries include the head-office in Seoul and sites in Korea. Responsiveness: Acceptable. Stakeholders' views, interests and expectations are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of KORES' sustainability management approach. However, the clear process to reflect the concerns and expectations of stakeholder into sustainability management needs to be established. Verification Based on the limited level of assurance, the verification was conducted in August 2011 by a multidisciplinary team of qualified and experienced DNV sustainability report assurance professionals, in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Methodology Verification of Sustainability Reporting. During the assurance engagement, DNV has taken a risk-based approach, Opportunities The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to KORES management. However, these do not meaning that we concentrated our verification efforts on the issues of high material relevance to KORES' business and affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. stakeholders. for Improvement 쪾 To conduct internal audit on all data and information to be disclosed to ensure its accuracy and reliability. The Report was evaluated against the following criteria: 쪾 To manage systematically key process for producing the sustainability Report, from data gathering, analysis and reporting 쪾 Adherence to the principles of Materiality, Completeness, Neutrality, Reliability, Responsiveness and Stakeholder (for example documented procedures). 쪾 To identify material issues which is industry-specific via overseas stakeholder engagement as overseas investment and Inclusiveness as set out in the DNV Protocol; and 쪾 GRI G3.1 content (standard disclosures and performance indicators) and Mining & Metals Sector Supplement (MMSS). project development increases. 쪾 To report the progress and/or plan of implementing various initiatives which KORES voluntarily declares to support. As part of the verification, DNV has critically reviewed the sustainability-related assertions and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management and communication processes, and associated controls. To this DNV 's DNV confirms that, throughout the reporting period there were no services provided which could impair our independence and end, we have carried out the following: 쪾 Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV KORES; Independence objectivity and also maintained complete impartiality towards people interviewed during the assurance engagement. 쪾 Visited the head-office located in Seoul; 쪾 DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision, whether investment or otherwise, a person or entity Conducted interviews with representatives (including data owners and decision-makers from different divisions and may make based on this Assurance Statement. functions) of KORES; 쪾 Performed sample-based audits of the processes and mechanisms for implementing KORES' own sustainability-related 8, 2011, Seoul, KOREA policies, as described in the Report, and for assessing the materiality of issues to be included in the Report; 쪾 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative data and qualitative information included in the Report; Kwak, S.H. Antonio Astone Ahn, I.K. 쪾 Reviewed the use of relevant economic data and information from the 2010 certified financial statements and its Leader, Verification Team Manager, Sustainability Services CEO presentation in this Report. Economic data was verified by another third party. DNV verified the consistency in the Det Norske Veritas Certification DNV Business Assurance AS Det Norske Veritas Certification presentation of the same data in the financial statements and this Report. The verification focused primarily on the Report, and not on the adequacy, effectiveness or efficiency of KORES sustainability APPENDIX management practices. It also excluded sustainability management, performance or reporting practices by any external supplier or other third parties mentioned in the Report. Interviews with suppliers or external stakeholders were not made during I 78 I I 79 I the assurance engagement. Conclusion Based on the scope of work carried out, DNV concludes that the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of KORES' sustainability strategy, management systems and performance in 2010. Note: Assurance engagement was conducted based on the Report written in Korean. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction Regarding the level of adherence to reporting principles, we conclude the following: in the Report between English version and Korean version, Korean one shall be given precedent. GRI 3.1 Guideline and ISO 26000 Index ● Fully Reported, ◑ Partially Reported, ◯ Not Reported ● Fully Reported, ◑ Partially Reported, ◯ Not Reported Profile Pages and reasons of Whether Index Details ISO 26000 Strategy and analysis no application to meet 4.9 Procedure for risk identification and compliance 6.2 14--15 ● GRI Pages and reasons of Whether Details ISO 26000 Number no application to meet 6.2 ● 4.10 Process for evaluating board’ s own performance 14--15 1.1 Statement of the CEO 6.2 4-5 ● 4.11 Explanation of use precautionary approach 6.2 14--15 ● 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 6.2 4-5 ● 4.12 Externally developed charters, principles and other initiatives endorsed 6.2 74 ● 4.13 Memberships of associations and advocacy bodies 6.2 73 ● Organizational profile 4.14 List of stakeholders 6.2 18--19 ● Pages and reasons of Whether Index Details ISO 26000 4.15 Basis of identification of stakeholders 6.2 18--19 ● no application to meet 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 6.2 18--19 ● 2.1 Name 7 ● 4.17 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders 6.2 18--19 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 7 ● 2.3 Operational structure and major divisions 6.2 7, 73 ● Economic performances 2.4 Location of headquarters 9 ● Pages and reasons of Whether 2.5 Countries of operations 8-9 ● Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 ● ● EC Disclosure on Management Approach 24 2.7 Markets served 8-9 ● 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.7 6.8.9 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 33 2.8 Scale of reporting organization 8-9 ● 6.5.5 ◑ EC2 Financial implications and risks due to climate change 17, 56 2.9 Significant changes during the year 33 ● ◑ EC3 Pension support scope 42, 51 2.10 Awards received 73 ● EC4 Significant financial Significant financial assistance from government 62 ● EC5 Ratio of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant areas of Operation 6.4.4 6.8 40 ● Report parameters EC6 Policy, practices and proportions of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.6.6 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 51 ◑ Pages and reasons of Whether Index Details ISO 26000 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community no application to meet 51 ◑ EC7 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 at significant locations of operation 3.1 Reporting period 2 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 3.2 Date of previous report 2 ● EC8 25--26 ● provided for public benefit 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 3.3 Reporting cycle 2 ● 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 3.4 Contact point 2 ● EC9 Indirect impacts 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 33 ● 3.5 Process for defining report Pages 2 ● 6.8.9 3.6 Boundary of the report 2 ● 3.7 Limitations 2 ● Environmental performances 3.8 Report boundary that may seriously affect comparability of information 2 ● Whether Pages and reasons of Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet 3.9 Data measurement techniques 2 ● ● EN Disclosure on Management Approach 56 ● 3.10 Revision of information provided in the previous report 2 ● EN1 Weight of materials used 6.5 6.5.4 71 ● 3.11 Significant change in report scope & boundary or measuring method 2 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 3.12 GRI Content Index 80--83 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 6.5 6.5.4 N/A N/A ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source 6.5 6.5.4 71 ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance of the report 2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 6.5 6.5.4 71 ● Govermance, commitments and engagement EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 6.5 6.5.4 70 ◑ Pages and reasons of Whether Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, Index Details ISO 26000 EN6 6.5 6.5.4 70 ● no application to meet and reductions in energy requirements APPENDIX 4.1 Governance structure including committees 6.2 14--15 ● EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.4 70 ● 4.2 Independence of the chair 6.2 14 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5 6.5.4 71 ● 4.3 Independence of Board 6.2 14 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5 6.5.4 Only waterworks used N/A I 80 I I 81 I 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the board 6.2 13--14, 18 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5 6.5.4 68, 71 ◑ 4.5 Linkage between compensation and performance 6.2 14 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of EN11 6.5 6.5.6 66--67 ◑ 4.6 Process to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 6.2 13--14 ◑ high biodiversity value outside protected areas 4.7 Process for determining qualifications of board 6.2 14 ● Description of significant impacts of activities on biodiversity in protected areas EN12 6.5 6.5.6 66--67 ● 4.8 Internally developed relevant statements of mission or principles 6.2 4--5 ● and areas of high biodiversity value ● Fully Reported, ◑ Partially Reported, 쫛 Not Reported ● Fully Reported, ◑ Partially Reported, 쫛 Not Reported Pages and reasons of Whether Pages and reasons of Whether Index Details ISO 26000 Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet no application to meet EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5 6.5.6 64, 67 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. 6.4 6.4.7 41 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 6.5 6.5.6 67 ● LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees 6.4 6.4.7 6.8.5 42 ● and assist them in managing career endings. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in are as affected by ● EN15 operations, by level of extinction risk 6.5 6.5.6 67 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 6.4 6.4.7 41 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 71 ● LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age 6.3.7 6.3.10 14, 40 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 71 ◑ group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 6.4 6.4.3 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.5 58, 68, 71 ● LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 6.3.7 6.3.10 40 ● 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A N/A EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A N/A LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 42 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5 6.5.3 71 ◑ Human rights EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 6.5.3 71 ● Whether ● Pages and reasons of Index Details ISO 26000 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5 6.5.3 No hazardous substances no application to meet EN24 The transport, bringing in/bringing out/processed volume of the waste, and waster ratio carried out abroad, 6.5 6.5.3 N/A N/A HR Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 36 ● which are set forth in the Appendixes I, II, III and IV of the Basel Convention HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investments and agreements that include human rights screening 6.3 6.3.3 No numerical data available ○ EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by discharges of water and runoff 6.5 6.5.4 6.5.6 67 ◑ 6.3.5 6.6.6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and 6.3 6.3.3 No numerical data available ○ EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5 6.5.4 65, 68-69 ● actions taken 6.3.5 6.6.6 6.6.6 6.7.5 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 6.3 6.3.5 39 ● EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.6.6 6.7.5 N/A N/A HR4 6.3 6.3.6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. N/A N/A Value and number of significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 EN28 6.5 N/A N/A laws and regulations 6.2 6.3.3 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials 6.5 6.5.4 6.6.6 66 ◑ HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 6.3.4 6.3.5 ● 43 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 53 ◑ at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 6.3.8 6.3.10 6.4.3 6.4.5 Labor achievements ● 6.3 6.3.3 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour 6.3.4 6.3.5 40 Pages and reasons of Whether 6.3.7 6.3.10 Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet ● ● 6.2 6.4 6.3 6.3.3 LA Disclosure on Management Approach 36 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 6.3.4 6.3.5 40 6.3.10 6.3.7 6.3.10 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Percentage of materials used that are recycled 6.4 6.4.3 40 ● HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in policies or procedures concerning human Rights 6.3 6.3.5 No numerical data available ○ ○ 6.4.3 6.6.6 LA2 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 6.4 6.4.3 No numerical data available ● 6.3 6.3.6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 42 ● HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 50-52 KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 6.4 6.4.3 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact ◑ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.4.4 6.4.5 43 ● HR10 assessments. 37-39 6.3.10 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance HR11 N/A N/A ◑ Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective 6.4 6.4.3 mechanisms. LA5 43 agreements. 6.4.4 6.4.5 Social performances APPENDIX Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA6 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Total water 6.4 6.4.6 43 ◑ Index Details ISO 26000 Pages and reasons of Whether withdrawal by source no application to meet SO Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 6.6 6.8 36 ● I 82 I LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by 6.4 6.4.6 40 ◑ I 83 I region SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 50 ● 6.4 6.4.6 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, 6.8 6.8.3 42, 48-49, 52-53 ● SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption 6.6 6.6.3 37-39 ◑ their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 6.8.4 6.8.8 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6 6.6.3 39 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4 6.4.6 40, 42, 48-49 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 6.6 6.6.3 38-39 ● Terminology Explanation ● Fully Reported, ◑ Partially Reported, 쫛 Not Reported Boring organization are systematized and an efficient Mgt. system is developed to the fullest. Pages and reasons of Whether Excavation through a tunneling process, producing a cave type formation This is the certification through which the following are objectively proven: a company Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet implements, maintains, improves, and assures environmental Mgt. systems and SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 37 ● Boring sludge minimizes the ill-effects on the environment caused by corporate activities, and; the Deposits generated from the boring process consumption and recycling of energy and resources are carried out efficiently. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 37 ● Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) ISO 26000 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6 6.6.5 6.6.7 N/A N/A A global project to demand, collect, research and analyze accurate information related to Guidance on social responsibility consisting of 7 sectors: governance, human rights, Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws carbon emissions that are major causes of “climate change,” and short-term corporate labor, environment, fair business practices, consumer issues, and community SO8 6.6 6.6.7 6.8.7 N/A N/A management strategies of the world’s major listed companies on such relevant issues. participation. and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6. 6.7 50-51 ● Concentrate A residual product that has been concentrated through the removal of most of the Joint resource development ventures A mutually beneficial, win-win model to invest in those SOC construction and waste rock, also called a target product. The refining process is repeated several infrastructure industries needed for the national development of countries which have SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 50-52 ● times to obtain a high-grade concentrate which will become the raw material for smelting. resources, securing their energy sources and receiving infrastructure construction projects from those entities. Damage from mining Mining blocks Quality responsibility performances N/A Damages caused by pollutants generated during ground disturbances due to the mining Areas where mining rights have been registered with the Mine Registration Office of the Whether process, discharge of mine water and wastewater, the accumulation of debris or the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, authorizing the development and production of ore, as Pages and reasons of Index Details ISO 26000 refining process prescribed by the Mines Act. no application to meet PR Disclosure on Management Approach 6.2 6.6 6.7 36 ● Development Mining rights ◑ 6.2 6.6 6.7 Activities including mining, ore dressing, refining, processing (related to mining, A right to enter and/or occupy a specific registered area of land for the purpose of PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement 48-49 concentration of ore, and refining, etc.) and other supplementary projects mining, either by underground excavation or open mining, to extract the mineral ores 6.6 6.6.3 deposited therein PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 49 ● Drilling Digging holes of various depths in the earth to explore underground resources or to (Article 5, Mines Act) examine the structures or conditions of geological stratums Ore dressing PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 18, 45 ◑ An operation enhancing the quality of useful ore and removing harmful ingredients by Environmental impact assessment (EIA) separating the target ores from byproduct resources to maximize the use of all available ① A system to assess the possible impact that development projects may have on the industrial raw materials such as crystals and coal. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 N/A N/A ② natural environment, positive or negative Generally this process allows (1) the governments to fully review and consider the ensuing environmental impacts of Rare metals PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.8 6.7.9 44 ● proposed measures and countermeasures to avoid or mitigate their environmental impact and (2) enables citizens to understand proposed plans and policies and present Metals that are rare in their natural abundance, or that are abundant but limited in the amount of high-grade enriched ores, or that are abundant but are difficult to be extracted their opinions to policy makers beforehand. as pure metals PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 53 ● Exploration Recovery ratio PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 53 ● ① Searching usable minerals or mineral deposits for fossil fuel. This includes Yield or the recovery rate refers to the percentage of concentrate to usable elements in marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. investigation of land surface areas and underground deposits through such means as feed ore. It is used as reference data to evaluate ore grades and screening performance remote sensing, aerial photograph geology, geophysical exploration, and geochemical Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and exploration, to verify and assess the properties of known ore deposits, as a preparatory Refining and Smelting PR8 6.7 6.7.7 N/A N/A losses of customer data. stage of development Smelting refers to the overall process of extracting metals from ore to a required degree Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and of purity by using electrolysis or blast furnaces to transform the raw materials into metals. PR9 6.7 6.7.6 N/A N/A Feasibility Study (F/S) Refining refers to the second stage process of enhancing the degree of purity to attain use of products and services. A way to determine the profitability of a business idea beforehand. Large-scale, longfinished product status. Mining industry auxiliaries term projects require detailed investigation and analysis of fluctuations in raw material prices and product demand to examine their return on investment feasibility. Self sufficiency ratio Pages and reasons of Whether The volume of resources which a Korean company has secured through its investment Index Details ISO 26000 no application to meet Grade in overseas resource development, calculated by dividing its share of overseas The weight, as a percentage of total weight, of specific elements or compounds that are production volume for a given year, by the total volume of domestic imports (self MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. 65 ◑ contained in ores and ground metal. It is usually indicated by % and g/t (% sufficiency amount/total import amount) or Kcal/kg for coal). Stakeholder The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans according to ◑ KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 MM2 67 GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Stakeholders refer to individuals or groups having interests in a company; the workers, stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. ◑ As an independent, nonprofit organization presenting guidelines related to sustainability consumers, and partner firms as well as shareholders and debenture holders are MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. 65 management reporting, GRI presents guidelines divided into three categories: economy, regarded as stakeholders. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week s duration, by country. N/A N/A environment, and society. The Equator Principles MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples’ territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples’ communities. No numerical data available ○ IFC EHS Guideline Developed by private sector banks and modeled on the environmental, health and safety Set by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) which provides project development (EHS) policies of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Equator Principles Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities loans and investment advisory services for private sector development projects in the (EP) are a set of environmental and social benchmarks for managing environmental and MM6 N/A N/A developing world, these guidelines contain information on cross-cutting environmental, social issues in globally financed development projects. Once adopted, the Equator and Indigenous Peoples. APPENDIX health, and safety issues potentially applicable to all industry sectors. It is to be used Principles commit the adoptees to refrain from financing projects that fail to follow the MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. 50 ◑ together with the relevant industry sector guidelines to evaluate the environment, health and safety (EHS) standards of each project for which funding have been applied. processes defined by the Principles. TOE I 84 I I 85 I Number (and percentage) of company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) takes IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) Short for Ton of oil equivalent, TOE is a unit indicating energy volume. 1 TOE refers to MM8 place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these N/A N/A Established by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations the energy generated when 1 ton of oil is burned. risks. Environmental Programme (UNEP) to cope with environmental issues related to climate ◑ change, the IPCC provides guidelines to calculate the amount of greenhouse gas UNGC (UN Global Compact) Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their livelihoods MM9 51 emissions and absorption and assessment reports on climate change. A voluntary social responsibility international compact to support and uphold 10 were affected in the process. ◑ principles in the human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption sectors through MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. 50 ISO 14001 partnership between businesses and UN organizations. MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. N/A ○ ISO 14001 is a global common standard through which all activities or businesses of an This report can be downloaded in the format of a PDF file from our homepage (http://eng.kores.or.kr). We express our heartelt thanks for your sincere interest in the sustainability management activities of KORES. KORES Sustainability Value Report 2010 UNLIMITED KORES I 86 I I 89 I
