Social Performance Report Year to 31 December 2010 Health, safety & environment. We’re all responsible. No short cuts. No exceptions. No incidents. Company profile Premier Oil plc (Premier) is a leading FTSE 250 independent exploration and production company with interests in eight countries around the world. These include operated and non-operated production in the United Kingdom (UK) North Sea, Indonesia, Pakistan and Mauritania and development projects in Vietnam, Indonesia and the UK. The company plans to drill around 20 exploration and appraisal wells in 2011, including wells in Egypt, Indonesia, Norway, Pakistan, Vietnam and the UK. Our strategy is to add significant value through exploration and appraisal success, astute commercial deals and optimal asset management. The company is headquartered in London with approximately 570 permanent employees worldwide, the majority being located in the United Kingdom and Asia (p18). Our current production is split approximately 60% gas and 40% oil. www.premier-oil.com Construction Exploration Production Note: Red shading on map indicates countries where we operate. This includes our exploration activities in Indonesia, UK North Sea, Norway and Vietnam. Green shading indicates countries where we have equity in joint ventures operated by another oil and gas company (as at end 2010). A detailed list of these joint ventures and our equity ownership is located in the Annual Report 2010 and on www.premier-oil.com Licences Field Equity Licences Field Equity Congo United Kingdom Marine IX * 31.50% P1181 57.50% P1260 Shelley 100.00% Egypt P1420 72.73% South Darag ‡ 100.00% P1431 100.00% §§§ Indonesia P1466 100.00% **** Natuna Sea Block A Anoa 28.67% P1559 100.00% Tuna 65.0% P1577 100.00% P1620 50.00% Norway P1772 50.00% PL406 40.00% P1784 70.00% PL567 60.00% Vietnam United Kingdom Block 12W Chim Sao 28.125% P087 Nelson †† 46.50% Block 07/03 Cá RÔng Đó 30.00% P110 Mallory 27.24% Block 104-109/5 50.00% P110 Huntington East 25.04% * Notice has been served to withdraw from this licence P119 Ptarmigan 60.00% † This farm-in deal has been signed and completion is now subject to government approval P201 Balmoral ‡‡, Stirling §§ 85.00% ‡ This government concession has been signed and is awaiting ratification P201 & Glamis 100.00% § Formerly named North Sumatra Block A, this block will be renamed Block A P213 Brenda (Above 7500ft) 100.00% Aceh, with effect from September 2011, ** Unitised share of 1.31404 per cent P233 Caledonia 70.00% †† Unitised share of 0.348750 per cent, ‡‡ Unitised share of 78.11542 per cent P344 Nicol 55.00% §§ Unitised share of 68.68 per cent, *** Unitised share of 21.83 per cent P344 Balmoral ‡‡ & Stirling §§ 44.20% ††† Unitised share of 01.58677 per cent, ‡‡‡ Unitised share of 12.38 per cent P354 30.00% §§§ This licence will be relinquished once government approval has been given P1042 Brenda 100.00% **** Subject to contract, and an earn-in agreement to transfer a 40% interest to P1157 Brenda 100.00% Canadian Overseas Petroleum (UK) Limited, Premier’s new interest will be 60% Section 1: INTRODUCTION 2 Message from the CEO 4 Our approach to reporting Section 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 6 Community and society Compliance Tables 6 Community investment 16 Human resources 16 Employment 22 Business ethics Section 3: HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT 24 Our policy framework 24 Leadership and communication 26 HSE management system Assurance 27 Targets and continuous improvement 27 Management, audit and assurance 28 Health and safety 28 Occupational health and safety 31 Process safety 32 Emergency preparedness 33 Security 34 Environment 34 Environmental performance 36 Climate change and greenhouse gas emissions Finance 38 Pollution prevention Section 4: FINANCE Section 5: ASSURANCE Health, Safety and Environment Section 6: COMPLIANCE TABLES We have a responsibility to ensure our operations cause Social Responsibility no harm to people or the environment. This remains a priority equal to our other Introduction key business objectives. Simon Lockett, Chief Executive Officer, Premier Oil plc 2 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Message from the CEO Continued growth through commitment Premier continues its programme of growth and expansion; bringing on board new operations and expanding into new geographies. The most notable of these are the Gajah Baru and Chim Sáo development projects in Indonesia and Vietnam, both of which are in the construction/installation stage. Significant work on these projects increased our man-hours from 3.8 million in 2009 to 8.8 million in 2010. Employee numbers increased around 15% to over 570 permanent employees by the end of 2010. This last year also marks the first full year of production at our recently acquired North Sea operations as well as exploration success in Norway and new activity in Egypt. This increase in activity brings with it an increase in risk exposure. We remain committed to managing this growth and subsequent exposures both effectively and responsibly. The BP Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico has resulted in increased scrutiny and caution towards the entire energy industry. Proactive companies need to address these concerns directly to allay concerns and regain the confidence of regulators, investors and other key stakeholders. This report, together with our Annual Report 2010, presents a clear, systematic and transparent account of our continued ability to manage all aspects of our business. Aligning with best practice Premier carries out independent audits of its policies and management systems to ensure continued compliance with the requirements of regulatory bodies wherever we operate. We also align our social performance reporting with standards produced by the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting; the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP); FTSE4Good and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Simon Lockett, Chief Executive Officer, Premier Oil plc of which Premier is a signatory. This report also functions as our Communication on Progress to the UNGC. Our last report identified areas for improvement relating to policy statements on political donations, a global pay and benefits framework as well as certain aspects of community engagement. Steps were taken in 2010 to strengthen many of these policies and underlying management systems as well as our alignment with global standards. These steps are detailed throughout this report with a summary of progress to date presented in Figure 2 (p5). Further details on our policies and procedures are available on our website. This includes our Human Rights Policy and position statements on issues such as indigenous peoples, development rights and stakeholder dialogue. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 3 Our Carbon Disclosure Project score increased from 45 in 2009 to 74 in 2010, making Premier the second best performing energy sector Compliance Tables company in the United Kingdom. Preparing for the Bribery Act Assurance Integrity, honesty and fairness remain fundamental to the way we conduct our business. In support of the introduction of the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom, we reintroduced our global Code of Conduct which applies to all employees, at every level in the business and all those associated with Premier. The Code covers issues relating to anti-bribery, gifts and hospitality, charitable and political donations, intermediaries as well as facilitation payments. Training workshops on the Code and its requirements are being given to managers at all Premier operations worldwide in 2011. Finance A further online training facility has been developed and will be implemented during the course of 2011. Reinvigorating health and safety In 2010, Premier implemented and communicated a new Health, Safety Health, Safety and Environment and Environment (HSE) Policy at all operations worldwide. This new policy was developed as part of our planned review and continuous improvement process. This last year also saw a net reduction in high potential incidents per million man-hours from 2.10 to 1.59 (Figure 10). There was however one fatality amongst our contracted workforce at the Chim Sáo drilling operations in Vietnam. The causes of this fatality were thoroughly investigated by Premier, the contracting companies as well as the relevant authorities. All actions to prevent reoccurrence are being tracked by our HSE departments with ongoing reporting on progress to our Executive Committee and the Board. Social Responsibility All of our current production and global drilling operations are OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certified. In 2010, we completed a number of OHSAS 18001and ISO 14001 surveillance audits. Our Gajah Baru and Chim Sáo construction projects in Indonesia and Vietnam completed pre-assessment audits with a view to being compliant when they start operating in 2011 and 2012 respectively. Looking to the future Top Construction of our new production facilities in Asia Premier will face increasingly stringent regulation as well as new Bottom Turret shaft at our Chim Sáo drilling operations, Vietnam Introduction health, safety, environmental and social challenges as it continues to grow in new geographies over the next few years. Meeting these challenges and addressing the concerns of our investors, partners and stakeholders will require significant continued effort from us all. We remain committed to the challenge of improving our standards each year. 4 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Our approach to reporting This Social Performance Report aims to demonstrate how Our last report identified areas for improvement relating to policy we have applied and delivered on our stated policies statements on political donations, a global pay and benefits and commitments in 2010. This report covers our own framework, security services and human rights, as well as aspects of operations and does not include non-operated joint community engagement including prior and informed consultation ventures except where specified. and the existence of appropriate grievance mechanisms. Steps were taken in 2010 to strengthen existing policies and underlying Premier carries out independent audits of its policies management systems as well as our alignment with global to ensure compliance with the requirements of the standards. Disclosure of our performance in this area and for all following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); of the commitments made in 2009 is presented throughout this the International Petroleum Industry Environmental report and summarised in Figure 2. Further details on our policies Conservation Association (IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry and procedures are available on our website. This includes our Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010; the Human Rights Policy and position statements on issues such as Carbon Disclosure Project; FTSE4Good and the United indigenous peoples, development rights and stakeholder dialogue. Nations Global Compact. With regard to reporting against the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, we are currently striving to achieve a B+ and as such report against sufficient core areas to achieve that rating. This report is our annual Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Figure 1: The scope of our social performance reporting1 Community and Society Community Investment (external) Human Rights (online) Social Responsibility Human Resources Employment (internal) Business Ethics Occupational Health Social Performance and Safety Report Process Safety Health and Safety Emergency Preparedness Health, Safety and Security Environment Climate Change Environment Pollution Prevention Finance 1 Policy statements for all areas are presented online at www.premier-oil.com Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 5 Premier retained its inclusion within the FTSE4Good Index for the 8th year in a row. Compliance Tables Tony Durrant, Finance Director, Premier Oil plc Assurance Figure 2: Delivering on our commitments Report section Our commitment in 2010 Actions taken over the last year Page Our approach Steps to strengthen existing policies Development of new Code of Conduct and updated 22, 24 to reporting and management systems to further HSE Policy. Management systems evolve each year to align with global standards support our continuous improvement goals Community Testing of procedures to identify Tool kit implemented in Vietnam, Indonesia and 7 investment relevant local initiatives (for investment) Pakistan with coherent community investment strategies in place for all three countries Finance Employment Review human resources policies Handbooks updated as part of our ongoing review 16 and Employee Handbooks to ensure process at corporate and business unit level. This alignment with national requirements includes alignment with relevant local legislation and statutory requirements such as the Bribery Act Employee satisfaction survey The last survey was implemented in 2008. A follow 16 up survey will be implemented in 2011 that also Health, Safety and Environment allows employees to feedback on the revised handbooks and new e-learning tools Global pay and benefits framework A review of employee grading, pay and benefits 18, 19 schemes has driven consistency across all operations. Premier continues to ensure banding, salary and benefits packages remain globally competitive Succession management in place for Potential successors were identified for all key 20 senior managers positions and will be progressively rolled out as required for other areas of the business Business ethics Revised Business Ethics and Conduct The new Code of Conduct is compliant with the 22 Social Responsibility Policy compliant with the Bribery Act Bribery Act in the United Kingdom and applies to all employees, at every level in the business and all those associated with Premier Health, safety Certify Balmoral production facilities to Balmoral operations certified to OHSAS 18001 and 27 and environment OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 ISO 14001 and construction operations including Chim Sáo and Gajah Baru have completed preassessment audits with a view to being compliant when they start operating Process safety, safety cases, “Safety cases” are in place at Anoa in Indonesia and 31-32 performance standards and Balmoral in the North Sea as well as our assets still in Independent Verification Body (IVB) for the construction and installation stage i.e. Gajah Baru Introduction Gajah Baru and Chim Sao in Indonesia and Chim Sáo in Vietnam Oil spill response review for enhanced An independent organisation found the Anoa facility 32-33 emergency preparedness at Anoa to have a relatively low risk of oil spills. All of our oil spill response plans are approved by local authorities 6 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Community and society Community investment Social responsibility is primarily about how we engage, Our policy assess and manage our community and societal issues It is our policy to support social investment that contributes and risks. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to the sustainable development goals of the communities and and Human Rights Policies are applicable to all Premier countries where we operate. This means working in partnership operated entities and may be adapted to address local with professional social development organisations, government priorities. Our Code of Conduct, Business Ethics and agencies and local NGOs to ensure our investment addresses Conduct Policy (p22) and Employment Policy (p16) are relevant and material issues in a rigorous manner with positive managed through the Legal and Human Resources impacts on society. Our investment focuses mainly on the functions respectively. All policies are compliant with delivery of local infrastructures, disaster relief and the well-being relevant legislation and take due account of appropriate of local communities. initiatives and standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice. There were no reported non-compliances with this policy in the review period. We recognise that we have responsibilities to a diverse group of stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, local communities Our investment in 2010 and society at large, including special interest groups In 2009, we initiated a review of our CSR management system that represent public interest concerns, such as Nonincluding the identification, management, evaluation and Governmental Organisations (NGOs). Our investment budgeting of social investment disbursements. The draft set of decisions take account of economic, environmental and procedures in this management system was used by local business social impacts and their management. units in 2010 to build country-specific community investment strategies and identify appropriate local initiatives and partners to In all its operations, Premier will always comply with local deliver on the above policy commitments. laws and regulatory requirements as a minimum, and make representations to the relevant authorities if we believe Premier spent a total of US$800,000 on community investment in that policies and practices of host governments undermine 2010. A total of 48% of this spend (US$380,000) was disbursed in our policies. We complete environmental and social impact Pakistan, as part of our disaster relief following the floods which assessments prior to undertaking any new investment and inundated large parts of the country. This included significant evaluate these impacts regularly to ensure that they are donations to the Pakistan Red Crescent Society (PRCS) and Edhi responsibly managed on an ongoing basis. We expect our Foundation. The remainder was disbursed in Indonesia, Vietnam contractors, suppliers, joint venture and alliance partners and the United Kingdom and is reflective of our increased presence to respect our policies. Their adherence to the principles in each geography. This represents a total of 0.8% of pre-tax profits upheld by our policies is an important factor in our compared to the international benchmark of 1% (2009: 0.5%). decision to form or remain in a relationship with them. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 7 Compliance Tables Below Binh An shelter for rescued children, Vietnam Assurance Finance Health, Safety and Environment Figure 3: Our community investment profile (US$)2 $800,000 $160,000 $225,000 Social Responsibility $700,000 $600,000 $500,000 $400,000 $300,000 $380,000 $200,000 Indonesia Introduction $100,000 Pakistan $32,000 $0 North Sea 2009 2010 Vietnam 2 As a shareholder in four non-operated production operations (Bhit, Kadanwari, Zamzama and Qadirpur), Premier Pakistan financially supports community projects undertaken by our joint venture partners and also collaborates with the Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Companies Association (PPEPCA). During the 2010 reporting period, Premier also instigated a number of additional community investment initiatives. This report includes only these additional initiatives funded by Premier. 8 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Community investment (continued) Our community investment in Indonesia Focus on education Premier Oil Indonesia completed numerous community Our engagement in Indonesian education initiatives started with the development projects in 2010. The positive impact of construction of a kindergarten in the Anambas region in 1999. Premier our investment helped us earn the Green Award for has now built a total of six kindergartens. Premier also supports tertiary PROPER 2010 (on environmental and social performance) education in the form of scholarships to university students at three from the Government of the Republic of Indonesia for universities: North Sumatra University, Tanjung Pura University in West the second successive year.3 These projects focused on Kalimantan and Haluoelo University in South East Sulawesi. economic agriculture, education, social infrastructure and environment in the Anambas region near our offshore Our programme of work for 2010 included the awarding of 30 further Anoa Field production operations. university-level scholarships for agriculture-related studies. This forms part of our goal to develop local agricultural capability and will help Community investment in Indonesia totalled US$225,000 ensure the organic farming initiatives in Langir Village and Rintis Village in 2010 (2009: US$250,000). are sustainable. The scholarships cover tuition fees, accommodation and living costs for four years during the Bachelor of Science study period; and were assembled together with the local government of Agriculture Anambas Islands as part of a sharing initiative developed by Institut During the year, Premier initiated the development of an Pertanian (Agriculture Institute) located in Yogyakarta, Indonesia. economic agriculture programme. The programme was identified after an independent study and consultation Infrastructure with government, which has prioritised the development of agriculture in the Anambas region. It enables local Premier has developed several infrastructure projects at the request communities to produce their own crops and reduces of the Anambas local government. In the past this included the dependence on expensive imports from other regions. construction of public health centres, libraries and school class rooms. In This organic farming programme has been piloted in two 2010, Premier enlarged and altered two multi functioned buildings. fertile locations identified as high potential for crop yields: Langir Village in the Palmatak sub-district and Rintis Village The first building is located in Tarempa, the capital of Anambas in Siantan. It involves 100 farmers divided into five groups Islands district. The GOR (sports hall), was built using Premier covering different commodities such as rice, vegetables funds. It plays a central role in the Tarempa community and is used and fruits including bananas and oranges. for all official meetings of the local government as well as by the community. Events held in this facility include official inaugurations, Programme implementation and training for local farmers regional development planning meetings, national holiday is carried out by an experienced technical consultant ceremonies as well as art and cultural performances. It is also used supported by two “hands-on” technical mentors. Each on a daily basis for badminton practice as well as “sepak takraw” mentor lives in one of the villages to support farmers (similar to football) which are the favourite local sports. as they develop the skills needed to independently implement the environment-friendly farming techniques. The second building is located in Rintis village, a new village The programme also provides support in the form of located in the hills 5km from Tarempa. Rintis village is located three compost milling machines, seedling assistance, in a fertile environment and is considered a fast growing area of the provision of individual agribusiness capital, and a Anambas near to the capital Tarempa (a busy coastal port but with mentoring programme for farmers to enable knowledge limited land area). Premier is funding the construction of a multisharing and improve the effectiveness of training initiatives. functional education and community development centre that will The programme, which was initiated by Premier, has enable social education activities in the region. The programme received full support from the local Anambas government. was first intended as a school facility of the Kurnia Kindergarten but has since progressed to accommodate the needs of various groups including social community meetings and women’s economic empowerment activities such as sewing. The rear area will be used 3 PROPER is an acronym for Programme Penilaian Peringkat as a plantation testing and training environment for crops including Kinerja Penataan dalam Pengelolaan Lingkungan (the Company chilli, cabbage, spinach and more. The building is planned for Environmental Performance Rating Programme) which includes completion in early 2011. community development as part of its assessment criteria. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 9 Compliance Tables Assurance Environment – turtle habitat rehabilitation In 2009, Premier supported a pilot project on turtle habitat preservation on Durai Island, the largest turtle nesting area in the Anambas region. In 2010, the programme successfully protected 915 turtles to securely nest on the island. The season for nesting took place between May to August with its peak month in July. From the eggs that were nested, it was estimated that around 61,000 hatchlings returned to the sea naturally. The work that Premier sponsored on Durai Island has received an Finance excellent response from local and central government including the Ministry of Marine and Fisheries (DKP). The DKP is also planning a new national reserve area for sea conservation in the Anambas Islands that will include the area of our turtle preservation programme in Durai Island. Premier is working together with DKP on both the turtle preservation programme in Durai Island Health, Safety and Environment and to prepare the island as a centre for future biodiversity and ecotourism activities, which will help provide sustainable livelihoods for local communities. Planned activities for 2011 In 2011, Premier Indonesia plans to continue the existing agriculture and education programmes; the latter will include school facilities support, scholarships, school building, a books programme and an enhanced manpower support programme. We also plan to continue the turtle preservation work in Durai Island as well as a programme of coral reef preservation. In addition, Premier Social Responsibility Indonesia plans to implement the Bright and Green Programme led by BPMIGAS (the Indonesian Upstream Oil and Gas Executive Agency) and including other companies such as ConocoPhillips, Star Energy, and PT PAN. Its work in 2011 will involve the installation of electricity for the village road in Payalaman, Matak Island; the nearest village to our Matak base. We hope these Top Turtle habitat preservation and monitoring, Indonesia initiatives as well our health and safety performance will help us Bottom Student recipients of educational scholarships, Indonesia maintain the Green PROPER Award for 2011. www.bpmigas.com www.dkp.go.id Introduction 10 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Community investment (continued) Our community investment in the North Sea Since the purchase of our North Sea operations in 2009, Premier has progressively implemented a community investment action plan that includes enhanced support for key local groups as part of our goal to add value to host nations and communities. Community investment around our North Sea operations totalled US$32,000 in 2010. Supporting local community priorities During the year, Premier continued its engagement with the Scottish Fishermen’s Federation (SFF) including on the industrywide “fish safe” initiative. In 2010, the initiative provided fishermen with new radios as well as data on the location of sub-sea oil and gas infrastructures. This will help reduce the risk of damage to both fishing vessels as well as oil and gas infrastructures. We also support local charities selected by our Aberdeen staff and in alignment with our group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy and Human Rights Policy. Key engagements in 2010 included those with Archway and Barnado’s. Archway (Respite Care and Housing) Limited Top Archway charity for learning diabilities, Aberdeen Archway is an independent Aberdeen based charity Bottom Premier employees at our North Sea operations delivering innovative community based services to improve the opportunities and quality of life for people with learning disabilities. It provides respite care for around 200 children and adults at three care units in the vicinity of Aberdeen: Westburn Road, Two Mile Cross and Dyce. Archway relies entirely on donations for any projects beyond general running costs. In July 2010, Premier donated US$12,000 to refurbish the activity room at Two Mile Cross and for the installation of a bath hoist to assist users with physical disabilities. In December 2010, Premier donated a further US$8,000 to Archway as an alternative to sending company Christmas cards. Most of this money will be used to support activities for permanent residents as local council funding cuts have led to the closure of day-user services. This includes schooling, leisure and crafts activities as well as outings to local events and educational resources; which are vital to personal development and social integration. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 11 Compliance Tables Assurance Barnardo’s Scotland Floods Pakistan was struck by floods in 2010 which inundated Barnardo’s Scotland engages the most disadvantaged children, large parts of the country, causing unprecedented young people, families and communities to ensure every destruction and the displacement of millions of people. young person is able to reach their full potential, whatever their Apart from sharing the disaster relief costs incurred by circumstances in life. It operates more than 70 community-based the operators of our joint ventures, Premier implemented projects across Scotland. its own independent measures to assist and rehabilitate those affected through the provision of cash and in-kind In July 2010, Premier donated US$12,000 to the local Aberdeen donations. This included the supply of basic survival branch of Barnardo’s Scotland to support its 4Change service. This packages (containing food items, drinking water, medicines Finance service provides support to young people in the Aberdeen area and quilts) to around 550 families. All of these were who go missing from home or “looked after” accommodation. funded through company and employee contributions and It helps them understand the risks of running away and address distributed by air to areas inaccessible by road. personal and family difficulties. Premier also donated a further US$100,000 to the Planned activities for 2011 Pakistan Red Crescent Society (PRCS) and US$150,000 Health, Safety and Environment to the Edhi Foundation. The PRCS used our funding as Premier is currently exploring a project with Aberdeen Cyrenians to part of their programme to provide a food packages for refurbish its training suite. The Cyrenians work to meet the needs one month to displaced families. Edhi Foundation used of people who are homeless and vulnerable in the community the donation as part of their rehabilitation programmes, through prevention and resettlement services that make a real including the provision of seed, fertilizer, material for house difference to the lives of individuals. reconstruction and the disbursement of a subsistence allowance to each of the affected families. Edhi Foundation Our community investment in Pakistan is a non-profit organisation that specialises in the provision of social services such as medical care, emergency services, As a shareholder in four non-operated production operations air ambulances, burial services, child welfare services and (Bhit, Kadanwari, Zamzama and Qadirpur; see Annual Report), training facilities for the disadvantaged. Premier Pakistan financially supports community projects Social Responsibility undertaken by our joint venture partners and also collaborates with the Pakistan Petroleum Exploration and Production Environment Companies Association (PPEPCA). During the 2010 reporting In 2010, Premier initiated two long-term environmental period, Premier also instigated a number of additional projects in conjunction with the Islamabad Capital community investment initiatives. This report includes only these Development Authority (CDA) and two established NGOs: additional initiatives funded by Premier. Himalayan Wildlife Foundation (HWF) and the Rotary Club Islamabad Green City (RCIGC). Both projects are in the Community investment in Pakistan totalled US$380,000 in 2010 vicinity of our Islamabad office and were identified for their (2009: US$40,000). contribution to social development and the local economy, in addition to environmental conservation. They also www.sff.co.uk contribute to CDA goals for Islamabad. Both projects are www.archway.org.uk Introduction ongoing and will continue in 2011. www.barnardos.org.uk www.oilandgasuk.co.uk www.aberdeen-cyrenians.org 12 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Community investment (continued) Islamabad natural stream restoration project Drinking water in large parts of Islamabad has become increasingly polluted following significant population growth upstream of the Fatima Jinnah Park. The natural stream restoration project involves the completion of a comprehensive survey of the main stream to identify sources of pollution and the development of a plan for the biological treatment and restoration of water courses. It also includes the landscaping of riverine banks to encourage tourist-related activities. Preand postmonsoon surveys were undertaken in 2010 in conjunction with the Environment Department of the International Islamic University in Islamabad. Environmental management at the Margalla Hills National Park The Margalla Hills National Park is inhabited by over 40,000 people. Many of these communities rely on the park resources for their livelihood e.g. animal grazing, use of trees for fuel and coal etc. This leads to ecosystem disruption as well as the pollution of land and streams including those that flow into Islamabad. This project aims to engage local communities in improved management of the Margalla Hills National Park. A comprehensive plan has also been initiated in conjunction with the CDA and HWF for the resettlement of communities that live in the park to an adjacent territory. This will provide villagers with key amenities such as drinking water, electricity, gas, education and health care facilities and will also help minimise the use of park resources. The location and size of land allocations as well as compensation eligibility was determined following Top Right Students at the Margalla Hills National Park, Pakistan a collaborative socio-economic survey conducted by Bottom Right Flood relief services, Pakistan the National Rural Support Programme (NRSP); an independent not for profit organisation. HWF and the NRSP also benchmarked all intended activities against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Labour Organisation covenants as well as relevant national legislation and the resettlement policies of international financial institutions. In addition to the social and infrastructural uplift of local communities, several training sessions were held for CDA environmental departments to further enhance their own park management capacity. The project also plans to set up an information centre and other tourist facilities in partnership with the CDA and HWF. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 13 Compliance Tables Assurance Our annual CSR programmes: Our community investment in Vietnam Premier Oil Pakistan also supports the following organisations Our community investment programme in Vietnam is guided through our regular annual donations: by the national socio-economic plan. This includes goals and programmes related to economic growth, poverty reduction, • Academic Chair: Premier funds an academic chair in the job creation, education and vocational skills development. Department of Petroleum and Gas Engineering at the Our work to date has brought benefits to many people as University of Engineering and Technology in Lahore. This a result of bridge and school building in remote areas, the is a leading national institution, with a particular focus on provision of scholarships and transport to assist poor children petroleum engineering. in school attendance, micro-credit and other initiatives. Finance • Care for Special Persons: Premier Pakistan provides monthly In 2010, we developed a medium-term Corporate Social donations to Care for Special Persons Foundation (CSPF). Responsibility (CSR) strategy and implementation plan CSPF is a local charity that provides education, training and for our Vietnam operations covering the period of 2011psychotherapy to the mental and physically handicapped. 2013. This included engagement with Premier Vietnam employees to identify the following as our key focus areas: In addition to the above independently funded initiatives, Premier development of young people, helping poor communities Oil Pakistan also contributes its share of the CSR costs for projects Health, Safety and Environment and the protection of environment. The delivery of undertaken by the operators of our four joint ventures in the sustained and effective programmes in each of these areas respective local communities. relies heavily on our continued engagement of reliable partner organisations. Engagements and plans for 2011 Community investment in Vietnam totalled US$160,000 in All of the above projects will continue in 2011. This includes our 2010 (2009: US$90,000). engagement with the CDA, HWF and RCIGC on stream restoration and in the Margalla Hills National Park. In 2011, the CDA and HWF will progressively move from community engagement activities Education of disadvantaged children and development of the resettlement framework and plan, to Premier Oil Vietnam has a long-term partnership with town planning and development of the new town. The shifting of Friends For Street Children (FFSC) in Ho Chi Minh City. Social Responsibility households is not expected until 2013, allowing sufficient time for FFSC provides educational, vocational training and health communities and households to plan for the transition. care to disadvantaged children of poor families aged from 4 to 17. This allows younger children to integrate into junior http://hwf.org.pk public high schools and older children to find meaningful http://nrsp.org.pk employment. Our work in the past has included the www.cda.gov.pk provision of enhanced health care programmes as well as www.edhifoundation.com the organisation of educational development classes. www.ppepca.com www.prcs.org.pk www.rotary3270.org Recognition Introduction In 2010, Premier Oil Vietnam received two awards: • The Saigon Times Top 40s Award 2009, Vietnam (for Environmental Excellence and CSR programmes)4 • The Global CSR Award 2010, Singapore (Silver Award for Environmental Excellence) 4 Recognises the “top 40” companies in Vietnam for environmental and proactive CSR programmes. 14 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Community investment (continued) In 2010, we delivered on our commitment to providing Capacity and skills development adolescents supported by FFSC with enhanced vocational Premier Oil Vietnam also works to enhance the capacity of training and “soft skills”. This included the funding of Vietnamese organisations and nationals. In 2010, we sponsored education and healthcare for 550 children at the FFSC two representatives from the Nghe An Department of Agriculture Binh Tho and Binh Trieu development centres. The and Rural Development to participate in our seismic and drilling Premier country manager also delivered workshops to campaigns. This included the funding of each delegate to obtain older (and ex-) street children addressing personal financial offshore safety and health certificates so that they could be offshore management and life planning. This was supplemented observing the seismic survey. In addition to building individual and with funding for personal development programmes and local government capability relating to safety, project appraisal and a leadership workshop to enhance FFSC organisational licensing, the engagement also helped demonstrate the Premier competence. Premier also covered the cost of insurance commitment to health safety and environment. for 65 FFSC staff, provided equipment for the new Binh An development centre which opened in 2010, and funded the rebuilding and legal registration of the Le Employee volunteering Minh Xuan Development Centre. The total investment by Each of these charities and events are also supported by Premier Premier Oil in FFSC was US$68,000. employees, contractors and spouses in their personal capacity. Examples include sponsoring children via FFSC or SCC and volunteering “Your kind and generous support is very meaningful for at both organisations, for example as English language teachers, our children who previously lacked the chances to get helping at the annual trip to the water park for 1,800 disadvantaged access to social resources, and through your support is children, and assisting at a Premier-funded circus show for disabled also a motivation and encouragement for us to serve the and street children. Premier employees participated in a raffle to fund disadvantaged children. We know that we are not alone education access for disadvantaged children in Ba Ria Vung Tau as part in achieving our mission, which is to bring a better life to of the Swindell Fund project, which was actively supported by consultants disadvantaged children and poor people.” Sr. Marie Le Thi to Premier who were managing the Chim Sao facilities project. Thao, FFSC, Executive Director “Our investments in FFSC have been highly effective Emergency relief: flooding enabling children to gain self-confidence and life Following the flooding in Ninh Thuan Province in November skills. For many this is about not only studying but also 2010, Premier employees again demonstrated their individual overcoming poverty, trauma and (if living in a warm concern. A call to support four flood affected communities in shelter or disabled) stigma.” Phil MacLaurin, Premier Oil this central province of Vietnam resulted in more than US$2,500 Country Manager, Vietnam being donated from personal contributions. This was matched by the company with total donations of US$5,000 passed to Premier also supports the Saigon Children’s Charity local communities by the local Bao Hoa Charity and a Premier (SCC) by providing scholarships for 34 pupils in Can Gio employee. This donation forms part of our continued commitment District of Ho Chi Minh City. Each child receives 10kg of to emergency relief, infrastructure and bridge development where rice, uniforms, books, notebooks and pens for a school rivers isolate many of the poorest communities. We have now year. During the 2010 calendar year we opened two new invested in the construction of six new bridges. Bao Hoa Charity classrooms built by SCC in partnership with Premier Oil at assists with the implementation of our investments by engaging a school in Tay Ninh; this included the planting of trees and reputable contractors, ensuring ethical payment practices and local installation of playing equipment to improve the learning labour as well as liaising with local populations and authorities. environment for pupils. www.ffschcm.org Planned activities for 2011 www.saigonchildren.com Our work in 2011 will continue to focus on the development of young people in Vietnam. This includes working with both FFSC and SCC. It will also include work on environmental coastal protection to enhance the natural ecology of inter-tidal zones and improve the livelihoods of coastal populations. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 15 Compliance Tables Assurance Finance Health, Safety and Environment Social Responsibility Introduction Both Students at the Binh Trieu development project, Vietnam 16 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Human resources Employment Our policy Policy and handbook reviews We aim to provide our staff with safe working conditions Premier aims to expand its operations globally in three distinct as well as just and competitive terms of employment. areas of geography: Asia, the Middle East and the North Sea. This, This means respect for the individual regardless of ethnic in accordance with corporate targets, includes significantly more origin, creed, age or gender. We are an equal opportunities exploration and production than in previous years. The continued employer. We aim to recruit, train and promote from within evolution of our business requires ongoing, annual review of our the country of operation. We respect the right of individual Employment Policy and the associated human resources guidelines employees to join a legitimate trade union. Through training contained in our employee handbooks. These handbooks continue and appraisal, we encourage staff to develop their own to be updated as part of our ongoing review process both at professional skills to the mutual advantage of both the corporate level as well as for each of the business units. This individual and company. includes ensuring alignment of country specific handbooks with relevant local legislation and statutory requirements such as the Premier is committed to upholding the principles of the new Bribery Act in the United Kingdom (p22). United Nations Global Compact. Its labour standards Principles are derived from the International Labour Upgrading our e-learning tools Organization (ILO) Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This report provides evidence of our commitment to In 2010, Premier also implemented a group-wide human resources these principles. information system that covers all operations worldwide as well as directly employed contractors. This allows consistent reporting, There were no reported violations of our Employment accounting and monitoring of employee metrics and statistics Policy in 2010. There were also no reported incidents of for the first time. We also designed and developed an e-learning discrimination or formal grievance procedures reported system that will be rolled out to all employees during 2011. This in 2010. will include mandatory training against the employee handbooks and other relevant human resources policies, human rights as www.premier-oil.com well as our new Code of Conduct and related content on anticorruption, fraud and whistle blowing. Training modules will be implemented throughout 2011 and assessed to ensure participants have understood each work module. Employee engagement Premier engaged workers in a survey on their satisfaction with company employment practices in 2008. A follow up survey will be carried out 2011; now also allowing employees to feedback on the revised handbooks, centralised database and reporting tools as well as the effectiveness and relevance of our new training modules. This is in addition to the informal and ongoing engagement between employees and their line managers as well as with local human resources functions. Further engagements are expected annually. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 17 Compliance Tables Below Gajah Baru facility, Indonesia Assurance Our policy is to encourage free communication between employees and their managers to ensure that questions and problems arising during the course of employment can be aired and where possible resolved quickly and to the satisfaction of all concerned. A formal, confidential grievance procedure is available where employees feel uncomfortable raising concerns through informal discussion and the normal management channels; and will not prejudice the aggrieved employee’s current employment or future career prospects. Our external whistle blowing hotline (p23) further ensures employees are able to raise such issues without any Finance fear of recrimination. Employee numbers At the end of 2010, Premier had 573 (2009: 499) permanent employees with the majority located in the United Kingdom and Asia. This represents an increase of 15% compared to 2009, due Health, Safety and Environment mainly to the expansion of our operations in Indonesia, the North Sea and Vietnam. This includes an increased number of skilled employees across various disciplines such as drilling, engineering, geoscience and other specialist support functions. This last year also saw a significant increase in contractors at our Indonesian operations (from 49 to 121) and in the North Sea (from 5 to 64). This reflects the significant increase in our exploration, drilling and project development activities. The total number of contractors at Premier operations grew from 149 to 242, increasing the number of personnel at our offices and operations to over 800 by the end of 2010. Social Responsibility Introduction 18 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Employment (continued) Figure 4: Employees by core country Location 2008 Turnover 2009 Turnover 2010 Turnover Indonesia 316 (11) 304 (23) 327 (35) Norway 15 (2) 14 (2) 23 (8) Pakistan 14 (1) 17 (2) 15 (1) Vietnam 41 (0) 50 (0) 62 (2) United Kingdom 56 (2) 114 (3) 132 (8) Singapore n/a (n/a) n/a (n/a) 14 (1) Total 442 (16) 499 (30) 573 (1) Pay and benefits Figure 5: Numbers of employees and contractors5 Our strategy is to provide a superior remuneration Employees Contractors package in return for superior demonstrated performance. All employees earn more than their respective country’s 800 minimum wage, with wage agreements agreed with 700 relevant unions where applicable (p20). All contracts 242 of employment include information on roles and 600 responsibilities, hours of work, conditions of employment, 149 500 intellectual property stipulations and non-disclosure and 89 confidentiality obligations. The terms of employment 400 are explained to all new employees during the offer of 573 employment process, and on the first day of work during 300 442 499 the induction process. 200 A performance management and appraisal system is 100 in place for all employees, including regular review 0 against performance targets set at the beginning of 2008 2009 2010 each calendar year and is monitored through regular dialogue and feedback from managers. The appraisal system enables an individual performance rating that is normalised and calibrated against group-wide data to inform salary and bonus recommendations. At the end of the year, performance against those targets is assessed and a recommendation on performance made by the line manager. At the end of 2010, all of our employees received annual reviews. 5 The term “contractors” relates to individuals employed directly by Premier but on a fixed term contract often related to project delivery. It does not include contractors hired by suppliers such as those involved in the construction of rigs in Indonesia or Vietnam or cleaning services. Note: all of the above groups are included in our health and safety statistics. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 19 Compliance Tables Assurance Review of banding and salaries Bonus and Long Term Incentive (LTI) schemes This last year saw a significant review of our employee grading, Premier recognises outstanding performance through pay and benefits schemes. These are now consistent across all employee reward programmes. Annual non-pensionable operations, geographies and business units. Premier is working and discretionary bonuses may be paid to all employees with an independent organisation to confirm banding, salary on the achievement of a challenging range of corporate and benefits packages are competitive both locally and globally, and individual targets that are set by the Remuneration to ensure we attract and retain the right skills for our growing Committee each year. The company also offers operational and value chain footprint. Any new bandings and employees eligibility into various discretionary LTI grading will be communicated to employees during 2011. We schemes including a Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), a continue to pay top-quartile base salaries in each country of Share Incentive Plan (SIP), a Save As You Earn Scheme Finance operation where this is supported by individual performance. (SAYE) for employees based in the United Kingdom and expatriate employees only and a historical Asset and Premier provides a set of core benefits including bonuses and Equity Plan (AEP). The Remuneration Committee also pensions to all permanent employees. The precise manner in how has discretion to grant Conditional Share Awards to new these and further benefits are implemented may differ in each employees. Further details on bonus and performance country depending on national employment legislation and local related pay schemes are contained in the remuneration Health, Safety and Environment circumstances. Benefits provided to employees could include: section of the Annual Report. • Leave Local employment • Sick leave Premier’s strategy is to employ nationals wherever they • Maternity, paternity and adoption leave are suitably qualified, and to invest in the development of their skills, knowledge and experience to enhance • Medical and dental insurance their effectiveness at all levels within the organisation. • Annual medical assessments Nationals regularly occupy senior roles including those of chief accountant, human resource manager, HSE • Medical and emergency assistance manager, senior drilling engineer, as well as senior • Pension plans geoscientists and project engineers. Premier is also looking Social Responsibility to progressively transfer expatriate manager roles (those • Life insurance employed on overseas contracts) to nationals. This last • Permanent health insurance year also saw significant recruitment of nationals in all countries especially Indonesia and Vietnam; leading to • Business travel insurance an eight percentage point increase in the group-wide • Personal accident insurance percentage of local employees (Figure 6). This process is now also being formally tracked as part of our overall • Long service awards recruitment programme and ongoing commitment to the nationalisation of various roles within the business units. Individual and family medical benefits are managed through each individual operation. Benefits are available to both full and part time employees on a pro rata basis. Introduction 20 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Employment (continued) Succession planning Figure 6: National (local) vs. international (expatriate) employee profile (percentage workforce) In 2010, Premier also committed to the implementation of a succession management programme for senior managers, National International including both national and international staff. This included the identification of potential successors for all key positions. 100% 12% 12% 4% Individuals from across the group were invited to submit 90% their views on who might be their best replacement in the 80% next three to five years. This same group of senior managers also completed a 360° appraisal process. This included 70% interaction with a third party to obtain insight into personal 60% work experiences, development goals and objectives. The 96% 50% results have been collated and communicated to our CEO, 88% 88% ExCo and the Board Nominations Committee. The human 40% resources function is now working together with ExCo to 30% devise an implementation plan including tailored capacity 20% building, experiential learning and individual development plans for future leaders. An equivalent process for 10% succession management will be rolled out for each business 0% unit in 2011. 2008 2009 2010 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Forced labour and child labour Premier employees tend to occupy either administrative Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact office-based or highly technical roles and are paid recognises the need to eliminate all forms of forced and significantly more than the minimum wage. We comply compulsory labour. No incidents of such labour were recorded with all local legislation regarding collective bargaining at our operations in 2010. The United Nations Global Compact with only Indonesia currently having a formal Collective also promotes the abolition of child labour. No incidents of child Labour Agreement (2008-2010) between the local labour labour were recorded in any of our operations in 2010. None of union and the company. The agreement regulates all our operations have been identified as posing potential child employee terms and conditions specific to Indonesia labour risks. including wage scales, working hours, overtime, shift work, national holidays and annual leave, health, safety, medical treatment and training. Indonesia’s 327 employees represent 57% of the total Premier permanent workforce. There is limited unionisation in the North Sea region given the extensive use of third party contractor firms. Premier provides its employees and their elected representatives (where relevant) with one month’s notice regarding any significant operational changes that might affect them. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 21 Compliance Tables Assurance Recruiting, developing and retaining talent Figure 7: Average hours of training per year (per employee)6 Premier provides support to all employees in their personal 30 development to enable them to be more productive contributors to the business. This includes mentoring and coaching processes, e-learning, as well as part-time and full-time training courses 25 depending on the need in each location (Figure 7 and Figure 8). We monitor the training provided to employees around a set of 20 individual development objectives. Training may include structured 29.83 internal and external training programmes, short courses, professional qualifications such as MSc and MBA credentials. 15 Finance 26.83 30.23 Further opportunities may include specifically tailored leadership 10 and development programmes for those transitioning to general management roles. These are now aligned with our succession management plan. Premier is also implementing a group-wide 5 competency framework with the specific aim of enhancing Health, Safety and Environment individual skills and core competencies. Specialist human resources 0 teams have been hired in Indonesia and at our North Sea 2008 2009 2010 operations to focus on learning competency and training of key employees as we continue to explore, develop and operate new oil and gas fields. Figure 8: Average hours of training per year (per employee) There was a slight increase in the average number of training 60 57 hours per employee in 2010; with comparatively higher amounts 51 of training at our Vietnam and North Sea (Aberdeen and 50 Norway) operations. This reflects both the increased project 40 pipeline in these geographies as well as the stringent regulatory 40 requirements in the North Sea region. Our target is to achieve an Social Responsibility average of 40 hours training per person per calendar year. 30 27 27 23 20 16 10 0 Indonesia Norway Pakistan Vietnam Aberdeen London Singapore Introduction 6 Excludes training hour information from the United Kingdom for 2009 and 2008 figures. Our United Kingdom operations did however spend £120,000 on training in 2009 (2008: £186,000) at an average of £2,263 per head (2008: £3,313). 22 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Business ethics Integrity, honesty and fairness are fundamental to Ensuring local relevance the way we conduct our business. We are committed The Code and underlying policies will be translated into the to transparency in all our dealings. As part of this national language of each country in which Premier operates. commitment, we will not engage in any activities that Where differences in content exist as a result of local customs, undermine the legitimate business environment, including laws or regulations, the global requirement is applied unless local bribery or corruption in any form. requirements set a higher standard. Our global Code of Conduct Dissemination and training Premier has developed a global Code of Conduct that Our General Counsel will deliver training workshops on the supports the existing Business Ethics and Conduct Code and its requirements to senior managers at all Premier Policy. The new Code continues to be informed by and operations worldwide in 2011. These will be supplemented by is compliant with the Bribery Act 2010 and its evolving similar workshops to relevant functional areas including the legal, guidance in the United Kingdom. It applies to all contracts, procurement, logistics and human resources functions. employees, at every level in the business and all those A further online training facility has been developed and will be associated with Premier; all of whom are required to implemented with all existing employees during the course of behave ethically and with personal integrity. This includes 2011. All new employees are expected to complete the ethics adhering to laws in the countries where we operate, training programme within one month of joining the company. performing our duties in accordance with the Code, Training will be repeated annually and monitored by the human and disclosing all potential and actual conflicts between resources department (p16). A briefing on the content of the Code personal interests and those of Premier. is also included in the induction programme for all new employees and consultants. The Code covers the following key issue areas: • Anti-bribery Anti-corruption • Gifts and hospitality Premier prohibits bribery and corruption in any form by all employees and those working for and/or connected with the • Charitable and political donations business. This includes facilitation payments. Premier avoids • Intermediaries accepting hospitality or gifts that might place it under an obligation. All business transactions must be properly recorded • Facilitation payments and accounted for. We expect the same ethical standards to be applied in all our business relationships in all areas of operation The Code of Conduct includes policies for each of the and we promote our Code of Conduct and associated Anti-Bribery above areas with which each individual must comply. Any Policy with all our business associates. Employees are expected to breach of this Code will result in disciplinary action, and report bribery or attempted bribery to their direct managers, even in extreme cases may result in instant dismissal. The Audit if only suspected or attempted. and Risk Committee review effectiveness of the Code and consider any amendments at least once a year. No incidents of corruption were identified in 2010. www.justice.gov.uk/publications/bribery-bill.htm Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 23 The Code should be read and followed by every employee and every party who represents Premier. It, and the more detailed Compliance Tables policies and procedures it refers to, form part of Premier’s conduct of business policies and will be rigorously enforced. Simon Lockett, Chief Executive Officer, Premier Oil plc Assurance Ongoing risk assessment Public policy and government relations Our Code and its supporting policies apply equally in all Premier is transparent in its dealings with government, countries and for all areas of the business. All of our business communities and civil society organisations. This increases units are analysed for risks relating to corruption. Some are more trust and leads to the development of enduring, open exposed than others, with higher levels of exposure in Indonesia, relationships. Premier does not and has not made any Mauritania, Pakistan and Vietnam. The different levels and areas political donations or contributions during the of risk in each country help inform our training requirements. reporting period. All Premier business units are also subject to audit to monitor compliance with our policy. Premier is a member of a number of local industry bodies, some of which participate in lobbying activities. Examples Finance include the Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP), Intermediaries and joint ventures Oil and Gas UK Limited and the Pakistan Petroleum Premier sometimes uses intermediaries, agents or other Exploration and Production Companies Association. independent parties in its engagements with government, government agencies, other oil and gas companies or third party service providers. These individuals are appointed according to our Compliance Health, Safety and Environment Intermediaries Policy including due diligence screening procedures Premier has not been subject to any fines or non-monetary relating to anti-corruption and other business ethics issues. This sanctions for legal non-compliance, or for any legal actions may include third party references, company searches and further relating to business ethics or anti-competitive behaviour investigations when required. Such intermediaries are also formally during the 2010 calendar year. obliged to adhere to our Code of Conduct and its associated requirements as part of our standard contract clauses, and they Culture of transparency will, if appropriate, receive training on the obligations of the policy. Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they Suppliers and contractors feel the company or anyone working on behalf of the Premier’s suppliers and contractors play a critical role in our company has not acted in accordance with our Code of business. We make decisions about the purchase of goods and Conduct and associated policies. Social Responsibility services not only on the basis of price, quality, delivery, service and reputation, but also on the business ethics, environmental, Individuals are able to report potential breaches of safety and human rights record of suppliers. Those who work on policy without fear of recrimination; and can do so in the the selection of suppliers and contractors are required to always knowledge their report will be promptly and properly make their recommendation on contract award to the appropriate investigated. Due regard will be given throughout the internal body based on merit. They are also required to avoid investigation to the maintenance of confidentiality. conflicts of interest, such as personal relationships, inappropriate gifts and entertainment, or any other kind of favouritism that might Confidential third party hotline compromise selection. Our tender process requires those that act as suppliers or contractors to document their compliance with and We recognise that in certain circumstances employees commitment to our Code of Conduct. might not feel comfortable talking to their line manager, Introduction and for these instances Premier provides a confidential and We understand that local, social, political and cultural conditions well-publicised third party reporting hotline that is available may present challenges for our business partners to conform to 24 hours a day, seven days a week. No reports were made our standards immediately. In such circumstances we will look for through this service in 2010 or at any point over the last evidence of their commitment to work towards such standards, three years. and will withdraw from relationships where no positive progress is made over time. 24 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Health, Safety and Environment Our policy framework Message from our CEO to employees Health, Safety and Environment Policy One of my duties is to ensure Premier Oil is committed to operating responsibly and will never knowingly compromise our health, we all remain committed to safety or environmental standards to meet our behaving responsibly in every part of operational objectives. our business. Our goals to protect the Our goals are to ensure the safety of everyone environment and to continually improve involved with our operations and to protect the environment. the safety of everyone involved with our operations reflect how seriously I To achieve this we will: take this responsibility. Achieving these • Encourage open and honest communication goals goes beyond legal compliance; • Seek ways to continually improve our performance • Assess and manage risks it demands that we all commit to • Provide appropriate resources excellence and at the very least adopt • Maintain clean, safe and healthy workplaces industry best practice. • Investigate and learn from any incidents • Plan and prepare for potential emergencies I believe that our performance comes • Maintain high quality documented systems and processes from the behaviours and actions of our • Seek external certification of key people. We are all responsible for Health, management systems • Meet or surpass statutory requirements Safety and Environment and I expect It is the responsibility of everybody involved in everyone to follow procedures, seek to Premier to comply with our Policies and to assist the improve procedures where this would Company in their implementation. lead to improved HSE management, intervene when you see unsafe acts and report all hazards and incidents. This is the right thing to do and a fundamental part of everyone’s job. It underpins the respect that we are all required to show to our colleagues, partners, neighbours and the environment. Simon Lockett, Chief Executive Officer, Premier Oil plc Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 25 Compliance Tables Assurance In 2010, Premier implemented and communicated a new Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Policy at all operations worldwide. This new policy was developed as part of our planned review and continuous improvement process. The review simplified our policy, enabling it to be more clearly communicated across the company through a set of posters, messaging and our new HSE slogan. Revising this HSE Policy represents the first step in a thorough review of our entire HSE management system, which will be undertaken in 2011. Leadership and communication The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Board are personally Finance committed to achieving excellence in HSE performance and fully support the HSE Policy and implementation of its associated management system. Our Chief Executive Officer personally presented and introduced the new policy to employees; using this as an opportunity to renew and drive a step change in our commitment Health, Safety and Environment to HSE, calling on everybody involved in Premier to be visible champions of HSE and to do our level best to improve performance. This is further supported by an e-learning module that will be implemented in 2011 (p16). The release of this new policy also enabled us to address a decline in safety performance in the last quarter of 2010. Dedicated HSE teams coordinate implementation of the policy, develop and maintain the associated management systems and ensure there is Top Drilling at Chim Sáo facility, Vietnam clear line accountability. This includes the identification of a group-wide Bottom Members of our group HSE team, London senior manager responsible for addressing HSE issues in all activities. The group HSE manager is further supported by senior level individuals Social Responsibility in each of our key operations including in the North Sea and Asia. Team performance contracts are prepared for each operational function and asset team and individual performance contracts are set for individuals whose leadership and commitment is required to influence HSE performance. At an operational level, senior managers and supervisors are tasked with ensuring HSE matters maintain a high profile and that their personal commitment is visible to the workforce. These key people are members of our HSE forum and are supported by regular communication on HSE issues such as company-wide Safety Alerts after each high potential incident. Introduction All of our production operations have established joint health and safety committees. Our drilling and construction operations have HSE advisors supported by national safety officers. They conduct regular safety meetings to discuss health and safety issues with employees. We also require our employees and contractors working offshore to undertake a medical assessment every two years in accordance with Oil and Gas UK Guidelines for Medical Aspects of Fitness for Offshore Work. Together these measures ensure we are continuously reviewing our processes, procedures and practices and are aligned with best practice. 26 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Our policy framework (continued) Figure 9: Tiered hierarchy of our HSE management system Corporate Policy Corporate Standards & Guidance Business Unit (BU) Policy Corporate Industry Practices BU Standards Procedures and Procedures & Guidance BU Procedures Contractor Contractor Standards Policy & Guidance Contractor Procedures HSE management system Our HSE management system ensures clear assignment of responsibilities, sound risk management and decision making, efficient and cost effective planning, as well as legal compliance at all operations. The system is designed to ensure that every employee, contractor and individual on our operations understands company rules and expectations, and to facilitate continuous improvement in our performance. The system is based on the industry model prepared by the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP). Our corporate policy is supported by a number of standards. A total of 20 Premier HSE Standards are aligned with the seven OGP categories including leadership and commitment, policy and strategic objectives, organisation and resources, evaluation and risk management, planning, implementation and monitoring as well as audit and review. Each area of our business (e.g. drilling, project execution, production, exploration and office facilities) embeds these HSE standards within its core business management system. Above Balmoral platform, North Sea These are further enhanced by regular engagement and sharing of best practice with industry bodies such as OGP, Oil and Gas UK, Step Change as well as the Health and Safety Executive in the United Kingdom. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 27 Compliance Tables HSE targets and continuous improvement Management, audit and assurance Assurance Our HSE management system ensures resources are available As part of the HSE management system, Premier to deliver performance at all operations and that performance implements an ongoing process of both internal and is subject to regular review. It also requires the annual review of external review and audit. This includes external audits performance and the setting of targets for the following year. and certifications to OHSAS 18001 (on health and The management system prescribes how these targets will be safety management) and ISO 14001 (on environmental monitored and measured across our global operations. These management) for production and drilling. targets also apply to major contractors working for or on behalf of Premier. Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling and since 2006 for our Finance A suite of corporate procedures are set by the HSE department Indonesian production operations. In 2010, we completed to further facilitate the implementation of policy and monitoring a number of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 surveillance of performance. These include project safety review, safety case, and certification audits on our production and drilling incident reporting as well as emergency response etc. In addition operations. Global drilling and Indonesia production to an updated policy, our HSE management system was further retained their certifications. Balmoral retained ISO updated in 2010 to include corporate procedures for conducting 14001 and gained OHSAS 18001. Our future production Health, Safety and Environment project safety reviews, preparing safety cases, establishing operations in Indonesia (Gajah Baru) and Vietnam (Chim verification schemes and conducting environmental ALARP Sáo) have completed pre-operational pre-assessment assessments. These assessments look to reduce our impacts to As audits with a view to being OHSAS 18001 and ISO Low As Reasonably Practicable (ALARP). 14001 compliant when they start producing in 2011 and 2012 respectively. This last year has also seen the upgrading of our Electronic Accident and Incident Reporting System (EARS) including www.ogp.org.uk enhanced monitoring and reporting relating to action close-outs. www.oilandgasuk.co.uk In 2010, Premier also developed a new action tracking system www.hse.gov.uk that logs proactive actions arising from inspections, audits and the ongoing identification of risks and events. This Proactive Actions Tracking System (PATS) has already been rolled out to the North Social Responsibility Sea area and will be progressively implemented across all our operations in 2011. Premier does not sell oil or gas products to the general public. We sell oil to the market and gas to defined users. Material Safety Data Sheets are prepared for our crude oil, and gas products, where relevant. Introduction 28 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Health and safety Occupational health and safety Our performance in 2010 Each year we benchmark our operations against OGP’s In 2010, we worked 8.8 million man-hours (0.7 million in drilling). annual safety performance averages in order to inform This represents a 130% increase on the previous year (2009: 3.8 the identification of group-wide and function-specific million man-hours of which 0.3 million were in drilling) and is safety targets for the following year. The Board agrees mainly due to the ongoing construction of our Gajah Baru and our annual targets and these form part of any employee Chim Sáo operations in Indonesia and Vietnam respectively. Most bonus award. Targets are monitored and measured of these man hours (7.7 million) were worked by contractors on monthly, reviewed quarterly by the Executive Committee our operations. and reported to the Board. For the last seven years we set a 10% year-on-year improvement goal, relating to High potential incidents Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) and Restricted Work Day Cases (RWDCs), as well as a stretch target of a further 10% This last year saw a net reduction in high potential incidents per improvement. All of our safety performance data includes million man-hours from 2.10 to 1.59 (Figure 10). The reduction in both Premier employees and (directly and indirectly frequency, despite a small increase in the number of incidents, was employed) contractors on our operations. largely due to the additional man-hours accrued in the construction of our Gajah Baru and Chim Sáo operations. Our assessment of each In 2007, we began to look more closely at incidents that incident found the current HIPO matrix and classification structure had High Potential (HIPO).7 Building on this work, in 2008 to include those without the potential to cause significant harm, we set our first Key Performance Indicator (KPI) for their which led to the restructuring of our matrix (Figure 11). Our HIPO frequency. This new High Potential Incident Frequency Frequency target for 2011 is 3.40 (2010: 3.77). (HIPOF) target is now measured monthly. In 2009, we also began to focus on our Total Recordable Injury Frequency Total recordable injuries (TRIF) history. This measure captures all LTI, RWDC and less significant Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) per million As a group we have consistently out-performed our annual LTI and man-hours. It thus helps benchmark our performance RWDC frequency targets. In 2010, for the first time in seven years, against a more rigorous assessment of performance we under-performed against these targets. This was largely due to independent of injury severity. We also monitor all an increased number of relatively minor restricted workday cases incidents of occupational illness and none were reported many of which were hand injuries. Premier has since introduced in 2010. a “hands off loads” initiative on all of its contracted drilling rigs that prohibits lifting and rigging crews from handling suspended From 2011, TRIF will be our main KPI in addition to loads without the use of “push pull” sticks or tag lines at all times. HIPOF. This decision is partly to align with the industry Armoured gloves designed to protect hands from crush injuries wide trend of improved safety performance but also to were also introduced on all drilling operations. enable ongoing comparison with other OGP companies. Premier will also implement a new health and safety target This last year also saw one very unfortunate fatality amongst framework for 2011; with our main target being to align our contracted workforce at the Chim Sáo drilling operations with the OGP median and our stretch target to align with in Vietnam. This represents a totally unacceptable lapse in the top 25% of companies. Our new TRIF target for 2011 performance; and we extend our most sincere condolences to is less than 2.0 injuries per million man-hours. family, friends and colleagues of the deceased. The fatality was thoroughly investigated by Premier, the contracting companies as well as the relevant authorities; and analysed to establish both cause and remedy. A joint safety alert was issued to the International Association of Drilling Contractors (IADC). Thirty-eight mitigating actions in 13 specific areas where identified. All actions are being tracked by local and group HSE departments with ongoing reporting on progress to our Executive Committee and the Board. Our fatal accident/incident rate for 2010 was 0.11. 7 A HIPO includes any event that might lead to significant injuries, environmental damage, property damage or security breaches. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 29 Compliance Tables Assurance Figure 10: Key safety parameters and indicators Parameter 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Man-hours 3,159,678 3,841,305 2,528,806 3,803,876 8,817,234 Fatalities 1 1 0 0 1 Lost Time Injuries (LTI) 3 2 1 2 5 Restricted Work Day Cases (RWDC) 0 4 0 0 9 Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) 4 9 2 3 10 High Potential Incidents (HIPO) 11 21 7 8 14 Finance Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) Target LTI/RWDC Frequency 2.10 1.90 1.72 1.55 1.40 (per million man-hours) Health, Safety and Environment Actual LTI/RWDC Potential Risk Frequency 1.27 1.86 0.40 0.55 1.70 (per million man-hours) Low Medium High Target High Potential Incident (HIPO) N/A N/A 4.58 4.15 3.77 Potential Frequency Severity (per million man-hours) Potential Frequency 1 2 3 4 5 Actual High Potential Incident Level (HIPO) Rarely 3.50 Yearly 5.50 Monthly2.00 2.10 Daily 1.59 Frequently Frequency (per million man-hours) 1 Slight Total Recordable Injuries Frequency 2.50 3.40 0.80 1.10 2.84 Minor 2(TRIF) (per million man-hours) 3 Significant Note: All safety statistics include both Premier employees and contractors. Premier uses the same definition for LTI, RWDC and MTC as the OGP Social Responsibility where LTIs are identified as “a fatality or lost workday case and the number of LTIs is the sum of fatalities and lost workday cases.” OGP defines 4 Major RWDCs as “any work-related injury other than a fatality or lost work day case which results in a person being unfit for full performance of the regular job on any day after the occupational injury” and where individuals might be assigned to other work or perform a restricted set of duties. 5 Extensive MTCs are “cases that are not severe enough to be reported as fatalities or lost work day cases or restricted work day cases but are more severe than requiring simple first aid treatment.” Figure 11: Incident potential risk matrix Potential risk Low Medium High Potential severity Potential frequency Introduction 1 2 3 4 5 Level Rarely Yearly Monthly Daily Frequently 1 Slight 2 Minor 3 Significant 4 Major 5 Extensive 30 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Health and safety (continued) Figure 12: Lost Time Injury (LTI) and Restricted Workday (RW) frequency benchmarking 8 Premier Premier OGP (target) (actual) average 2.50 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Figure 13: Total Recordable Injury (TRI) frequency benchmarking Premier (actual) OGP average 3.50 3.00 2.50 Above Review of our safety cases at the Anoa platform, Indonesia 2.00 1.50 1.00 0.50 0.00 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Figure 14: High Potential Incident (HIPO) Frequency Premier (target) Premier (actual) 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 8 OGP averages for 2010 are calculated in May of each following year and subsequent to the production of this report. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 31 All of our oil spill response plans are approved by local authorities. They are regularly tested and periodically audited by Compliance Tables external organisations. Paul Dennis, Group HSE and Security Manager, Premier Oil plc Process safety Assurance Safety cases and asset integrity Process safety is different from occupational health and safety Safety cases are in place at Anoa in Indonesia and that relates largely to the management of personal safety. It Balmoral in the North Sea as well as at our assets still focuses instead on the design and engineering of facilities to in the construction and installation stage i.e. Gajah Baru prevent fires, explosions or accidental chemical releases, as well and Chim Sáo. This safety case regime is aligned with as on maintenance and operation. This includes the prevention the regulated standards in the United Kingdom. We of leaks, oil spills, equipment malfunction, over-pressures, overbelieve this represents best practice, and it is our policy temperatures, corrosion, metal fatigue and other similar conditions. to have United Kingdom style safety cases in place for all our operated production facilities worldwide, even when they are not required by the local regulatory regime. Project Safety Reviews Finance Safety cases are developed during the project and Premier integrates process safety protocols into the Project become increasingly detailed as a project nears the Safety Reviews (PSRs) of all its projects. These reviews provide operation stage. Safety cases must be in place before assurance that material HSE issues have been identified and production commences. are being effectively managed throughout the project lifecycle. A typical project lifecycle will require six strategic reviews as a Health, Safety and Environment project moves from concept to construction and to operation (Figure 15). These PSRs align closely with our project approval gates, at which time strategic decisions are made to either progress a project further towards the “operations” stage or to delay or divest. Achieving the PSR requirement is a critical part of any sanction gate decision-making. PSR3, PSR4 and PSR5 are the most significant as they mark key financial milestones in the project lifecycle. Figure 15: Project safety reviews continue at all stages of the project pipeline Anoa Balmoral Social Responsibility 4 Operations Chim Sáo Gajah Baru HUC Ready for Project Production Sanction Installation Gate Concept Gate Fabrication/ Sanction Construction Project Gate Detailed Initiation 3 Design Gate Feed 2 1 Concept Introduction PSR1 PSR2 PSR3 PSR4 PSR5 PSR6 Project safety review Note: FEED = Front End Engineering Design. IHUC = Installation Hook Up and Commissioning. 32 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Health and safety (continued) Figure 16: Barriers to prevent and measures to recover from major accidents Potential process safety accidents Riser pipeline releases Process hydrocarbon releases Fires Prevention Explosions Cargo tank explosions Safety cases Emergency Consequence Safe design Corrosion management Control Mitigation response Threats Detection Emergency Fire protection Emergency Level alarms Fire detection shutdown systems response Pressure alarms system training Pressure safety valves Gas detection Fire safety Pressure barriers Temporary Inert gas systems relief systems refuge Preventative maintenance Escape routes Lifeboats Each case includes a review and impact assessment Premier is also working to ensure all producing operations of the relevant process safety risks, the requirement to worldwide comply with the Asset Integrity Toolkit standard meet established safety benchmarks and the adoption of produced by the United Kingdom Offshore Operators further steps to reduce risks as far as is reasonably practical Association (UKOOA). (the ALARP principle). For the Gajah Baru and Chim Sáo developments, we are using our established project safety review process to ensure appropriate criteria and safety Process safety performance standards are achieved throughout the project lifecycle. For During 2010, there were no reported Loss of Primary Containment our operating assets these are reviewed every five years (LOPC) events of “greater consequence” (as defined in IPIECA to ensure continued compliance with the United Kingdom 2011). Such incidents are characterised as unintended process statutory requirement. These safety cases are reviewed by both safety events with severe consequences. These can include the local regulatory author and a competent independent multiple fatalities, widespread environmental impacts and/or verification body to assure the appropriateness of the significant property damage. There were 18 LOPC events of Performance Standards and the critical function testing regime. “lesser consequence” reported, which includes five gas leaks and the 13 spills described in the Environment section (p38). We are striving to ensure drilling contractors adopt the International Association of Drilling Contractors (IADC) HSE Case for all drilling operations, although this is not always Emergency preparedness possible in some of the regions in which we operate. All of our operations have emergency response plans which are In all cases, we ensure the integrity of our contracted continually reviewed. In 2010, we conducted a number of exercises drilling rigs at three stages before drilling commences. to test their effectiveness. These included emergency response Initially we conduct a high level review during the bidding exercises at Anoa and Balmoral and for each well drilled last year. stage to ensure the rig technical specifications meet We also conducted a business continuity exercise at our corporate our requirements. After selecting a rig we conduct a office in London. pre-hire audit. Before commencing drilling we conduct a Drilling Preparedness Review, which includes a more in-depth assessment of crew competence, maintenance management systems and the integrity of safety (e.g. blowout preventer) and environmental critical equipment. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 33 Compliance Tables Assurance In May 2010, Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) conducted a thorough on-site review of our capacity to respond to a major oil spill incident in the Anoa platform in Indonesia. The review found our facilities to have a relatively low risk of oil spills but recommended further understanding of the Anoa crude weathering and dispersability as well as more training for spill and emergency response equipment and improved dispersant spray systems. All of our oil spill response plans are approved by local authorities. Premier also supports work currently being undertaken by the Oil Finance Spill Prevention and Response Advisory Group (OSPRAG); that is reviewing industry practice in the United Kingdom in advance of conclusions from the Gulf of Mexico incident. OSPRAG provides direction and support to four specialist review groups whose remit is to focus on: technical issues including first response for the protection of personnel; oil spill response capability and remediation including national emergency response measures and Health, Safety and Environment well capping systems; indemnity and insurance requirements; panNorth Sea regulations and response mechanisms. Security All of our current exploration, drilling and production activity occurs offshore and away from local communities. Whilst our security services are not formally trained in our human rights policies or procedures, all such providers (including employees and contractors) are explicitly required to uphold our own Human Rights Policy as well as our Code of Conduct. Training modules Social Responsibility will be implemented for all relevant personnel in 2011 via our induction process and online training tools (p16). Further human rights requirements are also included in invitations to tender issued Top Our online Corporate Risks Register (CRR) enables the to all eligible external providers. Security audits were conducted at recording and management of business, health and safety our Jakarta and Islamabad offices in 2010. as well as other “social” risks Bottom PATS logs proactive safety actions arising from inspections, audits and the identification of risks and events Introduction 34 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Environment Environmental performance Environmental assessment, management and reporting forms a major part of Premier’s HSE risk management process. We conduct baseline surveys and Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) for each new operated activity. This involves an assessment of the physical, socio-economic and biological environments including biodiversity 9. We measure and review each impact in turn and gauge both its significance and how it can be reduced to as low as reasonably practicable by adopting Best Available Techniques (BAT), in line with our internal environmental ALARP process. Potential actions to improve environmental performance are screened based on cost, duration and impact to determine which are reasonably practicable for implementation. We periodically review these environmental impacts and actions for our existing facilities to ensure we comply with our policy of continuous improvement. Using best available techniques Above Anoa Natuna Floating Production Storage and Results of ESIAs and BAT assessments are integrated into facility Offloading (FPSO) vessel, Indonesia specific management and monitoring plans. The implementation of these plans is externally reviewed as part of our ongoing ISO 14001 certification process. We have applied this process to our Anoa production operations in Indonesia as well as our Chim Sáo project in Vietnam and Gajah Baru in Indonesia. This strategy led to replacement of halon at Anoa with FM-200; an ozone-friendly waterless fire suppression gas. Further such studies are undertaken to identify and reduce environmental impact for all new projects as well as for existing facilities where there is significant organisational or process changes. 9 Whilst included in previous Social Performance Reports, the current document excludes detailed reporting on biodiversity. Baseline surveys and ESIAs have found none of our existing operations to have significant impacts on the biological environment. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 35 Compliance Tables Assurance Environmental indicators and targets Our ambition is to reduce our impact year on year in line with our stated policy of continuous improvement to We report our environmental performance in line with the as low as reasonably practicable. We conduct periodic International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation reviews of our operations’ performance and identify Association (IPIECA) Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary where improvements can be made. Energy use on Sustainability Reporting 2010 (published in 2011). We then offshore production facilities and drilling rigs is generally benchmark our performance by contributing data to an industry driven by the original design of the facilities. New database compiled and published by the OGP. As an oil company facilities are designed with the best technology available with production facilities in the North Sea, we also participate in at the time. As a field matures, production decreases and the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) and submit fluid handling increases due to an increase in produced an annual, externally verified report on our emissions profile to the Finance water leading to an inevitable rise in the intensity of Department of Energy and Climate Change (DECC). In 2010, our emissions and discharges. Given a changing mix in age Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) score increased from 45 to 74 of facilities as we invest in both new developments and making Premier the second best reporting energy sector company acquisition of older facilities we do not set a corporate in the United Kingdom. environmental intensity improvement target year on year. Figure 17: Key environmental parameters and indicators Health, Safety and Environment Parameter 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 CO2 (tonnes) 259,970 201,463 207,791 271,435 327,607 CO (tonnes) 684 446 485 714 995 N2O (tonnes) 14 12 13 17 21 CH4 (tonnes) 1696 988 866 1,219 1,086 VOCs (tonnes) 736 426 379 542 513 NOx (tonnes) 929 667 908 1,427 2,563 Social Responsibility SOx (tonnes) 70 42 68 121 247 GHG (tonnes) 297,008 222,082 225,978 300,440 350,421 GHG (tonnes per 1,000 232 171 167 171 185 tonnes production) Introduction 36 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Environment (continued) Figure 18: Total operated greenhouse gas emissions Climate change and greenhouse (1,000 tonnes) gas emissions Flaring Fuel gas Diesel We manage our operations in accordance with our policy of 350 reducing our impact (including greenhouse gas emissions from 98 transport, power generation, flaring and venting) to as low as 300 reasonably practicable. This includes a focus on effective design 28 48 (including the adoption of new technologies where practicable), 250 efficient operation, and responsible energy use. 107 17 27 200 135 151 150 Direct emissions 162 112 118 100 Greenhouse gas emissions associated with hydrocarbon 116 101 combustion at our operated assets amounted to 350,421 50 tonnes in 2010 (2009: 300,000 tonnes). This increase in absolute 93 81 0 emissions from 2009 was largely due to the inclusion of our 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 North Sea assets for the first full calendar year. These operations (Balmoral and Shelly) were added in May 2009. Shelly ceased production in mid-July 2010. Our operated emissions intensity increased slightly to 185 tonnes per 1,000 tonnes of production Figure 19: Geenhouse gas emissions per unit of (2009: 171 tonnes per 1,000 tonnes of production). production (tonnes per 1,000 tonnes) 250 We calculate our greenhouse gas (CO2 equivalent or CO2e) 232 emissions both for operated assets and on an equity basis for production across our global portfolio. Greenhouse gas emissions 200 185 from flaring and fuel gas combustion associated with our full equity 171 167 171 portfolio amounted to 155 tonnes per 1000 tonnes production 150 (2009: 149 tonnes per 1,000 tonnes production). 100 SOx (sulphur oxides) emissions amounted to 247 tonnes in 2010 (2009: 121 tonnes). The majority of these emissions resulted from our production facilities and were mainly a consequence 50 of energy use and flaring. NOx (nitrogen oxides) emissions amounted to 2,563 tonnes in 2010 (2009: 1,427 tonnes). About 0 60% of these emissions resulted from our production facilities, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 with the remainder from diesel use during drilling. SOx and NOx intensity per unit of production (tonnes per 1,000 tonnes) remained stable. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 37 Compliance Tables Assurance Indirect emissions We are continuously making efforts to improve environmental performance at all our offices. At our London Head Office, for example, all electricity is supplied from renewable sources. We try to minimise the volume of “hard copy” company information (including the Annual Report) sent out to shareholders and stakeholders by encouraging them to receive this information electronically. We donate £1 to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers for e-communication. Climate Care is a not-forprofit organisation that funds global sustainable energy and forest Finance restoration projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gases. Emissions forecasting Our forecast growth over the next few years is likely to result in increased total emissions as we bring our Gajah Baru and Health, Safety and Environment Chim Sáo developments into production. Both projects have engaged in our ALARP assessments; which means efficiency measures will be implemented to ensure emissions are as low as reasonably practicable. The impacts of climate change on our operations Premier operates in countries that may be impacted by climate change. We have undertaken a review of the potential impact this might have on our operations. The process considered rising sea levels and the increased frequency of unpredictable weather Social Responsibility events. The review found that given our facilities are already designed to withstand once in 50 years and once in 100 years storm cases, a possible increase in the frequency of such storms would not present additional operational risks. Our offshore fixed facilities also include a contingency for rising Top Chim Sáo facility, Vietnam sea levels. As these stand on fixed steel legs that are piled into the seabed, any rise in sea level will affect the air gap between the sea and the facility. Floating facilities such as the Balmoral platform rise and fall with the sea, so the risks posed by changing sea levels are limited. Reviews of our operations indicate the likely long-term Introduction nature of sea-level rises compared to the relatively short lifetime of these assets of around 10 years means overall risks are limited. 38 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Environment (continued) Our Project Risk Assessment Process now also takes into Pollution prevention account climate change risks including both extreme weather events and sea level changes. For example, this Planned discharges included a study during the design process of the steel The total volume of produced water discharged from our legs (“jackets”) and moorings for the Chim Sao project operations in 2010 amounted to 2,900,000 tonnes (2009: in Vietnam. Meteorological and oceanographic studies 1,800,000 tonnes). This increase was largely due to the first full year are also carried out for all new projects. These include of accounting for our North Sea operations. hind-casting and analysis of data on wind, currents and wave height over 1,000 years. These studies will now Despite the increase in absolute produced water discharges, the also include forecasting to include anticipated variations average oil in produced water declined significantly from 19 parts brought about by climate change. per million weight (ppm-wt) in 2009 to 11 ppm-wt in 2010. This reduction in the oil concentration of produced water can be partly Energy consumption attributed to improvements in the treatment process, which has optimised the performance of the equipment and chemicals used Energy consumption in 2010 was 4,009,750 GJ (2009: to remove oil from produced water before discharge. The average 3,064,000 GJ). About 55% of this occurred at the Anoa concentration of oil in produced water discharged by our Anoa Field in Indonesia (2009: 70%), mainly in the form of fuel facilities was 17.7 ppm-wt. At Balmoral and Voyager it averaged gas combustion, diesel used by the platform and vessels, 10.2 ppm-wt and 9.5 ppm-wt respectively. This marks a further and helicopter fuel. Our increased use of energy between improvement on 2009 and the 40 ppm-wt at Balmoral prior to our 2009 and 2010 was mainly due to the inclusion of our acquisition of Oilexco. North Sea operations for a full calendar year. Energy consumption per unit of production increased from 1.7 GJ per tonne in 2009 to 2.1 GJ per tonne in 2010. Unplanned discharges There were 13 spills (losses of primary containment) in 2010, Our ALARP and ISO 14001 processes ensure Premier including seven hydrocarbon spills to the environment (2009: is constantly working to improve energy efficiency at seven). All of these spills were minor in nature with the total its operations. Whilst this is difficult for larger items of volume amounting to 1.3 tonnes (2009: 1.5 tonnes). This reflects equipment, we continue to identify small projects that the additional steps taken to prevent and respond to oil spills, might reduce our carbon footprint. This includes more including regular pollution prevention audits and an independent efficient travel (e.g. ensuring helicopters travel with the review of our Anoa oil spill contingency plan. We maintain oil spill maximum number of passengers to reduce flights), energy contingency plans for each of our operations and have ongoing efficient lighting at our London offices etc. Larger projects contracts with oil spill response specialists to provide support in the such as the selling of excess gas (rather than flaring) are unlikely event of a major incident. Six other minor chemical spills also investigated where appropriate. occurred in 2010 (total 6.9 tonnes) with the majority release (6.6 tonnes) being as calcium chloride (salts) discarded into the sea. Waste management In 2010, approximately 1,880 tonnes of waste materials (2009: 1,200 tonnes) were collected from our global drilling and production operations and returned to shore for disposal; 539 tonnes was hazardous waste, 688 tonnes was non-hazardous waste (scrap metal, wood, plastic, etc.) and 653 tonnes was drill cuttings that were shipped to shore and processed through certified waste handling contractors. We attempt to segregate and recycle as much of our waste as possible, although in countries with poor infrastructure this can pose a challenge. In 2010, around 458 tonnes was sent back to shore for recycling. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 39 Compliance Tables Assurance Figure 20: Energy use (GJ) per tonne of production Figure 21: Oil in produced water (ppm-wt) 2.4 25 23 2.1 1.9 2.0 21 20 2.0 1.8 20 1.7 18 1.6 15 1.2 11 10 0.8 0.4 5 Finance 0.0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Figure 22: Oil in produced water (tonnes) Figure 23: Hydrocarbon spills to the environment (tonnes) Health, Safety and Environment 40 16 36 13.7 35 14 32 30 12 25 10 20 8 15 14 14 15 6 3.9 10 4 2 1.5 1.3 Social Responsibility 5 0.0 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Introduction 40 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Finance We are a profit-making business and aim for continual financial growth and enhanced company value. We intend to achieve this growth by operating in a sustainable manner, satisfying the needs of stakeholders including our shareholders. Figure 24: Key financial parameters and indicators Financials Accounting basis Sales revenues Profit before tax Net profit for the year after tax Cash flow from operating activities Shareholders’ funds Net cash/(debt) including joint ventures Per share statistics Revenue per share Earnings per share – basic Earnings per share – diluted Cash flow from operating activities per share Reserves per share – year-end Issued Ordinary Shares average Operations Production (working interest basis) Proved and probable reserves (working interest basis) Employees – United Kingdom – Overseas Key Indices Realised average oil price Average exchange rates Closing exchange rates Above Chim Sáo facility, Vietnam Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 41 Compliance Tables Assurance 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS (US$ million) 763.6 621.1 655.2 578.2 402.2 Finance (US$ million) 100.8 79.9 277.6 147.0 156.6 (US$ million) 129.8 113.0 98.3 39.0 67.6 (US$ million) 436.0 347.7 352.3 269.5 244.8 (US$ million) 1,130.2 971.3 598.9 552.9 449.1 Health, Safety and Environment (US$ million) (405.7) (315.6) 117.3 79.0 40.9 (cents/share) 658.3 571.9 659.81 705.1 491.7 (cents/share) 111.9 104.1 99.0 1 47.6 82.6 (cents/share) 103.1 103.9 98.21 46.9 81.7 (cents/share) 375.9 320.2 354.81 328.7 299.3 (boe/share) 2.25 2.35 2.29 1 2.58 1.86 (million) 116.0 108.6 99.3 1 82.0 81.8 Social Responsibility (kboepd) 42.8 44.2 36.5 35.8 33.0 (mmboe) 260.8 255.2 227.5 211.5 152.1 (number) 119 110 62 60 60 (number) 442 398 4062 300 249 (US$ per bbl) 79.70 66.30 94.50 72.30 64.90 (US$/£) 1.55 1.57 1.85 2.00 1.84 Introduction (US$/£) 1.56 1.62 1.46 1.98 1.96 Notes: 1. The average issued Ordinary Shares for 2008 have been adjusted to reflect the bonus element related to the rights issue in 2009. The 2008 ‘per share statistics’ have been restated accordingly. The ‘per share statistics’ for 2006 and 2007 are as reported. 2. The 2008 overseas employee numbers have been restated to reflect a reclassification of employee categories during 2009 and the inclusion of offshore staff. The numbers for 2006 and 2007 are as reported. Certain operations presented as discontinuing in 2006 were re-presented as continuing operations in 2007. The numbers for 2006 have been restated accordingly. 42 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Independent Review of Reported Social Performance Scope and objectives Materiality and completeness Maplecroft was commissioned by Premier Oil to: Maplecroft is satisfied that the narrative content presented in this report is an accurate representation of current Premier • Confirm the accuracy of all policy and social performance Oil processes and activities. We also believe the Premier Oil statements presented in this report. statement that it has applied the GRI G3 guidelines at B+ level is fairly stated. Premier Oil has reported on its management • Verify the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 application approaches and on more than 20 of the GRI core/additional level claim stated by Premier Oil on p4. performance indicators. It has not reported on all core performance indicators, as is required for A+ compliance. We Maplecroft recognises that it is not an independent party due to look forward to future reports and insight into Premier Oil’s its role as an advisor to Premier Oil on previous engagements. continuous improvements in non-financial reporting. Maplecroft did not verify any of the data relating to Health, Safety and Environment (HSES) or economic performance. It did however verify the existence of HSE policy statements and Recommendations actions as well as management systems. Premier Oil might consider the following suggestions as it progressively enhances and refines its reporting disclosures: Methodology • Greater alignment between investor engagements and Our review of Premier Oil social performance policies and report content. This could be achieved through the activities involved the following activities over the period of ongoing collation of questions received from investors twelve weeks in early 2011, during which we worked together during the year and the clear provision of answers to with the company at its London offices: these questions in the report. We believe this will be especially helpful to investors that are fast recognising • Review of standards: including the United Nations Global the importance of an integrated approach/understanding Compact, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), International of risk and responsibility. Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), FTSE4Good requirements and • This last year saw the introduction of new reporting Equator Principles. Our work sought to update the existing criteria from IPIECA as well as significant events in Premier Oil scope of social responsibility expectations in the oil industry e.g. the Macondo Deepwater Horizon response to revised/evolving criteria including the new explosion in the Gulf of Mexico. This will likely see IPIECA reporting guidance and the forthcoming GRI Oil increased disclosure requirements relating to emergency and Gas Sector Supplement. preparedness, oil spills and related impacts. Premier Oil could further improve the quality of its Social Performance • Gap analysis: this new scope was used to identify and Report by proactively anticipating and responding to address gaps in existing Premier Oil reporting. It also emerging expectations in social reporting. informed our review of existing and forthcoming policies (e.g. the Code of Conduct) and procedures, the employee We commend Premier for excellent work in progress and handbook, the Premier Oil Business Management System continue to view the company on an upwards trajectory. (BMS) as well as further evidentiary documentation including previous annual and sustainability reports and online materials. • Social Performance Report: this report represents a significant advance on the equivalent report from 08/09 in that it (a) reports on progress to address the gaps and commitments made in previous reports and (b) provides Professor Alyson Warhurst and Dr Kevin Franklin, enhanced disclosures/transparency on work in progress 29 March 2010 and is further aligned to evolving reporting standards. Notable examples include the addition of further Maplecroft, Bath, BA1 5JZ, United Kingdom community investment and human resources data, insight Web: www.maplecroft.com email: info@maplecroft.com into business ethics and anti-corruption training aligned with the Bribery Act 2010 (United Kingdom). This report includes a set of compliance tables that cross-reference all content in the report to the above best practice standards. Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 43 Introduction Social Responsibility Health, Safety and Environment Finance Assurance Compliance Tables 44 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 Global Reporting Initiative Global Reporting Initiative: Sustainability reporting guidelines (G3) (core indicators) Page Extent Environmental performance indicators (management) Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, 40-41, Annual EC1 Partial employee compensation, donations, retained earnings etc. Report 2010 Financial implications and risks/opportunities to the organisation’s activities due to EC2 36-37 Full climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit pension plan obligations 18-19 Partial EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Not reported EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations Not reported EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 20-21 Partial Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 6-15 Full public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement Environmental performance indicators (management) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 38-39 Partial EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 38-39 Partial EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 35-38 Full EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source 35-38 Full EN8 Total water withdrawal by source n/a Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11 n/a areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in EN12 34 Partial protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 35-37 Full EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 35-37 Full EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 35-37 Full EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 35 Full EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 38 Full EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 38 Partial EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 38 Full EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services and extent of mitigation 34-35 Full EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category n/a Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28 23 Partial compliance with environmental laws and regulations Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 45 Compliance Tables Assurance Global Reporting Initiative: Sustainability reporting guidelines (G3) (core indicators) Page Extent Social performance: labour practices indicators (management) LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 18 Full LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 18 Partial LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 20 Full Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in LA5 20 Partial collective agreements Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and number of workLA7 29 Partial related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programmes in place to assist 31-33 Partial Finance workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 21 Partial Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to 18, Annual LA13 Partial gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity Report 2011 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported Health, Safety and Environment Social performance: human rights indicators (management) Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights HR1 23 Partial clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human HR2 23 Partial rights and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 16 Full Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 20 Partial bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour and measures HR6 20 Full taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour Social Responsibility Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour HR7 20 Partial and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Social performance: society performance indicators (management) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage SO1 6, 24-27, 31-33 Full the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption 22-23 Full SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 22 Full SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 22 Full SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 23 Full Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonSO8 23 Full compliance with laws and regulations Introduction Social performance: product responsibility indicators (management) Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products/services are assessed PR1 31-33 Full for improvement Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of PR3 Partial significant products and services subject to such information requirements Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to PR6 n/a marketing communications Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning PR9 23 Full the provision and use of products and services 46 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 IPIECA IPIECA: Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting (2010) Page Status Environmental indicators E1 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 35-37 Reported E2 Energy use 37-38 Reported E3 Alternative energy sources 37-38 Reported E4 Flared gas 36 Reported E5 Biodiversity and ecosystem services 34 Reported E6 Fresh water Not reported E7 Other air emissions 35-37 Reported E8 Spills to the environment 38 Reported E9 Discharges to water 38 Reported E10 Waste 38 Reported Health and safety indicators HS1 Workforce participation 25-27 Reported HS2 Workforce health 24-30 Reported HS3 Occupational injury and illness incidents 28-30 Reported HS4 Product stewardship Not reported HS5 Process safety 31-33 Reported Social and economic indicators SE1 Local community impacts and engagement 6-15, 33 Reported SE2 Indigenous peoples 3-4 Reported SE3 Involuntary resettlement Not reported SE4 Social investment 6-15 Reported SE5 Local content practices Not reported SE6 Local hiring practices 19-20 Reported SE7 Local procurement and supplier development 23 Reported SE8 Human rights due diligence Not reported SE9 Human rights and suppliers 23 Reported SE10 Security and human rights 33 Reported SE11 Preventing corruption 22-23 Reported SE12 Preventing corruption involving business partners 22-23 Reported SE13 Transparency of payments to host governments 23 Reported SE14 Public advocacy and lobbying 23 Reported SE15 Workforce diversity and inclusion 16 Reported SE16 Workforce engagement 16 Reported SE17 Workforce training and development 16-21 Reported SE18 Non-retaliation and grievance mechanism 23 Reported Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 47 United Nations Global Compact Compliance Tables FTSE4Good Assurance United Nations Global Compact: Our Communication on Progress (CoP) against the Ten Principles Page Status Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2-6, 16, 23, 33 Communicated Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Online policy Communicated Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Principle 3 20 Communicated right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 20 Communicated Finance Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 20 Communicated Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Principle 6 16-21 Communicated and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 34-39 Communicated Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 34-39 Communicated Health, Safety and Environment Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 34-39 Communicated friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 22-23 Communicated FTSE4Good: Sustainability criteria Page Status Environmental criteria Policy 24 Compliant Management 34-39 Compliant Social Responsibility Reporting 4, 34-39 Compliant Social and stakeholder criteria Policy 4 Compliant Management 5-14 Compliant Reporting 4, 5-14 Compliant Human rights criteria Policy 2-6 Compliant Management 2-6, 16, 23, 33 Compliant Reporting 2-6, 16, 23, 33 Compliant Introduction Supply chain labour standards criteria Policy 22-23 Compliant Management 22-23 Compliant Reporting 4,23 Compliant Countering bribery criteria Policy 2, 22-23 Compliant Management 2-5, 16, 22-23 Compliant Reporting 4, 22-23 Compliant 48 Premier Oil plc Social Performance Report 2010 All Posters from our new HSE campaign External recognition Whistle blowing hotline United Kingdom: 0800 915 1571 Vietnam: 1800 545411 Indonesia: 001 803 440 884 Singapore: 001 800 7233 2255 Norway: 00 800 7233 2255 Pakistan: 00 800 900 44 036 United Emirates: 8000 441 3376 Acknowledgments Disclaimer Prepared, designed and produced by Maplecroft This report contains certain forward-looking statements that are www.maplecroft.com subject to the usual risk factors and uncertainties associated with the oil and gas exploration and production business. Whilst the Printed by Taylor Bloxham group believes the expectations reflected herein to be reasonable in light of the information available to it at this time, the actual © Premier Oil Limited 2011. All rights reserved. outcome may be materially difference owing to factors beyond the group’s control or otherwise within the group’s control but where, Cover paper is sourced from responsibly managed forests, for example, the group decides on a change of plan or strategy. certified in accordance with the FSC (Forest Stewardship Accordingly, no reliance may be placed on the figures contained in Council) and is manufactured to ISO 14001 and EMAS such forward-looking statements. (Eco-Management and Audit Scheme) international standards, minimising negative impacts on the Note: Environmental data used for this report is subject to a environment. Paper within this report is made from 100% degree of uncertainty caused by limitations in measurement and ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) wood pulp sourced from estimation. Premier has in some cases been obliged to make well-managed and renewed forests. The mill generates a estimates or use different approaches to data calculation to ensure portion of its renewable power from water turbines. Paper all data covers the same scope. Data presented in this report is fully recyclable and is manufactured within an ISO 14001 include our office, production and drilling operations; but not the certified mill in the United Kingdom. sub-contracted construction entities. The exception is our health and safety statistics that also include these construction entities. www.premier-oil.com Premier Oil plc 23 Lower Belgrave Street London SW1W 0NR Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7730 1111 Facsimile: +44 (0) 20 7730 4696
