www.pwc.com PwC's United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 As one of the world’s largest professional services companies, PwC's network of firms play a leading role in acting as a responsible corporate citizen. One example of this is our participation in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The UNGC provides a strategic policy platform and practical framework for companies committed to responsible business practices, including ten principles based on international declarations and conventions in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. PwC’s global network of member firms actively take actions to implement and support the UNGC’s principles in their respective territories. For example, PwC Australia has moved to using 66% renewable energy; PwC China/Hong Kong staff and partners spent over 7,000 hours volunteering in the community; PwC US has integrated the UNGC principles into its supply chain assessment process; and PwC South Africa has trained over 20,000 entrepreneurs. In addition to the ways we implement the principles, PwC also supports the UNGC's second goal: to catalyze actions in support of broader UN goals. Towards this end, PwC has collaborated with a number of other UN agencies, including the United Nations Convention against Corruption and United Nations Office on Drug and Crime in combating corruption; the United Nations Central Emergency Relief Fund to supply disaster relief; the United Nations High Commission for Refugees to provide refugee support; and the United Nations Environment Programme to address the risks of climate change. PwC also communicates the progress we are making annually. Our primary means of communication is our Global Annual Review, which communicates how our firm incorporates the ten principles in everything we do, including how we operate in the marketplace, treat our people, interact with our local communities and protect the environment. While our Global Annual Report serves as our most broad means of communicating and engaging with global stakeholders, each firm is responsible for developing its own way of implementing Corporate Responsibility (CR) into their activities and communicating its progress to their stakeholders. The list below highlights some of the CR reports from across the globe and gives stakeholders a better understanding of how corporate sustainability plays out across the PwC network of firms. These reports include the systems each firms puts in place, the activities they are undertaking and the impact they are making—recognizing that each firm has achieved a different level of success along a continuum of progress given their unique operating environment: • Australia • Indonesia • Belgium • Russia (English | Русский) • Brazil (Português) • Spain (Español) • Canada (English | Français) • Taiwan (中文) • China, Hong Kong, Singapore • Ukraine (English | Русский | Українська) • Czech Republic (English | Česky) • United Kingdom • Greece We have also established a Global CR Board across the PwC network of firms, which serves to provide governance, oversight, input and direction to PwC’s CR global strategy and as the forum for coordination across the network. This group reports directly to the Network Leadership Team and has gained the agreement of the firms to strategically focus the efforts across the firm on three specific areas of concern: youth education, climate change and social inclusion/diversity. These key themes serve as guiding principles that focus our commitment to act responsibly in the four areas in which we operate—Marketplace, People, Community and Environment. We view our Corporate Responsibility strategy and program to implement the Global Compact Principles as part of our obligation to serve as a role model in the marketplace—practicing the behaviors that we encourage our clients to follow as seen in the thought leadership publications we produce. Although we don’t yet have all the answers surrounding our efforts, we are committed to making a difference by encouraging our partners and staff to PwC Page 2 of 4 act responsibly and supporting them in their efforts. Through their initiative and leadership, we hope to build an enduring legacy of Corporate Responsibility to pass on to future generations. For further information, please contact Shannon Schuyler, Managing Director for Corporate Responsibility, at shannon.schuyler@us.pwc.com. PwC Page 3 of 4 © 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. In this document, “PwC” refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, which is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.
