2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Contents The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report sets out our commitment as a responsible company and describes in detail how we put this commitment into practice. Executive statement  2 Who we are and what we do  4 Our approach to corporate responsibility  9 Creating sustainability solutions 14 Extending our risk intelligence  21 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape 28 Reducing our environmental footprint 35 Being a good corporate citizen 42 Being an employer of choice 48 Ensuring good governance  55 Other Swiss Re publications 58 Independent assurance report on the Swiss Re Group consolidated CO2 emissions 60 Memberships, awards and index listings 62 GRI content index with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references 64 Swiss Re Cover 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report In 2010, we helped set up a pioneering microinsurance programme ﻿ Committed to sustainable value creation Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 in Tamil Nadu State, India. Sponsored by the state government, ﻿ the programme provides health insurance to more than 10 million ﻿ P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com low-income families. We have supported the initiative by providing comprehensive risk management expertise as well as reinsurance 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report capacity. More information on this and other Swiss Re efforts yregamI stoD eR ssiwS lobmys lacideM :eltiT enicideM & htlaeH :yrogetaC to extend insurance protection in emerging countries can be found ﻿ on pages 14 –19. nigulP rehpargotpircS eR ssiwS 8002 © thgirypoC ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 1 Executive statement Dear stakeholders We take pleasure in presenting the 2010 edition of our Corporate Responsibility Report. With this publication, we want to underline our commitment to being a responsible company and provide you with a detailed account of how we turn this commitment into practice. In our understanding, the essence of corporate responsibility is the desire to contribute to long-term, sustainable value creation. Addressing social and environmental challenges is key to this. At Swiss Re, we work towards these goals through many activities across our company. We are glad to report that our efforts culminated in a number of important achievements in 2010. Since this report strives to offer an honest and credible account of Swiss Re’s performance as a responsible company, we are especially pleased that our endeavours have received significant external recognition: For the third year running, we gained the insurance sector leadership position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes in 2010. As a recognised leader in the field of corporate responsibility, we are also a signatory to the UN Global Compact. We will continue to implement its ten principles and regularly communicate on our progress. Reinsurance creates economic and social value by offering financial protection against risk. In cooperation with clients both from the public and the private sector, we strive to develop innovative solutions that further extend the range of risks covered. In 2010, the main focus ﻿ of these solutions was on natural catastrophes, adverse weather patterns and life and health risks, especially in emerging countries. We also completed studies for a number of clients ﻿ on cost-effective adaptation measures to cope with the consequences of climate change; previously we had helped develop the unique methodology of these studies as a leading partner of the Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Working Group. In our risk management, we made further progress in addressing environmental, social ﻿ and ethical risks. Based on our Sustainability Risk Framework with its eight sector and issue policies, we carried out detailed assessments of a total of 140 potentially risky business transactions. The pioneering character of our Sustainability Risk Framework was confirmed when we were invited to share our know-how with the Chief Risk Officer Forum and the ﻿ UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative. In Swiss Re’s efforts to maintain mutually beneficial relations with clients and other stake­ holders, our publications and the Centre for Global Dialogue play a crucial role. They allow us to share know-how and insights on major risk developments and advance effective responses to them. In 2010, we produced a series of new publications, covering topics from longevity through climate change to country risk management. Highlights at the Centre for Global Dialogue included events on risk selection in life and health insurance and integrative risk management. Reducing the environmental footprint of our own operations is another target area of our endeavours as a responsible company. Through our Greenhouse Neutral Programme and other measures, we have managed to cut our CO2 emissions per employee by 50.6% since 2003. As in previous years, the calculation of our emissions was independently verified. We also made a decision in 2010 to continue our COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme, which grants subsidies to our employees for private emissions-reducing investments. 2 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Executive statement Walter B. Kielholz Stefan Lippe We have a long-standing tradition to serve our stakeholders in wider society by acting as ﻿ a good corporate citizen. In 2010, we provided direct assistance to several development projects, and rapidly set up relief support efforts after the tragic events in Haiti and Pakistan. A special focus of the past year was our Group-wide initiative to enhance our local volunteering and charity programmes. Many of our employees took full advantage of these opportunities and got involved in Community Days or Charity of the Year events. As a globally operating company, we pride ourselves on our collaborative working environ­ ment and the diversity of our staff. Yet, we realise that there is still room for improvement. ﻿ In 2010, we set up an initiative to further advance diversity and inclusion in our company. ﻿ In its first year, this initiative put an emphasis on smoothing women’s way into the higher layers of management. Our employees are a key group among our stakeholders and, to conclude, we would like to address them directly. We know that it is their engagement, expertise and dedication that underpin Swiss Re’s success in general and as a responsible company. We would like to take this opportunity to extend our sincere thanks to them. Zurich, May 2011 Walter B. Kielholz Stefan Lippe Chairman of the Chief Executive Officer﻿ Board of Directors ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 3 Who we are and what we do Swiss Re’s mission is clear and simple: ﻿ to be the leading player in the wholesale re/insurance industry. Net premiums earned in 2010 Swiss Re at a glance and fee income from policyholders, were: by product line Our business is “wholesale” re/insurance. the United States, the United Kingdom, This means focusing on large and complex Australia, Canada, Germany, France, China, transactions with insurance clients, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands and Switzerland. corporate clients and public-sector clients – In the past year, these 11 markets accounted as well as with pension funds. We anticipate for 81.4% of the Group’s total premiums ﻿ extreme scenarios and enable the risk and fee income. taking that is essential to the development of enterprise and progress in society. This ﻿ Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd, the parent is what Swiss Re is all about. company of the Swiss Re Group, is a joint stock company, listed on the SIX Swiss 23% Property Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, Exchange, domiciled in Zurich, Switzerland, 17% Casualty Swiss Re has operations around the globe, and organised under Swiss law. The ﻿ 13% Specialty with 56 office locations in more than ﻿ other companies of the Group are not listed. 2% P&C non-traditional 20 countries. As of 2010, our 11 biggest 30% Life markets, according to net premiums earned 11% Health 4% Admin Re® Our global presence Americas 9.1 Net premiums earned ﻿ and fee income in 2010 (USD billions) (USD 10.8 billion in 2009) USD 4.6 billion in 2010 for Property & Casualty ﻿ USD 4.5 billion in 2010 for Life & Health 28 Number of offices 2694 Number of employees Regular staff as of 31.12.2010 (2 803 in 2009) 4 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Who we are and what we do Europe Asia-Pacific Total (including Middle East and Africa) 8.5 3.0 20.6 (USD 9.9 billion in 2009) (USD 2.8 billion in 2009) (USD 23.5 billion in 2009) USD 4.6 billion in 2010 for Property & Casualty USD 1.7 billion in 2010 for Property & Casualty ﻿ USD 10.9 billion in 2010 for Property & Casualty ﻿ USD 3.9 billion in 2010 for Life & Health USD 1.3 billion in 2010 for Life & Health USD 9.7 billion in 2010 for Life & Health 17 11 56 6682 986 10362 (6 784 in 2009) (965 in 2009) (10 552 in 2009) ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 5 Who we are and what we do Our business segments Property & Casualty Life & Health Asset Management Our product offerings encompass traditional We are a leading provider of reinsurance We manage the assets Swiss Re generates reinsurance as well as insurance products to life insurance companies worldwide. through its business activities. Our priority for corporate clients. We are a pioneer in With specialist knowledge of mortality, to ensure that the assets match our insurance-based capital market solutions morbidity and longevity trends, we offer reinsurance liabilities is underpinned by ﻿ and public-sector risk transfer. Combining our clients sustainable, viable solutions ﻿ a robust asset-liability management global expertise and local knowledge, ﻿ to their risk and capital management framework. Based on the Group’s prudent we provide all our clients with financially needs, as well as support for product approach to risk taking and risk manage­ sound risk transfer solutions. development. We also acquire closed ﻿ ment, this framework allows us to ﻿ life and health books of business, which ﻿ optimise risk-adjusted economic profit ﻿ we administer through Admin Re®. in a disciplined and transparent manner. The business model of reinsurance Reinsurance creates stability. By managing risks and covering losses, we protect investments and enable economic growth. In simplified terms, our business model works as follows: We provide tailor-made solutions through traditional reinsurance or insurance-based capital market instruments. At the core of our expertise is the costing, pricing and diversification of non-life and life risks. Against up-front premium payments, our solutions enable our clients to reduce peak risks, reduce earnings volatility, free up capital and finance growth, and achieve capital management targets for solvency and ratings. We invest assets long-term until money is needed, applying asset-liability matching techniques to align the duration and currency of invested assets to the duration and currency of our insurance liabilities, ensuring that we deliver on our promises to our clients. We compensate for our clients’ losses, using effective claims management procedures that are based on industry best practice, providing speed of payment when clients need us most. 6 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Who we are and what we do Key financial data The table below provides an overview of Swiss Re’s key financial data. CHF millions unless otherwise stated 2009 2010 Total assets 232 748 228 403 Total investments 151 341 156 947 Total liabilities 207 404 201 497 Total debt* 27 289 29 225 Total shareholders’ equity 25 344 25 342 Retained earnings 19 047 19 651 Total revenues 30 963 28 835 Premiums earned 22 664 19 652 Net investment income 6 399 5 422 Net realised investment gains 875 2 783 Total expenses 30 043 26 160 Claims and claim adjustment expenses 8 336 7 254 Life and health benefits 8 639 8 236 Income tax expense 221 541 Current tax expense 659 696 Deferred tax benefit –438 –155 Net income ** 496 863 Earnings per share in CHF (basic) 1.49 2.64 Dividends on common shares 30 319 Return on equity in % 2.3 3.6 * Total debt expressed as total carrying value ** Net income attributable to common shareholders Operational Group structure Board of Directors Chairman Vice Chairman Members of the Board of Directors Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer Members of the Executive Committee Reinsurance Corporate Solutions Admin Re® ̤̤ Globals ̤̤ Regions & Specialty ̤̤ Europe ̤̤ Americas ̤̤ Asia Products Asset Management ̤̤ Property & Specialty ̤̤ Chief Investment Office ̤̤ Casualty ̤̤ Life & Health ̤̤ Corporate Solutions Underwriting ̤̤ Claims & Liabilities Finance Risk Management Operations ̤̤ Human Resources ̤̤ Information Technology ̤̤ Legal ̤̤ Logistics ̤̤ Technical Accounting ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 7 8 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility Our approach to corporate responsibility We are committed to being a responsible company. Contributing to sustainable, long-term value creation serves as a guiding principle for our practical actions. Our core values: Swiss Re has a long-standing commitment value creation, for the benefit of our ﻿ to being a responsible company. A key clients and society at large. Sustainability Engagement element in our understanding of what this constitutes one of our core values, along means is the wish to contribute to sustainable with engagement, excellence and integrity. Excellence Sustainability Integrity Swiss Re Group Code of Conduct: “Swiss Re takes pride in being a law-abiding, ethical and socially responsible organisation that deals fairly and professionally with its stakeholders – our employees, shareholders, customers, government regulators and ﻿ the general public.” ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 9 Our approach to corporate responsibility Our strategic approach to corporate our commitment to corporate responsibility responsibility into practice. Our approach focuses on ﻿ Based on our core values and Group Code six areas across Swiss Re’s business which of Conduct, we have developed a strategic we regard as key to creating sustainable, approach that lays down how we aim to put long-term value: Sustainability as a guiding principle Sustainability can be described as the progress that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs. To be sustainable, development must improve economic efficiency, protect and restore ecological systems, and enhance social well-being. In all our main activities aimed ﻿ at implementing corporate responsibility, the sustainability principle is a key criterion: ̤̤ Business solutions Within our core business (reinsurance and asset management), we strive to develop innovative solutions that help tackle key environmental and social challenges. To this end, we actively work together with our clients and partners, both in the private and public sectors. ̤̤ Risk intelligence We develop and apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk management. In this way, we seek to identify and appropriately address sustainability-related, ethical and emerging risks in our core business. ̤̤ Risk dialogue We regularly engage in dialogue with our stakeholders to advance our understanding ﻿ of the changing risk landscape. By sharing and extending know-how, we strive to help our clients and society develop effective responses to key risks. ̤̤ Our footprint We apply best-practice standards of resource management to our properties and operations as well as guidelines to our procurement activities. In doing so, we continually reduce Swiss Re’s direct environmental impact. ̤̤ Corporate citizenship Playing an active role in society beyond our core business is important to us. We support selected humanitarian and development projects across the world, while promoting volunteering and charitable work at our business locations. ̤̤ Our employees We want to provide our employees with a working environment conducive to their personal and professional development. We nurture a culture of diversity and ﻿ inclusion across the company, offer first-class training opportunities and provide a ﻿ range of health and other benefits. Governance and management Markets, Sustainability & Political Risk responsibility Management, Asset Management, At Swiss Re’s highest governance level, the Construction, Emerging Risk Management, task of overseeing implementation of our Issue Management & Messages, Internal commitment to corporate responsibility ﻿ Environmental Management, Sourcing, has been assigned to a Committee of the Corporate Citizenship and Human Board of Directors: It is one of the respon­ Resources. Sustainability & Political Risk sibilities of the Chairman’s and Governance Management also carries out certain Committee to periodically monitor ﻿ coordination functions between units. the Group’s sustainability and citizenship activities. Disclosure and accountability As part of our commitment to corporate At the level of operative management, responsibility, we have voluntarily reported corporate responsibility activities are driven on our performance for more than a decade. forward by a number of different organisa­ The range of topics covered in these yearly tional entities. These include: Global reports has continuously widened. ﻿ Partnerships, Environmental & Commodity While early editions had a strong focus on environmental concerns, later editions 10 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility gradually extended their focus to social and While we do provide information on our governance issues. Since 2007, we have sourcing and procurement policies, we do published a compre­hensive “Corporate not report on the performance of our Responsibility Report” guided by best suppliers, because the reinsurance business practice in corporate responsibility does not involve a proper supply chain. reporting. As far as applicable to a business-to-business Content definition and scope company in financial services, the report The content and structure of the present takes into account the G3 Sustainability report reflect the way in which we strive to Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting implement our commitment to corporate Initiative (www.globalreporting.org). We responsibility. The six priority areas defined also indicate the application level that the in our strategic approach are each covered report meets in our own assessment ﻿ with an individual chapter. An additional (ie “self-declared”). The detailed GRI content chapter highlights some key features of index is included in this report on pages ﻿ Swiss Re’s corporate governance regime, 64–66. It incorporates our “Communication including the Group Code of Conduct. on Progress” for the UN Global Compact. ̤̤ Creating sustainability solutions The present report succeeds the 2009 ̤̤ Extending our risk intelligence edition and covers the calendar year ﻿ ̤̤ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape of 2010. We plan to maintain our yearly ̤̤ Reducing our environmental footprint publishing cycle and to present our next ̤̤ Being a good corporate citizen Corporate Responsibility Report in late ̤̤ Being an employer of choice spring 2012, covering the year of 2011. ﻿ ̤̤ Ensuring good governance It will again assess the progress made ﻿ against our key goals stated on page 13. The report covers the whole Swiss Re Group, including all its subsidiaries, but its scope is limited to our own operations. Climate change On a global scale, climate change is the biggest environmental challenge facing humanity. Swiss Re was one of the first organisations to realise its potential impact almost ﻿ twenty years ago. It has since become an acknowledged thought leader on the topic and has developed several path-breaking initiatives, among them the Greenhouse ﻿ Neutral Programme, the COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme and – in partnership with other organisations – the Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) methodology. The Group’s strategy to tackle climate change rests on four pillars: ̤̤ Assess and manage risk: Swiss Re’s aim is to advance its knowledge about climate change risk, to quantify it and, where required, to integrate it into its underwriting and risk management framework. ̤̤ Seize business opportunities: In response to its clients’ needs, Swiss Re is committed to seizing climate change-related market opportunities and developing appropriate solutions for adapting to and mitigating climate change. ̤̤ Influence the business environment: Swiss Re’s aim is to raise awareness about climate change risks, actively disseminate its knowledge to all stakeholders and advocate a long-term, market-based policy framework. ̤̤ Lead by example: Swiss Re has been greenhouse neutral since October 2003 and is committed to reducing its emissions per employee by 45% by 2013. A complete overview of Swiss Re’s activities related to climate change is available on our website at www.swissre.com/rethinking/climate/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 11 Our approach to corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility goals ̤̤ Actively promote Economics of Climate Each year, we publicly state our main cor­ Adaptation (ECA) methodology to help porate responsibility goals and then report decision-makers devise cost-effective on our progress made against them in the adaptation strategies to climate change. following year. Below is our progress report Completed several ECA studies for on the goals defined for 2010. The goals ﻿ clients, including the first one for a for 2011 are presented on the next page. private-sector company, focusing on the US Gulf Coast. Report on 2010 goals ̤̤ Continue to develop risk transfer ̤̤ Enhance our local volunteering and solutions for emerging and developing charity programmes, thus offering our countries, using the potential of publicemployees the opportunities for active private partnerships. community involvement. Completed several solutions covering Firmly established our Group-wide windstorm, earthquake and weather “Community Day” and “Charity of the risks, and helped to set up a pioneering Year” programmes, holding life & health microinsurance scheme in corresponding events in many of our India. locations around the world. ̤̤ Consolidate our framework to manage ̤̤ Raise our CO2 emission reduction goal social, environmental and ethical risks, from 30% to 45%, ie permanently reduce and help raise awareness of such risks ﻿ our emissions per employee by 45% in the re/insurance industry. against 2003 baseline by 2013; and Screened a record 140 business continue to improve per-capita energy transactions for sustainability risks and efficiency at our locations. made a major contribution to a Arrived at a total reduction in CO2 corresponding industry initiative by the emissions per employee of 50.6% and ﻿ Chief Risk Officer (CRO) Forum. an improvement of energy efficiency ﻿ by 30.1% since 2003. 12 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Our approach to corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility goals for 2011 These are our main corporate responsibility goals for 2011. We will report on our progress made against these goals in the next report. Further build and deepen relationships with public-sector clients through our newly created Global Partnerships business function. Complete further regional studies to help clients devise ﻿ cost-effective adaptation strategies to climate change, based on the Economics of Climate Adaptation methodology. Continue to embed our Sustainability Risk Framework into ﻿ core business operations and advance the insurance industry’s adoption of such risk management practices. Maintain 50.6% reduction in CO2 emissions per employee under post-crisis business conditions and increase gains in energy efficiency to 32%, both measured against 2003 baseline. Leverage our comprehensive risk expertise to support communal capacity building projects, and further enhance employee engagement worldwide. Foster an inclusive corporate culture that enables diversity and ensures equal opportunities across the Group, thus leveraging the competitive advantage of a diverse workforce. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 13 Creating sustainability solutions We develop innovative solutions that help tackle sustainability challenges. Focus areas are natural catastrophes, climate change and insurance cover in emerging countries. Within our core business (reinsurance and ̤̤ Climate change adaptation: While asset management), we strive to develop reducing CO2 emissions remains innovative solutions that help tackle key essential, we believe it is indispensable environmental and social challenges. To this to develop instruments that facilitate end, we actively work together with our adaptation to climate change. clients and partners, both in the private and ̤̤ Emerging and developing countries: ﻿ public sectors. We strive to create products suitable ﻿ to extend insurance cover in these nonSwiss Re’s core business is to offer its clients traditional markets. and society financial protection against ﻿ risk. By helping to create economic and In 2010, we succeeded in completing social stability, reinsurance thus makes an several new risk transfer solutions based ﻿ important contribution to sustainable on this innovative mix of approaches. development. Over the last few years, we have sharpened our focus on developing The Caribbean Catastrophe Risk innovative risk transfer solutions that help Insurance Facility (CCRIF) address specific environmental and social Swiss Re is the lead reinsurer for the challenges. Currently, many of these Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance innovations include one or more of the Facility (CCRIF). Owned and operated ﻿ following elements: by 16 Caribbean governments, this risk̤̤ Insurance-linked securities (ILS) or “cat pooling facility aims to limit the financial bonds”: We have been a leader in the impact of catastrophic hurricanes and development of these products, which earthquakes. For natural disaster insurance enable large risks to be transferred to ﻿ to be effective, it is essential that payouts the capital markets. can be made quickly after a serious event. ̤̤ Weather insurance products: We have This is why CCRIF has been designed ﻿ been a pioneer in creating instruments as a parametric solution, which uses the offering protection against a range of physical parameters of events (strength ﻿ weather-related losses, including indexof earthquakes, wind speeds) to calculate based solutions. overall losses and to determine payout ̤̤ Public-sector clients: In addition to direct levels. Such products enable governments insurers and corporate clients, we ﻿ to plan ahead and to secure guaranteed seek to develop risk transfer solutions ﻿ levels of funding before catastrophes occur; for governments and public-sector CCRIF marks the first time this approach organisations. has been taken by a whole region. 14 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating sustainability solutions Jamaica and other Caribbean countries face Several member countries benefited ﻿ An ECA study with analytical input from substantial windstorm risks. We are the from CCRIF in 2010. The government of Swiss Re of eight CCRIF countries found leading reinsurer of an insurance facility that Haiti received a payout directly after the that, for some of them, damage from wind, provides 16 Caribbean countries with financial devastating earthquake in the country. storm surges and inland flooding already protection against such risks. While the payout sum was modest in amounted to 6% of GDP, a figure that could relation to the enormous overall damage, rise by another 1% to 3% by 2030, assuming the full cover was paid out rapidly, thus a strong climate change scenario. But ﻿ helping to finance emergency measures ﻿ the study also revealed that most of these to provide food, shelter and medical countries could implement cost-effective treatment. The government of Anguilla was adaptation measures to limit losses, ranging paid in September after Hurricane Earl ﻿ from constructing sea walls to enforcing had damaged buildings, downed power building codes. Establishing the right local lines and caused flooding and beach erosion. mix of practical adaptation measures and And in November, the governments of risk transfer through insurance will be Barbados, Saint Lucia and St. Vincent & the essential for dealing effectively with climate Grenadines all received payments following change in the future. Furthermore, tropical cyclone Tomas. insurance puts a price tag on the risk, thereby creating an incentive to improve Many developing nations also find them­ prevention. selves in the front-line facing the potential effects of a changing climate. In 2010 Hurricane protection for the Alabama CCRIF invited us, as a principal member of State Insurance Fund the Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Interest in parametric risk transfer solutions working group, to help refine its disaster risk is also growing among governments ﻿ management in the light of climate change. of high-income countries. Though a much Launched in 2009, the ECA framework ﻿ larger proportion of direct losses will be is a pioneering instrument to assess total covered by insurance in the event of a climate risks and to identify cost-effective natural disaster, public authorities still face adaptation strategies (see pages 16–17). similar challenges in funding emergency measures and dealing with uninsured economic losses. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 15 Creating sustainability solutions In 2010, Swiss Re developed a three-year Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) parametric hurricane solution for the studies Alabama State Insurance Fund (SIF) in the Today, some 3.4 billion people worldwide US – the very first programme of its kind. are already threatened by natural hazards, Southern US states in general face a large most of them in the developing world. and growing risk from catastrophic Climate change is expected to further hurricanes. In southern Florida, for example, increase the vulnerability of these commu­ annual losses from hurricanes are estimated nities by causing more frequent and severe to rise to USD 33 billion by 2030, or 10% of storms, floods, droughts and other natural the region’s total GDP, under a strong climate disasters. As climate-related risks continue change scenario. to rise, adaptation measures are rapidly becoming a priority. The parametric solution developed by ﻿ Swiss Re means that the SIF would rapidly However, adapting to climate change poses receive a payment if a hurricane of a certain a significant challenge. Much uncertainty strength reaches Alabama. This would ﻿ remains over its impact on individual commu­ give the state government the flexibility to nities, yet national and local decision-makers apply funds when and where they are most need to decide how to allocate scarce needed, be it to cover emergency response financial resources. With a view to devel­ costs, replace lost tax revenue or fund oping a practical decision-making increased insurance costs. framework, Swiss Re assumed a leading role in the Economics of Climate Adaptation (ECA) Working Group. Officially launched ﻿ ECA study on the US Gulf Coast for Entergy Corporation The economy of the US Gulf Coast is largely supported by the oil and gas industry. In total, industrial assets in the coastal areas of Texas, Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana are worth more than USD 2 trillion, around 90% of which is owned by oil and gas companies. But wind and storm surge damage from hurricanes already costs the region about USD 14 billion per year on average. Economic growth, land subsidence and climate change will lead to ﻿ a further increase in these costs. Entergy Corporation, the third-largest utility company in the US, commissioned an ﻿ ECA study to quantify local climate risks and determine effective adaptation measures. Using Swiss Re’s expertise in natural catas­ trophe modelling and risk assessment, ﻿ the study found that economic losses to properties, infrastructure and energy sector assets could climb 50–65% to USD 23 billion per year by 2030, resulting in cumulative losses of USD 350 billion. Just as importantly, however, the study ﻿ Beach nourishment describes a process found that a number of economically sensible through which sand lost due to erosion is measures are available to avert a substantial replaced from other sources. In many areas ﻿ part of the expected damage. Investing ﻿ it is a cost-effective way of adapting to the USD 50 billion over the next 20 years ﻿ consequences of climate change. The picture ﻿ is estimated to reduce losses by about shows a beach nourishment project on the ﻿ USD 135 billion over the same period. US Gulf Coast. Improved building codes, beach nourishment (see picture) and roof cover retrofits emerged as effective measures. To protect against losses from the most extreme events, however, insurance offers the best cost-benefit ratio. 16 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating sustainability solutions in autumn 2009, the ECA methodology Health microinsurance programme in offers decision-makers a systematic, factsTamil Nadu State, India based approach to understand the impact Over the last few years, we have helped of climate change on their economies ﻿ establish several microinsurance and to identify the most cost-effective programmes. In 2010, we played a key role adaptation measures.* in supporting a health microinsurance programme in Tamil Nadu State, India, by In the first year after its introduction, the providing comprehensive risk management ECA methodology has met with significant expertise as well as reinsurance capacity. interest. By the end of 2010, we had carried Sponsored by the state government, the out a total of 17 studies on locations spread scheme offers health insurance to more around the world. A key insight from the than 10 million low-income families. It is ﻿ studies is that the selection of adaptation the largest microinsurance programme measures is not strongly dependent on the implemented to date anywhere. Swiss Re chosen climate change scenario. Many of leads the central component of the the measures are cost-effective in any case. reinsurance programme, which has a multiyear term and uses several reinsurance The insurance-linked securities sector structures. Swiss Re is a key player in the insurancelinked securities (ILS) sector. ILS are capital Health microinsurance is one of the most market instruments, typically in bond or beneficial insurance products for families ﻿ derivative format, designed to meet the risk on low incomes, and governments are or capital management needs of a transaction becoming more aware of the opportunities “sponsor”. In exchange for a coupon or offered by innovative partnerships with ﻿ premium payment, the sponsor receives the insurance industry. However, health single or multi-year collateralised protection microinsurance is also one of the most for specified risk events. If such an event challenging products to develop. Swiss Re Non-life ILS underwritten occurs, the sponsor receives all or part ﻿ is dedicated to supporting viable micro­ by Swiss Re of the principal; otherwise this is paid back insurance schemes – the microinsur­ance USD millions to the investors in full at maturity. initiative in Tamil Nadu is a good example ﻿ of how social and economic goals can ﻿ 4000 Insurance-linked securities are particularly be achieved in parallel. 49.7 3000 well-suited to provide protection against peak risks – events that happen infrequently Weather insurance solutions 2000 but tend to lead to high losses, for example In 2010, we again played an important role 1000 earthquakes or windstorms. ILS are used for in creating innovative weather insurance both risk and capital management purposes products to provide financial cover against 0 in the property & casualty and the life & health adverse weather conditions in emerging 2007 2008 2009 2010 business. For reinsurers they are attractive countries. Since many people’s livelihoods  as a sponsor because they free scarce capital; for insurers are closely tied to agricultural production ﻿  as an arranger for clients and corporate clients they provide multiin these countries, affordable weather year collateralised protection; and for insurance products can make a vital investors they offer attractive diversification contribution to promoting economic and possibilities, as they are relatively uncor­ social development. related with other asset classes. Insuring loans against low rice yields in In 2010, our registered broker-dealer Vietnam subsidiaries underwrote and distributed ﻿ In Vietnam, we helped create an indexto institutional investors non-life ILS worth based programme for the country’s USD 489 million on behalf of Swiss Re. agriculture bank (Agribank) that protects They underwrote and distributed an loans against the effects of low harvest additional USD 1 185 million of non-life ILS yields as a result of floods, typhoons and for Swiss Re clients. droughts. Under the arrangement, Agribank, which is a key provider of agriculture loans in Vietnam, can now insure * The ECA methodology is described in the report “Shaping Climate-Resilient Development: A Framework for Decision-Making”, available at www.swissre.com/rethinking/climate/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 17 Creating sustainability solutions its rice farmer clients against the inability ﻿ name of a crop insurance programme to make loan repayments due to low yields, established in 2009 as a collaboration through its insurance arm ABIC. The ﻿ between local insurer UAP, the not-for-profit risk is, in turn, transferred via reinsurance ﻿ Syngenta Foundation and local mobile to Swiss Re and the Vietnam National phone operator Safaricom. The programme Reinsurance Corporation (Vina Re). insures the cost of inputs (seeds, fertilisers) and the expected value of farm harvests, The programme is the first index-based covering yield shortfalls due to insufficient agricultural insurance programme to be or excessive rain. Swiss Re reinsures the introduced in Southeast Asia. Payouts will programme and provides actuarial support be determined by an independent areato price the insurance cover. yield index that is based on data from the Vietnam Bureau of Statistics. In addition to The programme is poised for a significant offering reinsurance capacity, we provided expansion in 2011, which will more than know-how in structuring and implementing triple the number of farmers covered under the programme. Such index-based solutions the scheme to a total of around 50 000, as can be more attractive than conventional well as include crops such as maize, wheat, insurance, because they can be offered ﻿ beans and sorghum for the first time. Kilimo to large numbers of farmers, are transparent Salama Plus is the first insurance scheme ﻿ in structure, have low administrative costs in Africa to use mobile phone technology to and enable fast payouts. speed up access and payouts to rural farmers, through Safaricom’s well-established Kilimo Salama Plus programme in Kenya and trusted M-PESA mobile money transfer Kilimo Salama means “safe farming” in service. Kiswahili, the language spoken in much of northern Kenya. Kilimo Salama Plus is the The Kilimo Salama Plus crop insurance programme in Kenya helps protect the livelihoods of smallholder farmers. ﻿ We reinsure this programme and provide actuarial support to it. 18 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Creating sustainability solutions Indian insurance schemes for these sources – falls below a predefined smallholder farmers level. Each tonnage of yield or production With an average of 3.3 acres per farm holding, short­fall is then compensated with a prethe Indian agricultural sector is dominated agreed monetary amount. Swiss Re is one by small-scale farming. Some 65% of ﻿ of the lead reinsurers of MNAIS: We provide the arable land relies on monsoon rainfalls, capacity to all five insurers that implement so variations in the temporal and spatial the scheme and, in addition, offer actuarial distribution of rainfall can lead to severe support. downturns in agricultural production. To provide insurance to predominantly Investment in UBF Seguros smallholder farmers, public and private As part of our efforts to help increase sector insurance companies in India run two insurance protection in emerging countries, schemes: weather index based and area we made a direct financial investment in yield index based, which together cover Brazilian company UBF Seguros, in partner­ more than 60 crop types over two main ship with the International Finance agricultural seasons. Corporation (IFC). UBF Seguros has been a pioneer in the development of the Brazilian Swiss Re started to support weather index surety and agricultural insurance business, based schemes in India in 2004, when ﻿ and we have supported the company since a small pilot covering groundnut farmers its establishment. was launched by a local insurer and microfinance institution Basix. We have The investment, which makes Swiss Re ﻿ been providing Indian insurers with support the majority control shareholder and the IFC for product structuring, pricing and under­ the sole minority investor, will help UBF writing, as well as reinsuring the risks. In Seguros to develop innovative products in 2007, the Indian government set up the the liberalised Brazilian insurance market. Weather-Based Crop Insurance Scheme Demand for effective insurance protection (WBCIS), providing premium subsidies ﻿ is growing particularly fast in Brazil as a to make these products more affordable ﻿ result of significant investments in infra­ to farmers. The WBCIS has been growing structure, energy and agriculture. While ﻿ steadily since, reaching more and more an expanded surety market can facilitate beneficiaries in around 20 states in India. infrastructure construction, modern agroSwiss Re is the leading reinsurer of ﻿ insurance products will widen access ﻿ the scheme, providing support to all five for over two million farmers to private and companies which implement it. public insurance schemes, thus helping ﻿ to increase incomes in rural areas. The Modified National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (MNAIS) was established as a ﻿ pilot in winter 2010, chiefly to overcome shortcomings of the National Agriculture Insurance Scheme (NAIS), which had been in existence since 1999. MNAIS has been designed to be more farmer-friendly and ﻿ to offer an actuarially priced product that ﻿ can be commercially sold by insurance companies. It is an area yield index insurance, which is based on agriculture production statistics as measured and reported by official sources such as government entities or industry associations. The insurance pays out if actual production – as reported by ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 19 Creating sustainability solutions Sustainability portfolio CHF millions, as of 31 December 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Investments (at market value) 286 256 240 268 Unfunded commitments 330 439 247 136 Total portfolio 616 695 487 404 Sustainability portfolio We make regular use of further standards, In our asset management operations, we including MINERGIE-ECO® (which adds manage a portfolio of assets in the area ﻿ requirements on health aspects and of innovative solutions for climate change building materials) and “Gutes Innenraum­ mitigation and other sustainability klima” (“good interior climate”). In addition, challenges. Its focus areas are renewable we started to apply the MINERGIE-P-ECO® energy, energy efficiency, water, waste standard in 2009; this specifies the management and agriculture. In building characteristics of a “passive house” – a the portfolio, we have worked with a narrow house that uses “passive” sources for most selection of fund managers and have of its heat generation and consumes even benefited from preferred access to attrac­ less energy than a MINERGIE®-certified tive direct and co-investment opportunities building. We expect to see a project through our internal and external expert applying MINERGIE-P-ECO® to reach the networks. construction phase for the first time in 2012. As of 31 December 2010, this sustainability “Swiss Re Next” – our ambitious project ﻿ portfolio had a total value of CHF 404 million, to construct a replacement building at the comprised of investments worth ﻿ Group’s Zurich headquarters – made further CHF 268 million (net asset value) and ﻿ progress in 2010, with the completion of the of unfunded commitments worth ﻿ private design plan for the local authorities. CHF 136 million. Sustainability will be a defining feature ﻿ of the building. The project definition clearly Direct real estate investments states that the new building should set a In Switzerland and Germany, we hold a leading example of top-class sustainable sizeable portfolio of direct real estate invest­ construction. Meeting the requirements ﻿ ments, that is, we invest directly in the of the MINERGIE-P® standard will be compul­ construction of new buildings, both for sory, but it is also intended to seek certi­ residential and commercial use. Sustain­ fication according to MINERGIE-P-ECO® ability criteria play an essential role in ﻿ (see above) and the internationally these investments, which had a total value renowned LEED® Platinum standard of more than CHF 2.1 billion at the end of (www.usgbc.org). The standard of energy 2010. In addition, we own office buildings efficiency we aim for with Swiss Re ﻿ for proprietary use. Next is in line with the objective of a 2 000 watt society. For all our real estate projects in Switzerland, the Energy Mission Statement of Swiss Re, Zurich, lays down strict sustainability guidelines: New buildings always need to conform to the MINERGIE® standard (www.minergie.ch), a Swiss quality label specifying high levels of energy efficiency and superior user comfort. For renovations of old buildings, we apply the standard whenever this is feasible from an architec­ tural, technical and financial point of view. By the end of 2010, we had developed buildings with a total floor space of more than 200 000 m2 in accordance with the MINERGIE® standard, some of which we had successfully sold on. 20 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence Extending our risk intelligence We apply tailor-made tools to extend the scope of our risk manage­ment. This helps us identify and appropriately address ethical, sustain­ability-related and emerging risks. Swiss Re has comprehensive risk manage­ environmental, social and ethical risks on ment processes in place to identify, assess the one hand, and emerging risks on the and control the Group’s risk exposures. ﻿ other. Having the means and know-how to The main categories of our risk landscape adequately deal with these risks in our core comprise core risks (insurance, financial business forms a key element of Swiss Re’s market and credit) as well as operational commitment to corporate responsibility. ﻿ and other risks that arise as a result of ﻿ At the same time, it makes good business doing business (see 2010 Financial Report, sense because it helps us prevent potential pages 39–47). underwriting losses and damage to our reputation. As part of our integrated approach to risk management, we have also developed Our Sustainability Risk Framework formal processes to address specific types In 2009, we introduced our Sustainability of risk that continue to grow in significance: Risk Framework to formally identify and Gold mines can cause substantial impacts on their environment. With our Sustainability ﻿ Risk Framework and Sensitive Business Risk assessments, we have tools in place to address such risks in a consistent manner. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 21 Extending our risk intelligence address environmental, social and ethical We also exclude business with, or related risks in our core business. The framework to, countries that have a particularly poor comprises policies on eight sectors and human rights situation and which may be issues: defence industry, oil and gas associated with the regime and its commer­ (including oil sands), mining, dams, animal cial affiliates. At present, the excluded testing, forestry and logging, nuclear countries (for human rights reasons) are weapons proliferation and an overarching Iran, Myanmar, North Korea, Somalia and human rights and environmental protection Sudan. policy. To determine the companies, projects and Sensitive Business Risk referrals The Sensitive Business Risks process countries to be excluded from business, we By industry, 2010 Each of the eight policies contains prehave developed a proprietary methodology defined criteria and qualitative standards. ﻿ and work closely with an external data If any of them applies to a transaction, a provider which is recognised as a leader in “Sensitive Business Risks” (SBR) process its field. must be triggered. This is a due diligence assessment carried out by our in-house Client and industry interaction sustainability experts to identify potential The Sustainability Risk Framework is com­ environmental, social or ethical risks and to mu­nicated to all newly hired staff with establish whether the principles expressed client-facing functions. In our interactions in our Code of Conduct may be in danger ﻿ with clients, sustainability risk management of being violated. The outcome of the now frequently features as an agenda ﻿  46% Extractive industries assessment is either a recommendation to point. We have seen interest in this matter  20% Defence go ahead with the transaction, to go ahead grow substantially among some clients over  10% Dams and infrastructure in adherence with certain conditions, or to the last year. Brokers, too, are beginning to  3% Medicine and health abstain from it. Should they disagree with show more interest in these topics. We have  21% Other the recommendation, our underwriters ﻿ had extensive discussions with clients who and asset managers can escalate the case were directly affected by the framework, to the next management level. outlining our approach to sustainability risk Number of Sensitive Business Risk referrals management in the process. Originally, the SBR process was created in 140 2002 as a voluntary risk management tool To our knowledge, we were the first large 120 enabling our underwriters, client managers global reinsurer to introduce such a wide100 and asset managers to seek ad-hoc advice ranging framework to address sustainability 80 on transactions that were potentially and ethical issues throughout its core 60 sensitive. The introduction of the Sustain­ business. Any self-imposed business restric­ 40 ability Risk Framework made it clear when tion for the sake of sustainable development 20 an assessment becomes mandatory. is more effective when a large number of 0 players act in unison, however. Therefore, 2007 2008 2009 2010 In 2010, the number of submitted SBR we were very pleased to see that the Chief cases rose to 140 – the highest ever. ﻿ Risk Officer Forum (CRO Forum) took up the  Proceed We issued negative recommendations in ﻿ issue and published its “Recommendations  Proceed with conditions 19 cases, and positive recommendations for Managing Environmental, Social and  Abstain with conditions in 20 cases. Ethical Challenges in Business Transactions”  Not materialised in August 2010 (see page 24). We were Exclusion criteria able to contribute to this publication and The policies of our Sustainability Risk Frame­ have since been invited by the Insurance work also define criteria that may lead to ﻿ Commission of the UN Environmental the exclusion of a company from our business. Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to These include the manufacturing of antifacilitate the CRO Forum’s input into the personnel mines; verifiable complicity in Commission’s own project on the Principles systemic, repeated and severe human rights for Sustainable Insurance. violations; and the infliction of repeated, severe and unmitigated damage to the environment. Moreover, Swiss Re does not participate in re/insurance transactions ﻿ or investments that could facilitate the pro­ life­ration of nuclear weapons. 22 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence Managing emerging risks The key objective in managing emerging New economic, technological, socio-political, risks is to reduce uncertainty and help regulatory and environmental developments diminish the volatility of business results. result in a risk landscape that is shifting ever While risks today are assessed largely more rapidly today. In addition, there are reactively based on loss experience, a faster growing interdependencies between these pace of change requires a more anticipatory developments, which can lead to an approach. This requires translating risks increasing accumulation of risk and substan­ associated with high uncertainty into a tial ripple effects. Reinsurers also need to ﻿ quantifiable measure. be aware of further changes in the business environment: liability and regulatory Our SONAR framework regimes continue to evolve, stakeholder To address emerging risks in an appropriate expectations are strengthening and risk manner, we have a Group-wide risk perceptions shifting. management framework called SONAR (“systematic observation of notions These trends may give rise to so-called associated with risk”). Firmly embedded in “emerging risks” – newly developing or the Group’s risk management organisation, changing risks that are difficult to quantify SONAR allows us to identify and assess and whose potential business impact is not, emerging risks and to feed the resulting or only partly, taken into account at present. insights into the relevant decision-making Within Swiss Re’s integrated approach to processes. The assessment methodologies risk management, the investigation of such we apply as part of SONAR can vary in risks (and associated opportunities) in a depth and scope. However, thinking in pre-emptive way forms an important scenarios plays an increasingly important element. Renewable energy, smart grids and energy an electricity network that utilises smart the energy infrastructure of the future will storage – a source of emerging risks? metering, communication and control create new interfaces and, thus, increase com­ Driven by growing energy demand, the technologies to intelligently integrate the plexity. This can already be seen as a potential dwindling of easily accessible fossil fuels and behaviour and actions of all users connected source of emerging risks. Addressing these the challenge of climate change, energy infra­ to it. In order to introduce flexibility and ﻿ risks will play an important role in facilitating structures are expected to change substantially to optimise overall performance, the ability ﻿ the transition to smart grid technology. It over the next 20 years. Not only will various to store energy will be a key requirement on requires a new risk management approach, renewable sources account for a growing smart grids. however, at the core of which lies an in-depth share of energy generation. The need to link understanding of the different technologies these new, decentralised sources of power Renewable energy technologies such as solar and their interfaces. Though smart grid generation and to vastly improve the efficiency and wind carry new risks in themselves. Many electricity is still in its infancy, Swiss Re is of energy transport and use will give rise to ﻿ of these are hard to assess at present, because making provisions to carefully monitor its an entirely different kind of electricity grid – statistical loss experience is lacking. In addition, development. the “smart grid”. This term is used to denote ﻿ ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 23 Extending our risk intelligence role in them. These scenarios can be Strategic risk initiatives understood as rigorously conducted In cooperation with external partners, we thought experiments on possible future actively contribute to four strategic situations. initiatives related to emerging risks. Our goal is to raise awareness of selected In 2010, we made further refinements to emerging risks and to support the business the SONAR framework. At the identification community in prioritising, communicating stage, we significantly expanded the range and managing them: of potential contributors by utilising an interactive web 2.0-based platform. And ﻿ WEF – Risk Response Network (RRN) in order to streamline communication of The World Economic Forum’s Risk important findings, we introduced a new, Response Network (RRN) aims to address bi-annual reporting format. Over the whole the new world of risk we live in. It provides a year, more than 200 notions were fed into platform to better understand, manage and the SONAR process, drawing on all main respond to complex, interdependent risk. areas of the shifting risk landscape. Specific www.weforum.org/community/̤ risk developments we took a closer look ﻿ risk-response-network at include lead emissions, the EU Environ­ mental Liability Directive, the smart grid Chief Risk Officer Emerging Risk Initiative (see page 23), terahertz technology, cyber (CRO ERI) vulnerability and power blackouts. The CRO ERI was launched in 2005 as ﻿ part of the CRO Forum to raise awareness ﻿ of major emerging risks relevant to the insurance industry and society as a whole. www.croforum.org/ Publications with partner organisations Global_Risks_couv_Mise en page 1 11.01.10 11:04 Page1 COMMITTED TO IMPROVING THE STATE OF THE WORLD Global Risks 2010 A Global Risk Network Report The World Economic Forum is an independent international organization committed to improving the state of the world by engaging leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional and industry agendas. Incorporated as a foundation in 1971, and based in Geneva, Switzerland, the World Economic Forum is impartial and not-for-profit; it is tied to The information in this report, or on which this report is based, has been obtained from sources that the authors believe to no political, partisan or national interests. be reliable and accurate. However, it has not been independently verified and no representation or warranty, express or (www.weforum.org) implied, is made as to the accuracy or completeness of any information obtained from third parties. In addition, the A visualization of the FOXO3A (‘Methuselah’) gene section, which plays a key role in statements in this report may provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any determining lifespan. It is also involved in lipid metabolism and cell death processes. statement that does not directly relate to a historical fact or a current fact. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which are not exhaustive. The companies contributing to this report operate in a A World Economic Forum Report continually changing environment and new risks emerge continually. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these statements. The companies contributing to this report undertake no obligation to publicly revise or update any in collaboration with statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise and they shall in no event be liable for any loss or damage arising in connection with the use of the information in this report. Citi Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC) Swiss Re Wharton School Risk Center Longevity This work was prepared by the Global Risk Network of the World Economic Forum. Zurich Financial Services World Economic Forum 91-93 route de la Capite CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva Switzerland CRObriefing Tel.: +41 (0)22 869 1212 Fax: +41 (0)22 786 2744 Emerging Risks Initiative – Position Paper E-mail: globalrisks@weforum.org www.weforum.org © 2010 World Economic Forum November 2010 All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, including photocopying and recording, or by any information storage and retrieval system. ISBN: 92-95044-31-2 978-92-95044-31-9 REF: 201209 World Economic Forum January 2010 _013Z1_131985A01.indd 1 03/11/2010 10:18 The main goal of the CRO Forum’s The result of extensive input throughout The CRO Briefing on Longevity found that Recommendations for Managing the previous year by experts from demand for longevity risk mitigation solutions Environmental, Social and Ethical business, academia and the public sector, is growing and life insurers should play an Challenges in Business Transactions Global Risks 2010 highlighted a number important role. However, their current capacity is to assist insurance providers in the first of slow-moving risks exacerbated by ﻿ to take longevity risk onto their balance ﻿ step to becoming more aware of their the financial crisis and the global economic sheets is small relative to global longevity risk indirect impacts and to provide guidance downturn, and stressed the continued exposure. Developing solutions to transfer with respect to handling them. need to further enhance global resilience longevity risk to the capital markets can help. www.croforum.org/publication/cro_ to risks. www.croforum.org/publication/eri_ forum_sustainability _framework_ www.weforum.org/reports longevity/ august_2010/ 24 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence International Risk Governance Council Principles for Responsible Investment (IRGC) Our efforts to integrate sustainability-related The International Risk Governance Council considerations into our daily business also (IRGC) is an independent organisation apply to our asset management operations. whose purpose is to help the understanding In 2007, Swiss Re signed the UN Principles and management of emerging global risks for Responsible Investment (PRI). When ﻿ that have impacts on human health and we started to implement the PRI, we put the safety, the environment, the economy and initial focus on our actively managed society at large. portfolio of listed equities. We developed ﻿ www.irgc.org an overarching policy to formalise the use ﻿ of environmental, social and governance iNTeg-Risk (ESG) criteria in equity analysis and began The purpose of iNTeg-Risk is to coordinate to incorporate practical guidelines in 2008. research and development sub-projects for As a result of the financial turmoil that year, improving the management of emerging however, the Group decided to change its risks related to new materials and technol­ investment process and significantly ogies in European industry. reduced the portfolio of listed equities it www.integrisk.eu-vri.eu/ managed in-house. As a partner of these strategic risk In the current investment process, where initiatives, we contributed to four reports on we outsource the management of certain relevant risk developments in 2010 (shown assets to third-party asset managers, our below). commitment to the PRI remains intact. An essential precondition of the selection process to find suitable asset managers for the outsourcing assignment is the capability to implement the PRI in the investment process. Consequently, the appointed asset managers are responsible for security selection within the defined investment universe; however, Swiss Re defines certain overall constraints and disqualifies certain countries and companies, according to our Sustainability Risk Framework (see pages 21–22). In recent years we have successfully executed this approach, outsourcing around USD 25 billion in investments to various third-party asset managers. Research partnerships Report Adequately addressing key risks in our The Emergence of Risks: Contributing Factors underwriting and risk management frame­ work requires a thorough understanding of Nanotechnology them. To advance our knowledge of specific CRObriefing Emerging Risks Initiative – Position Paper risks, we often find it beneficial to comple­ November 2010 ment our own expertise through external research. For this purpose, we engage in international risk governance council research projects with selected academic institutions and other partners. _013ZC_131887A01.indd 1 03/11/2010 10:38 Nanotechnology has tremendous potential but In the report The Emergence of Risks: also presents insurers and reinsurers with Contributing Factors, IRGC argued that significant challenges. The CRO Briefing on emerging, systemic risks, even though they Nanotechnology recommended that assessing originate in different parts of the world and risk over the life cycle of these nanomaterials various sectors of the economy, are not should be standard practice for the nanotechno­ isolated events. To the contrary, such risks logy as well as the re/insurance industry. The emerge from a common “fertile ground” ﻿ latter needs to stay abreast of environmental, that is cultivated by twelve generic factors. health and safety hazards, as well as regulatory www.irgc.org/-Publications-.html developments. www.croforum.org/publication/eri_nano/ ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 25 Extending our risk intelligence We have maintained a number of research As a special service for Swiss Re, ProClim partnerships focusing on climate-related monitors the latest climate change-related risks in recent years. Involving partners from research worldwide and reports the findings Switzerland as well as other countries, to us in quarterly meetings. these projects aim to quantify impacts on specific extreme weather events. Our “Integrative Risk Management” chair partnerships with MeteoSwiss and ProClim at the ETH Zurich are two ongoing examples. As part of our collaboration with academic institutions, we support the strategic Decadal climate predictions with initiative “Integrative Risk Management” of MeteoSwiss (via NCCR Climate) the Federal Institute of Technology Zurich This project aims to evaluate the “skill” and (ETH Zurich) by donating funds for a potential usability of climate predictions ﻿ dedicated professorship. Professor Antoine on the annual to decadal timescale. First Bommier took office on 1 August 2010. ﻿ prototypes of such decadal climate The initiative aims to establish a world-class prediction models have recently been run research and education programme in and show promising prediction capabilities integrative risk management, as well as for regional circulation and temperature innovative collaboration among trends. The timescale of a decade matches governments, universities and publicwell with the business needs of a reinsurer. private partnerships. The results of the research project will enable us to explore multi-year products and to support strategic decision-making in view of climate change and its impact. www.meteoswiss.admin.ch/web/en/ research/current_projects/climate/nccr_ iii/preclim.html ProClim ProClim – the Forum for Climate and Global Change – seeks to facilitate integrated research activities on the climate and the necessary interrelations among scientists, policymakers, business and the public. Swiss Re is a member of ProClim’s steering committee. The partnership provides a valuable interface with an extensive network of scientists and the opportunity to exchange findings of the latest climate-related research. The IMILAST (“Intercomparison of mid-latitude storm diagnostics”) project, for example, brought together many international storm researchers with the objective to generate insights of practical use for decision-makers in business and other sectors of society. www.proclim.ch/imilast/ 26 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Extending our risk intelligence ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 27 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We regularly engage in dialogue with our stake­ holders to advance our under­standing of the changing risk landscape and to promote effective responses to key risks. Reinsurance creates economic and social The GIM process involves risk and product value by offering adequately priced cover experts from across the Group, as well as against major risks. Developing effective specialists who deal with specific stakeholder risk transfer solutions requires a thorough groups. External views are gathered understanding of the ever changing ﻿ through a broad range of stakeholder risk landscape. At Swiss Re, we invest dialogues and expert networks. The Centre substantial resources to explore for Global Dialogue in Rüschlikon near developments that influence the global risk Zurich is Swiss Re’s prime venue for expert landscape – such as market, regulatory, meetings and stakeholder dialogues. technological, socio-economic and environmental trends. Engaging in regular Currently, the Group manages a total of nine dialogue with key stakeholders is an Top Topics: essential part of this effort. ̤̤ Agricultural risk solutions ̤̤ Climate change In turn, the risk expertise we can contribute ̤̤ Country risk management to dialogue is highly valued by our stake­ ̤̤ Insurance-linked securities holders. We are frequently invited to share ̤̤ Liability dynamics our views on important risk developments. ̤̤ Longevity risks This allows us to help society and business ̤̤ Natural catastrophes form adequate responses and develop ̤̤ Regulatory reforms effective risk transfer instruments. ̤̤ Solvency II Group Issue Management Our Top Topic priorities in 2010 focused on With Group Issue Management (GIM), ﻿ regulatory developments in the aftermath ﻿ we have established a formal approach to of the financial crisis, innovations in disaster communicating on topics which we risk financing that help make societies more consider important to us, our clients and resilient, as well as new approaches to society at large. These “Top Topics” reflect managing longevity risks. We also launched our priorities in areas where we strive to our new flagship publication entitled ﻿ provide thought leadership. We share the “The essential guide to reinsurance”, which cutting-edge knowledge and solutions highlights the multi-faceted nature and generated by our risk experts through our critical role that reinsurance plays in enabling publications and dialogue with relevant progress and contributing to the stability of stakeholders. Clients are usually a key the economy and society at large. audience. So are policymakers and regulators: It is within the Top Topic framework that Swiss Re helps shape public policy through its insights and expertise. 28 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape We strive to improve societies’ risk resilience Regulatory challenges: Solvency II and Global Dialogue on “The role of insurance ﻿ by addressing Top Topics such as climate systemic risks in global financial stability” served a similar change, natural catastrophes and country risk Throughout 2010, Swiss Re continued to purpose. management in cooperation with our work closely with European regulators on stakeholders. practical details of the EU’s framework Risk transfer solutions for more resilient directive “Solvency II” by sharing our risk societies management expertise and providing 2010 was another tragic reminder of the insights into industry-specific issues. At the enormous human and economic toll that same time, we supported our clients in natural disasters can take on whole nations. preparing for the new regulatory regime Around the world, hurricanes, earthquakes, through up-to-date fact sheets, publications volcanic eruptions, floods, wild fires and and targeted client events. droughts caused great hardship to people. Developing countries were among the In 2010, international institutions and hardest hit, with natural catastrophes and regulators in the United States and in weather-related risks not only claiming lives, Europe continued to design and implement but also threatening long-term economic new approaches to systemic risk oversight. development. This is why we continued to We monitored developments and engaged focus on helping countries secure funds that in policy discussions on the nature of the ﻿ allow them to adapt to the consequences ﻿ re/insurance business and how it differs of climate change and enable swift disaster from the banking sector. In our contribution recovery. Innovative insurance solutions, to a special report on “Systemic Risk in particularly those involving public as well as Insurance” by the Geneva Association private partners, are important for these Systemic Risk Working Group, we pointed efforts, because they ease the burden on out that the business model of the insurance public budgets and bridge financing gaps. industry is fundamentally different from ﻿ that of a bank and that insurance therefore poses no systemic threat. Our multistakeholder conference at the Centre for ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 29 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Through several publications and global In 2010, we strengthened our offerings ﻿ stakeholder dialogues, we shared our for pension providers and policymakers research and risk management knowledge who will have to deal with growing pension with leaders from government, business, liabilities. In a new publication, “A short academia and civil society, demonstrating guide to longer lives”, we highlighted the how innovative risk transfer solutions ﻿ value of private insurance solutions in can make societies more resilient. In July, ﻿ bringing additional underwriting capacity ﻿ a new report on agricultural risks in Russia to the longevity market and made practical gained particular prominence in the wake ﻿ recommendations on how innovative of the Russian wild fires and a devastating transactions can help secure future pension drought that led to widespread crop failures funds for ageing populations. We held across the country. At the opening of several stakeholder conferences on the Climate Week NYC in September, Swiss Re subject of demographic change and longevity and the Climate Group hosted a high-level that brought together public policymakers, panel on climate adaptation in the pension providers and insurance clients ﻿ developing world, which explored the role at the Centre for Global Dialogue. In doing ﻿ of risk transfer in addressing the impact of so, we collaborated with international natural disasters and extreme weather. We organisations such as the World Economic also participated in the UN’s climate change Forum and the World Demographic talks in Cancún as a formal member of the Association. Swiss country delegation. The Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue Managing longevity risks Our Centre for Global Dialogue in Rüschlikon Increasing life expectancy is generally seen just outside of Zurich plays an essential ﻿ as desirable for a society. But for public and role in Swiss Re’s risk communication private sector institutions that pay pensions, efforts, providing a state-of-the-art platform an unanticipated rise in life expectancy – ﻿ for dialogue with experts, clients and other or longevity – poses a significant financial stakeholders. Expertise events aim to risk. While the capacity of insurers to write develop knowledge on important risk topics longevity is limited, the exposure to risks and are held in different formats, including arising from people living longer than select expert hearings, larger expert forums expected is immense and due to increase and public stakeholder conferences. ﻿ even further in ageing societies. These formats reflect different stages in the process of building expertise: from early exploration with the help of external inputs, In many countries, life expectancy is now higher than ever before. We help develop pension solutions that enable people to enjoy longer lives in financial security. 30 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Selected publications of 2010 Our publications play an essential role in our efforts to help societies form effective responses to important risks. The seven Swiss Re publications and one partner publication listed below provide information on the reinsurance business and specific risk developments. Further information on these topics is provided in this chapter; the full publications can be downloaded or ordered at www.swissre.com/publications A short guide to longer lives: Sowing the seeds for record harvests: Longevity funding issues and Striking the right balance: The essential guide to reinsurance risk reduction a must for Russian agriculture potential solutions Insurance and systemic risk regulation Swiss Re Dots Imagery Title: Wheatfield Category: Agriculture & Nature Scriptographer Plugin The essential guide to Sowing the seeds for record A short guide to longer lives: Striking the right balance: reinsurance harvests: risk reduction a must Longevity funding issues and Insurance and systemic risk Copyright © 2008 Swiss Re for Russian agriculture potential solutions regulation With the Geneva Association: Integrative Risk Management: Advanced Disaster Recovery Risk Dialogue Series Weathering climate change: Insurance solutions for more Country risk management: resilient communities Making societies more resilient Integrative Risk Management: Advanced Disaster Recovery Swiss Re Dots Imagery Swiss Re Risk Dialogue Series Swiss Re Title: Battered nature Centre for Global Dialogue Centre for Global Dialogue Category: Risk & Catastrophe Gheistrasse 37 8803 Rüschlikon Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 8100 Fax +41 43 285 8101 global_dialogue@swissre.com www.swissre.com/cgd Swiss Re Centre for Global Dialogue Scriptographer Plugin Copyright © 2008 Swiss Re Weathering climate change: Country risk management: Integrative Risk Management: Systemic Risk in Insurance: ﻿ Insurance solutions for more Making societies more resilient Advance Disaster Recovery An analysis of insurance and resilient communities financial stability ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 31 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape to setting the agenda and shaping solutions Specifically, the European Union is seeking for major risk topics. Marketing events are to address discrimination on the basis of designed for Swiss Re’s clients. They take race, religion, sexual orientation, disability, different formats, too, but always emphasise gender and age. The last three of these are the key objective of translating expertise key considerations for private life and health into tangible business solutions. insurance products, however. The principle of private insurance is to create a risk Furthermore, the Centre for Global Dialogue sharing pool; the individuals in such a pool manages a number of networks that bring need to share a broadly similar risk profile. ﻿ together external stakeholders, such as If an individual has a significantly higher risk clients, industry bodies, policymakers and profile, this raises the cost of insurance for government officials, with the Group’s all those in the pool. Should costs rise too internal representatives. A key network is much, some of the “better” risks may leave the Advisory Panel: comprised of 11 distin­ the pool, causing an upward spiral of prices guished members, it serves to generate that will eventually lead to the pool’s strategic insights into the economic, political, collapse. Thus private insurance requires regulatory and societal environment for risk differentiation to be viable in the longer Swiss Re’s executive management. run. Getting the balance right: risk selection Striking a balance between these two in private insurance viewpoints is challenging. By holding this Private life and health insurance products event, Swiss Re sought to bring different increasingly supplement state social stakeholders from within the European security systems. However, insurers find Union together with insurance represent­ themselves under conflicting pressures in atives to discuss the provision of private life offering these products. While downward and health insurance products in the pressure on prices promotes accessibility, context of the anti-discrimination directive. anti-discrimination legislation and other Some 70 experts used the platform to measures increasingly restrict how insurers present their respective positions and enter can select and price risks. This, in turn, ﻿ into constructive dialogue with each other. limits the ability of insurers to provide widely affordable coverage. Christian Mumenthaler, in his former role as Swiss Re’s Head of Life & Health Products Underwriting, addressed participants at the Expert Forum on risk selection in private insurance. 32 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Exploring and shaping the risk landscape Risk Talk on green electricity Expert Forum on integrative risk In the Centre’s series of smaller and more management informal Risk Talks, we organised an event Modern risk and crisis management – both on “green electricity”. By definition, this in the public and private sector – relies on denotes electricity produced from sources integrative risk assessment. This involves a which have little, if any, impact on the portfolio approach to all risk categories and environment. Yet, for end users, electricity ﻿ their interdependencies, taking into account is electricity. If consumers want to use green the respective economic, technical and electricity, they require reliable product socio-political contexts. Implementing such information. Bringing together the perspec­ an approach, particularly on a national level, tives of consumers, electricity providers ﻿ requires strong collaboration across various and consultants, this Risk Talk addressed disciplines and organisations to address ﻿ the issues surrounding the availability and risk prevention, mitigation, response and viability of green electricity. recovery efforts, as well as developing new risk transfer solutions. While green electricity sounds like a straight­ forward concept, in actual fact there are In general, the public sector is showing considerable challenges on the supply side, heightened interest in such an integrative because some of its sources have stochastic approach to risk management. A number ﻿ production patterns. These problems require of governments have started to establish innovative thinking, in particular regarding offices to coordinate risk responsiveness grid designs, and potentially risky investment between different departments. decisions. Increasing demand can help drive investment, but this demand cannot This Expert Forum brought together be fully expressed unless consumers are in academic representatives and practitioners a position to make well-informed choices. from various disciplines and institutions specialising in disaster risk management to Reliable product labelling plays a key role in discuss recent developments and insights addressing this. Firstly, there is a need for into country and crisis risk management. labels that are clear and transparent on the Encouraging stakeholders to jointly develop power sources used, which may require the tools and the culture required to governments to lay down guidelines. effectively deal with inherent risks and Secondly, measures are needed to ensure exogenous shocks will help foster greater consumers’ trust. As there is considerable crisis resilience, benefiting individuals, potential for fraud in green labelling, organisations and countries. independent audits may prove to be indis­ pensable. To conclude, there was broad In conjunction with this Expert Forum, the agreement that if consumers are given the Centre for Global Dialogue also launched ﻿ ability to clearly express their preferences, a new publication in its Risk Dialogue Series they can be a genuine force for change in entitled “Integrative Risk Management: electricity markets. Advance Disaster Recovery”. Contributions to high-level dialogue Members of our senior management frequently attend international dialogue events to share Swiss Re’s risk expertise. Highlights of 2010 included the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos, Climate Week NYC and the Annual ﻿ Meeting of the Clinton Global Initiative. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 33 Exploring and shaping the risk landscape World Economic Forum Annual Meeting of climate adaptation in the developing At the Annual Meeting of the World world, which explored the role of risk Economic Forum in Davos, Swiss Re was transfer in addressing the impact of natural represented by CEO Stefan Lippe and disasters and extreme weather. former Chief Risk Officer Raj Singh. Stefan Lippe appeared on a panel on “Rethinking We used Climate Week NYC as a platform Systemic Financial Risk” and acted as a to launch our new publication entitled table discussion leader on a session “Weathering climate change”. This illustrates devoted to “Catalysing a New Vision for how insurance solutions can cost-effectively Agriculture”. Raj Singh took part in a table strengthen a location’s climate resilience discussion on “Redesigning Land Use”. and support a more sustainable development path. Climate Week NYC For the second year in a row, Swiss Re was Clinton Global Initiative the founding sponsor of Climate Week NYC, We are a founding sponsor of the Clinton which brought together senior represen­ Global Initiative (CGI) and have been one ﻿ tatives from government, business and the of its members for six years. The CGI aims ﻿ wider development community to explore to tackle pressing global issues, such as measures that can help make societies climate change, through a commitment to more resilient to the growing risks of climate practical action. Walter A. Bell, Chairman ﻿ change. Matthias Weber, a member of our of Swiss Re America Holding Corp, attended Group Management Board, took part in a the CGI Annual Meeting to present our panel discussion on the specific challenges 2010 commitment, a further upscaling of our HARITA project in Ethiopia (for details, see pages 43–44). 34 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint Reducing our environmental footprint We strive to minimise the environmental impact of our operations and procurement activities. Cutting CO2 emissions and reducing energy intensity are key targets across the Group. Through the daily operations involved in At a number of our large locations, the running our core business, we cause a Logistics departments – which are number of impacts on the environment. responsible for implementing environmental Though they are relatively minor impacts management – have been certified compared to those caused by industrial according to ISO 14001. At the end of 2010, operations, we consider minimising our 42% of our employees were working at direct environmental footprint an essential locations with an ISO 14001-certified part of being a responsible company. At Logistics department. Group level, our main targets concern CO2 emissions and energy efficiency, as these Greenhouse Neutral Programme are the most significant aspects of Swiss Re’s One of the four elements in Swiss Re’s environmental footprint. The use of Groupoverarching climate change strategy is the wide guidelines for our procurement target of reducing our own CO2 emissions activities is a further priority. (see page 11). The Greenhouse Neutral Programme, which we launched in 2003, is Environmental objectives are fully integrated our principal initiative to achieve this goal. into the global management system of Originally, the programme combined ﻿ Swiss Re’s Logistics division. We define two commitments: firstly, to reduce our CO2 relevant quality standards centrally in Zurich emissions by 15% per employee within ten and deploy them to all our locations years (ie until 2013) and, secondly, to fully worldwide. A Group-wide reporting process offset the remaining emissions by purchasing enables us to continuously monitor our high-quality emissions reduction credits. ﻿ environmental performance and to plan To our knowledge, we were the first large appropriate improvement measures. Since financial services provider worldwide to 2009, we have been using a state-of-themake such a pledge. art, web-based platform for our environ­ mental reporting; this has further increased Since launching the programme, we have the accessibility and reliability of key data. made continuous and significant progress. We achieved the original 15% reduction goal in 2007 – six years early. Subsequently, we raised the reduction goal to 30% per employee and, in 2009, to 45%. At the end of 2010, the total reduction of Swiss Re’s CO2 emissions per employee achieved since 2003 amounted to 50.6%. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 35 Reducing our environmental footprint 2003 2009 2010 Power Heating Business travel CO2 emissions per employee (full-time equivalent, “FTE”), Swiss Re Group ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Change since ﻿ 1 2003 1 2009 2010 base year 2003 in % kg/FTE kg/FTE kg/FTE Power 3 703 1 582 1 289 –65.2 Heating 706 496 496 –29.7 Business travel 2 160 2 1 331 1 457 –32.5 Total 6 569 3 409 3 242 –50.6 1 All figures for 2003 and 2009 have been slightly adjusted due to a simplification of our calculation method. 2 In addition, the business travel figure for 2009 has been restated because of a data error concerning one location in our environmental reporting system. Underlying environmental data, Swiss Re Group ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ ﻿ Change since ﻿ Power 2003 kWh/FTE 1 2003 8 801 1 2009 6 726 2009 2010 6 087 base year 2003 in % –30.8 2010 Heating kWh/FTE 3 381 2 449 2 424 –28.3 Energy intensity Businesstravel kWh/FTE﻿ 12 182﻿ 9 175﻿ 8 511 –30.1﻿ (power & heating) Business travel km/FTE 13 057 2 7 992 8 555 –34.5 1 All figures for 2003 and 2009 have been slightly adjusted due to a simplification of our calculation method. 2 I n addition, the business travel figure for 2009 has been restated because of a data error concerning one location in our environmental reporting system. This 50.6% cut in emissions has been this is technically feasible by 2013 at the achieved through three principal measures: latest. In selecting power from renewable switching to renewable power at many of ﻿ sources, we apply a minimum standard that our locations, continuous improvements in clearly defines a number of requirements energy efficiency and minimising business (see pages 39–40). At our Zurich headquar­ travel. ters, for example, we only buy “naturmade star” electricity (www.naturmade.ch), Using renewable energy which meets tough ecological quality criteria. Our drive to use electricity from renewable In Munich, we purchase our electricity from sources started in 2005 at four Group NaturEnergie (www.naturenergie.de), ﻿ locations: Munich, Paris, Rome and Zurich. one of Germany’s premier suppliers of By the end of 2010, a total of 20 locations renewable power. in Europe, North America, Asia and Oceania had switched to using renewable power, fully or partially (for details, see table on next page). Swiss Re’s goal is to use 100% renewable power at all locations where ﻿ 36 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint Swiss Re locations using renewable energy % of location’s total use of energy 2008 2009 2010 Armonk, New York 60 60 60 Kansas City, Fort Wayne 60 60 60 five further locations in the US 1 60 60 60 London 100 100 100 four further locations in the UK 2 100 100 100 Munich 100 100 100 Paris 100 100 100 Rome 100 100 100 Sydney 50 50 50 Tokyo 10 10 10 Zurich 100 100 100 1 Avon, Barrington, Calabasas, Chicago, Manchester; as a result of the Group’s recent reorganisation ﻿ and revised operating model, the total number of locations for which we can verify the amount of power purchased from renewable sources has declined by two, from 22 to 20. 2 Folkestone, Hitchin, Norwich, Stevenage Reducing energy consumption intensity by 20% against the 2003 baseline. In addition to our policy of using electricity By taking ongoing measures to improve from renewable sources, we also have a energy efficiency and by concentrating back-­ Group target for reducing energy intensity – office tasks in fewer locations, we have in other words, for reducing the actual already exceeded this goal: At the end of amount of energy consumed per employee. 2010, energy intensity across the Group Measured in kWh per employee (FTE), we was 30.1% lower than in 2003 – and down have made a pledge to reduce energy by 7.2% from 2009 (see table on page 36). Switch to geothermal energy in Munich Our Munich location is one of the biggest in the Group, employing around 600 people. The office building in the suburb of Unterföhring has a high level of energy efficiency and, since 2005, has been powered exclusively with electricity from renewable sources. In 2010, we took another significant step in improving the building’s overall environmental perfor­m­ ance by changing over to geothermal energy. The energy is provided by the “Geothermie­ projekt Unterföhring”, which is managed by the local community. Swiss Re’s contract is over a power input of 2.5 megawatts, sufficient to cover the heating and warm water needs of the entire office building. Geothermal energy is generated by extracting hot, “thermal” water from below the earth’s surface and transferring its heat energy to a district heating network, through which it is distributed to ﻿ end users. Geothermal energy has several advantages: it is fully renewable, has a very favourable CO2 footprint, and unit prices are both relatively low and stable. Moreover, investing in a geothermal plant creates local employment and economic value-added. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 37 Reducing our environmental footprint Minimising business travel Offsetting our remaining CO2 emissions Between 2008 and 2009, CO2 emissions The second commitment of our Greenhouse from the business trips taken by our Neutral Programme is to compensate all employees fell sharply, by about 39%. Our remaining CO2 emissions. For the period data analysis suggested that this was at between 2003 and 2009 we bought and least partly due to the difficult business retired high-quality voluntary emission environ­ment that prevailed at that time due reduction certificates (VERs) for a total of to the financial crisis. However, we have also 338 000 tonnes of CO2e. To offset the taken ambitious internal measures over the emissions we caused in 2010, we bought last couple of years to curb unnecessary and retired VERs for a further 39 930 tonnes business travel, particularly for internal of CO2e. meetings. Travel budgets are tightly monitored, while travel data are centrally We are keen to ensure that the voluntary collected and fed into our environmental emission reduction certificates we buy are reporting system. As a modern, technologyof a high environmental quality. To achieve based alternative to business travel, we this, we have developed a set of criteria to have continuously expanded our video select the projects generating the certificates. conferencing facilities, which totalled 111 For instance, we do not consider projects across the Group at the end of 2010. that support carbon sinks, and we give Recently, we started to introduce state-ofpriority to projects which have strong social the-art telepresence equipment. Installation side-effects and benefit the poorest regions. at our five biggest Group locations was completed in 2010; the facilities of other locations are gradually being updated. In 2010, some of the voluntary emission reduction certificates we bought and retired came from a project of three small-scale ﻿ run-of-river hydropower stations in the Sichuan province of China. The three plants sell their output of fully renewable energy to the Central China Power Grid, substituting electricity gained from burning fossil fuels (ie coal). In addition to reducing CO2 emissions and air pollution, the project has also created local employment, initially through construction work and later through operation and mainte­ nance. Furthermore, the power station contributes to grid stability, thus facilitating economic activity in the area. 38 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint External verification of our CO2 hard to come by in these circumstances, reporting resulting in aggregate data of low to We have been communicating the progress medium quality only. of our Greenhouse Neutral Programme on a yearly basis since its launch, by publishing The decrease recorded in total water con­ our CO2 emissions, their principal sources sumption was most likely caused by the and percentage changes in both our Annual specific climatic conditions prevailing in Report and our Corporate Responsibility 2010, for example a wetter summer in ﻿ Report. The calculation of our emissions ﻿ the US. The drop in waste generation is ﻿ is based on the guidelines of the Greenhouse a consequence of the restructuring and Gas Protocol, the most widely-used office consolidation which Swiss Re emissions accounting standard ﻿ undertook in 2009. The vacation of entire (www.ghgprotocol.org). Before we publish office buildings and clear-out of archives ﻿ our emission figures, our auditors, led to a temporary spike in waste generation, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), perform which subsided again last year. an assurance engagement to verify our data and processes. Their assurance report for Group purchasing guidelines and 2010 is included on pages 60–61. minimum standards As a financial services provider, Swiss Re Paper, water and waste does not have an extensive supply chain in In addition to energy consumption and CO2 the way an industrial company does; our emissions, we track further environmental core business does not require us to buy impacts, chiefly paper use, water consump­ intermediate inputs. The goods and services tion and waste generation. we need for our operations are office furniture, paper, office materials, cleaning As regards the amount of paper used per agents and the like. For the procurement of employee, we achieved a decrease of 19.9% these, we use a set of guidelines that are across the Group in 2010. This reflects applicable to all our large locations. They more frequent scanning of documents and contain criteria to select goods and services less printing, partly as a result of our that offer best value for money, meet high Document Induction Process and increased quality standards, have a low environmental double-side printing. Another factor was impact and observe social standards in their that we produced fewer external publica­ supply chain. Environmental criteria must tions in comparison with previous years. be included in purchasing decisions with The increase in the proportion of recycled regard to materials and ingredients, paper and FSC-labelled paper used is a production methods, recycling and waste. direct outcome of our Group purchasing guidelines and, specifically, the require­ We give preference to suppliers that have ments set down in our “Minimum standard an environmental policy or a certified for copy paper” (see below). environmental management system, such as ISO 14001 or EMAS, and comply with Water consumption and waste generation international social standards. In particular, are both more difficult to track and to our guidelines formally prohibit the use of influence across the Group, because in subcontractors without our express permis­ many locations our offices are situated in sion and any use whatsoever of underage ﻿ multi-tenant buildings. Accurate data are or forced labour. Paper use per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 1 2003 1 2009 2010 Change in % since 2009 Paper kg/FTE 93 43.2 34.6 –19.9 Recycled paper % 14 59 73 +23.7 FSC label % n/a 90 94 +4.4 1 All figures for 2003 and 2009 have been slightly adjusted due to a simplification of our calculation method. Water consumption and waste generation per employee (FTE), Swiss Re Group 1 2003 1 2009 2010 Change in % since 2009 Water m3/FTE 25 22.7 18.9 –16.7 Waste kg/FTE 286 275 229 –16.7 1 All figures for 2003 and 2009 have been slightly adjusted due to a simplification of our calculation method. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 39 Reducing our environmental footprint For individual product groups we use a With the COYou2 Programme approaching its number of minimum standards that further five-year birthday at the end of 2011, we specify our requirements: alongside carried out a detailed evaluation during last electricity (see page 36), they address copy year. The programme has been found to be paper, office supplies, cleaning services ﻿ a genuine success, as the uptake figures and cleaning agents, furniture and building illustrate. We therefore decided to continue materials. Each standard lists objectives, the programme beyond 2011. Its basic ecological aspects, ecological minimum structure will remain the same, though standards, exceptions, controlling and some individual features might be adjusted. labels. Our goal is that any supplier from which we purchase goods and services Partner initiative: belonging to these categories signs the The Climate Foundation Switzerland respective minimum standard. Implemen­ In cooperation with a number ﻿ tation of this policy is ongoing, focusing ﻿ of partner companies, we set up the Swiss first on our larger suppliers and contract Climate Foundation ﻿ renewals. By the end of 2010, we had sent (www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch) in a total of 44 minimum standard documents 2008 in response to the introduction of the to our major suppliers, of which 43 have Swiss CO2 law, which provides the basis for been signed and returned to us. Business the CO2 levy on heating fuels in Switzerland. relations with the one supplier who did ﻿ This levy is not a proper tax but an environ­ not sign the minimum standard have been mental market mechanism: It imposes a cancelled. charge on the use of heating fuels and then reimburses the money raised – to private COYou2 payouts 2007–2010, by type The COYou2 Reduce and Gain Programme companies proportionate to their total salary Swiss Re’s comprehensive climate change expenses. For financial service providers, strategy has four elements, one of which ﻿ who use relatively small amounts of is to lead by example by cutting our own ﻿ heating fuels but employ large numbers of CO2 emissions (see page 11). In 2007, people, this has resulted in a substantial we launched the COYou2 Reduce and Gain “net reimburse­ment”. Programme as a pioneering measure to let our employees get involved in our reduction The partner companies of the foundation efforts. It gives our staff members the agreed to collect these funds and use them opportunity to claim subsidies from the to support various climate-friendly projects company for a range of emissions-cutting undertaken by small and medium-sized 17.0% Alternative individual transport investments they want to make in their companies in Switzerland. In 2010, 16 31.5% Public transport private lives. To our knowledge, it was the projects were selected for financial support 24.9% Heating first global corporate initiative of its kind totalling CHF 1.2 million. These projects will 23.4% Electricity when we launched it. Other help avoid about 26 000 tonnes of CO2 3.2% Other emissions and save 14 GWh of power over The programme is open to all employees Electricity their full life cycles. Overall, slightly more who have been with Swiss HeatingRe for a minimum than half the projects aim to raise energy period of time (currently one year). Grants Public transport efficiency, while the others focus on COYou2 payouts 2007–2010, by region cover 50% of the investment sum up to a innovation. maximum of CHF 5 000 or an equivalent Alternative individual transport amount adjusted to the local cost of living. In addition to financing the foundation by Some of the specified measures are eligible paying in its net levy reimbursement, ﻿ in all our locations; others vary depending on Swiss Re has been sponsoring its managing the prevailing climatic and social condi­tions director position since it was established ﻿ in order to maximise the programme’s in 2008. effectiveness. We continued to promote the programme in various locations during 2010. Almost 900 59.3% Europe (including new grants brought the total since 2007 to Middle East and Africa) 2 913 by the end of 2010. The most popular 27.5% Americas investments continue to be public transport, 13.2% Asia-Pacific household appliances and hybrid cars. Asia Americas Europe 40 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Reducing our environmental footprint Being a good corporate citizen We support selected humanitarian and develop­ ment projects across the world, while promoting volunteering and charitable work at our business locations. As a private-sector company, our primary Global humanitarian & development task is to offer products and services that programmes create value for our clients. But beyond Through our core business, we offer financial practising our core business, we regard our­ protection against risk. This helps create selves as part of the wider fabric of society. economic stability but, in many situations, Playing an active role as a good corporate insurance solutions need to be comple­ment­ citizen is essential to our understanding ﻿ ed by other activities. In poorer communities, of being a responsible company. In doing in particular, strengthening risk prevention so, we focus on three main activities: ﻿ can bring large benefits; if a disaster should, We support humanitarian and development however, strike, it is vital to focus on providing programmes worldwide, we back local swift, hands-on assistance. With this in charities and volunteering activities of our mind, we support development efforts aimed employees, and we engage in sponsoring at improving risk prepared­ness and we cultural events. This report addresses ﻿ provide humanitarian aid when required. the first two categories; information on Putting our core business know-how to best sponsoring culture can be found on our use, we concentrate on risks related to website at www.swissre.com/corporate_ natural catastrophes, climate change and responsibility/spons_culture.html. water. Tsunami evacuation hill in Indonesia Padang is the largest city in West Sumatra, Indonesia. Built at sea level close to an active offshore fault line and far from high ground, it faces one of the world’s highest tsunami risks. It is estimated that today ﻿ at least 100 000 people could perish in the event of a tsunami, even if evacuation were to begin immediately after the earthquake. Given the high risk of a catastrophic tsunami in Padang, Swiss Re agreed to fund the design of an evacuation hill within the city, called “Tsunami Evacuation Raised Earth Park” or TEREP for short. The artificial hill will remain open to the public at all times and 42 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen The key objective of the project is to reduce both poverty and carbon emissions in the Bundelkhand region by generating ecolog­ ically sound employment opportunities. To achieve this, the project focuses on three vulnerable target groups: farmers, women and artisans. For each group, it aims to improve skill levels and capabilities, develop “green” enterprise models and establish supportive policy networks with key external partners. serve as a university park and soccer field. Climate adaptation in Ethiopia The idea of building a prototype TEREP in In partnership with Oxfam America and the Indonesia was developed by the Californian International Research Institute for Climate non-profit organisation GeoHazards and Society at Columbia University, we International (GHI), which specialises in further developed a comprehensive climate protecting people from the effects of major risk management package for smallholder earthquakes. A simple and cost-effective farmers in Ethiopia. Called “Horn of Africa solution, such evacuation hills may later be Risk Transfer for Adaptation” (HARITA), the replicated in other parts of Indonesia. project combines weather index insurance against drought, disaster risk reduction Climate-friendly development in India measures and credit for investments in In India, we supported a project managed agricultural production. One of its innovative by the Swiss Agency for Development and features is that farmers can pay for insurance Cooperation (SDC) and the Delhi-based premiums by working for public climate “Development Alternatives” organisation ﻿ adaptation projects in their communities. to promote climate-friendly development ﻿ in Bundelkhand. This area in the North of The partnership began in 2008 with a pilot Madhya Pradesh has recently seen an project in the village of Adi Ha in the increase in energyand carbon-intensive Northern province of Tigray. Having proved production methods in agriculture ﻿ successful, this was extended in 2010 to and construction, but still suffers from five villages and to one additional crop. Both widespread poverty. the pilot and the scaled-up project were Swiss Re’s commitments as a partner of the In partnership with Oxfam America and Columbia University, we have developed HARITA, a comprehensive programme to protect smallholder farmers in Ethiopia ﻿ against climate risks. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 43 Being a good corporate citizen Clinton Global Initiative, which aims to Disaster assistance for Haiti … tackle pressing global issues by focusing ﻿ The disastrous earthquake that hit Haiti in on practical action. January affected some three million people, killing over 230 000 and leaving hundreds International ReSource Award of thousands homeless. Saddened by ﻿ In 2010, we presented our International this tragedy, we immediately set up donation ReSource Award for the Sustainable efforts at many of our offices around the Management of Watersheds for the eighth world. In total, our employees collected ﻿ time. By recognising innovative practical CHF 195 000. The company fully matched solutions, the award aims to highlight the this amount, benefiting those organisations social, ecological and economic importance that had received most of our employees’ of protecting vulnerable watersheds in donations. emerging countries. Furthermore, Swiss Re is supporting recon­ The 2010 award winner was a project in ﻿ struction activities in Haiti by providing the Santa Cruz valleys in Bolivia, initiated by specific risk management expertise. As the the non-profit organisation Fundación country sits on a seismically active zone, ﻿ Natura Bolivia. Drinking and irrigation water it is of critical importance to construct infra­ supplies in this area are threatened by ﻿ structure that can better withstand future the deforestation of headwater forests. By earthquakes. We therefore issued a establishing municipal water funds and preliminary seismic hazard map for Haiti, reciprocal agreement schemes, the project taking into account the latest data from ﻿ will compensate upstream landowners for our in-house risk models. By highlighting the opportunity cost of conserving water­ varying threat levels across the country, ﻿ sheds. Some 1 000 inhabitants upstream the map will help to appropriately apply and 5 000 downstream are expected ﻿ building standards for earthquake-resistant to benefit from the project. Important side construction. In addition, Swiss Re pledged benefits include enhanced local incomes CHF 250 000 to support rebuilding efforts and a contribution to tackling climate in Haiti. Various discussions with different change. organisations took place in 2010 to ensure that the funds will be used in a way that ﻿ is sustainable and supports those most affected. Since 2002, we have conferred our ﻿ 2002 Guatemala, Sierra de las Minas Water users as biosphere conservers ReSource Award for Sustainable Watershed 2002 Brazil, São Paulo Region Financing mechanism for water resources Management to a total of 16 pioneering 2002 Nepal, Galaundo Pokhare ﻿ Community-based resource enhancement﻿ projects around the world. watershed 2003 Vietnam, Quang Nam Province Reforms in the A’Voung watershed People’s Republic of China, ﻿ A native grass for the Dabie Mountains﻿ 2003 Anhui Province 2004 Ecuador, Tomebamba watershed Improving water quality 2004 People’s Republic of China, ﻿ Eco sanitation﻿ Yunnan Province 2005 Bolivia, Camacho Province Reintroducing Andean practices 2005 Philippines, Peñablanca ﻿ Compensating local people﻿ Municipality 2005 Cameroon, Northwest Province Protecting a fragile water area 2007 Jamaica, Rio Grande watershed Eliminating river poisoning 2007 Ethiopia, Borana Zone Rainwater harvesting 2008 Solomon Islands, Chivoko ﻿ Watershed forest preservation﻿ Community 2008 People’s Republic of China, ﻿ Implemention of participatory community waYunnan Province tershed management 2009 Afghanistan, Bamyan Province﻿ Management of degraded watersheds to ﻿ prevent down-stream flood damage 2010 Bolivia, Santa Cruz Valleys﻿ Capitalising five Municipal Water Funds to ﻿ improve livelihoods in the Santa Cruz Valleys 44 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen … and for Pakistan schools were damaged. We therefore chose A natural catastrophe of devastating to support a project by the respected organ­ dimensions also occurred in Pakistan. The isation Save the Children. Called “Children’s worst floods in the country’s history affected Action against Oppression and Neglect” about 20 million people and 70% of its total (CHAON), the project had been launched area. Millions lost their homes, possessions before the floods as a long-term development and livelihoods. Swiss Re swiftly donated ﻿ initiative designed to improve children’s a total of CHF 100 000 to fund instant relief security and health and to offer them access measures. The donation was mainly used﻿ to education. Of the 200 schools targeted to build tents for families that had lost their in the programme, 64 were affected by the homes. floods. Additional support for the project will help repair the facilities that have been In addition to these instant relief measures, damaged or destroyed. we also wanted to support the massive rebuilding efforts required. Children were Local volunteering & charity programmes particularly badly affected by the catastrophe. Our company has business locations around They were left deprived of protection and the world. We are also keen to be a good education, as the floods wreaked havoc on citizen in these local settings by actively numerous schools. In the affected districts contributing to community life. We achieve of Punjab alone, some 4 500 government this primarily by supporting local charities Emergency aid was of crucial importance ﻿ for the many victims of the devastating earthquake in Haiti. We supported these immediate relief efforts, but also committed our­selves to assisting longer-term rebuilding work. After the disastrous floods in Pakistan, we ﻿ again combined support for emergency help measures and for reconstruction work, focusing in particular on a programme to rebuild damaged schools. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 45 Being a good corporate citizen and by providing opportunities for our weakens muscles and leads to paralysis. ﻿ employees to take part in volunteering At a special holiday camp in the village of activities. Over the last couple of years, Gwatt by Lake Thun, the party first learned Swiss Re has introduced two new Groupfrom the camp leaders how to interact with wide volunteering and charity programmes: and assist the wheelchair-bound patients. ﻿ Community Days and Charity of the Year In the afternoon, our volunteers used their (COTY). freshly acquired skills to help the patients ﻿ go on a tour of the magnificent Giessbach ﻿ Through the Community Days programme, Falls by Lake Brienz. An evening barbecue ﻿ all our employees have the option of spending gave everyone the opportunity to exchange one working day per year taking part in impressions of the day and to get to know organised volunteering activities that reflect each other better. Swiss Re’s commitment to environmental sustainability and social responsibility. Another Community Day programme offered in Zurich was held in cooperation with With Charity of the Year, our employees can REDOG, the Swiss Disaster Dog Association. propose charities they would like to support This is the only organisation in Switzerland and then vote on the resulting shortlist. The responsible for the deployment of rescue selected charity receives financial support dogs both within Switzerland and inter­na­ from Swiss Re but also invites our employees tionally. Our volunteers met at the training site to engage in volunteering and fundraising of the Swiss Army Rescue Unit in Wangen, activities. where they helped to test the aptitude of the rescue dog teams. Using our employees Community Days Zurich as their guinea pigs, twelve dog and handler The Community Days in Zurich offered ﻿ teams tried their skills to search and find three programmes in different locations – buried people under real-life emergency Urnerboden, Gwatt by Lake Thun and conditions. As a member of the Swiss Rescue Wangen. Chain, REDOG teams are the first to ﻿ be called up to help save lives after a One group of our Zurich-based employees catastrophe. spent their day with young adults affected by muscular dystrophy, a disease that One Community Day of our Zurich offices took place on Urnerboden – Switzerland’s largest mountain pasture, about a two-hour drive from Zurich. Without any human intervention, the moorlands and dry meadows of this magnificent landscape would be covered with forest in ﻿ no time.﻿ Instructed by local farmers, our Zurich employees helped maintain the pasture by clearing away stones and trees, making ﻿ hay on the slopes, repairing stone walls and building hiking tracks. The tough but rewarding day was topped off with a traditional meal ﻿ of locally produced cheese and cured meat. ﻿ To support the local farmers, a cheese sale was subsequently organised at our Zurich offices. 46 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being a good corporate citizen Community Days Kansas City … and Australia In Kansas City, some 200 of our employees The Charity of the Year chosen by our used the Community Days to support three Sydney office in 2010 was Stepping Stone local not-for-profit organisations that rely ﻿ House, an organisation caring for homeless on volunteer work. At Sherwood Center, a teenagers. During the year, Swiss Re learning facility for children and adults employees and their family members ran challenged by autism, they fully refurbished alongside carers and children from Stepping several classrooms by installing new ceilings, Stone House in a fun run, raising donations doors, floors and windows, did painting from colleagues which were then matched and landscaping jobs and even donated by Swiss Re. The office also donated new musical instruments. disused computers. Our employees carried out similar work at Based on the strong ties that had developed the Hillcrest Transitional Housing complex, between the two organisations, our staff which offers homeless adults and youths decided that something special was called temporary housing and assists them in for at Christmas. The children of Stepping becoming self-sufficient. As a result, five Stone House were invited to create artwork apartments at the complex were refurbished for Christmas cards, which Swiss Re and fitted with new appliances. produced and sold to raise further funds. Our employees also held a collection to ﻿ Finally, Swiss Re volunteers spent a day at buy a Christmas present for each of the ﻿ the Harvesters Community Food Network, 22 children living at the house. the only food bank in the Kansas City area. They sorted and repackaged food items and constructed, filled and weighed food boxes so these could be distributed to nearby food kitchens. Charity of the Year: Singapore … Our Singapore office elected Yong-en Care Centre as its Charity of the Year, a facility that supports the elderly and children at risk. Our employees raised funds through a series of activities organised throughout the year – for example, performances and games at the office dinner and dance, bake sales, and even an auction of 2010 Soccer World Cup memorabilia. In total, they raised SGD 15 000 (around USD 11 560). Swiss Re staff also volunteered their time, helping ﻿ to build a sensory garden at the centre ﻿ for the elderly and taking a group of children out for a fun-filled day at a theme park. … Hong Kong … In Hong Kong, our employees chose the Produce Green Foundation as their ﻿ Charity of the Year. They raised a total ﻿ of HKD 111 819 (USD 14 340). Thanks to these donations, around one thousand underprivileged children were able to participate free of charge in the foundation’s activities to learn more about organic farming and green living. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 47 Being an employer of choice Our goal is to attract talented people from a broad range of disciplines and backgrounds. We offer them a culture of diversity and inclusion, excellent development opportunities and first-class benefits. Employees by region After a period of extraordinary turmoil We provide a working environment that As of 31 December 2010 which affected all participants in the global combines excellent development financial markets, including Swiss Re, our opportunities, flexible work arrangements priorities have remained clear and simple: ﻿ and first-class benefits. Through this, we to serve our clients through innovative seek to attract and retain employees with reinsurance and risk management products, the potential to contribute their skills, and to create value for our shareholders. diversity and talents to a work culture shaped by mutual respect. At the end of This can only be done with the knowledge, 2010, Swiss Re employed more than skills and passion of our employees. Without 10 000 people in 56 offices worldwide. a diverse workforce with specialised knowledge in the industries, countries and We are pleased to state that, after the 64.5% Europe (including 66.1%economies Europe of our clients, we would not substantial restructuring we went through Middle East and Africa) 28.4%succeed in creating competitive solutions. Americas in 2009, our aggregate turnover rate has 26.0% Americas 05.5% Asia fallen back to previous levels. Also, the 9.5% Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific 66.1% Europe Americas 28.4% Americas Employee data 05.5% Asia Europe 2008 2009 2010 Total headcount regular employees 11 560 10 552 10 362 Full-time 10 457 9 534 9 354 Part-time 1 103 1 018 1 008 Temporary employees 290 190 176 Turnover rate (incl. company sales) 13.5% 18.8% 13.6% Voluntary 7.3% 5.5% 6.7% Involuntary* (incl. retirement) 6.2% 13.3% 6.9% * includes sale of PRO/Conning in 2009 Average length of service In years, as of 31 December 2010 Claims 10.2 years Client Management 10.1 years Risk Management 6.9 years Underwriting 9.7 years Overall 7.9 years 48 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice average length of service in our core specific needs, which they have arranged functions has remained high, in spite of the with their managers. Globally, we have over recent turbu­lences. 260 different contractual work schedules that enable our employees to tailor their Diversity and inclusion working lives to their needs. In offering this Building an inclusive corporate culture that flexibility, we are taking full advantage ﻿ appreciates and encourages diversity of of modern communications technologies ﻿ thought is key to our success. We believe to connect people working from home and that diverse teams perform better and that allow managers to build global teams. fostering an inclusive working environment allows us to attract and retain the best In 2010, our diversity and inclusion drive talent. kicked off with a focus on women in leader­ ship. “The Gender Gap Opportunity: bringing In 2010, we hired a full-time dedicated talented women to the top” initiative aims ﻿ global diversity and inclusion manager who to ensure that our company unlocks its full works closely with our senior management potential through actively engaging its top to translate this vision into tangible action. female talent and attracting external top Group-wide diversity champions have been female talent. We want to support women appointed to ensure that all business units in their career growth through recruitment, take full ownership of the diversity ﻿ advancement, engagement and retention, of their employees and foster an inclusive while working to eliminate potential barriers culture that embraces those differences. ﻿ to advancement. In our individual locations, diversity champions are responsible for addressing Swiss Re sponsored the inaugural local diversity and inclusion issues, conference “Closing the Gender Gap: The supported by diversity councils. Business Case for Organizations, Politics and Society”, part of a new multi-year We have taken concerted action to integrate initiative on the business case for gender diversity and inclusion criteria into our human diversity hosted by the Women and Public resources processes, such as recruitment, Policy Program at the Harvard Kennedy succession planning and performance School, in partnership with the World management, thus supporting Swiss Re’s Economic Forum and the Council of Women efforts to build strong talent pipelines for World Leaders. The aim of the event was ﻿ leadership positions. Furthermore, diversity to explore the economic value of gender and inclusion have been integrated into ﻿ diversity and its status quo in terms of our training and talent management research and – most importantly – to build programmes. We believe that fostering the business case for closing the gender employee networks and mentoring/ gap. sponsoring relationships can provide our people with opportunities that widen their In support of Swiss Re’s policy of fostering horizons and open new doors for them diversity, we also have strong provisions in within the company. place to penalise any infringing behaviour. Our Group Code of Conduct clearly states An important part of attracting a diverse that discrimination in the workplace against range of talent lies in the possibility of any employee or job applicant based on ﻿ organising work commitments in a way that the person’s age, (dis)ability, origin, gender, maximises work-life effectiveness, benefiting religion or sexual orientation (or any other individuals, teams and the company in characteristic protected by local law) is not equal measure. Many of our employees tolerated under any circumstances. follow various models geared to their Share of women on management levels 2008 2009 2010 Total workforce 46.4 47.7 47.5 Executive Committee/Group Management Board Member 4.8 5.6 * 0.0 Managing Director 13.4 12.7 13.7 Director/Senior Vice President 20.0 20.8 20.9 All management levels 18.9 19.5 19.6 * Alison McKie was appointed as our new Division Head Life & Health in 2010. In this function, she became a member of Swiss Re’s Group Management Board as of 1 January 2011. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 49 Being an employer of choice We encourage our employees to report In 2010, 20% of participants attended violations of the Group Code of Conduct, traditional classroom courses, while 80% laws, rules or regulations, and explicitly engaged in digital training – either through point out that reporting in good faith is webinars or eLearning courses. We have treated with discretion. been expanding digitised learning oppor­ tunities at the Swiss Re Academy, thereby Development and training opportunities reducing the need to travel and days away Developing our people – at every level and from the office. Courses requiring classroom in all functions – remains a strong focus for time offer a blend of digitised and class­ us. Personal and professional development room formats. The majority of courses are at Swiss Re combines tech­nical, professional structured as “learning paths” that consist and leadership skills training. All our training of different modules to ensure continuous is designed and delivered by our longdevelopment over time and to enable ﻿ established Swiss Re Academy in collab­ the effective transfer of new knowledge ﻿ oration with world-class external partners. and skills into daily work. The participation Since 2005, the Swiss Re Academy has figures vouch for this way of learning in a held the prestigious CLIP (Corporate globalised environment: In total, we recorded Learning Improvement Process) accreditation 139 014 learning hours in 2010, which is from EFMD, a leading international member­ the equivalent of 14.9 hours of learning per ship organisation devoted to ensuring employee. high standards in management education. In 2010, more than 9 300 or 93% of the The scores we have received for our range company’s workforce attended training – of training courses are in line with the up from 85% in the previous year. Corporate University benchmark. In partic­ ular, 81% of respondents declared that they The Swiss Re Academy also continued its had gained significant new knowledge or strong legacy of providing industry-leading skills from the courses and 79% said that technical training and learning opportunities the training had been a worthwhile to clients and external partners. Our client investment. Compared to external bench­ training offerings were revised to address marks, we continued to excel in both the different market needs more effectively requirements. With regard to our internal and to align them with the way Swiss Re benchmarks, there was a significant delivers services for each client segment. increase from 2009 to 2010 in the ratings Our clients expressed their overall satisfaction for business results, learning effectiveness with the training provided by us, rating it and return on investment. with 4.6 out of a possible 5 points – well above the industry benchmark of 4.1. 50 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice Top management roles at Swiss Re require industry training focusing on Swiss Re’s proven leadership and managerial skills as core business areas. well as strong technical knowledge. There­ fore, we continued to deliver highly focused The Junior Power@swissre programme is ﻿ programmes to develop candidates for a professional development programme for positions at Director and Managing Director young people (aged 15 to 25 years) in level. Every year, we select around 80 Zurich and Munich. Almost 100 apprentices employees globally for these programmes and trainees participate in the programme and prepare them for more senior roles ﻿ each year and are trained in a range of by offering structured and accelerated vocations, in turn contributing new perspec­ development opportunities. tives to the company and challenging existing practices. Many of these young The selected employees are invited to attend adults stay with us after training, ensuring formal training, are stretched by challenging that we have the expertise required in ﻿ assignments and job rotations and are ﻿ the future: 30% of all the apprentices and given opportunities to engage in an active trainees that have completed the dialogue process with Swiss Re’s senior programme since it was unveiled in 1981 management. In 2010, eight of twelve new are still working at Swiss Re. Managing Director appointments were internal candidates. Seven of them had Employee relations participated in the Group Management Swiss Re aims to build a positive environ­ Development Pool programme, while ment for employee engagement in the approximately 50% of open Director posi­ company. To achieve this, we have put in tions were filled by employees who had place a dedicated employee relations team participated in the Leadership Development and employee relations professionals Programme. globally; they can provide independent coaching and consulting on difficult personal In addition, people who take over roles as or professional situations that may impact Managing Directors receive a dedicated onemployees’ ability to perform their job. boarding programme to ease the start into this senior role. The programme consists ﻿ We also provide a global Employee of executive coaching, mentoring support Assistance Programme, whose primary and team development workshops. objective is to provide help with a range of legal, financial and emotional issues (illness, In 2010, we placed a strong emphasis on anxiety, stress etc). Work-life balance supporting our senior leaders and internal continues to be an important focus area and, specialists to effectively deal with change by offering assistance, benefits, policies and and launched an intensive new programme programmes, we hope to help our employees to advance people’s capacity to facilitate achieve a better balance between the change in the company. demands of their jobs and their private lives. Our “Early Joiners” programmes Employee engagement survey We continued to recruit talented young In 2010, we conducted an employee employees through our graduates@swissre engagement survey to gain a clear under­ pro­gramme as well as through our pro­ standing of where the company stands in gram­mes for trainees and apprentices. terms of our employees’ engagement. This Currently, there are over 200 employees understanding will allow us to benchmark working at Swiss Re that have attended, ﻿ Swiss Re against comparable industries ﻿ or are attending, our graduate training and to take action where necessary. In ﻿ programme. This programme offers the wake of the recent challenging period participants an excellent opportunity to for our company, where our employees discover the world from Swiss Re’s experienced many changes and redun­ perspective and to experience working in dancies, it is important for us to study the an organisation which actively cultivates factors that will keep our employees diversity. On average, the programme engaged in the company. Many different involves 40 days of class-based, technical opinions exist as to the engagement levels within Swiss Re, and we are committed to having a full understanding of these ﻿ in order to protect our biggest asset, our people. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 51 Being an employer of choice Personnel Commission Zurich continue to take great interest in the company, The Personnel Commission (PECO) and vice versa. Through extended access represents the interests of all Swiss Re rights, we give them the opportunity to read employees in Zurich. One of the news items that are otherwise only available Commission’s central aims is to create and to employees. There are also various events preserve a positive working environment – on offer, from “fit and well” courses through with the employees forming the focus of ﻿ to computer courses and walking groups. its thoughts and actions. This is how one of the retirees summed ﻿ up a recent event for alumni and retirees: ﻿ PECO supports efforts to help our employees “A great event, well organised, a top event put their knowledge, skills, expertise and where we were reminded of all the good networks to the best possible use. This times we had at Swiss Re.” includes providing them with appropriate, ongoing further education and training. The Compensation and benefits Commission also strives to ensure the deSwiss Re’s remuneration structure is facto equality of men and women. In doing designed to attract, motivate and retain the so, it emphasises in particular the needs ﻿ talented employees we need to succeed of employees with family obligations – globally. Our goal is to provide remuneration while ensuring that it does not discriminate that is competitive in local labour markets, against single staff members. while ensuring that employees focus ﻿ on delivering outstanding results without Networks taking inappropriate risks. Our efforts to foster good employee relations include our alumni. As they have We take a holistic view of rewards. A helped to make the company what it is balanced compensation package including today, they form a very important part of our direct financial compensation, such as base extended employee community. In 2008, salary, annual performance incentive (API) we launched the Swiss Re Alumni Network, and equity-related plans is complemented which offers all its members the opportunity by additional benefits (including health to continue sharing knowledge and coverage and retirement plans), develop­ experiences. At the end of 2010, ment opportunities and an attractive work this network was quickly approaching environment. 2000 members. Our company is performance-oriented. Following the success of the Alumni While the variable component of total Network, the Retiree Network was compensation increases as individuals launched at the end of 2009 and grew progress in the organisation, most throughout 2010. Many of our retirees employees have a variable compensation 52 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Being an employer of choice component which correlates with the Health benefits form an important part of company’s success. The advantage of this is our overall compensation packages. We that the goals of each employee are aligned consider ensuring the mental and physical with the company’s strategic targets, which health of our employees to be of the ﻿ helps sharpen the focus on performance utmost importance. Our employee benefit and encourages teamwork and collaboration. arrangements are designed to protect employees and eligible family members Regular performance reviews play a crucial against the financial consequences of major role in our company’s culture. They serve risks, such as accidents, sickness, disability both to determine the amount of an em­ and death. In addition, we strive to assist ployee’s variable compensation com­po­nent employees in accumulating retirement bene­ and to identify individual development fits and/or long-term savings to supplement possibilities. In 2010, practically all eligible any state provisions. employees carried out a year-end perform­ ance review with their line managers. Health Days Additional mid-year reviews and ongoing Our health benefits and Employee feedback are strongly encouraged across Assistance Programme are designed to the company. provide assistance and adequate insurance protection in the event of actual problems. The incentive component in our compen­ We go one step further, however, and try ﻿ sation packages is designed to correspond to actively promote our employees’ good with the risk-adjusted, multi-year dynamics health. In 2010, our Zurich, Munich and of our business. A significant share of senior Bratislava offices each held a Swiss Re management’s compensation is tied to ﻿ Health Day to raise awareness of various the Group’s long-term performance. In order health-related issues such as nutrition and to provide a direct link between employee work-life balance. As they attracted more and shareholder interests, we encourage than 500 participants in total and were ownership of Swiss Re shares through the greatly appreciated, we are looking into the Employee Participation Plan and the possibility of expanding the concept to ﻿ Incentive Share Plan. We also ask each all our major locations. One of the Zurich employee to devote one of their annual participants had this to say: “I highly goals to fostering a collaborative work appreciate Swiss Re’s engagement for its environment. This further ties personal employees’ health.” accomplishments to Swiss Re’s overall goals and enhances collaboration efforts ﻿ at all levels of the company. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 53 54 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Ensuring good governance Ensuring good governance Our approach to corporate governance is to fulfil our commitment to our stakeholders. Corporate governance is the framework (FINMA) with effect from 1 January 2009. comprising a company’s organisation, Finally, Swiss Re’s corporate governance structure, management and assurance complies with the applicable local rules and functions. It is designed to ensure a regulations of all the jurisdictions in which ﻿ corporation’s transparency, protecting the it conducts business. interests of shareholders and creating value for all stakeholders. In the Corporate Responsibility Report, ﻿ we highlight key elements of Swiss Re’s Good corporate governance requires an governance concerning board independ­ effective system of mutual checks and ence, board and committee structure and balances among the top corporate bodies. shareholder rights, as well as the Group Swiss Re maintains a dual Board structure, Code of Conduct. Comprehensive informa­ with the Board of Directors responsible ﻿ tion following the structure of the SIX for oversight and the Executive Committee Directive is available in the 2010 Financial responsible for managing operations. Report, pages 49–82. Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability is Independence of the Board of Directors laid down in detail in our Group Code of Swiss Re requires a majority of the Board of Conduct, one of the documents governing Directors to be independent. To be considered the organisation and management of the independent, a director may not be, and company. may not have been in the past three years, employed as an executive officer of the Legal requirements and best practice Group. In addition, he or she must not have Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd, the a material relationship with any part of the parent company of the Swiss Re Group, is Group – directly or as a partner, director or listed in the main segment of the SIX ﻿ shareholder of an organisation that has a Swiss Exchange. Its corporate governance material relationship with the Group. Based is therefore assessed under the Swiss Code on Swiss Re’s independence criteria, all of Best Practice for Corporate Governance directors qualified as independent in 2010. (Swiss Code), issued by economiesuisse in 2002, and its 2007 appendix concerning recommendations on the process for setting compensation. Swiss Re fully adheres to ﻿ the principles set out in the Swiss Code and is also compliant with the Directive on Information relating to Corporate Governance (including its annex), issued by the SIX Swiss Exchange in 2002 and amended in 2009 (SIX Directive). Moreover, Swiss Re conforms to the provisions on corporate governance, risk management and internal control systems, issued by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 55 Ensuring good governance Board and committee structure Compensation Committee The organisation of the Board of Directors ﻿ The Compensation Committee proposes to is set forth in the Corporate Bylaws, which the Board compensation principles for the define the responsibilities of the Board ﻿ Group and determines the establishment ﻿ of Directors, its committees and executive of compensation plans, thereby ensuring management, as well as the reporting that plans do not encourage inappropriate procedures. risk taking. The committee also defines, ﻿ or proposes as appropriate, individual The Board of Directors has delegated certain compensation at Board and management responsibilities, including the preparation level, as well as overall variable compensation and execution of its resolutions, to five pools for the Group and executive manage­ committees: Chairman’s and Governance ment. Furthermore, it reviews the Committee, Audit Committee, Compensation effectiveness of performance management Committee, Finance and Risk Committee processes and ensures compliance with and Investment Committee. compensation related disclosure requirements. All members of the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee are nonBy requiring the Audit Committee and executive and independent. In addition to Compensation Committee to consist solely the independence criteria applicable to of independent and non-executive directors, Board members, members of the Audit Swiss Re is in conformity with international Committee may not accept any consulting, best corporate governance standards. advisory or other compensatory fee from the company. All members must have a Shareholders’ participation and voting thorough understanding of finance. At least rights one member must have the attributes All shares issued by Swiss Reinsurance qualifying him/her as an Audit Committee Company Ltd are fully paid-in registered Financial Expert. Furthermore, the Corporate shares. Each share carries one vote. There Bylaws require that Audit Committee are no categories of shares with a higher ﻿ members should not serve simultaneously or limited voting power, privileged dividend on audit committees of more than two ﻿ entitlement or any other preferential rights, other listed companies. nor are there any other securities repre­ senting a part of the company’s share capital. The responsibilities of these two committees The company cannot exercise the voting are as follows: rights of treasury shares. Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in There are no voting right restrictions, no fulfilling its oversight responsibilities as they statutory group clauses and thus no rules ﻿ relate to the integrity of the Group’s financial on making exceptions. statements and exercises supervision of legal, regulatory and compliance-related In line with the legal provisions, any share­ matters. It reviews the annual reports of ﻿ holder with voting rights may have his/her the parent company and the Group and shares represented at any General Meeting approves quarterly reports. The committee by another person authorised in writing or also reviews the Group’s accounting by corporate bodies, independent proxies principles and practices, the adequacy of or proxies for deposited shares. Such the financial reporting process and the representatives need not be shareholders. efficacy of the system of internal controls. Furthermore, it evaluates the external Shareholders with voting power whose auditor, approves the audit plans of Group combined holdings represent shares with a Internal Audit and the external auditor, ﻿ nominal value of at least CHF 100 000 may, and discusses their findings with them. no later than 45 days before the date of ﻿ the General Meeting, demand that matters be included in the agenda. Such demands must be in writing and must specify the items and the proposals to be submitted. 56 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Ensuring good governance Swiss Re has not taken any defence An updated version of the Code was measures against takeover attempts. The introduced in 2009, effective from 1 May Board of Directors is of the opinion that the 2009. It continues to cover five main areas: best protection is a fair valuation of the shares. It believes in the efficiency of a free ̤̤ Swiss Re’s business ethics market, rather than relying on defence ̤̤ Moral behaviour measures that normally have a long-time ̤̤ Corporate records and communication negative effect on the share price ̤̤ Market practice development. ̤̤ Information integrity Group Code of Conduct Swiss Re’s commitment to sustainability The Group Code of Conduct is one in a series Our commitment to sustainability is fully of documents governing the organisation integrated in the Code’s section on business and management of the company. It sets ethics. It provides a guiding principle for the framework and defines the basic legal Swiss Re’s efforts to act as a responsible and ethical compliance principles and company. policies we apply globally. Bribery and corruption The Code also offers practical guidance and The section on moral behaviour contains, examples for deciding the appropriate among other things, Swiss Re’s position on course of action and solving ethical dilemmas. bribery and corruption. This clearly states It further sets out how all employees should that “Swiss Re prohibits all forms of bribery react when they observe a possible breach and corruption” and that “bribing of the principles in the Code. All employees governmental agents, regulators or other are obligated to uphold both the letter and officials is a crime”. spirit of the Code and the Group’s corporate governance principles in their daily ﻿ Employee training on the Code of business activities, and to respect and ﻿ Conduct obey applicable laws and regulations in all All new employees joining Swiss Re must jurisdictions where we do business. undergo training on the Code of Conduct. We track completion of the training, and results are reported in the Quarterly Compliance Reports. To date, 97% of all new hires in 2010 have completed their Code of Conduct training. The company is following up on the 3% who have not yet done so. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 57 Other Swiss Re publications Our publications provide the gateway to Swiss Re’s broad knowledge base and expertise. They cover a wide range of topics: from technical reinsurance issues to emerging risks, from natural perils to economic trends and strategic issues in our industry. This is a selection of recent publications, in addition to those featured on page 31. Green Construction: Establishing a pro-active The effects of climate change: Betting the farm? Considerations in US Casualty Underwriting risk management culture An increase in coastal flood damage in Northern Europe Agricultural risks in Brazil Climate change is affecting Few Brazilian farmers take storm surges in Europe. Based out insurance on their crops on the findings of scientific despite being aware of the research, Swiss Re forecasts financial impact of weather a significant increase in and commodity price risks. coastal damage in the long Improving insurance term. By the end of this penetration in Brazil would century, once-in-a-millennium be beneficial for all stakestorm surge events could holders. To achieve this Swiss Re Dots Imagery well be striking Northern goal, Swiss Re proposes a Title: People Meeting Category: Business & Finance Europe every 30 years. set of measures ranging Governments and insurers from awareness building will have additional risk to to strengthening the manage as a result. capacity of local insurers and developing a robust agricultural insurance framework. Scriptographer Plugin 10 50 Focus report Focus report Copyright © 2010 Swiss Re Green construction: Establishing a pro-active The effects of climate change: Betting the farm? Considerations in US risk management culture An increase in coastal flood Agricultural risks in Brazil casualty underwriting This report explores how key damage in Northern Europe Brazil is one of the world’s Green buildings present many governance and modelling Climate change is affecting largest agricultural producers. opportunities and possibilities; considerations can be em­ storm surges in Europe. Based This study evaluates both ﻿ however, insurers must under­ bedded in a risk management on the findings of scientific the farmers’ risk perception stand the increased liability culture, so that the risk research, Swiss Re forecasts a and their risk management and include a whole host of manager becomes an influential significant increase in coastal strategies, and provides a ﻿ factors in costing. This report and trusted partner of the damage in the long term. set of specific measures to specifically addresses these business. Governments and insurers will develop a more robust issues and exposures from a have additional risk to manage agricultural insurance US perspective. as a result. framework in the country. 58 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Other Swiss Re publications Swiss Re’s publications can be downloaded ﻿ or ordered at www.swissre.com/publications Solvency II Standard Formula: Country risk management: Setting up sustainable agricultural Disaster risk financing: Consideration of non-life reinsurance Making societies more resilient insurance: the example of China Reducing the burden on public budgets Under Solvency II, insurers Societies are becoming Agricultural insurance plays New forms of public-private have a choice of which more vulnerable as the risks an important role in stabilising partnership can make methods they use to assess they face become more farmers’ income and stimulating societies more resilient by risk and capital. While some interconnected. Integrated investment in agriculture. The addressing the rising cost of insurers will opt for the risk management approaches market for these products has natural catastrophes. Several Standard Formula as the can help countries identify taken off since the Chinese recent risk transfer solutions basis for an economic view and prepare for risks. A government began to subsidise offer a model for governof their business, they should country risk officer could premiums. Challenges remain, ments, development banks be aware of its limitations. act as a focal point in the however, and reinsurance can and relief organisations to This report shows how the process of systematic risk help support the industry with access pre-event financing Standard Formula deals with management and provide know-how and capacity. and use their relief funds non-proportional reinsurance a public face. more efficiently through and suggests how it might insurance and capital market be improved. instruments. Focus report Focus report Focus report Focus report Solvency II Standard Country risk management: Setting up sustainable Disaster risk financing: Formula: Consideration of Making societies more agricultural insurance: Reducing the burden on non-life reinsurance resilient the example of China public budgets Under Solvency II, insurers This report explains how Agricultural insurance plays an The rising impact of natural have a choice of which integrated risk management important role in stabilising catastrophes is driving up the methods they use to assess approaches can help countries farmers’ income and cost of disaster relief and risk and capital. Insurers who identify and prepare for risks. stimulating investment in reconstruction for the public opt for the Standard Formula A country risk officer could act agriculture in developing sector. New forms of publicshould be aware of its as a focal point in managing a markets. This report provides private partnerships can make limitations. This study shows prioritised risk landscape. an overview of the issues societies more resilient by how the Standard Formula involved in setting up a robust absorbing the financial impact deals with non-proportional agricultural insurance market of large catastrophes. reinsurance. in China. Emission allowances and business interruption insurance in the EU sigma sigma No 6/2010 No 1/2011 Microinsurance – risk protection for 4 billion people Natural catastrophes and man-made disasters in 2010: a year of devastating and costly events 1 Executive summary The EU Emissions Trading 1 Executive summary Directive has triggered new 2 Introduction: How is microinsurance challenges for providers of different from conventional insurance? 2 Overview of catastrophes in 2010 business interruption insur4 Microinsurance benefits the society 9 2010 – the year of devastating ance. However, Swiss Re is and the insurance sector earthquakes confident that they are manageable. 9 Market overview 14 Tables for reporting year 2010 – Sizing the potential – Business models and market trends 32 Tables showing the major losses – Regional developments 1970–2010 – Product developments – Key issues and challenges 34 Terms and selection criteria 25 The roles of government and Public Private Partnerships (PPP) 30 Outlook – microinsurance in the next decade 32 Conclusion Focus report Emission allowances and Our energy future: Sigma 6/2010: sigma: the series business interruption An economic, geopolitical Microinsurance – risk The sigma publication series insurance in the EU and risk perspective protection for 4 billion provides comprehensive This publication argues that This publication addresses the people information on the current business interruption economic, geopolitical and The global microinsurance international insurance insurance systems are flexible risk perspectives of our current market has a potential of markets and in-depth analyses and robust enough to and future energy security. It covering up to 4 billion people of economic trends and successfully address the consists of contributions from, through market-based risk strategic issues in insurance, implications of the EU and interviews with, leading transfer solutions and publicreinsurance and financial Emissions Trading Directive. energy and industry experts, private partnerships (PPP). services, covering life and financial services specialists, This sigma edition looks at non-life business. economists and political major challenges to growth scientists. which need to be addressed. ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 59 Independent assurance report ﻿ on the Swiss Re Group consolidated ﻿ CO2 emissions ­ To the Internal Environmental Management Criteria of Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd, Zurich ̤̤ “Internal Environmental Performance (“Swiss Re”). Indicators for the Financial Industry” published by the Verein für Umwelt­ We have performed assurance procedures mana­ge­ment in Banken, Sparkassen und to provide assurance on the consolidated Versicherungen e.V. (VfU); CO2 emissions of Swiss Re. ̤̤ Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative of ﻿ the World Resources Institute and the Subject matter World Business Council for Sustainable Data and information disclosed with the Development. CO2 emission reporting of Swiss Re and its consolidated subsidiaries for the period of Responsibility and methodology October 1, 2009 till September 30, 2010 The accuracy and completeness of sustain­ including consideration of the following: ability indicators are subject to inherent ̤̤ The management and reporting limitations given their nature and methods processes with respect to the consoli­ for determining, calculating and estimating dated CO2 emissions as well as the such data. Our assurance report should control environment in relation to the therefore be read in connection with ﻿ data aggregation of these key figures; Swiss Re’s internal guidelines, definitions ̤̤ The consolidated CO2 emissions 2010 and procedures on the reporting of its CO2 of the table entitled ˝CO2 emissions per emissions. employee (full-time equivalent, “FTE”), Swiss Re Group” on page 36 in the 2010 The Internal Environmental Management of Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report Swiss Re is responsible for both ﻿ comprising power, heating and business the subject matter and the criteria. Our travel; responsibility is to provide a conclusion on ̤̤ The retirement of 39 930 tonnes of CO2e the subject matter based on our assurance (CO2 equivalents) described on page 38 procedures in accordance with the in the 2010 CR Report. International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3 000. 60 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Independent assurance report on the Swiss Re Group consolidated CO2 emissions Main assurance procedures ̤̤ Assessment of the processes and Our assurance procedures included the data consolidation following work: Reviewing the appropriateness of the ̤̤ Evaluation of the CO2 emissions management and reporting processes reporting for CO2 emissions reporting; and Reviewing the CO2 emissions reporting assessing the consolidation process of using a sample of seven locations in data at the group level; India, Slovakia, Switzerland, the UK and ̤̤ Retirement of CO2e the US; Reviewing the retirement of 39 930 ̤̤ Interviews tonnes CO2e verified emission reductions Interviewing the responsible staff for CO2 (VER) according to the Voluntary Carbon emission data collection and reporting ﻿ Standard or Gold Standard. at the head office; ̤̤ Assessment of the key figures Conclusions Performing tests on a sample basis of In our opinion evidence supporting selected CO2 emission data (energy consumption, air ̤̤ The internal reporting system to collect travel) concerning completeness, CO2 emissions data is functioning as accuracy, adequacy and consistency; designed and provides an appropriate ̤̤ Review of the documentation and basis for its disclosure. analysis of relevant policies and basic principles Based on our work described in this report Reviewing the relevant documentation and the assessment of criteria, nothing ﻿ on a sample basis, including group IEM has come to our attention that causes us ﻿ policies, management and reporting to believe that the data and information structures, documentation and systems mentioned in the subject matter and used to collect, analyse and aggregate disclosed in the CR Report does not give a reported CO2 emission data; fair picture of Swiss Re’s CO2 emissions performance. Zurich, 19 May 2011 PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Dr. Thomas Scheiwiller Dawn Kink ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 61 Memberships, awards and index listings Listed here is a selection of Swiss Re’s most important memberships, recent awards and index listings with regard to corporate responsibility. Memberships Clinton Global Initiative Klimastiftung Schweiz (“Swiss Climate Established in 2005 by President Bill Foundation”) Carbon Disclosure Project Clinton, the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) The Swiss Climate Foundation is a nonThe Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is ﻿ convenes global leaders to devise and profit foundation that directly champions an independent not-for-profit organisation implement innovative solutions to some ﻿ the cause of climate protection in holding the largest database of primary of the world’s most pressing challenges. Switzerland, helping to fund small and corporate climate change information﻿ www.clintonglobalinitiative.org medium enterprises that are proactive in in the world. It acts on behalf of ﻿ their approach to reducing CO2 emissions. 551 institutional investors, holding ﻿ Davos Climate Alliance Swiss Re is one of the foundation’s USD 71 trillion in assets under management The Davos Climate Alliance is an initiative members and is sponsoring its managing and some 60 purchasing organisations. of the World Economic Forum to promote director. www.cdproject.net sound measures and best practice aimed at www.swiss-climate-foundation.ch mitigating carbon-related risks. Catalyst www.davosclimatealliance.org Öbu (“Ecologically conscious Founded in 1962, Catalyst is the leading enterprises” network) non-profit membership organisation ICRC Corporate Support Group Öbu is a Swiss think tank for sustainability expanding opportunities for women and The ICRC Corporate Support Group is an and management topics. It carries ﻿ business. innovative and long-term partnership set out projects focusing on corporate and www.catalyst.org up by the International Committee of the economic policy, and promotes Red Cross (ICRC) and a group of selected experience-sharing among its members. Chief Risk Officer Forum Swiss companies. The members of the www.oebu.ch The Chief Risk Officer Forum is a Corporate Support Group have committed professional risk management group that themselves to supporting the ICRC’s The Climate Group focuses on developing and promoting humanitarian work in the years ahead. The Climate Group is an independent, ﻿ industry best practices in risk management. www.icrc.org not-for-profit organisation working The forum was formed in 2004 to work ﻿ internationally with government and on key relevant risk management issues International Risk Governance Council business leaders to advance smart policies within the insurance industry. IRGC is an independent organisation whose and technologies to cut global emissions www.croforum.org purpose is to help the understanding and and accelerate a clean industrial revolution. management of global risks that impact on www.theclimategroup.org ClimateWise human health and safety, the environment, ClimateWise is the collaborative insurance the economy and society ﻿ initiative through which members aim to at large. work together to respond to the myriad www.irgc.org risks and opportunities of climate change. www.climatewise.org.uk 62 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Memberships, awards and index listings The Earth Institute, Columbia Recent awards Global Reactions Award 2009 University, Corporate Circle for “Best ILS Advisor” Through the Corporate Circle, the Earth Intelligent Insurer Magazine award This award honoured Swiss Re for taking Institute seeks to engage corporations for “Global Best ILS Advisor” “bold new approaches to solving the needs dedicated to sustainable development in Based on the views of 13 000 readers, ﻿ to manage increasing risk complexity”. ongoing, mutually beneficial relationships we won this award for our performance ﻿ that further shared objectives. These as the top service provider in the ILS Trading Risk “Manager of the Year” partnerships allow corporations to take market, alongside three awards in the main 2009 for ILS transactions advantage of the latest information, tools reinsurance category. We received this award for innovative ILS and networks in the field. transactions that “have broadened the www.earthinstitute.columbia.edu Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical sector’s toolkit and will spur further growth Companies in 2010 of the ILS market”. The Geneva Association Swiss Re was included in this list of 100 The Geneva Association is a leading inter­ companies that promote ethical business City of London Clean City national insurance think tank for strategically standards and practices by going beyond Award 2009 – Gold important insurance and risk management the legal minimum. Swiss Re received this award from the City issues. It identifies fundamental trends ﻿ of London Corporation for demonstrating and strategic issues where insurance plays Environmental Finance Magazine award good practice in responsible waste a substantial role or which influence the for “Catastrophe Risk Management management. insurance sector. Deal of the Year” 2010 www.genevaassociation.org We won this award for a USD 120 million cat bond that was the first to utilise ﻿ The Sustainability Forum Zürich a newly developed index for European Selected index ﻿ The Sustainability Forum Zürich (TSF) ﻿ windstorm losses. is an independent, non-profit, non-partisan listings and ratings association that was founded in Zurich ﻿ Trading Risk award for by leading representatives from the fields ﻿ “Transaction of the Year” 2010 Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, of business, science and the public This award was bestowed upon us for the insurance sector leader authorities. It focuses on sustainability first cat bond that enables a state’s residual topics relevant to the financial market. market pool to manage its hurricane risks www.sustainability-zurich.org using the capital markets. UNEP Finance Initiative Insurance sector leader in Covalence ECPI Ethical Index Global UNEP FI is a global partnership between EthicalQuote Ranking 2009 UNEP and the financial sector. Over ﻿ Swiss Re came out as the top re/insurer ﻿ 190 institutions, including banks, insurers ﻿ in this reputation index analysing large and fund managers, work with UNEP to amounts of public information ﻿ understand the impacts of environmental on companies’ ethical performance. FTSE4Good Index Series and social considerations on financial performance. www.unepfi.org World Economic Forum Risk Response Network oekom research, Prime investment The World Economic Forum’s Risk status Response Network (RRN) aims to address the new world of risk we live in. Uniquely placed to catalyse a response to this new landscape, the World Economic Forum’s RRN provides a platform to better under­ stand, manage and respond to complex, interdependent risk. www.weforum.org ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 63 GRI content index with UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” references This content index refers to the Global We have self-declared our reporting to Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for be Application Level B. Sustainability Reporting. The guidelines form a voluntary framework setting out References to the UN Global Compact principles and indicators that companies principles addressed as part of our can use to measure and report their Communication on Progress (COP) are economic, environmental and social incorporated into the GRI content index, ﻿ performance. in line with UN recommendations. UN Global Compact principle Page Profile Strategy and analysis 1.1 Chairman’s and CEO’s statement Statement of continuing support 2–3 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  11, 14, 21 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation  4 2.2 Brands, products and services  4–6 2.3 Operational structure  7, FR 180–183 2.4 Headquarter location  4 2.5 Countries of operation  4–5 2.6 Nature of ownership  4, FR 52–56 2.7 Markets served  4–5, FR 173–179 2.8 Scale of the organisation  7, 48, FR 11–29 2.9 Significant organisational changes  BR 8–11 2.10 Awards received  63 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period  11 3.2 Most recent previous report  11 3.3 Reporting cycle  11 3.4 Contact point  67 3.5 Content definition  11 3.6 Boundary of the report  11 3.7 Limitations on the report’s scope  11 3.8 Reporting on other entities  11 3.9 Data measurement techniques  39, 60 3.12 GRI content index  64–66 3.13 External assurance 60–61 BR = 2010 Business Report; FR = 2010 Financial Report 64 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure  55–56, FR 57–71 4.2 Independence of chairman  55, FR 57–58 4.3 Independence of board members 55–56, FR 57–66 4.4 Shareholder and employee representation 56–57, FR 77–78 4.5 Executive compensation  FR 85–107 4.6 Conflicts of interests  55–56, FR 57–66 4.8 Mission statements and Code of Conduct  9, 57 4.9 Governance procedures on CR 10 4.11 Precautionary approach principle 7 9–11, 23–26 4.12 Externally developed charters and principles  2, 25 4.13 Memberships  64–65 4.14 List of stakeholder groups  9 4.15 Stakeholder identification  28 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement  28 Management approach and performance indicators Product and service impact Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure of our management approach to product and service impact in the two chapters ﻿ “Creating sustainability solutions” and “Extending our risk intelligence”.﻿ FS1 Environmental and social policies in business lines 1, 2, 7–9 10, 14, 21 FS2 Screening of environmental and social risks 1, 2 and 8 21–22 FS4 Environmental and social training for staff 1, 2 and 8 22 FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 1 and 2 14, 22 FS7 Products with specific social benefit  14–19 FS8 Products with specific environmental benefit 7 and 8 14–19 FS11 Environmental and social screening in asset management  25 Economic dimension Disclosure of management approach: Our management approach to the economic dimension is primarily disclosed in the 2010 Business Report. ﻿ Specific aspects are disclosed in chapters of this report: “Our approach to corporate responsibility” (on climate change) and ﻿ “Creating sustainability solutions” (on indirect economic impacts).﻿ EC1 Direct economic value generated  7, FR 111–117, 156 EC2 Implications of climate change 7 11, 14–17 EC3 Benefit plan obligations  FR 160–167 EC9 Indirect economic impacts  6, 14–19 Environmental dimension Disclosure on management approach: We provide comprehensive disclosure of our management approach to the environmental dimension in the chapter ﻿ “Reducing our environmental footprint”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 8 39 EN2 Recycled materials used 8 and 9 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 8 36–37 EN5 Energy conservation and efficiency 8 and 9 37 EN6 Initiatives to use renewable energy 8 and 9 36–37 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 8 and 9 37 EN8 Total water withdrawal 8 39 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions 8 36 EN17 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 8 36 FR = 2010 Financial Report ﻿ Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 65 GRI content index UN Global Compact principle Page EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 7, 8 and 9 35–40 EN22 Total weight of waste 8 39 EN29 Environmental impact of transport 8 36, 38 Labour practices and decent work Disclosure of management approach: Our management approach to labour practices and decent work is disclosed in the chapter “Being an employer of choice”.﻿ LA1 Breakdown of workforce  48–49 LA2 Employee turnover 6 48 LA8 Training on serious diseases 1 53 LA12 Performance review  53 LA13 Workforce diversity 1 and 6 48–50 Human rights Disclosure of management approach: We address human rights aspects relevant to our business through our Sustainability Risk Framework and our procurement guidelines. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Extending our risk intelligence” and “Reducing our environmental footprint”, respectively.﻿ HR2 Supplier screening on human rights 1–6 39 HR6 Child labour 1, 2 and 5 39 HR7 Forced or compulsory labour 1, 2 and 4 39 Society Disclosure of management approach: We address society aspects relevant to our business through our business solutions, Group Code of Conduct and ﻿ risk dialogue. The corresponding management approaches are disclosed in the chapters “Creating business solutions”, “Ensuring good governance” and “Exploring and shaping the risk landscape”, respectively.﻿ FS14 Access to financial services for disadvantaged people  14–19 SO3 Anti-corruption training 10 57 SO5 Public policy positions  28 Product responsibility We consider the definition of product responsibility in the GRI guidelines to be of little relevance for a company providing ﻿ business-to-business services in the financial industry and hence provide no information in this area. 66 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Contact details Contact details Contact address Sustainability & Political Risk Management David Bresch Telephone +41 43 285 6361 Fax +41 43 282 6361 David_Bresch@swissre.com © 2011 Swiss Re. All rights reserved. Title: 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Committed to sustainable value creation Editing and production: Sustainability & Political Risk Management﻿ Communications Graphic design and production: Logistics/Media Production Photographs: Imagebroker/Photolibrary (Cover, back cover) Roth + Schmid, Zurich (p 3) Printing:﻿ Keystone (p 6, left), Swiss Re (p 6, middle), ﻿ J. E. Wolfensberger AG, Birmensdorf Keystone (p 6, right) John Riley/Keystone (p 15) Jacques Hallé/World Weather Post (p 16) Evelyn Hockstein/Keystone (p 18) Patrick Landmann/Science Photo Library/﻿ Keystone (p 21), Electric Power Research Institute (p 23)﻿ Keystone (p 29) Warren Morgan/Photolibrary (p 30) Urs Bucher/EQ Images (p 32) GEOVOL, Unterföhring (p 37) This report is printed on sustainably produced paper. South Pole Carbon Asset Management Ltd. (p 38) The wood used comes from forests certified to ﻿ Kornberg Associates (p 43, top), ﻿ 100% by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Oxfam America (p 43, bottom) International Federation of Red Cross and Red Visit www.swissre.com to ﻿ download or to order additional ﻿ Crescent Societies/Noora Kero (p 45, top), ﻿ copies of Swiss Re publications. Save the Children (p 45, bottom) Carolina Hess/Swiss Re (p 46) Antoine Kissenpfennig/Swiss Re (p 50–52) Order no: 1490937_11_en Urs Bucher/EQ Images (p 53) 06/11, 6000 en 68 Swiss Re 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report﻿ Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd Mythenquai 50/60 P.O. Box 8022 Zurich Switzerland Telephone +41 43 285 2121 Fax +41 43 285 2999 www.swissre.com
