KSB Group Annual Report 2010 KSB Group Annual Report 2010 The cover of our Annual Report 2010 shows the stainless steel impeller of a Vitachrom hygienic pump. G ROUP F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G HT S P RODUCTS AND SERV ICES EARNINGS S I N G L E S TAG E P U M P S 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Standardised pumps, process pumps, circulator Sales revenue €m 1,939.3 1,892.8 1,991.7 1,770.9 1,607.4 pumps, service water pumps, slurry pumps Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 148.9 185.7 208.2 137.1 100.2 Earnings before taxes (EBT ) €m 135.8 172.8 200.1 128.7 90.2 Earnings after taxes €m 90.0 122.4 139.5 89.9 62.4 Cash flow €m 148.5 172.4 183.9 138.5 101.2 M U LTI S TAG E P U M P S Boiler feed pumps, boiler circulating pumps, booster pumps, pressure booster pumps, high-pressure pumps BALANCE SHEET for reverse osmosis applications, water transport pumps 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 P E RFO RM A N CE / P RO D U CTS A N D S E RVICE S Balance sheet total €m 1,861.3 1,645.4 1,421.4 1,258.0 1,130.4 Fixed assets €m 515.3 469.3 417.6 340.8 301.2 Capital expenditure €m 72.8 86.6 103.6 62.7 46.5 SUBMERSIBLE PUMPS Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 48.1 43.4 35.0 34.6 33.2 Well pumps, waste water, sewage and drainage pumps, Current assets €m 1,329.2 1,158.6 990.1 904.9 815.5 mixers, tubular casing pumps, condensate pumps Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) €m 825.6 720.6 605.8 505.9 426.6 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interest) % 44.4 43.8 42.6 40.2 37.7 AU TO M ATI O N A N D D R I V E S Control systems, energy-efficient pump drives, presPROFITABILITY sure booster systems, fire-fighting systems, lifting 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 units Return on sales % 7.0 9.1 10.0 7.3 5.6 Return on equity % 17.6 26.1 36.0 27.6 22.5 Return on capital employed % 8.9 12.4 16.1 12.1 9.7 VA LV E S Butterfly valves, globe valves, gate valves, control valves, EMPLOYEES diaphragm valves, ball valves, actuators and control sys2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 tems Number of employees at 31 Dec. 14,697 14,249 14,345 13,927 13,063 Staff costs €m 649.8 618.3 614.6 581.6 521.7 S E RV I C E SHARES Installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servic2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 ing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 1,051.2 707.6 574.3 774.7 657.1 and valves; modular service concepts and system analyEarnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 44.09 61.32 70.17 43.73 27.99 ses for entire systems Earnings per preference share (EPS ) € 44.35 61.58 70.43 43.99 28.51 Dividend per ordinary share € 12.00 12.00 12.50 9.00 2.00 Dividend per preference share € 12.26 12.26 12.76 9.26 2.52 Fostering sustainable growth. As a company with a total sales revenue of almost € 2 billion, KSB is one of the world’s leading suppliers of pumps, valves and related systems. Our aim is to transport all kinds of ﬂuids both reliably and economically. To do that, we rely on innovative products, excellent service and the expertise of our more than 14,600 employees. They help customers all over the world to manage their ﬂuid transport applications in the best possible way and save valuable energy in the operation of their facilities. Impressive technological solutions which conserve resources and the environment are the basis of our success, ensuring sustainable, proﬁtable growth to secure the long-term future of KSB. 2 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 18 We have created a “triad” made up of strategy, organisation and corporate culture to achieve our global objectives. 20 Improved energy efﬁciency in the operation of pumps will reduce electricity costs and save valuable resources. 54 New technical solutions are required to make efﬁcient use of regenerative energy sources. 112 KSB provides a wide range of products to help ensure tomorrow’s water supplies. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 3 C ONT E NT S MAN AG EMEN T A ND ISSU ES 2010 C O N S O LIDAT E D F IN A N C IA L S TAT E ME N T S 4 Chairman's Letter 60 Balance Sheet 6 Board of Management 61 Income Statement Including 8 Report of the Supervisory Board Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 14 2010 – An Overview 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 16 KSB Shares 63 Cash Flow Statement 18 Strategy: Focusing on Long-Term Success Factors 64 Segment Reporting 65 Notes 107 List of Shareholdings 110 Supervisory Board and Board of Management G RO UP MAN AGEM ENT REPORT 111 Proposal on the Appropriation of the 26 Group Structure and Focus of Business Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 28 Economic Environment 30 Business Development and Events 33 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations G E N E R A L IN F O R MAT IO N 40 Research and Development 42 Employees 118 Responsibility Statement 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 119 Auditor's Report 47 Risk Management 121 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 50 Report on Expected Developments 126 Corporate Governance: Statement of Compliance 127 Glossary 129 Contacts C OV E R Group Financial Highlights Products and Services Global Presence Financial Calendar CROSS-REFERENCE * SEE PAGE WEB LINK * www.ksb.com 4 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management Currently, long-term financial crisis scenarios are no longer an issue and the global economy is picking up steam once again. KSB too, despite some difficulties that remain on the market, is back on track. For the second time, our order intake has exceeded € 2 billion, and we are confident that this year our order volume will return to or even exceed its pre-crisis level. Sales revenue also looks set to continue to rise, as in 2010. Our growth is supported by our general business with standard pumps and valves, which is directly benefiting from the recovery in demand. Our project business, with its emphasis on engineered products built to order, is growing rather more slowly. This is an area where the impact of the financial crisis – which led our customers to shelve some plans for new plants – will continue to be felt in the current financial year. Accordingly, fewer large project-based tenders are currently being awarded. WE NEED TO FOC US STRATEGICALLY, BUT REMAIN FLEXIBLE. Today we can already see that, on the whole, KSB has weathered the economic storm better than many other companies in our industry. We believe we know the reason why: The stability of KSB, even in a global crisis, has a great deal to do with the good reputation of our products and our financial soundness, as well as with our broad positioning in the market. Since we supply our products to many different sectors and regions, there is always the possibility of balancing out the opportunities and risks in the various sales areas. We have taken advantage of this in the crisis that is now coming to an end, and thereby succeeded in stabilising our business overall. The flexibility and commitment of our employees have helped us very much in this respect. We need to maintain our broad positioning and flexibility in the markets in the future. At the same time, as part of our strategy for the coming years we need to focus on particularly promising business lines and strengthen our position there. This is not a contradiction: “As focused as possible, as diverse as necessary” – this is one of our new strategic guiding principles. We are following this principle with a number of strategic projects that aim to tap market opportunities that are interesting for us. One the one hand, we will be breaking new ground in technology, on the other we will be making the most of opportunities to reach more customers worldwide with our current range of products and services. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 C h ai r m an ’s L et t er WE WI LL USE OUR GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES. To do this, we will coordinate our activities within the KSB Group even more effectively. Putting it more specifically, this means: strengthening KSB’s manufacturing network, developing new global products, creating uniform global processes and establishing more regional centres for preparing quotations and handling projects. By intensifying our activities in the regions outside Europe, we are responding to the shifts in the key growth areas to countries such as China, India and Brazil. In those countries we already rank among the leading suppliers of pumps and valves, and are continuing to expand our sales and production structures. In this context, we aim to grow our general business with standard products in countries where we are firmly established through our project business. But we are also entering some markets in Southeast Asia and South America that are only now starting to develop. WE AR E BUI LD I NG OUR BUSINESS ON A BASIS OF TRUST AND PERFORMANCE. Throughout the world, wherever we look after our customers and work on their behalf, we set ourselves the same standard: We want to be better than our competitors, and as a result be more successful. This means constantly developing the trust of our customers, not least through high-quality, durable and energy-efficient products and excellent service. In the same way, the people who provide these services can rely on us, and on the fact that we take responsibility for our workforce, environment and society. For this reason, in 2010 we signed the United Nations Global Compact, whose logo you will see for the first time in our Annual Report. If you invested in our company last year, your confidence in KSB has been justified. Within the scope of twelve months our ordinary shares increased in value by more than 50 percent, while the increase in the value of our preference shares was not much lower at 45 percent. In 2011 we intend to ensure that investing your money in KSB will continue to be worthwhile in the long term. Yours sincerely, Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft 6 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 B OA R D O F MA NAGEMENT M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 7 B oar d o f Man ag em en t From left to right: JAN STOOP has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 October 2007 and is responsible for Sales and Marketing, Internal Audits and the Business Unit Valves. DR. WOLFGANG SCHMITT joined the Board of Management on 7 April 2006, and has been Chairman of the Board since 15 December 2006. He is primarily responsible for Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Legal & Compliance, Communications, Strategy and the Business Unit Service. DR.-ING. P ETER BUTHMANN has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. His main responsibilities include Operations, Human Resources, Central Purchasing, Programme Coordination and the Business Unit Submersible Pumps. On 8 February 2011 he also took over the functions of Human Resources Director. P ROF. DR.-ING. DIETER-HEINZ HELLMANN joined the Board of Management on 1 January 2007 and is responsible for Technology, which includes Research, Development and Business Processes (Technology). He is also in charge of the Business Units Single-stage Pumps, Multistage Pumps, and Automation and Drives. 8 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 R E P O RT O F T H E SU PERVISORY B OA R D The following is a report from the Supervisory Board on its activities during financial year 2010. In summary, the fallout from the global financial and economic crisis continued to leave its mark on 2010, affecting KSB’s markets with varying intensity and, to some extent, at different times. As such, projecting its further course and potential consequences was again a prime concern in the year under review. Apart from this, our consultations with the Board of Management largely centred around strategy implementation measures, implementation of the new corporate structure, and the key elements of our corporate culture. Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board performed its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the rules of procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us about the position of the Company, including but not limited to its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as relevant corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. We discussed key KSB business transactions in detail on the basis of reports drawn up by the Board of Management. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. After thorough examination and discussion, we adopted our resolutions on reports and proposals by the Board of Management. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, both the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management to discuss the current business development and significant transactions. No conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been required to be reported to the Supervisory Board or the Annual General Meeting in the period under review. M AI N FOC US OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS AND IN TH E C OM M I TTEES Four regular Supervisory Board meetings were held in 2010. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, the Group and the individual units was the subject of regular discussions in plenary sessions, primarily with regard to the performance of order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, the strategy and investment and acquisition projects. The latter were the subject of multiple discussions during the past financial year, particularly in connection with the further strengthening of our German and international service activities. In the light of the many acquisitions made during the past few years, special attention was paid to their structured integration and future management within the Group, e.g. by creating uniform reporting and control structures and eradicating managerial weak points, even through partial divestment. The specific ways in which KSB intends to achieve its general growth targets, including the underlying strategic considerations, were explained in detail. We closely monitored the Company’s acquisition of a majority interest in an Italian manufacturer of innovative drive technology through which we M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 9 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Boa rd Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Chairman of the Supervisory Board expect to make major leaps in expertise in an area that is currently the focus of energy efficiency considerations. On several occasions, we were involved in major investment projects, especially in Asia. These initiatives serve to modernise our locations, exploit existing potential and secure future business opportunities. In view of the crisis experience and the need to introduce correlating control measures, the Supervisory Board attached great importance to optimising the reliability of forecasting. The instruments recently used in this context were examined with a critical eye. At the same time, the Board of Management presented a series of proposals outlining appropriate and adequately flexible responses to possible developments, with the focus clearly on driving sales activities. Numerous debates on the specific, long-term determinants that govern economic growth rounded off the analysis. The Supervisory Board continued to pay close attention to our business activities in China, which the Board presented to us from a variety of different angles. Depending on further political decisions, supplementary investments are planned to be made in the current year in our joint venture for nuclear products founded in 2008. In addition, the Supervisory Board approved major investments in the Valves product area in order to facilitate sustained growth in this field through an increase in Chinese production capacity. A recurring topic on the agenda were measures introduced by the Board of Management to nurture the ongoing development and consolidation of our corporate culture based on established values. Imparted and consolidated in a top-down process starting with the management, these values shall serve as a frame of reference for our staff and also define the standards we expect of them. For this reason, we attach considerable importance to this Group-wide project and its long-term outcome. The Supervisory Board convened in September for a two-day meeting at the Pegnitz site, where it was able to assess how business was developing and observe the high-performance production facilities, including the latest site expansion. We reviewed the status of the corporate organisation that was restructured at the start of the year and obtained a detailed rundown of the strengths and weaknesses evident in the implementation phase. We also gained an insight into one of the new Business Units. At this and the following meeting, we also examined changes made over the course of the year to the German Corporate Governance Code and its impact on procedures within the Company. In December we chiefly looked at business performance during the year and planning for 2011. 10 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 To ensure its tasks are performed efficiently, the Supervisory Board established six committees and seven sub-committees in the past financial year. They prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and special issues to be discussed. In addition, they also made their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. At the plenary meetings, the Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively reported on the content and results of the work in the committees; the relevant committees were informed of the topics discussed in the sub-committees. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board serves as the Chair of all committees with the exception of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Corporate Development Committee. The Nomination Committee looked at the shareholder representative nominations prior to the Supervisory Board elections at the Annual General Meeting. To do so, this committee met once during the year under review. The Planning and Finance Committee met four times in the year under review. It addressed corporate and investment planning and the financial situation of the Company, and prepared the Supervisory Board’s resolutions on these matters. One focus was the regular examination of the Board of Management’s “rolling forecast” report which continuously covers mediumterm time frames. The committee members also discussed in detail the underlying planning assumptions and the quality of planning. To this end, they requested an in-depth presentation of the planning process. The Innovation sub-committee met three times and discussed fundamental aspects of the research, development and innovation organisation within the Company. A focus of attention was the need to intermesh corporate topics and assign them to different specialist departments. The Nuclear sub-committee met on three occasions and primarily discussed fundamental questions regarding the expansion of business activities for products with nuclear applications. As in the previous year, the development of the joint venture founded in conjunction with a Chinese partner in 2008 for the purpose of manufacturing such products was thus the subject of closer scrutiny. The Sales and Production Management sub-committees are looking at ways in which to systematically develop their respective corporate areas on an ongoing basis. In 2010, they were principally involved in implementing the new organisational structure, meeting on five and two occasions respectively. The Corporate Development sub-committee met twice to discuss issues of strategy implementation and the status of current and planned projects. In September 2010, we created the Corporate Development Committee. The new Committee focuses on topics such as corporate development and strategy, innovation, nuclear markets and production management; the corresponding sub-committees were dissolved. Meeting on two occasions in the year under review, it looked at innovative business models and fundamental new trends in technology, in addition to the associated communication aspects. The Controlling sub-committee established in December 2010 has its origins in corresponding deliberations of the Audit Committee, and convened four times in the year under review. M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 11 R e p o r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Board It advises the Board on tasks related to this corporate area, including the relevant interdisciplinary interfaces. The Personnel Committee held five meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses issues relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the service contracts for the individual Board of Management members as well as other Board of Management issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity. On the committee’s recommendation, the plenary session extended the appointment of Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt and Jan Stoop to the Board of Management, with the new terms ending on 30 June 2014 and 30 June 2013 respectively. Dr. Peter Buthmann took over from Dr. Schmitt as Human Resources Director with effect from 8 February 2011. These changes took place against the backdrop of the reorganisation of the Board of Management’s responsibilities, which had been the subject of intense discussions in prior committee and plenary meetings. They will ensure that our strategy and new corporate structure come to the fore. Personnel development issues were also discussed with the aim of recruiting candidates for the Board of Management and other management positions from within the Company’s own ranks. In 2010, the committee members again participated in events with potential candidates of all management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. Special emphasis was also placed on conceptional aspects related to the deployment of staff abroad. The Leadership and Corporate Culture sub-committee met on one occasion to discuss fundamental considerations relating to the topics defined, as well as specific practical experience in these areas. After a policy paper had been produced and then debated in the Supervisory Board plenary session, the committee was disbanded at the end of the year. The four meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by the Member of the Board responsible for Finance and, on several occasions, by the auditors. The committee primarily examined the annual and consolidated financial statements, the audit reports submitted by the auditors and the internal auditors as well as the further development of the risk management system and compliance organisation. The half-year financial report was also discussed with the Board of Management. Furthermore, the committee defined key audit areas for the independent auditing of the Supervisory Board in accordance with section 171 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and for the external auditing of the financial statements. It submitted a proposal to the plenary session for the appointment of auditors to be voted on by the Annual General Meeting, and subsequently commissioned the auditors with the task of auditing the annual and consolidated financial statements. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with section 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. In 2010 too, an ongoing debate as part of the preparations for the work performed in the plenary session, concerned the course and impact of the global financial and economic crisis. There was no requirement during the year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-determination Act]. C OR P OR ATE GOVERNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored the ongoing development of corporate governance standards. We held several meetings to discuss the implementation of changes made to the German Corporate Governance Code and the associated statutory changes. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on corporate governance at KSB in accord12 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 ance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code on pages 121 to 125 of this Annual Report. On both 30 March and 8 December 2010 they jointly issued an updated statement of compliance in accordance with section 312 AktG and made this available to shareholders on the Company’s web site*. With two exceptions, KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations contained in the 26 May 2010 version of the Code which was published by the Federal Ministry of Justice on 2 July 2010. AUD I T OF THE ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. It was addressed in detail by the Audit Committee on 22 March 2011 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 29 March 2011 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2010, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2010, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS**) and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. The Frankfurt/Main offices of BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2010, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2010, and issued an unqualified auditors’ opinion. The Audit Committee defined key audit areas for the year under review, such as the structure and efficacy of the accounting process, the validity of planning, the mapping of risks in connection with the adequacy of risk provisioning and the treatment for accounting purposes of company acquisitions and the associated purchase price allocations (the information contained in the Notes and the accounting treatment of conditional purchase price payments were also scrutinised). The auditors reported their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee the Super visory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft to be appropriate and concurs with it. * www.ksb.com/investor-relations ** SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 13 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Board D EP END ENT C OM PANY REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified opinion on this report: “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that: 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the Company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high; 3. there are no circumstances relating to the measures listed in the report that would indicate an assessment that is materially different from that of the Board of Management.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. C HANGES I N THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Dr. Stefan Bross joined the Supervisory Board with effect from 1 January 2010 as an elected reserve member for Carl-Wilhelm Schell-Lind, who left the Supervisory Board with effect from 31 December 2009. Ludwig Udo Kontz’s term of office on the Supervisory Board ended upon the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010; his place as elected member of the Supervisory Board was taken by Dr. Martin Auer. With effect from 1 September 2010, Reiner Euler joined the Supervisory Board as an elected reserve member for Dieter Müller, who left the Supervisory Board with effect from 31 August 2010 in order to enter retirement. The Supervisory Board extends its gratitude to the retiring members of the Boards for their constructive and expert contributions and for many years of work in an atmosphere of mutual trust. The Supervisory Board would also like to acknowledge and thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their work in the year under review. They significantly contributed to another successful year for KSB. Frankenthal, 29 March 2011 For the Supervisory Board Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) 14 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 2010 – AN OV E RV I E W 01 HY GIEN I C P U M P S ROOM FOR GROWTH In Frankenthal, guests and employees attend the inauguration of the new production and testing facility for RESEARCH AWARD 05 With its new pumps of the large-sized products. The As a project partner, KSB reVita series, KSB is improving € 40 million investment will ceives the Science Award of its position in the food and facilitate the production of the Stifterverband [Associabeverage industries as well very large power plant tion for the Promotion of as in the pharmaceutical and pumps. Science] for Research with 02 biotechnology sectors. The the Fraunhofer Institute for global market for pumps for GLOBAL COMPACT Mechanics of Materials. The the hygienic transport of KSB signs the United Naaward is in recognition of the fluids is worth more than tions Global Compact, therejoint development of an ex€ 1 billion. by underlining its committremely robust composite NEW FOUND RY ment to recognising and material using diamond and A new KSB foundry opens implementing important ceramics. KSB researchers are in Vambori, India. It allows core values and principles now testing a pump with diaKSB Pumps Limited to worldwide. mond-coated ceramic compodouble its production nents in long-term operation. capacity for steel and 04 stainless steel castings to 1,200 tonnes per year. M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 15 O v er v i ew 2 0 1 0 E N E R G YE F F I C I E N T M OTOR S KSB acquires an 80 percent KSB INDIA – 10 interest in ITACO s.r.l., an 50 TH ANNIVERSARY Italian drive specialist. This KSB Pumps Limited, based acquisition ensures access to in Pune, India, is celebrating a new kind of energy-efficient its 50th anniversary. More 12 motor that already exceeds R I VER TUR B I NES than 2,000 Indian employthe most stringent requireNear the German town of ees currently work at the ments specified in EU direcSt. Goar on the Rhine river, company’s five production tives for high-efficiency moKSB puts the first prototypes sites and numerous sales tors. of its river turbines into opand service facilities. eration. The environmentally NEW VALVE PLANT S E RV I C E I N T H E US friendly units use the kinetic PUMP MONITORING In Changzhou (near ShangKSB acquires the operations energy of flowing water to The PumpMeter monitoring hai), KSB Valves (Changzhou) of a company that was estabgenerate electricity. unit can be used to track all Co., Ltd. starts construction lished in Texas in 1920 and of a pump’s key measureof a new production plant. founds Standard Alloys Inc., ment variables and to indiFrom the second half of 2011 based in Port Arthur. 09 cate the potential for energy savings. Launched in 2010, this innovative product has won the special-category innovation award for “Industry” by the German federal onwards the plant will manufacture ANSI*-standard valves. 07 state of Rhineland-Palatinate. * SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) 16 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 KSB S HARE S Inconsistent stock market trends Value of ordinary KSB shares rose by 51% Proposed dividend payout at prior year level Developments on the world’s stock markets varied considernew and positive prevailing mood, due in part to changes in ably in 2010: While stock markets in the emerging countries monetary policy, led to rising share prices in the third and and in the USA continued to recover from the effects of the fourth quarters of the year. financial crisis, many exchanges in Europe and Japan (Nikkei – 3 %) suffered losses. In Europe, the ongoing debt crisis was GOOD YEAR FOR THE DAX the main reason for the price slump. In addition, investors In contrast to many other European countries, equity inveswere concerned about the value of the euro. Thus, the EURO tors in Germany posted gratifying gains. Year on year, the Stoxx 50 fell sharply in the first half of the year and managed value of the DAX increased by a good 16 %. That said, the to make up only some of the lost ground by the end of the DAX had tended to move laterally until September before year. Year on year, the loss amounted to almost 6 %. prices really took off in the subsequent months. The reason for the sudden improvement was surprisingly upbeat news on By contrast, investors in U.S. stocks saw the Dow Jones rise the economic and corporate fronts which, despite concerns by 11 %. After a good start, the economy started to show about the high national debt of several European countries, signs of running out of steam towards the middle of the year. resulted in quite a mood swing. The stock market responded with a decline in prices falling to values below those seen at the start of the year. However, a DIVIDEND DEVELOPMENT 2010 (proposal) 2009 Ordinary share Dividend € 12.00 € 12.00 Dividend yield 1.9 % 2.9 % Preference share Dividend € 12.26 € 12.26 Dividend yield 2.1 % 3.1 % Ordinary share Preference share ISIN DE0006292006 DE0006292030 Reuters symbol KSBG KSBG_p Bloomberg symbol KSB KSB3 Share capital € 22.7 million € 22.1 million Shares in free float approx. 20 % 100 % Year-end closing price 30 Dec. 2010 € 618.00 € 582.00 Market capitalisation 30 Dec. 2010 € 1,051.2 million M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 17 K S B Sh ar es MA R K E T C A P I TA L ISATI ON OF KSB SHAR ES NOW EXCEEDS STABLE DIVIDEND PAYOUT DESPITE DROP IN EARN I N G S T H E € B I L L I O N M AR K AT KSB AG The increase in KSB share prices, already positive in the preEven if our earnings did not quite match those of 2009, we vious year, continued unabated in the year under review. want to keep the dividend at the same level as the previous From the start of the year onwards, investors saw the value year. We will therefore propose to the Annual General Meetof their shares in KSB rise continuously, clearly outperforming on 18 May 2011 an unchanged payout to ordinary shareing the DAX as a whole. Ordinary shares gained 51 % durholders of € 12.00 per share. Holders of preference shares ing the year, while preference shares increased by 46 % comonce again are to receive € 12.26. pared with their value at the end of 2009. At 30 December 2010, the price of our ordinary shares was € 618.00, while EARNINGS PER SHARE BELOW PRIOR YEAR LEVEL our preference shares were trading at € 582.00. The decline in consolidated earnings resulted in a drop in the earnings-per-share figure compared with the previous year. These marked increases were reflected in our market capitaliEarnings per ordinary share were € 44.09, compared with sation, which, by the end of the year, had exceeded the € 1 € 61.32 in the previous year, and € 44.35 per preference billion mark for the first time. The year-on-year change conshare, compared with € 61.58 in 2009. stituted a rise of € 343.6 million (around 49 %) to € 1,051.2 million. K S B S H A R E P R I C E D EVELOPMENT IN € KSB ordinary shares KSB preference shares 700 600 500 400 January 2010 December 2010 24 March 2011 18 MA NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 STR AT E GY: F O C U S I N G O N L O N G-T ER M SU C C ESS FAC TOR S Using synergies, tapping the full market potential Taking advantage of a range of opportunities through a global approach Project organisation for strategy implementation Which needs and preferences will govern the purchasing deciNEW ORGANISATION CREATES SYNERGIES sions of our customers in the future? Answering this question For this we needed to reorganise processes and structures was essential for the development of our current Group stratwithin the Group. At the start of the reporting year, we deegy, which will continue to be in focus in the coming years as coupled production and sales responsibility and introduced a well. We will continuously analyse the market, survey our global product management system. At the same time we escustomers and identify relevant technical trends. Our intentablished a network of regional expert teams for project hantion is to find and implement the best solutions for future dling. We coordinate these teams on a cross-regional basis in customer problems early on. By doing so, we open up new order to be able to quickly serve our customers who operate sales opportunities and secure our long-term market position. internationally with the professionalism they have come to expect from us. This solution-oriented approach, coupled with our expertise in technology and the pursuit of long-term success, is the By interacting globally, the new organisation aims to exploit driving force behind our work. We use the distinctive synergies and improve the profitability of KSB through econstrengths of our corporate culture, and simultaneously align omies of scale. Moreover, by making our solutions expertise our organisation with our strategic goals. available to an even larger extent, we can strengthen our quality position in many individual markets, helping to seOur primary goals include: cure our corporate future. Taking a leading position in attractive markets Being better than our competitors in the eyes In addition to developing new solutions, part of our strategy of our customers is to systematically exploit market potential with existing Ensuring sustainable, profitable growth to secure the future products and services. For this we draw on our long-standof KSB in the long term ing, good relations with many companies. At the same time, we are striving to make our technologically advanced prodTo achieve these goals, we have created a “triad” made up of ucts and proven solutions available to even more customers. strategy, organisation and corporate culture. We are continuously developing our three-point management system and We can build on our ability to produce a wide range of prodadapting it to needs arising from changes in external and inucts and variants efficiently. This ability enables us to impleternal conditions. The focus is on achieving flexibility. ment many individual user requests as part of standardised and partially standardised solutions. As a result we are, for US IN G R E G I O N A L S K I LLS GLOBALLY example, able to offer our customers in highly developed inOur Group strategy calls for the further globalisation of our dustrial countries particularly energy-efficient and durable activities. We are ideally positioned for this. For more than products that incorporate advanced drive technologies and 50 years KSB has been active in countries such as Argentina, proprietary materials. However, we can equally provide techBrazil, India, Mexico, Pakistan and South Africa with its own nical alternatives for less demanding applications. manufacturing plants and sales centres. In response to the specific customer requirements in these and other markets, By making use of the versatility of our existing product range our local companies have developed special technical skills. worldwide, we generate the funds necessary to develop new When developing our corporate strategy, we examined the business lines. Here we focus on those we consider to be the extent to which these skills are also relevant in a global conmost promising for the future. text. We will now extend the use of relevant expertise to provide even better service to customers in other markets too. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 19 S tr at eg y Creating transparency, setting objectives, making a difference: KSB secures the future of its business using a “triad” made up of strategy, organisation and corporate culture. MI N I M I S I N G R I S KS, EXPAND I NG OP P ORTUNI TI ES emerging markets, where availability, operating reliability We want our global business to be as focused as possible and and safety, and low life cycle costs are becoming increasingly as diverse as necessary. This applies to the activities in our important. Requirements and market reactions are quite difvarious sales regions as well as to the various areas of appliferent in both cases. cation for our products, from building services to power plant processes. PROJECT ORGANISATION INSTEAD OF HIERARCHIC A L LY MANAGED EXPERTISE To maintain or achieve the necessary strength in strategic At the same time as defining our strategic projects, we adoptbusiness lines, we need to, on the one hand, temporarily coned a project methodology and organisation that allow us to centrate our resources. On the other hand, because we are prepare and implement our numerous individual projects efmaintaining the breadth of our activities, we have a high deficiently. We have decentralised the responsibility for these gree of flexibility – not least to balance out economic fluctuaprojects and linked them to local resources, thus ensuring tions in individual business lines. that all Group companies are involved in strategic tasks. Regionally we wish to reduce our dependency on the EuroThus, at KSB, many employees contribute to the success of pean market through above-average growth in other regions our corporate strategy in national and international teams. in the coming years. This will enable us to benefit more from Increased project work marks an organisational and cultural the dynamism of these markets, which include not only change. It leads away from a hierarchy-based structure to a Brazil, Russia, India and China, but also attractive smaller flexible way of working involving temporary, decentralised markets that we have known for many years and to which responsibility. we can supply suitable products and services. Still, we will not be neglecting our domestic market of Europe, but will Most of our strategic projects require more than a year, and rather be seeking out and taking advantage of new opportuconsequently were not yet completed at the end of 2010. Such nities here as well. longer-term projects mainly aim at developing new products, accessing new markets and establishing sales channels. In terms of content we diversify our risks by being involved in many diverse and complex areas such as energy supply We have implemented a series of short-term measures to reand service. With our products for conventional and nuclear duce costs, globalise materials procurement and expand our power applications, we support, for example, economies that service network. Two acquisition projects were successfully are just embarking on industrialisation. At the same time, we concluded in 2010 with the acquisition of a motor manufacare helping to reduce CO2 emissions in industrialised counturer in northern Italy and of the business operations of a tries with our equipment for renewable energy supply sysservice provider in the southern United States. They represent tems. In emerging economies, we are also contributing to the – along with some of the product launches – important mileestablishment of decentralised supply infrastructures. stones on the road to developing future areas of strategic relevance. We will continue working intensively on this task in We have a similar aim when it comes to the deployment of 2011 as well. At the same time, we will strengthen our organour service expertise in both the industrialised countries isation and corporate culture and – where appropriate – im– where there are a large number of existing plants – and the prove it even further. 20 23 23 21 »The operation of pumps alone requires around Pumps are by far one of 10 percent of all the energy consumed in the largest consumers of Europe. Not many people are aware of this. Around a third of this huge amount of energy energy in industry. could be saved if these pumps were selected How can we save 30 correctly, automatically controlled and equipped with energy-efﬁcient motors. Our cuspercent of energy costs tomers are increasingly taking advantage of the intelligently? opportunities to operate their pump sets economically, not least for commercial reasons. But there is still a lot more we can do in terms of energy efﬁciency in order to preserve our valuable resources.« Impeller trimming ensures energy-efficient pump operation. Dr. Sönke Brodersen, Head of Research 20 21 »The operation of pumps alone requires around 10 percent of all the energy consumed in Europe. Not many people are aware of this. Around a third of this huge amount of energy could be saved if these pumps were selected correctly, automatically controlled and equipped with energy-efﬁcient motors. Our customers are increasingly taking advantage of the opportunities to operate their pump sets economically, not least for commercial reasons. But there is still a lot more we can do in terms of energy efﬁciency in order to preserve our valuable resources.« Dr. Sönke Brodersen, Head of Research 24 Order intake of the KSB Group for the second time exceeded the two billion euro mark in financial year 2010. Group companies outside Europe were the growth drivers. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 25 GR OUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT 26 Group Structure and Focus of Business 28 Economic Environment 30 Business Development and Events 33 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations 40 Research and Development 42 Employees 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 47 Risk Management 50 Report on Expected Developments 26 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT GR OUP S T RU C TU R E A N D F O C U S OF BU SINESS New organisation since 1 January 2010 51 operating companies worldwide Sales in more than 100 countries PU RPO S E A N D O R G A N I SATI ON OF THE GR OUP jority of the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The preference The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related and progressive additional dividend rights. Detailed informasystems. We also provide a wide range of services to users of tion on the share capital and shareholders holding an interest these products. of more than 10 % is provided in the Notes*. Holders of preference shares are entitled to voting rights in the cases In the year under review, 51 operating companies in 33 counprescribed by law. The issue of additional ordinary shares tries were dedicated to achieving this mission. Eight Group does not require the consent of the preference shareholders. companies exercised a holding company function. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares does not require the consent of the preference shareholders unless the KSB AG, Frankenthal, Germany, as the parent company, disubscription rights exclude newly issued senior or pari passu rectly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies belongpreference shares. ing to the Group. Besides KSB AG itself, the companies in the KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 to purchase company KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France shares totalling up to € 4,477,196 of the registered share KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany capital by 18 May 2015. The Board of Management shall be KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the basis of KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China this authorisation either on the stock exchange or by another KSB Pumps Limited, Pune, India means that safeguards the rule of equal treatment of all GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown, Georgia, USA shareholders; (2) Sell the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, D IS C L O S U R E S P U R S UANT TO SEC TI ON 3 1 5 (4 ) OF THE HGB if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not mateAN D TH E E X P L A N ATO RY R EP ORT rially lower than the market price for company shares of the A summary of the disclosures required by section 315(4) of same type and with the same features at the time of the sale. the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares which overis given below and explanatory information is provided purall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share capital suant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of the AktG [Aktiengeat the date on which such authorisation becomes effective or, setz – German Public Companies Act]. Information is disif the amount is lower, the date this authorisation is used closed only to the extent that it applies to KSB AG. (where the 10 % limit shall include the proportional amount for shares issued within the scope of a capital increase during KSB AG’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which the term of the authorisation excluding subscription rights or € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par value ordifor the maximum number of shares that can be issued for the nary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par value prefpurpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds); (3) Sell erence shares. Each no-par value share represents an equal the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, excludnotional amount of the share capital. All shares are bearer ing shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties for the shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated market purpose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and / or finanand are traded in the General Standard segment of the Frankcial interests in companies as well as within the scope of corfurt Stock Exchange. porate mergers or (4) Redeem the shares. KSB AG has not yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. Each ordinary share authorises the holder to one vote at KSB AG ’s Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, FranThere are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting aukenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; thorising the company’s Board of Management to increase the KSB Stiftung (KSB Foundation), Stuttgart, holds the mathe share capital (authorised capital). * SEE PAGE 105 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 27 Group S tructure a nd Focus of B u si n e ss KSB AG is managed by a Board of Management that, in acThe best developed sales market for these products is Europe, cordance with its Articles of Association, must consist of at where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in Gerleast two persons and currently comprises four persons. The many and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is its Supervisory Board decides on the appointment and terminalargest in Europe, ahead of those in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and tion of the mandate of members of the Board of ManageHalle (Saxony-Anhalt), in Germany, and La Roche Chalais, ment in accordance with the statutory provisions. in France. Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are reThe second-largest market for KSB products is currently in solved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments the Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Americas and the only affect the wording of the Articles, they can be approved Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest by the Supervisory Board. manufacturing facilities are in Brazil, China, India and the USA . OR G A N I S AT I O N, MANAGEM ENT AND C ONTR OL Management is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 19 of twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of sharecountries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies holders appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with or agents in more than 100 countries. The Group’s compathe remaining six being delegated by the employees under the nies supply its products to customers from industry and terms of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determinabuilding services, the energy industry, mining and the public tion Act]. sector. KSB is world leader in pumps deployed in power plants and process engineering, and the Group ranks among KSB AG ’s Board of Management manages and controls the the leading manufacturers in other areas of application as KSB Group. The strategy and instructions formulated by the well. Board of Management are implemented within an organisation that since 1 January 2010 has been divided into three The market generating the highest sales revenue for our areas of responsibility: pumps, valves and service. At the cenproducts in 2010 was once again industry, where the KSB tre of this organisation are the Business Units with their areas Group has established itself as the second-largest pump manof focus, which act as interfaces between Sales and Operaufacturer in the world. tions. MANAGEMENT PARAMETERS WITHIN THE KSB GRO U P All organisational units base their activities on the new The current target variables for managing the Group are the Group strategy*, which was presented in the 2009 Annual development of order intake and sales revenue, as well as Report. The strategy aims to ensure sustainable, profitable profitability, which we measure on the basis of pre-tax return growth that will secure both KSB’s financial independence on sales. and mediumand long-term future, in order to achieve and defend a leading competitive position in attractive markets. When setting our targets, we are guided on the one hand by developments in the market, and on the other by the perforMA R K E T S A N D L O C ATI ONS mance of our key competitors. The main products of the KSB Group are centrifugal pumps, which account for almost 70 % of sales revenue. These In future, value-based management will play a larger role at pumps, as well as shut-off valves, are sold to engineering conKSB . We will use the EVA * (Economic Value Added) perfortractors, OEMs and end users or, in some cases, distributed mance indicator for this. via dealers. The same applies to control and monitoring systems, and to package units with pumps and valves. * SEE PAGE 18 * SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) * www.ksb.com/investor-relations 28 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EC ONOM I C E N V I R O N M E N T Global economy remains on road to recovery Mechanical engineering sector benefits from demand for industrial goods Market for standard pumps and valves picks up again The global economy saw a much faster recovery in 2010 than The Region Middle East / Africa benefited from rapidly rising many experts had predicted. The Asian emerging markets in demand for energy sources and raw materials. The oil-producparticular, which had already begun their economic turnaing nations of the Middle East used part of their additional inround in the middle of the previous year, showed very dynamcome to reduce their dependency on oil exports through inic developments. But production in many industrialised navestment in other sectors of industry. tions also increased again. The path to economic recovery was supported by a variety of economic stimulus programmes, CONSIDERABLE GROWTH IN DEMAND FOR MACHINERY generally favourable interest rates and a tangible need to catch Mechanical and plant engineering did well weathering the up in sectors that had suspended capital expenditure as a remost difficult crisis experienced by the sector in the post-war sult of the crisis. era and was able to benefit from a rebound in the demand for industrial goods in 2010. Growth-oriented customers ordered Asia was once again the fastest growing economic area by far, new machinery in order to expand their production facilities with the emerging markets in the region achieving average or catch up on modernisation plans that they had postponed. gross domestic product growth of over 9 %. This momentum weakened somewhat during the second half of the year, not The pace of the recovery in order intake in the various least as a result of regulatory measures, especially in China. branches of the mechanical engineering sector varied depending on the customer industries and their economic cycles. In The eurozone also saw economic growth of 1.7 % again in line with the level of the decline in orders, which was particu2010. Nevertheless, there was a considerable economic divide larly large in the case of foundry, textile and plastics processbetween the members of the Monetary Union. For example, ing machinery, improved demand immediately led to strong the countries hit by the real estate and debt crisis were hardly growth rates. able to achieve any growth of note. Germany, however, posted a growth rate of 3.6 %, surprisingly strong given the current Overall, the German Engineering Federation (VDMA – Vercircumstances in Europe, and a number of smaller eurozone band Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau) recorded 8.8 % countries also performed well. growth in production for its member companies. However, this improvement could only partially make up for the previIn Eastern Europe, the effects of the financial and economic ous collapse in order intake. As a result, the volume of incomcrisis were putting a damper on economic momentum. By coning orders in mechanical engineering was only at about 2005 trast, economic stimulus measures and stable domestic delevels. mand helped Poland to stand out as an exception among the other countries in this economic area. WORLD MARK ET OF CENTRIFUGAL P UMP S AND VALV ES The growth leader in the Americas was Brazil, where positive Middle East / Africa 9 % economic prospects stimulated companies’ investment activities. Outside of the Brazilian market as well, there were faEurope 30 % vourable developments in South America. In the US, although there was a slight upward trend in 2010, there were still no Asia / Pacific 34 % signs of a sustainable improvement. Americas 27 % Source: DIW Berlin M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 29 E conomic Environme nt The standard pump business reacts quickly to economic stimuli. In 2010, the industrial pump manufacturing facility in Frankenthal increased its output again. UN E V E N DE V E L O P M ENTS I N THE M AR KET FOR P UMPS, valves. These products are ordered, for example, by plant engiVA LV E S A N D S E RVI C ES neering contractors for use in power plant processes. In 2010 Demand for pumps varied considerably in 2010 with respect growth momentum for valves came mostly from markets outto areas of application. The economic revival in industry and side Europe. Nevertheless, orders from the Asian shipbuilding the construction sector led directly to an increased number of industry remained well behind their previous volumes. orders for standard pumps starting in the spring. By contrast, the late-cyclical project business, involving a large share of enIn the service market for fluid transport plants, demand was gineered pumps manufactured to order, proved to be affected stable for maintenance, inspections and repair services in the by negative investment decisions made during the preceding power plant sector. Moreover, Germany and France saw a crisis period. boost in demand from industry. The considerably lower number of new major orders increased DEVELOPMENTS IN THE COMPETITIVE SITUATION price pressure. Competitors with a one-sided focus on plant Many pump and valve manufacturers responded to the ecoengineering business were often prepared to accept lower marnomic crisis by putting in place restructuring measures or costgins in order to utilise their capacity. This made it difficult to cutting programmes, and thus were able to weather a difficult generate adequate returns – particularly in the case of power period for business. Manufacturers of standard products were plant pumps. Infrastructure projects such as the construction able to benefit from the recovering economy, while suppliers of waterworks and waste water treatment facilities were less whose sales are focused on project business were hurt by a deaffected by this trend. In fact, the demand for pumps for water crease in the number of new orders awarded. engineering plants even grew. In the time immediately following the crisis, pump and valve Developments in the valves market were similar to those in the manufacturers focused strongly on overcoming the difficulties market for pumps. Demand for standard globe, gate and butin the market and once again making better use of their capacterfly valves rose at a brisker pace than that for engineered ities. No significant corporate takeovers occurred during this time. However, some providers, including KSB, strengthened their position through smaller, strategic acquisitions in selected business areas. 30 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT BUS I NE S S D E V E L O P M E N T A N D EVENT S Increase in order intake and sales revenue Strategy projects open up growth potential Acquisitions strengthen the service business The rapid improvement in the overall economic situation laid dustrial production and the expansion of new power plant the foundation for positive growth in 2010. Order intake in capacities, water engineering infrastructure projects stimuour general business with standard pumps and valves saw lated demand. In China we also received orders from Chinese considerable recovery during the second half of the year. engineering contractors for export, chiefly to India and IndoContrary to general opinion made in early 2010, we succeednesia. The order situation for Indian control valves also deed in increasing both our order intake and our sales revenue. veloped well in 2010. OR D ER I N TA K E U P 7. 3 % Order intake at our American Group companies improved Driven by the rebound in general business and good growth considerably over the previous year. Our US subsidiary KSB, of demand overall in markets outside Europe, we increased Inc., in particular, succeeded in sharply increasing its order our order intake by 7.3 %. Once again, the overall volume of volume in 2010 through successful business with products orders received within the Group exceeded the two billion for power plants and waste water engineering. KSB Chile euro mark and totalled € 2,075.0 million. benefited from rising demand for pumps for mining applications. The lion’s share of orders in Brazil were for the water We posted an increase in orders for pumps, valves and serbusiness and industry. vices. In percentage terms, the service business achieved the strongest growth thanks to excellent performance in the GerSALES REVENUE GROWTH IN REGIONS OUTSIDE EUR O P E man and French markets. Some 70 % of all orders were for Consolidated sales revenue also grew 2.5 % to total pumps including automation equipment. € 1,939.3 million. In the strongest segment, pumps, sales revenue rose € 32.0 million to € 1,333.8 million while valve The growth in order intake is primarily attributable to the sales increased € 14.6 million to € 331.3 million. Sales performance of our companies outside Europe. By contrast, revenue in the service business rose € 42.3 million to € 276.5 order volume at our European Group companies fell slightly million. short of the previous year due to the project business, which was still impaired by the after-effects of the crisis. This was As they did in order intake, the European Group companies felt by KSB AG, in particular, where order intake in the year saw a further decline in sales revenue overall (down 2.1 %). under review was 5.8 % lower than in the previous year. KSB AG was not affected by this development and generated sales revenue (in accordance with the German Commercial Our four consolidated operating companies in the Region Code [HGB]) of € 778.8 million, up 1.3 % year on year. Middle East / Africa performed extremely well. This holds true especially for our Turkish company, which was able to Sales revenue generated by our Group companies in the Reboost its order volume by more than 50 % thanks to good gion Middle East / Africa rose 12.4 %. Similar to the order business developments in industry, water and waste water enintake trend, the companies in Turkey and South Africa postgineering. In South Africa, major orders from the water and ed the most positive changes. energy sectors, as well as industry helped generate considerable growth. KSB companies in the Region Asia / Pacific also made a strong contribution to growth again in 2010. They succeeded Group companies in the Region Asia / Pacific posted the in boosting their sales volume by 12.4 %. Strong growth greatest total order growth, increasing the total volume of inrates were posted not only by our two Indian companies but coming orders by around one third. This good performance also several subsidiaries in smaller countries as well as Auswas mainly based on demand from the engineering contractralia. tors and operators of power plants, water management companies and industry. Excellent growth rates were posted in The subsidiaries operating in the Americas also achieved China and India where, in addition to general growth in in12.4 % growth. Sales growth in Chile and Mexico was parM ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 31 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt and Ev e n ts ticularly positive; KSB Brazil held its position as the KSB In China, we integrated a new test field into our standard company in the region with the strongest sales by far. pump plant, making us equipped at KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. for planned growth in the sale of industrial pumps. Consolidated order intake and sales revenue reflect the firstMoreover, we established a new foundry for high-quality time consolidation of five operating companies in Germany, stainless steel on location. Starting from 2011, it will produce Italy, Canada, Norway and Russia. Without this expansion of high-quality investment cast impellers for power plant and the consolidated Group, order intake and sales revenue industrial pumps. would have been € 40.2 million and € 35.4 million lower respectively. We completed construction of our factory for power plant pumps in Lingang in 2010. As part of a joint venture foundIM P L E M E N TAT I O N OF THE NEW GR OUP STR ATEGY ed together with Shanghai Electric Group Co., Ltd. in 2008 Outside of our operative business, in the year under review, we have begun to produce pumps there that will be used in we were focused on implementing our new Group strategy China’s new nuclear power plants. and, by doing so, tapping additional growth potential. In Indonesia, we transferred our production, including test 34 strategic projects were launched by the end of 2010. facilities, to a new plant at mid-year. This step allowed us to Around 170 further full or sub-projects are currently at varyadapt our capacities to the strongly growing business of PT. ing stages of planning and will be completed by 2018. These KSB Indonesia. At the new site, the staff will primarily asinclude defined plans for semble products for industry and building services, mining and the oil and gas industries. Developing new products and services or optimising existing ones GLOBALLY STANDARDISED SYSTEMS Better tapping selected regional markets, including those of In order to integrate and accelerate our business processes the BRIC* countries across companies, we continued the migration of our IT sysCreating new sales channels, especially for the sale of tems to the central SAP ERP* System. standard pumps and valves Adapting manufacturing structures and processes in OperaIn the year under review we connected our valve sites in Gertions in line with strategic projects many to the new system. In the previous year, we had already migrated the IT systems at our butterfly valve production To perform these tasks in 2010, we trained about 150 people sites in France and Spain. Our sales staff can now directly inin project management. At the same time, we established a itiate production orders in all of our European valve plants. system for managing and supervising all projects according to uniform criteria: It ensures that projects that are still in In addition, we integrated all of KSB Shanghai Pump Co. progress can be completed reliably and implemented in line Ltd.’s sales, production, purchasing, controlling and financial with objectives. processes into the central SAP System in 2010. E X PA N S I O N O F P ROD UC TI ON TEC HNOLOGY I N ASIA As a key strategic measure, we also started to roll out a new To implement our strategic projects, in 2010 we further enCRM** system to provide global support for our customer hanced our production base in India, China and Indonesia. A relationship management. It serves to make complex contacts key step toward expanding our Indian production facilities with our customers clearer for their contact partners in the was the commissioning of a new, environmentally friendly Group. The system allows us to optimally meet our customfoundry in Vambori, which allowed us to double our producers’ requests with offerings from individual plants throughtion capacity of steel and stainless steel castings in India from out the world and to follow up on projects. Sales, marketing 600 tonnes a year to 1,200 tonnes a year. and service activities can be managed more efficiently. Initial* SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) * SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) ** SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) 32 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT ly, we rolled out the system in selected sales offices in GerThis included the acquisition of the business operations of a many and France and carried out a full rollout in Finland, service provider in the US at the end of the year, which we the UK and Sweden. By 2012, we will integrate around 50 incorporated into a newly formed company, Standard Alloys, companies into the CRM system. Inc., based in Port Arthur, Texas / USA. By bringing on board this specialist in the modernisation of pumps and the producINN OVAT I O N S P R E S E NTED AT 6 5 TR AD E FAI R S tion of replacement parts we are expanding our service offerIn the year under review, we presented our product range to ing, especially for customers in the southern US. customers at 65 trade fairs in 27 countries. In addition to showcasing innovative products for heat transfer or highIn France we acquired Euro Techno Consulting in Montcenis, pressure applications, the food industry and power stations, a service company for power plant valves. In this way, we we put a major focus on energy efficiency. have improved the conditions for successfully handling orders for servicing nuclear power plants. These orders are only Our energy-efficient motors supplied by the Italian firm awarded to qualified service providers with a regional presITACO s.r.l. in Ponte di Nanto, in which we took a majority ence and a sufficient number of qualified employees. stake in mid-2010, met with particular interest. The innovative pump drive developed for KSB surpasses even the most Furthermore, in 2010 we acquired a majority interest in stringent requirements of the EU directives for high-efficiency gear-tec GmbH in Eggebek, near Flensburg, a specialist in motors* and proved effective in initial practical tests. services for wind energy systems, thus expanding our expertise in the area of renewable energies. This brings the number Our new monitoring unit, PumpMeter**, helps customers of our service locations to 29 in the German market and over identify further savings potential in pump operation by con144 worldwide. tinuously measuring the difference between optimum performance in terms of energy consumption and the actual operating conditions. The device, which has won an innovation award, has been very well received by the market. AC QU I S I T I O N S S T R E N GTHEN THE SERVI C E BUSI NESS To strengthen our position in individual technical areas and regions, we made acquisitions of smaller service companies in 2010. * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) ** SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 33 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt and Ev e n ts Ne t A sse ts, Fina ncia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s N E T AS S E T S, F I N A N C I A L P O SIT ION A ND R ESU LT S OF OPER AT IONS Decline in consolidated earnings Stable distribution of dividends at KSB AG Another significant improvement in net financial position The development in order intake, sales revenue and earnings average 290 more people during the year under review. Combasically confirmed the forecasts we made in last year’s Anpared with the previous financial year, average output per nual Report. employee improved from € 131 thousand to € 134 thousand. RES U LT S O F O P E R ATI ONS Measured against total output of operations, other operating The structure of our income statement changed on a value expenses changed only slightly (17.4 % compared with 17.2 basis in the financial year under review. In this context, the %). In absolute terms, they increased by € 15.8 million to effects of the above-mentioned first-time consolidations de€ 339.5 million. Higher selling expenses were one of the facscribed in more detail in the Notes need to be taken into actors contributing to this development. count. As forecast, major investments made in previous years are Earnings before taxes now having an impact on depreciation and amortisation exThe KSB Group generated earnings before taxes of € 135.8 pense. This explains the year-on-year change from € 43.4 million, compared with € 172.8 million in 2009, achieving a million to € 48.1 million. return on sales of 7.0 % (previous year: 9.1 %). Financial income / expense declined by € 5.8 million overall. Increase in output of operations Higher interest income was offset by increased interest exTotal sales revenue increased by 2.5 % due to improved busipense (the interest on the loan against a borrower’s note takness development. Work in progress and inventories of finen out at the end of 2009 had to be borne for the first time ished goods increased by € 12.3 million year on year. As a for 12 months in the year under review) and an increase in reduction of inventories was reported in 2009, total output impairment losses on financial assets. of operations grew more sharply than sales revenue, amounting to € 1,953.8 million, or 3.8 % above the prior-year figure Earnings after taxes of € 1,881.8 million. The income tax rate rose by 4.6 percentage points, up from 29.2 % in 2009 to 33.8 %. As a result, the fall in earnings Change in cost structure after income taxes to € 90.0 million (previous year: € 122.4 Cost of materials increased by 7.4 % due to factors such as million) was more substantial (– 26.5 %) than the change in increasing purchase prices on the supply markets. The inearnings before income taxes (– 21.4 %). crease was therefore greater than the change in total output of operations (+ 3.8 %). The figure of € 790.9 million is Earnings attributable to non-controlling interest fell from equivalent to 40.5 % of total output of operations (previous € 14.7 million to € 12.5 million, but rose slightly relative to year: 39.1 %). earnings after income taxes (13.9 % compared with 12.0 % in the previous year). Staff costs rose by 5.1 % to € 649.8 million in absolute terms. In relation to total output of operations, this meant a At € 77.4 million, earnings attributable to shareholders of moderate increase of 0.4 percentage points to 33.3 %. The KSG AG were thus 28.0 % lower than in the previous year reasons for this were collectively agreed salary increases and (€ 107.6 million). the increase in the number of employees, mainly attributable to the first-time consolidation of five operating companies. Earnings per share However, we also increased headcount at KSB AG – as part Earnings per ordinary share were € 44.09, compared with of strategic projects – and at our companies in the growth € 61.32 in the previous year, and € 44.35 per preference markets of Brazil and India. The KSB Group employed on share, compared with € 61.58 in 2009. 34 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Decline in earnings also at parent company KSB AG In the Business Unit Pumps we achieved an increase in order KSB AG generated pre-tax earnings (in accordance with intake of 5.3 %. Sales revenue rose by 2.5 %. We generated HGB) of € 39.8 million, down 14 % from the previous year EBIT of € 121.6 million (compared with € 129.8 million in (€ 46.3 million). While sales revenue (+1.3 %) was just 2009). slightly above the prior-year level, total output of operations could no longer achieve the level of 2009, dropping 0.5 % The Business Unit Valves reported just over 9 % more orders due to smaller increases in inventories compared with the and a 4.6 % increase in sales revenue. EBIT, at € 10.1 milprevious year, among other things. lion, was below the figure for the previous financial year of € 11.2 million. High dividend Despite the decline in earnings, we aim to keep the dividend The Business Unit Service posted strong growth, with order at a high level. We will therefore be proposing to the Annual intake up 16.4 % and sales revenue up 18.0 %. However, General Meeting on 18 May 2011 the distribution of a diviEBIT generated only increased from € 26.9 million to € 30.5 dend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per prefermillion due to special charges in Belgium. ence share (including a preference dividend right of € 0.26), as in the previous year. The effects presented in the reconciliation line related to the recognition of construction contracts under IAS 11 have deSegment results clined sharply. This applies to both sales revenue (€ – 42.4 In line with our management and reporting structures, our million) and EBIT (€ – 31.1 million). segment reporting format is by business unit. CO S T S T RU C TU R E I N INC OME STAT EMENT (in %) 2010 18.6 2.6 35.5 43.3 2009 18.8 2.5 35.9 42.8 Other operating expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials BA L A N C E S H E E T S T RU C T U R E Assets (in %) 0.9 2010 2.6 21.5 3.6 17.4 32.1 21.9 2009 2.6 22.2 3.7 15.7 29.8 24.9 1.1 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity and liabilities (in %) 2010 44.4 23.0 32.6 2009 43.8 28.6 27.6 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 35 Ne t A sse ts, Fina ncia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s F IN A N C I A L P O S I T I ON Unless explicitly stated otherwise, the following comments Principles and objectives of financial management on the financial situation relate to the published prior-year Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its figures. duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of Equity all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 825.6 million. This inour business. The aim of our financial management is to encludes KSB AG’s subscribed capital of € 44.8 million. Capital sure liquidity at all times and to finance our activities at optireserve amounts to € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves total mum conditions. In financing our export business, we hedge € 602.5 million, including earnings after taxes attributable to foreign exchange and credit risks to the greatest extent posshareholders of KSB AG of € 77.4 million. € 111.6 million sible. We continuously improve our receivables management are attributable to non-controlling interest. Despite the sigmethods with the goal of settling our outstanding amounts nificant € 215.9 million (13.1 %) rise in total equity and liby their due dates. abilities, the equity ratio once again improved (44.4 %; previous year: 43.8 %). Taking into account the reclassification Hedging financial risks of advances received from customers and parts of advances Our primary tool for minimising the foreign exchange risks received from customers (PoC) as well as the first-time coninherent in our export business are currency forwards. This solidations, the increase in total equity and liabilities would applies both to transactions already recognised and to future have been € 151.1 million or 8.8 % year on year. The equity cash flows from orders on hand that are still being processed. ratio would then have increased by 2.3 percentage points. We transact most of our foreign currency business in US dollars. There is only a relatively low volume of foreign currency Non-controlling interest relates mainly to KSB Pumps Ltd. / liabilities. India (€ 39.7 million), PAB GmbH / Germany (€ 18.1 million), KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd. / China (€ 11.0 million), We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the GIW Industries, Inc. / USA (€ 9.7 million), KSB America procurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by Corporation / USA (€ 9.4 million) and SISTO Armaturen agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price S.A. / Luxembourg (€ 5.2 million). contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in our sales price. Liabilities The largest item under liabilities are provisions for employee We limit the risk of default by taking out credit insurance, benefits, including, also as the largest item, pension proviarranging advance and partial payments, and agreeing bank sions. These were increased by 4.1 % to € 245.4 million as at guarantees. To ensure long-term liquidity, we agree on paythe reporting date. A large number of the pension plans curment terms and conditions with our customers in the project rently in use in the KSB Group are defined benefit models. business that reflect the cost trend curves of order completion We have been reducing the associated risks, such as demoas far as possible. graphic changes, inflation and salary increases, since 2009, for example by introducing defined contribution plans for We take account of the risks from short-term fluctuations in new employees. cash flows by agreeing sufficient lines of credit with our banks. In order to be able to provide the necessary securities, Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of appropriate guarantee volumes are also made available. Ademployees who have left the company account for just over equate proportions are confirmed for a period of more than half of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest one year. Our cash credit and guarantee credit lines amount relates to defined benefit obligations for our current employto around € 888 million. ees, who have an average remaining working life of about 15 years. 36 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT The remaining provisions for employee benefits, which, in business operations, such as obligations from long-term rentcontrast to pension provisions, are predominantly short-term, al, lease and services agreements (in particular information fell from € 143.8 million to € 134.9 million as a result of a technology and telecommunications) and from purchase decline in partial retirement and profit bonus obligations. commitments. Other provisions include long-term components of € 15.6 Liquidity million for warranty obligations. The excess relates to proviThe KSB Group’s net financial position, i.e. the difference besions for mainly short-term uncertain liabilities. tween interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand and financial liabilities on the other, once again improved signifiNon-current liabilities fell significantly from € 160.1 million cantly from € 223.0 million in 2009 to € 293.0 million as a to € 109.6 million. The reason for this is in particular the result of our systematic liquidity management. early redemption of loans that we had taken out in the previous year in order to secure the liquidity of the Group in the SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS event of a prolonged crisis. Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 162.1 million, a year-on-year decrease of € 50.2 million. Cash flows Current liabilities increased substantially. In addition to trade were impacted by the reduction in earnings and a larger payables, there was also a substantial increase of € + 59.6 amount of funds tied down in receivables. Resources were million in advance payments received that were reclassified as freed up primarily through an increase both in advances reliabilities. As the increase is greater than the increase in total ceived from customers and in liabilities. equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total equity rose to 21.8 %. The volume of our investment activity was considerably reduced compared with the previous year, leading to total cash Contingencies and commitments flows of € – 91.6 million (previous year: € – 99.4 million). The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities totalled € 13.3 million as at the reporting date (previous Cash flows from financing activities changed from € + 127.4 year: € 17.4 million). These arise mainly from collateral and million to € – 88.3 million due to the redemption of bank performance guarantees. loans. In the previous year this figure was affected by borrowings and a loan against borrower’s note. There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitments beyond the reporting date. Other obligations and commitments fall within the scope of what is needed to continue NET FINANCIAL P OSITION Borrowings (€m) Investments (€m) 2010 – 131.1 + 424.1 2009 – 195.2 + 418.2 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 37 Ne t A sse ts, Fina ncia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s The KSB Group’s cash and cash equivalents from all cash nantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the highest flows together changed only insignificantly, from € 409.8 miladditions were made at our plants in India, China, Indonesia, lion to € 407.6 million (including € 18.9 million of restricted Brazil and the USA. We maintained our policies for measurcash used to secure credit balances for partial retirement obing depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. ligations, compared with € 16.1 million in the previous year), We increased our investments in financial assets year on year; although this includes changes in exchange rates. loans in particular increased by some € 8 million compared with the previous year. However, growth amounted to only We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to € 4.2 million overall due to the decline in the carrying meet our outgoing payments largely from operating cash amounts of the investments in affiliates and other equity inflow. From today‘s perspective, we are therefore not planning vestments. Additions, predominantly resulting from the inany additional external financing measures. crease in our stake in an Italian motor manufacturer, were more than offset by effects from the first-time consolidation NET ASSETS of six companies and by write-downs as a result of impairUnless explicitly stated otherwise, the following comments ment tests. The write-downs basically relate to companies in on net assets relate to the published prior-year figures. Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. Our total assets rose by 13.1 % to € 1,861.3 million. This is Taking into account the above-mentioned reclassification of mainly due to an increase in non-current assets as well as an advances received from customers and the first-time consoliincrease in receivables and other assets. In addition, this indations, inventories increased by 5.9 % to € 324.5 million, cludes the above-mentioned reclassifications and first-time mainly as a result of the growing business volume. They tied consolidations (the latter resulted in an effect of € 8.6 milup around 17 % of our resources. This is slightly down from lion). the adjusted prior-year figure (18 %) because there was a greater change in total assets. Around 28 % is attributable to fixed assets, as in the previous year. Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment As a result of the increased sales revenue, in particular towith a historical cost of € 968.5 million have carrying wards the end of the year, trade receivables were more than amounts of € 449.4 million. Investments in property, plant € 60 million above the prior-year value at the end of the reand equipment in the year under review amounted to € 67.8 porting period. Along with an increase in orders on hand million, considerably below the prior-year figure of € 85.3 (more than € 1.1 billion at the end of 2010), the value of cusmillion, but still in excess of depreciation (€ 44.7 million). tomer orders in progress, measured according to the percentThe highest additions relate to other equipment, operating age of completion method, not including PoC advance payand office equipment (€ 21.0 million), and to plants and maments, increased by € 10.3 million. As a result, receivables chinery (€ 20.2 million). The focus of our investment activiand other current assets made up around 32 % of total assets ties was, as in the previous year, the Region Europe, predomi(previous year 30 %), taking into account the change in the total assets. 38 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Cash and cash equivalents account for around 22 % of assets pend on a consideration of the growth in earnings over a (previous year: appro. 25 %). This change can be attributed period of three years based on the economic added value solely to the increase in total assets because, despite the early method. redemption of loans, we were able to keep the absolute value of cash and cash equivalents virtually constant. The total amount of the variable components is limited, to take account of extraordinary, unforeseeable developments. Inflation and Exchange Rate Effects No stock options or other share-based payment arrangeThere are no companies within the Group whose financial ments are granted to members of the Board of Management. statements were required to be adjusted for the effects of inflation. The additional possibility of a premium, to be paid out at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three The translation of financial statements of consolidated commonthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of panies that are not prepared in euros gave rise to a difference the special performance of individual members of the Board of € + 39.1 million. This was taken directly to equity. of Management was also recently created. Such decisions will be made on an irregular, i.e. not necessarily annual, basis. S UMM A RY O F T H E E C ONOM I C SI TUATI ON OF THE GROUP Despite the negative effects on the financial performance, DEPENDENT COMPANY REPORT which we had anticipated, the economic situation of the KSB The Board of Management has submitted the dependent Group remained stable at a high level at the end of financial company report to the Supervisory Board. This concludes year 2010. We therefore have a good basis for achieving conwith the following declaration: “In accordance with section tinued business success in the coming years. 312(3) of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], we declare that our company – on the basis of the PR INC I P L E S O F T H E R EM UNER ATI ON SYSTEM FOR TH E circumstances known to us at the time when the transactions BOAR D O F M A N AG E MENT were made or the measures were either taken or not taken – The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of received adequate compensation and was not disadvantaged fixed and variable components. The amount of the fixed reby the fact that the measures were either taken or not taken.” muneration is governed primarily by the function and responsibility assigned to the member of the Board of ManageINTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (DISCLOSURES PURSUANT TO ment. The fixed remuneration component consists of a fixed SECTION 315(2), NO. 5 OF THE HGB) sum plus benefits as well as pension commitments (retireOur internal control system (ICS) serves to ensure that regument, occupational disability and widow’s and orphan’s penlar financial reports and consolidated financial statements are sion). The fixed basic salary is paid monthly; the benefits inproperly prepared. Key elements of the ICS are – in addition clude the private use of a company car, coverage of insurance to the risk management system that is described in detail premiums and any payments for a post-contractual restraint elsewhere in this management report – guidelines and regulaon competition. The variable remuneration component is tions which include, among other things, standard accountlinked to the return on sales for the financial year in quesing and valuation policies. They must be applied to the full tion. The Board members also receive variable remuneration extent by all Group companies. There is a clear separation of components which serve as a long-term incentive. These defunctions and the four-eye principle is applied. Reviews of M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 39 Ne t A sse ts, Fina ncia l Position an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s our Internal Audits departments ensure that this happens. REPORT ON EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD Our accounting practices also include regular analytical plauThe tragic events in Japan have cast a new light on the dissibility checks using time series analyses and actual/budget cussion of the use of nuclear power as a source of energy. It is variance analyses. These reviews enable us to identify signifistill too early to assess the extent to which this will have an cant changes early on, which we then examine for accounting impact on orders for energy industry components such as and valuation discrepancies. The results are discussed at pumps and valves. In principle, KSB offers products suitable management level. for all forms of energy conversion. Should the share of global electricity supplies accounted for by nuclear power fall in the Our ICS is subject to a continuous development and imfuture, this would necessarily drive up demand for convenprovement process, and we are in regular contact with our tional power plants or renewable energy facilities. From toauditors. We analyse current financial reporting issues togethday’s perspective, such a trend towards substitution would er, such as, for example, announced changes to the accountnot put KSB at a disadvantage. ing regulations. If it becomes necessary to adapt existing guidelines or codes or issue new ones, this is done promptly and communicated to the entire Group. C O R P O R AT E G OV ER NANC E D EC LAR ATI ON We will make our updated Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant to Section 289a of the HGB accessible to the public from 31 March 2011 at www.ksb.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance Declaration. In addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 of the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate Governance Declaration includes relevant information on corporate governance practices applied at KSB AG that go beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the working methods of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, and the composition and working methods of the committees of the supervisory Board. 40 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT RESE ARCH A N D D E V E L O P M E N T Developing the “transparent” pump Impeller tests by computer simulation New materials for lowering costs The achievements of our research and development are the VIRTUAL TEST RUNS basis for KSB’s technological leadership, which we put to When custom-designed engineered pumps are built, test runs good use in a wide range of applications for pumps, valves are required to check whether the guaranteed operating data and related systems. In addition to the innovative capacity of are actually met. Manufacturing tolerances occur more freour engineers and technicians, one of the keys to our success quently with impellers that have very large diameters. These is our project-oriented collaboration with universities and intolerances call for mechanical finishing of the impeller to enstitutions of higher education. In 2010, as in the past, we sure its energy-efficient operation. To date, this may have netook advantage of partnerships like these for a number of cessitated reassembling the pump and checking it on the test technical projects. rig several times. MAKIN G P U M P S “ T R ANSPAR ENT” To eliminate the need for these steps in future, KSB specialists Unlike most modern machinery, pumps do not yet have elecare currently developing a method of entering the threetronic displays that give their users up-to-the-minute operatdimensional data of the supplied pump components into a ing data. Without this information, it is not possible to check computer and simulating their contours. This should allow whether the units are operating within the desired perforthem to carry out virtual test runs on the computer instead of mance range and with the minimum drive energy. To put an on the test rig. end to “working blindly” in this way, in 2010 we developed PumpMeter, a monitoring device that can be factory-mountUSE IN SOLAR THERMAL APPLICATIONS ed on any pump. It lets operators know whether their units The power stations being built in the deserts of the world to are working efficiently and with minimum wear and tear. In convert solar energy into usable thermal energy place high addition, the device analyses the pump operating data to see demands on the design and the materials of the pumps used. whether it would make economic sense to use an energy-savHuge reflector panels collect the sunlight and heat a liquid ing variable speed system. We successfully launched this inwhich passes on its heat to a water circuit. Unlike convennovative metering device in the market in 2010. tional power plants, in which the liquid remains at a virtually constant temperature, even over a period of years, these powThe use of high-efficiency motors, which we have been proer plants experience substantial temperature fluctuations moting for several years, aims at utilising drive energy more ranging from sub-zero temperatures at night to 375 °C durefficiently. In 2010 we transposed this technology to the drive ing the day when the sun’s power is at its highest. In order to system of our wet-installed waste water pumps. This step was provide the right pumps, based on proven product series, for a technical challenge, as water-tight electric motors need spesuch extreme operating conditions, we carried out intensive cial sealing systems and combined motor / pump bearings, stress and strength analyses on our boiler recirculation which suffer greater friction losses than the ball bearings of pumps in 2010 and improved their design. The results show standard motors. This meant it was harder to meet the rethat we have pumps ideally suited to solar thermal energy quirements of the highest efficiency class (IE3*) with a subapplications*, which we have already been able to sell for a mersible motor. We succeeded in the year under review, howmajor project. ever, by optimising the electrical and magnetic design of our KRT pump series up to a drive rating of 150 kW. The new motors we developed in-house are mechanically and electrically optimised for the requirements of the hydraulic components in waste water pumps. * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 41 Re se a rch and D e ve lopme nt Using a working model, KSB hydraulic engineers demonstrate how solid deposits can be prevented at a Mexican sewage plant. IDE A L “ WO R K I N G ENVI R ONM ENT” FOR EVERY P UMP ing bottlenecks in the procurement of this material, we examA significant contribution to a pump’s smooth and cost-effecined the possibility of using cobalt-free substitute alloys tive operation is made by ensuring the pump environment is based on iron. We tested characteristics such as resistance to appropriate. This is where our hydraulic engineers can bring wear and corrosion, which is of major importance for pumps their technical expertise to bear and advise customers on the and valves. The results of our research are highly promising design of intake structures, for example. With computer-aidand are set to be continued. ed flow analysis and model testing, they help to find the best compromise between cost-saving design and the optimum EXPENDITURE ON RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT layout of the structures from the hydraulic perspective. CusIn 2010 we invested some € 41 million (previous year: some tomers took advantage of this service in 2010 for the large€ 34 million) in research and development, which accounts scale waste water pumping station of “La Caldera” in Mexifor about 2.1 % of our sales revenue. In the year under reco City. view, 422 of our employees (previous year: 414) were involved in research and development activities in locations in S H U TO F F VA LV E S FOR M AR I NE AP P LI C ATI ONS Europe, Asia and the Americas. Aiming to consolidate our position as manufacturers of marine valves, we developed a range of special shut-off butterfly valves for use in the transport of ballast water as well as hydrocarbons and liquefied gases. These applications impose very high design requirements on the valves, as the operating conditions onboard a ship are considerably tougher than those in comparable systems on land. IR O N I N S T E A D O F C OBALT As an alloy component, cobalt plays a part in increasing wear resistance and temperature stability in high-alloy metallic materials. In pumps and valves, such alloys are welded to critical wear points to make them more resistant. However, cobalt is in high demand because of its excellent properties and is one of the more costly metals. With the aim of avoid42 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EMP L OYE E S 3.1 % increase in the number of employees in the Group “Demographic fitness” project launched Value-based cooperation promoted If we want to provide our customers with innovative prodCOMPETITION FOR TALENT ucts and attractive services, we need the very best employees. Demographic changes pose new challenges for our human We seek such employees out around the world, foster them resources department, particularly in Germany. In the Demoand give them the opportunity to develop their skills in a graphic Fitness project launched in late 2010, we are develprofessional, highly cooperative work environment. oping analytical methods for identifying location-based problems associated with the aging population and limiting their INC RE A S E I N N U M B E R OF EM P LOY EES impact on KSB. Part of this involves finding suitable young At the end of 2010, KSB had 14,697 employees around the talent at an early stage; at the same time we want to give our world, 448 more than in the previous year. This growth in more senior staff the opportunity to extend their professional staff is mainly attributable to the first-time consolidation of lives. five operating companies in Germany, Italy, Canada, Norway and Russia. Staff was also added at KSB AG which launched We maintain close contact with students in the disciplines numerous strategic projects, as well as at two companies in that are important for our activities so that we can recruit Brazil and India. well educated, qualified graduates in the near future. Our partnerships with technical universities such as those in the E M P L OY E E S – TOTA L German cities of Kaiserslautern, Karlsruhe and Leipzig help us in our search for engineers. At university job fairs, we 2010 14,697 show potential young talent which options are available for 2009 14,249 starting a career at KSB. In Germany, we satisfy our need for specialists and commercial staff to a large extent through our own vocational training programme. Over the past few years we have continuousE M P L OY E E S – B Y R E GION ly increased the number of trainee positions, which reached 327 during the year under review. In 2010 we invested Middle East / Africa 6 % around € 8.5 million in this area, including expenses for Asia / Pacific 25 % equipping our training facilities. All in all, we are currently training young people in 13 different vocations. Methodological skills and social learning form core components of the Americas 14 % training programme. Europe 55 % To determine the best candidates for key positions we use the opportunities offered by international recruitment. In 2010 Source: DIW Berlin we began standardising these around the world. Defined target processes, uniform quality standards and transparent responsibilities are desigend to help fill these vacancies quickly and more efficiently. M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 43 E mploye e s We also provide vocational training to qualify young people for skilled metalworking jobs. QUA L I F I E D P R O J EC T M ANAGER S SI M P LI FY STR ATEGY they relate to the corporate values personally and what relIM P L E M E N TAT I O N evance the values possess with regard to their business activiWe offer our employees a diverse range of opportunities, covties. External facilitators structured and guided the process. ering a variety of topics and presented using different methIn addition, managers with leadership functions attended ods, for improving their professional skills and abilities. They special seminars where they focused on value-based leadercan take advantage of an in-house training portfolio featurship. ing foreign language courses, commercial and technical training, IT seminars and personal development events. In 2010 Regular feedback, provided both by department heads to some 4,600 participants took part in 525 seminars and traintheir staff and also by staff to their managers, contributes to ing sessions from this portfolio. Employees also made use of the KSB leadership culture. Following its success in Argenlearning opportunities offered via electronic media. E-learntina, Germany and Finland, the anonymous “Leadership ing enables each and every participant to choose when and Feedback” initiative was organised on a global scale for the how quickly they want to study, specify what topics they first time in 2010. The results show managers how their bewish to focus on and repeat content as often as they want. haviour is perceived by employees and how they can improve their work as managers. One key focus of staff development activities during the year under review was to train employees to become project manOUR EMPLOYEES’ SPECIAL ACHIEVEMENTS agers. This will make it easier for us to use uniform processes 2010 was a tough financial year plagued by crisis and yet and professional methods to guide our strategic plans to sucthroughout it all, our employees showed great flexibility in cess. With that goal in mind, prospective project managers responding to changing market requirements. Some employalso completed their qualifications in line with the standards ees in underutilised areas made use of their working time acof the “International Project Management Association”*. counts to reduce or prevent short-time work. Our sales staff made good use of generally lower market potentials to stabiD E V E L O P I N G T H E C OR P OR ATE C ULTUR E EVEN FU RTHER lise the order situation; production staff quickly re-adjusted We want to base our actions within the Group on clearly deto increasing volumes in standard business during the second fined values and rules of conduct. The values that guide our half of the year. At the same time, employees implemented work and the way we act and interact with each other are our new organisation and many of them contributed toward trust, responsibility, professionalism, honesty and appreciathe implementation of strategic projects. This achievement tion. We consider these to be a part of our corporate culture deserves our respect and our gratitude. and believe that in developing this culture even further, we also contribute to our economic success. In 2010 some 300 employees debated the concrete meaning of these corporate values in “value dialogues”. During the sessions, these employees discussed with their managers how * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) 44 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT COR PORAT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I B ILIT Y Membership in the UN Global Compact Resource-saving production processes Products with greater energy efficiency As an employer, consumer, supplier and neighbour, KSB also plement this concept at additional sites in the years to come. has a responsibility to society. This includes using sustainable business practices that take environmental and employee-reTo cut our energy consumption we are using more and more lated issues into consideration as well as a long-term social energy-saving light bulbs in our workshops, warehouses and commitment. We arrange our own activities and make donaoffices. We also replace old, less efficient machines and detions to promote measures that are important to society as vices with modern equipment that has better efficiency levels. well as to alleviate hardship. Our sustainability principles are As part of this, one focus in 2010 was on modernisation an integral part of our corporate policy and benchmarks that measures in India, which included the installation of energyguide our actions. They apply at all locations and for all saving lighting systems. companies within the KSB Group. At the Lingang site in China, we started up KSB’s very first In April 2010, KSB signed the UN Global Compact*, an inigeothermal heat pump system during the year under review. tiative of the United Nations. This initiative aims to give gloThis system uses the Earth’s natural capacity to store heat in balisation a more social and also more ecological form. Upon order to heat and cool buildings. Compared with standard joining, we committed ourselves to implementing the initiasystems, use of the geothermal heat pump cuts energy costs tive’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour by around 30 %. standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption within our company. We aspire to improve continuously and During the past few years, we have made an ongoing effort take practical measures to substantiate this. Likewise, we also to gradually certify our sites around the world in accordance demand that our business partners uphold these principles. with the ISO 14001* environmental standard; in 2010 seven We take the same approach in applying the core conventions additional production and service sites were added in Gerof the International Labour Organisation (ILO**). many, Italy, the Netherlands and the USA. We are also increasingly demanding that our suppliers provide evidence of E NVIR O N M E N TA L LYFR I END LY WOR K AND P R OD UC TION their certification under this internationally recognised standAt KSB, environmental protection begins at the point when ard as well. we design our production processes and look at their impact on material and energy consumption. At all of our plants we SAVING ENERGY, REDUCING CO 2 EMISSIONS strive to produce our pumps, valves and related systems in a Today many customers demand products with low energy manner that is as energy-efficient as it is environmentally consumption, from the perspective of not only economic confriendly. With this in mind we regularly review our environsiderations but environmental aspects as well. We meet cusmental protection measures and improve continuously. One tomers’ expectations by providing pumps with high efficiency aspect of conserving our natural resources is to correctly seplevels as well as automation systems that help identify and arate waste materials and recycle raw materials. We got sevmake use of potential for saving energy. In research and deeral such projects off the ground in 2010. velopment, we are working on additional solutions which simultaneously reduce the use of energy resources and cut opWe try to guarantee that water is used sparingly by using it erating costs. multiple times wherever possible. In Lille, France, we launched a model project to harvest rainwater. A conduit sysOne of the countries where our energy-efficient pumps are tem transports runoff water from the plant’s roof into three experiencing growing demand is India. There, in response to containers that can each hold a volume of 10,000 litres. the scarcity of energy, a large-scale government programme These supply the test station and sanitary facilities, which has been initiated with the objective of replacing units which saves a considerable amount of drinking water. We will imconsume large amounts of energy with more efficient ma* www.ksb.com/global-compact ** SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) *SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 45 Corporate S ocia l Re sponsibil i ty Internal provisions for screen workers include regular eye tests. chines. At the same time, these measures also aim to slow warehouses. Measures taken included marking danger zones, down growth in carbon dioxide emissions. Of the pump mandating the use of protective equipment and improving types produced in our plants in India, 51 already meet the relighting at work stations. In addition, we took several steps quirements of the two strictest of the country’s five efficiency to increase the safety of Brazilian sites, such as installing new classes. fire-fighting systems. Reducing greenhouse gases is a global objective pursued by MAINTAINING GOOD HEALTH THROUGH PREVENTI V E many companies around the world. As a result, suppliers like MEASURES AND SPORT KSB should be able to provide information regarding the In addition to workplace safety measures, we use preventive amounts of carbon dioxide (CO2) released during production measures to promote the good health of our employees. Durof their products. We have been providing this information, ing the year under review, our company’s medical services in known as the “carbon footprint”*, for a series of pumps Germany alone performed around 2,000 medical check-ups made in France since 2007. CO2 information about our butand administered 450 flu shots. We also consider our compaterfly valves has also been available since 2010. We expect ny-internal athletic offering to be a contribution toward that customers will require this kind of information more maintaining the good health of our employees. In Italy, where and more frequently in the future and will continue our efour company was named one of the 100 best employers in forts to determine the figures for additional products as well. 2009, we set up a 100 m2 fitness studio for staff at one of our To play a part in helping to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, sites. Trainees in Germany benefit from special fitness prowe have joined an environmental protection initiative in Ausgrammes where they also learn how to correctly lift and cartria and also help cities and communities to make their conry heavy objects to prevent musculoskeletal damage. tribution. People doing computer work frequently only put weight on F U RT H E R I N C R E A SE I N SAFETY AT THE WOR KP LACE one side of their spinal columns, which can lead to back pain. Within the scope of our integrated management approach, To address this problem, we have launched a programme in we look at the connections between environmental protecGermany which specially targets those employees who work tion, occupational safety and employee health. One example in the office. Over the Internet, participants receive video inof this is our avoidance of hazardous materials. Moreover, structions for exercises aimed at relaxation and strengthening we consider occupational health and safety to be a key aspect up to three times a day. These can be done right at their of identifying risks at an early stage and preventing accidents desks. So far around 400 employees are taking part in this and other damage to employees’ health. Our objective is to programme. make the workplaces of all employees as safe as possible. NEEDS-BASED OFFERINGS FOR FAMILIES In 2010 we focused on this at our companies in the AmeriAs a family-friendly company, we offer our employees ways cas. In Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico and the United States, in which they can better harmonise their professional lives some 30 measures were implemented at 10 locations with the with their personal obligations. The precise needs that exist goal of reducing the number of accidents in workshops and in this area are determined through internal surveys. Depend* SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) 46 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT ing on the family’s particular circumstances, we can help find support several school projects in China, Indonesia and Vietchildcare or nursing services for relatives. In Germany we nam which enable better learning for children. At the same collaborate both with partners at our locations as well as time, KSB CARE also helps renovate old sanitary facilities in with agencies that operate nationwide. In addition we offer schools in India and build new ones. operational measures to assist employees who find themselves in difficult circumstances. In the event of natural disasters as well, we donate money and make contributions in kind. Together, KSB and its emCO MM I T M E N T TO E DUC ATI ON AND HELP FOR D I SASTER ployees contributed € 100,000 in donations for the victims of VIC T IM S flooding in Pakistan. Our Pakistani company coordinated Our social initiatives are especially geared toward ensuring how these funds were used to ensure that food, medicine and that children and young people – who we see as our employdrinking water reached the people affected as quickly as posees of the future – receive an adequate education. Consesible. We not only helped set up water filtration systems but quently we are a founding member of and actively involved we also assisted with the reconstruction of infirmaries and in the Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland schools. Furthermore, KSB employees in Pakistan took part [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany] initiative, in relief campaigns and gave shelter to the homeless. where we help foster children’s linguistic and natural science skills. In 2010, for instance, we provided several elementary Company donations are also made for the benefit of children, schools with materials that playfully spark children’s interest youths and the socially disadvantaged at our German sites. in topics related to technology and natural science. Moreover, This was the aim of our 2010 campaign, “Donations instead in the “Storyteller Workshop” project we offered additional of presents”, in which we granted financial assistance to intraining for teachers who shape children’s linguistic experistitutions and projects in Frankenthal, Pegnitz and Halle beences at the pre-school age. fore Christmas. In Asia, too, we make an ongoing commitment toward promoting better education. Via the KSB CARE* relief fund we * SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 47 Corpora te S ocia l Re sponsibil i ty Risk Mana ge me nt R I S K M ANAG E M E N T Crisis-related market risks reduced Financial flexibility with high reserves Rising prices for raw materials As a group with global operations, the KSB Group is exposed Supervisory Board. In this process, we identify and communito both global and regional risks. To achieve our business obcate risks in line with the following categories: jectives, it is necessary to be aware of the various risks and to limit them. We do this with the help of a Group-wide risk MARKET / COMPETITION management system that is part of our management system. The global financial and economic crisis affected most of the sectors in which KSB operates. There was a risk that the reUnder the terms of the Risk Management Manual, all Group sulting falloff in demand might take a firm hold, leading to companies are responsible for identifying and assessing risks lasting underutilisation of our production facilities. This risk and reporting these to Group headquarters. They must also was significantly reduced in 2010 with the change in the ecoinitiate countermeasures to avert or limit any damage. Only nomic climate and increased willingness to invest on the part through the systematic management of risks can opportuniof many customers. By the second half of the year, short-time ties for profit-oriented growth be leveraged responsibly. working, which had been used selectively as a tool, was no longer necessary. The management of opportunities and risks involves first and foremost Controlling, Finance and Accounting as well as In 2010, our plants producing goods for building services Internal Audits. Relevant guidelines on organisation and and industrial applications moved back closer to their preimplementation have been issued. crisis production levels. In the business with pumps for the energy industry, there will be a lag before the economic turnAccounting is responsible for preparing the annual and conaround has an effect on order placements, meaning that pressolidated financial statements, according to subprocesses sure on the sales prices of our products will continue. In our clearly defined in advance. production of valves for liquefied gas transport systems, which also saw low capacity utilisation in 2010, we expect As part of the planning and reporting process, Controlling an improvement for the current and the following year. and Finance and Accounting systematically identify document the opportunities and risks associated with each operatThe trend for some economies to close off their markets to ing area. In addition, they carry out results analyses on an foreign providers may continue. We are responding to this ongoing basis and report each month to the Board of Mandevelopment by intensifying our creation of local added agement. Twice a year, the individual business operations revalue. port on the current situation as well as foreseeable developments. If necessary, measures are then initiated to take Overall, we expect the market risks resulting from the finanadvantage of new opportunities and manage recognised risks. cial and economic crisis to continue to decrease during the current and the following year. The Internal Audits department is integrated in the controlling processes. It is kept informed and plans its audits in such The political upheaval in North Africa may result in a tema way that priority is placed on examining units with a risk porary reduction in order placements. However, this will not potential. The auditors also ensure that all operating units have a material effect on our overall business, as sales in the observe guidelines and actively and regularly take part in risk affected countries represent only a small proportion of that management. business. Information on recognised risks and the countermeasures inPRODUCTS / PROJECTS troduced in response forms an integral part of reporting to Technology and prices that reflect market requirements are the Board of Management and the Audit Committee of the vital prerequisites for a successful future. For this reason, we 48 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT are constantly reviewing our product portfolio. Pumps, ments of loans. In the current year and the following year as valves and systems that no longer meet our technical requirewell we expect to make at most partial use of our full finanments are quickly replaced with new or improved versions cial resources, and therefore have access to a considerable that generally offer a higher level of customer benefits. To be cushion of liquidity. able to offer these products at competitive market prices, cost considerations are a crucial part of our design and engineerPROCUREMENT ing work. At the same time, in our development process we The framework conditions on the supply markets became ensure that the materials we select do not have negative imsomewhat more difficult during the year under review. Inpacts on the environment. creasing production in markets such as China and India meant that at times we had to pay higher purchase prices for In 2010, we responded to our customers’ requirement to the finished and raw materials we needed than in 2009. make increasing use of energy-efficient motors by acquiring a majority interest in the Italian company ITACO s.r.l. This If the global economic recovery continues during the current company offers an innovative drive technology that enables year, then prices for these goods can be expected to increase substantial efficiency gains in combination with KSB variable further. Procurement bottlenecks may also be encountered. speed systems. Moreover, the motors come without rare To respond to this risk, we have secured additional sources of earths*, a usual requirement for high-efficiency drives. Such supply, primarily in Asia. However, the economic recovery materials are expected to be subject to supply bottlenecks will also increase our ability to pass on higher material costs and higher costs. to customers via price adjustments. There are no significant risks that could result from any techTECHNOLOGY / RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT nical problems in our products. During the past financial year, we intensified our activities in research and development. In particular, the Group organisaF IN AN C E S / L I Q U I DI TY tion introduced at the start of 2010 fosters product-related In some cases, the financial and economic crisis had an effect innovation. on customers’ ability to make payments. To minimise the resulting default risks, we monitor our incoming payments on When developing our products, we aim to recognise technical an ongoing basis. This allows us to respond quickly and and market-related risks in good time. Sales employees are adapt our receivables management appropriately. There were involved in key development phases to ensure that the latest no major payment defaults in 2010, which confirms the effindings from the market flow directly into the process. fectiveness of our measures. We will continue our strict reWhere necessary, we respond to these findings with design ceivables management system and continue to require adchanges. In order to shorten the time from the development vance and partial payments, especially in the large-scale of new products to their rollout on the market, we made approjects business. We reduce risks from having payment flows propriate changes to our processes in 2010. in different currencies by means of foreign exchange hedges. To this end, we mainly use forward currency contracts for We continue to develop products to meet customer specificatransactions that have already been recognised and for future tions that are only used in very limited applications. Concash flows from orders still to be processed. tracts concluded with customers ensure that compensation is paid for customised designs regardless of their use. This We did not have to draw on the loan against a borrower’s avoids any financial risk for KSB. note placed in the previous year to finance our operating business in 2010. We were also able to finance our strategic projects using our own funds and also make early repay* SEE PAGE 127 (GLOSSARY) M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 49 Risk Ma na ge me nt We do not use scarce natural resources to develop new energyefficient motors for our pumps. ENVIRONMENT As a result of demographic changes, competition for qualified Like other companies, KSB is subject to numerous environspecialists and managers is intensifying. To prepare for this, mental protection laws and regulations in the EU and indiwe are carrying out the Demographic Fitness* project, which vidual countries. With the aim of reducing environmental involves analysing age structures and creating needs-oriented pollution risks, officers at all KSB sites monitor operations to action plans. Furthermore, we are simplifying and standardisensure that employees strictly observe these regulations and ing our processes for advertising new positions internationcomply with – in some cases even stricter – internal environally. mental standards. Appropriate provisions are recognised to provide financial cover for any remediation needed in the OVERALL ASSESSMENT event of legacy contamination at individual sites. Despite a recovering global economy, the markets have still not completely overcome the financial and economic crisis. OT H E R R I S K S Therefore, in 2011 and 2012 management will continue to Serious business disadvantages can result from the manipulahave the key responsibility of identifying the associated risks tion or loss of data. We minimise these risks by using powerand countering them in good time. ful, state-of-the-art hardware with the latest software versions. We have standardised IT infrastructures, data backup Overall, we did not identify any risks in financial year 2010 systems, mirrored databases, the latest virus protection applithat could significantly or permanently impair the Group’s cations and secure access procedures. In addition, we also net assets, financial position or results of operations. have replacement capacity to prevent any bottlenecks caused by system failures. In countries where KSB companies still work with IT systems whose software maintenance contracts are coming to an end or which are at higher risk of failure, we have pressed ahead with the deployment of SAP ERP. This is part of our policy to harmonise our business processes globally and to make them more secure. * SEE PAGE 42 50 GR OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT REP ORT ON E X P E C T E D D E V E L OPMENT S Order intake and sales revenue set to increase considerably Asia / Pacific remains the most important growth region Stabilising earnings despite high price pressure MAR K E T DE V E L O P M ENTS AND SALES OP P ORTUNI TI ES Pumps In 2011, the global economy is expected to continue its reWith the end of the financial and economic crisis, our pumps covery from the recession of two years ago. Having returned business already showed a marked positive trend in the secto the growth track early on, emerging markets still offer exond half of 2010, and we expect this to continue during the port-oriented nations good sales potential. This fact, comcurrent year. We expect increasing investment in the chemibined with their improving domestic economies, gives reason cals industry and in the power and water engineering sectors to hope that the upturn in a number of industrialised nations, to produce growing order volumes for single-stage and multiincluding Germany, will gain staying power. By contrast, in stage pumps. some countries with high levels of debt, observers must wait and see whether, and to what extent, the economic situation In addition, positive effects should result from the introducis going to improve. tion of new pump type series, including very powerful circulating pumps for use in high-rise buildings and additional sizOn the whole, forecasts for 2011 largely anticipate a contines of our pressure booster pumps for industry, water supply ued upward trend in the economy, although this is not likely and building services. To increase submersible pumps sales, to develop the same dynamism as in the previous year. The we will step up our activities in the waste water business, necessary measures taken to consolidate critical state budgets with the aim of winning additional market share. – especially in over-leveraged European nations – could result in a dampening effect. Another factor curbing growth may As part of our strategic projects, we are also intensifying our come from national restriction measures taken in economies sales of standard pumps in key markets and focusing on new such as China, India and Brazil in order to keep inflationary areas of application. These include, for example, the hygienic risks in check. fluid transport market, renewable energies and fire-extinguishing systems in line with the US FM / UL* standard. We Order intake in the mechanical and plant engineering sectors, also see good development opportunities in mining and will which fell sharply during the crisis, will increase again signifiintensify our efforts in this market in selected countries. cantly in 2011. Therefore, the German Engineering Federation (VDMA) anticipates production growth of roughly Customer demand for products with a high level of energy 10 %. efficiency favours our sales of energy-saving variable speed systems and energy-efficient motors. This is an area where Demand for pumps, valves and systems will also rise during we are technologically well positioned and will use these adthe current year. Continued improvement in order intake is vantages to boost our sales revenue with automation prodalso expected in the short-cyclical general business, whereas ucts. the purchase order situation is likely to stabilise in the project business. In 2011, business will be shaped by more inValves tense competition and stronger price pressure. We would like to continue the upward trend from the second half of 2010 and increase our order intake for globe, gate and butterfly valves as well. After our successes with standard valves last year, we are counting on the fact that as the economy picks up, it will also drive demand for customised valves for use in specific applications. * SEE PAGE 128 (GLOSSARY) M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 51 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts We have high expectations in connection with developments Europe in the chemical industry and our power plant business in cerIn the current European market, we can expect to see two tain regions. Even the sale of marine valves, which collapsed types of economic development. While export-oriented econduring the crisis, is likely to recover during the current year. omies will benefit from the revival in global trade, other A series of new butterfly valves scheduled to be launched in countries will lose ground in their economic recovery as a re2011 will strengthen our position in the valves market. sult of the debt crisis and the difficult process of consolidation. Service In the service business, we will continue to improve our cusOur general business with standard products is likely to see tomer relationships in selected markets in line with our stratfurther growth. By contrast, our power engineering and waegy. The establishment of new service centres in Asia, the ter transport project business will remain affected by relucAmericas and Australia will contribute toward this goal. We tance on the part of many investors, who launched no new will also selectively expand our service presence in the Midprojects during the crisis. This goes for Western Europe in dle East. We expect a higher percentage growth in the regions particular, whereas in the Eastern European market, especialoutside Europe than for our European core market. ly in Russia, there are definitely reasons to see potential for positive developments in the project business. In our service In Europe we expect momentum to come from our nuclear business, acquisitions completed in Germany and France in business in France this year. We already concluded initial 2010 provide starting points for expanding our business. framework agreements for services there in 2010, drawing on Moreover, in 2011 as well, we would like to close regional the experience and contacts of our newly acquired French gaps and broaden our service expertise. company Euro Techno Consulting, which has specialised in such systems. Furthermore, in Germany and France we will Middle East / Africa offer our services in the renewable energies sector, especially The upturn in the global economy and associated demand in the area of wind power plants. for energy and base metals has driven prices for these goods upward. Higher revenues in some raw materials and oil-exOU T L O O K F O R T H E GR OUP AND FOR THE R EGI ONS porting countries have freed up investment capital for infraCurrent developments in the markets corroborate the fundastructure projects in the areas of water supply and wastewamental direction of our strategy, which, among other objecter treatment as well as construction projects. Furthermore, tives, involves increasing market penetration in countries outnew pumps and valves are required by the oil and gas inside Europe with strong prospects while stabilising our dustry. In North Africa, it is likely that for a temporary peposition within Europe. Within the Group, we will work inriod, fewer orders will be placed due to the political unrest. tensively towards these aims as well as other strategic projects. Based on these initiatives and trends in the market, it is We serve our customers via a regional trading centre in possible that our order intake in the Regions Asia / Pacific and Dubai and a network of sales companies and trading partAmericas could see much stronger percentage growth in ners. In Turkey, Saudi Arabia and South Africa we also do 2011 than in our European home market. direct, local manufacturing in selected markets. In 2011, we would like to focus on improving our regional service offering, which involves a number of service companies, in the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. 52 GROU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Asia / Pacific Americas Despite regulatory measures taken in some countries, we exEconomic growth in the Region Americas in 2011 will likepect the momentum in the Asian markets to continue. In the ly end up lower than in 2010. The North American market two strongest economies, China and India, we can participate is experiencing a slow recovery, and we therefore anticipate directly in this growth through the sales and production comopportunities to participate in projects related to energy panies we have established there. supply and waste water treatment systems. The high oil price will lead to new investments in the Canadian oil sands As a result of rising industrial production in the region and industry, which we supply with slurry pumps from our US steadily growing demand for energy, we see good order prossubsidiary GIW Industries, Inc. We also expect an upturn in pects in the manufacturing industry and in power plant conthe service business, with a contribution coming from our struction. Water and waste water projects will also become new acquisition Standard Alloys Inc. more important for our business due to rapid developments in infrastructure. By setting up new regional centres for proIn South America, we expect stronger growth of the econoject management and application consultancy, we will immy, in particular in Argentina, Brazil and Chile, where we prove our customer support and offer even more effective are represented by own companies. We are planning to esservices, fast and efficiently. tablish a new company in Peru, another promising country. We currently see good opportunities for orders in South Furthermore we have the strategic goal of intensifying our America in industry, including the oil industry, water supply general business with standard pumps and valves. Special and mining. sales teams are putting in place the prerequisites for this in several Asian countries. Overall, intense competition should be expected in the US market. This is due to the increased involvement of producGrowing new business in the Asia / Pacific region will bring ers from other regions, which currently aim to tap the Braabout an increase in the demand for service. This developzilian and US sales markets. Our longstanding customer rement is associated with the increasing willingness of customlationships will help us to continue to leverage opportunities ers to outsource services to external providers. We will therein the well-established areas of application for our products. fore set up new repair centres, above all in China, India and At the same time, we intend to expand our business with Australia. standard products and service offerings. FINANCIAL OUTLOOK RE A L E C O N O M I C G R OW T H IN T H E B R IC C OU NT R IES Against the backdrop of an improving global economy, we China are striving to continue improving our order intake in 2011 2011 9.5 % (Forecast) and the following year as well. We anticipate growth in all 2010 10.1 % three Business Units: Pumps, Valves and Service. We see India growth opportunities during the current year especially in 2011 7.8 % (Forecast) our general business with standard products and in service, 2010 9.9 % while higher order intake in the project business is not exRussia pected until 2012. Overall, however, on the basis of forecast 2011 4.3 % (Forecast) prospects for the economy, we will already be able to re2010 3.9 % attain pre-crisis levels in 2011. Brazil 2011 5.1 % (Forecast) 2010 7.8 % Source: DIW Berlin M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 53 Re port on Expe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts After China, India is the largest growth market in Asia. We manufacture pumps and valves at five sites in India, like this one in Nashik. We expect sales revenue to increase at a stronger rate than The implementation of our strategic projects will be a focus order intake in all Business Units in 2011. This development of our activities in 2011 and the coming years as well. We are is related to the completion of the high level of orders on providing the necessary financial resources and capacities for hand. In the following year, sales revenue will likely see the this. same increase in volume as order intake. We will only consider acquisitions if they fit with our key During the current year, we expect consolidated earnings to strategic projects and are likely to prove highly advantageous reach at least the level of 2010. Considering the pressure on from a financial and strategic point of view. prices in our sales markets and looming increases in material and staff costs, it is not yet certain whether we can improve FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS this figure. In the pumps business, we cannot rule out deThis report contains forward-looking statements. We wish to clines due to the problematic competitive situation, mainly in point out that actual events may differ materially from our the project business. By contrast, a positive development is expectations of developments if one of the uncertainties deexpected in the Business Units Valves and Service. From our scribed, or other risks and uncertainties, should materialise, current perspective, we anticipate moderate earnings growth or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to be overall in 2012. inaccurate. Our expenditure for property, plant and equipment is likely to rise in 2011. Thanks to our very good financial position, we expect to be able to fully finance these investments from equity capital. 54 57 57 55 »Tapping additional regenerative energy sources Renewable energy sources should make us less dependent on fossil and are the future. nuclear fuels. We support this development by providing efﬁcient and durable components for How can we make the best systems which use solar and wind power as use of them today? well as geothermal energy and biomass to generate electricity. We are also currently testing the ﬁrst commercial river turbines to convert hydropower into electricity. By developing this “small hydropower plant”, we hope to achieve payback periods that are a third shorter than those of wind power plants.« Kerstin Gündra, Head of Product Management Submersible Pumps The Amaprop propeller ensures a homogenous mix of biomass for gas production. 54 55 »Tapping additional regenerative energy sources should make us less dependent on fossil and nuclear fuels. We support this development by providing efﬁcient and durable components for systems which use solar and wind power as well as geothermal energy and biomass to generate electricity. We are also currently testing the ﬁrst commercial river turbines to convert hydropower into electricity. By developing this “small hydropower plant”, we hope to achieve payback periods that are a third shorter than those of wind power plants.« Kerstin Gündra, Head of Product Management Submersible Pumps 58 KSB achieved consolidated earnings before taxes of € 135.8 million in 2010, with a return on sales of 7.0 percent. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 59 CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS C ONSOLI DATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 60 Balance Sheet 61 Income Statement Including Statement of Recognised Income and Expense 62 Statement of Changes in Equity 63 Cash Flow Statement 64 Segment Reporting 65 Notes 107 List of Shareholdings 110 Supervisory Board and Board of Management 111 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 60 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BA L ANCE S H E E T AS S E T S 31 Dec. 2009 (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2010 (adjusted) 31 Dec. 2009 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 48,584 45,966 42,174 Property, plant and equipment 1 400,860 367,697 365,518 Non-current financial assets 1 65,845 52,972 61,621 Deferred tax assets 2 16,824 17,664 17,447 532,113 484,299 486,760 Current assets Inventories 3 324,518 306,372 259,069 Receivables and other current assets 4 596,545 504,569 489,699 Current financial instruments 5 500 – – Cash and cash equivalents 5 407,621 414,953 409,840 1,329,184 1,225,894 1,158,608 1,861,297 1,710,193 1,645,368 E QUI T Y A N D L I A B I L I TI E S 31 Dec. 2009 (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2010 (adjusted) 31 Dec. 2009 Equity 6 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 602,561 515,839 515,672 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 713,996 627,274 627,107 Non-controlling interest 111,570 93,455 93,455 825,566 720,729 720,562 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 33,704 32,055 31,982 Provisions for employee benefits 8 269,547 263,892 263,892 Other provisions 8 16,098 15,442 15,404 Liabilities 9 109,644 160,639 160,058 428,993 472,028 471,336 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 8 110,784 116,293 115,689 Other provisions 8 90,119 83,046 82,714 Liabilities 9 405,835 318,097 255,067 606,738 517,436 453,470 1,861,297 1,710,193 1,645,368 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 61 B al an c e S h e e t I n c o m e S tate m e n t I n c l u di n g S tate m e n t o f R e c o gn i se d I n c o m e an d Ex pe n se IN COM E S TAT E M E N T I N C L U D ING STAT E M E N T O F R E C O G N I S E D INC OME A ND EXPENSE I NC O M E S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) Notes 2010 2009 Sales revenue 10 1,939,254 1,892,840 Changes in inventories 12,260 – 13,442 Work performed and capitalised 2,271 2,448 Total output of operations 1,953,785 1,881,846 Other operating income 11 35,921 32,274 Cost of materials 12 – 790,855 – 736,026 Staff costs 13 – 649,844 – 618,268 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1 – 48,148 – 43,372 Other operating expenses 14 – 339,507 – 323,705 Other taxes – 8,304 – 8,551 153,048 184,198 Financial income 15 11,410 9,407 Financial expense 15 – 28,662 – 20,821 – 17,252 – 11,414 Earnings before income taxes 135,796 172,784 Taxes on income 16 – 45,836 – 50,426 Earnings after income taxes 89,960 122,358 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 17 12,525 14,744 Shareholders of KSB AG 77,435 107,614 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 44.09 61.32 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 44.35 61.58 S TATE M E N T O F R E C OGNISED INC OME A ND EXPENSE (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Earnings after income taxes 89,960 122,358 Measurement of financial instruments – 380 1,107 Currency translation differences 39,099 14,648 Other income and expense recognised directly in equity 507 865 Taxes on items recognised directly in equity – 220 – 305 Total earnings recognised directly in equity 39,006 16,315 Total recognised income and expense 128,966 138,673 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 21,004 13,655 Shareholders of KSB AG 107,962 125,018 62 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STAT E M E NT O F C H A N G E S I N E Q U IT Y Subscribed Equity attributable capital Capital reserve Revenue to shareholders Non-controlling Total (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG reserves of KSB AG interest equity 1 Jan. 2009 44,772 66,663 412,770 524,205 81,615 605,820 Measurement of financial instruments – – 640 640 143 783 Currency translation differences – – 15,690 15,690 – 1,042 14,648 Other income and expense recognised directly in equity – – 1,074 1,074 – 190 884 Total earnings recognised directly in equity – – 17,404 17,404 – 1,089 16,315 Earnings after income taxes – – 107,614 107,614 14,744 122,358 Total recognised income and expense – – 125,018 125,018 13,655 138,673 Dividends paid – – – 22,116 – 22,116 – 1,815 – 23,931 Capital increases / decreases – – – – – – Change in consolidated Group / Successive acquisitions – – – – – – 31 Dec. 2009 44,772 66,663 515,672 627,107 93,455 720,562 Subscribed Equity attributable capital Capital reserve Revenue to shareholders Non-controlling Total (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG reserves of KSB AG interest equity 1 Jan. 2010 44,772 66,663 515,672 627,107 93,455 720,562 Measurement of financial instruments – – – 242 – 242 – 34 – 276 Currency translation differences – – 30,626 30,626 8,473 39,099 Other income and expense recognised directly in equity – – 143 143 40 183 Total earnings recognised directly in equity – – 30,527 30,527 8,479 39,006 Earnings after income taxes – – 77,435 77,435 12,525 89,960 Total recognised income and expense – – 107,962 107,962 21,004 128,966 Dividends paid – – – 21,240 – 21,240 – 2,926 – 24,166 Capital increases / decreases – – – – – – Change in consolidated Group / Successive acquisitions – – 167 167 – 167 Other – – – – 37 37 31 Dec. 2010 44,772 66,663 602,561 713,996 111,570 825,566 Equity attributable to shareholders Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) of KSB AG interest equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2009 – 60,803 – 20,372 – 81,175 Change 2009 15,690 – 1,042 14,648 Balance at 31 Dec. 2009 / 1 Jan. 2009 – 45,113 – 21,414 – 66,527 Change 2010 30,626 8,473 39,099 Balance at 31 Dec. 2010 – 14,487 – 12,941 – 27,428 The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the equity items; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 63 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty C ash F l o w S tate m e n t C AS H F L OW S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Earnings after income taxes 89,960 122,358 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 55,481 45,848 Increase in non-current provisions 3,459 3,454 Gain on disposal of fixed assets – 562 – 303 Other non-cash income and expenses 178 1,070 Cash flow 148,516 172,427 Increase / decrease in inventories – 83 41,666 Increase / decrease in trade receivables and other assets – 59,752 29,189 Decrease in current provisions – 5,438 – 2,112 Increase in advances received from customers 41,470 13,263 Increase / decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) 37,347 – 42,191 Other non-cash expenses / income (operating) – – 13,544 39,815 Cash flows from operating activities 162,060 212,242 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets – – Payments to acquire intangible assets – 5,026 – 3,340 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,173 2,299 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 69,837 – 91,328 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 455 406 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 21,313 – 7,423 Net cash flows from the acquisition and sale of consolidated companies and other business operations (basically successive acquisitions) – – Other non-cash expenses / income (investing) – – Cash flows from investing activities – 91,548 – 99,386 Proceeds from additions to equity – – Dividends paid for prior year (including non-controlling interest) – 24,166 – 23,931 Employee deferred compensation 3,726 3,588 Net cash flows from financial liabilities – 66,099 147,263 Net cash flows from financial receivables – 1,777 481 Other non-cash expenses / income (financing) – – Cash flows from financing activities – 88,316 127,401 Net change in cash and cash equivalents – 17,804 240,257 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 10,472 2,223 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 5,113 – Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 409,840 167,360 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 407,621 409,840 Thereof term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements included at the closing date 18,900 16,100 64 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SEGM E NT REP O RTI N G Order intake External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Business Unit Pumps 1,450,920 1,377,535 1,333,824 1,301,831 121,561 129,779 Business Unit Valves 342,393 314,525 331,270 316,719 10,146 11,200 Business Unit Service 281,714 241,923 276,513 234,252 30,452 26,900 Reconciliation – – – 2,353 40,038 – 13,301 17,815 Total 2,075,027 1,933,983 1,939,254 1,892,840 148,858 185,694 € 668,367 thousand (previous year: € 704,647 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany and € 1,270,887 thousand (previous year: € 1,188,193 thousand) by the other Group companies. At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 411,259 thousand (previous year: € 373,882 thousand), with € 188,167 thousand (previous year: € 188,530 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 223,092 thousand (previous year: € 185,352 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. The non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill, non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. € 33.8 million of the order intake of the Business Unit Pumps and € 6.4 million of the order intake of the Business Unit Service are attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies. The prior-year figures would have been € 23.8 million and € 3.6 million respectively. The effect of first-time consolidation on the external sales revenue of the Business Unit Pumps was € 29.7 million and on that of the Business Unit Valves € 5.7 million. The prior-year figures would have been € 20.9 million and € 3.1 million respectively. The effect on EBIT was € 0.7 million for the Business Unit Pumps and € 0.1 million for the Business Unit Valves. The prior-year figures would have been € 0.6 million and € 0.1 million respectively. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 65 S e gm e n t R e po rti n g No te s N OTE S GENER AL Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB AG, Frankenthal, Germany, were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the EU and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, as well as all Standards and the Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) in force at the reporting date. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). KSB AG is a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under Germany law. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HR B 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 14 March 2011 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 29 March 2011. The consolidated financial statements are published in the electronic Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The income statement has been prepared using the nature of expense method. First-time application of new and revised standards The following new Interpretations and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2010: IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 2 Share-based Payment IFRS 3 Business Combinations IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (Annual Improvement Project 2008) 66 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate IFRIC 16 Hedges of a Net Investment in a Foreign Operation IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners and Individual Components of IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period as well as IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers Annual Improvements [April 2009] As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations prior to their effective dates: IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011) This Standard provides for exemption from disclosure of information in the Notes if the cost of complying with the disclosure requirement would outweigh the benefits of the disclosures to users of the financial statements. IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 February 2011) The amendments relate to the clarification of the classification of subscription rights as a liability or as equity. IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards in conjunction with IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Annual Improvements [May 2010] (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2011) The amendments relate to six Standards and one Interpretation. IFRIC 14 IAS 19 – The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction (from 1 January 2011) The amendments relate to entities with minimum funding requirements within the framework of accounting for pension plans. IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments (for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2010). This document provides assistance in the interpretation of the IASs/IFRSs. This document provides assistance in the interpretation of the IASs/IFRSs. Based on our current state of knowledge, application of the above Standards and Interpretations would not have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. BASI S OF C ONSOLI DATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 6 German and 52 foreign companies (previous year: 4 German and 48 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest in the voting power of these companies, either directly or indirectly, or we have the power to appoint the majority of the members of the companies’ management. No companies are currently accounted for using the equity method or proportionately consolidated. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 67 No te s We included the following companies for the first time in the consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2010: KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen (Germany) KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal (Germany) KSB OOO , Moscow (Russia) KSB Lindflaten AS , Lysaker (Norway) KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè (Italy) KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario (Canada) The changes in the consolidated Group described above contributed around 1 % or € 0.8 million to consolidated earnings. Further effects on the consolidated financial statements are presented in the relevant tables (for example, in the additional column titled “31 Dec. 2009 (adjusted)” included in the balance sheet) and explained in the information provided on individual items. The carrying amounts of the companies’ assets and liabilities acquired and included in the consolidated financial statements for the first time almost completely matched their fair value. Purchase price allocation, based on the data at the time of acquisition, only resulted in differences amounting to € 239 thousand. These were above all attributable to the measurement of customer base and orders in hand. Overall, as in the previous year, we had to make no payments for successive acquisitions of consolidated companies in the year under review. € 12,906 thousand (previous year: € 7,144 thousand) was spent on companies that have not yet been consolidated because this would not have had a material impact. This amount resulted mainly from an increase in the interest held in an Italian motor manufacturing firm, a newly formed company in the Americas and the acquisition of shares in relatively small companies in Europe. In light of our new Group strategy which, among other things, involves merging the numerous small companies to form larger legal entities, in 2009 we began initiating appropriate corporate changes. In this context, further companies that have not yet been consolidated will be included in the consolidated Group over the course of the next few years. Consolidation methods Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill arising from initial consolidation is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 in conjunction with IASs 36 and 38. It is measured at the relevant current closing rate, presented in intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. An impairment loss is recognised if any impairment is identified. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost is recognised directly in profit or loss. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interest. 68 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS All intercompany receivables, liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities, as well as sales revenue, other income and expenses, are eliminated. Intercompany profits contained in inventories and fixed assets are also eliminated. The financial statements of all material companies or those required to be audited under local law have been audited and independent auditors’ reports have been issued. This audit also extended to the correct reconciliation of the financial statements prepared under local GAAP to the uniform Group IFRS accounting policies. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Currency translation gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euros are translated using the functional currency principle. These companies are financially, economically and organisationally independent (“foreign entities”). Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates for the year. The resulting effects are presented directly in equity. Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity. The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 2010 2009 US dollar 1.3362 1.4406 1.3321 1.3933 Brazilian real 2.2177 2.5113 2.3377 2.7706 Indian rupee 59.7580 67.0400 60.9563 67.3098 Chinese yuan 8.8220 9.8350 9.0167 9.5172 AC C OUNTI NG P OLI C I ES The accounting policies have generally not changed as against the previous year and apply to all companies included in the consolidated financial statements. In addition to the above-mentioned changes to the consolidated Group, we have made adjustments versus the prior-year presentation of disclosures of advance payments on inventories and, in part, for PoC contracts. We now disclose these advance payments as a component of M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 69 No te s liabilities, whereas in the previous year they were presented as part of “Inventories” or “Receivables and other current assets”. The effects are described in these Notes in the section on “Liabilities”. For reasons of comparability, the prior-year values of the relevant items were adjusted in the tables presented in the sections on “Inventories”, “Receivables and other current assets” and Liabilities. Acquisition cost In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Production cost In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument and when at least one party has fulfilled the agreement. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to so-called primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as intragroup and associate companies). Derivatives, which we use to hedge against foreign currency and interest rate risks, are also financial instruments. Classification in measurement categories: Financial Assets Held for Trading (FAHfT) / Financial Liabilities Held for Trading (FLHfT): Financial assets and liabilities held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (derivatives not included in hedging relationships) Loans and Receivables (LaR): Loans and receivables (loans and primary financial instruments not quoted in an active market) Available for Sale (AfS): Available-for-sale financial instruments (non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated affiliates or securities) 70 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost (FLAC): Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method (liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables) None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Subsequent measurement is generally based on fair value. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. Fair values are based on market prices determined at the reporting date that are obtained from recognised external sources. Changes in the fair value of “available-for-sale financial assets” are recognised directly in equity. They are recognised in profit or loss when the assets are sold or determined to be impaired. As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. Intangible assets Intangible assets are generally carried at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. The underlying useful lives are two to five years. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). We amortised goodwill originating between 1 January 1995 and 30 March 2004 over a maximum of 15 years. In accordance with IFRS 3, the resulting cumulative amortisation was eliminated against historical cost effective 1 January 2005. Goodwill has been tested for impairment at least once a year since 2005; it is not amortised any longer. This impairment test relates to the “cash-generating units”, which at KSB are the legal entities. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. Goodwill originating up to and including 1994 has been deducted from revenue reserves. Negative goodwill originating prior to 30 March 2004 was eliminated against revenue reserves directly in equity. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost arising after 30 March 2004 is recognised directly in profit or loss. When calculating goodwill we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands, competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations, orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 71 No te s and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, knowhow and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. Development costs are capitalised as intangible assets at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation. No tax-motivated depreciation is recognised. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up). We have applied the component approach under IAS 16. Depending on the relevant item, government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are deducted from the assets concerned or transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. The following useful lives are applied: U SEFU L LIVES Buildings 10 – 60 years Plant and machinery 7 – 25 years Operating and office equipment 3 – 25 years Leases Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset‘s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. 72 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Non-current financial assets Investments in unconsolidated affiliates and associates are carried at fair value. Interest-bearing loans are recognised at amortised cost. Non-current financial assets are measured at cost if their fair value cannot be reliably determined because they are not traded in an active market. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies to write-downs to fair value if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 The percentage of completion (PoC) method is applied for construction contracts defined under IAS 11. The stage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs (without indirect material costs) incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs (without indirect material costs) at the reporting date. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in receivables and other current assets or in current liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. Receivables and other current assets For subsequent measurement, receivables and other current assets that are classified as loans and receivables (LaR) are recognised at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs and experience-based write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Financial instruments Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 73 No te s Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents (cash, bank balances and short-term deposits) are recognised at amortised cost. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. The reports are prepared using the projected unit credit method. We apply the 10 % corridor rule, under which actuarial gains and losses that are 10 % greater or lower than the present value of the DBO (defined benefit obligation) are recognised over the average remaining working lives. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the definition of compensation and pension trends, as well as interest rate trends, are best estimates. The interest component is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. These companies have no obligations other than the obligation to pay premiums. Other provisions A provision is recognised only if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. No provisions are recognised for future internal expenses. The amount recognised as a provision is our best estimate. Any recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised separately and are not deducted from the provisions concerned. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Liabilities Liabilities classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 74 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Derivative financial instruments We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both existing recognised underlyings and future cash flows (cash flow hedges) against foreign currency and interest rate risks. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for items in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised through long-term borrowings at variable rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. Fair value changes of currency derivatives used to hedge an existing recognised underlying are recognised in profit or loss, as are changes in the fair value of the related hedged items. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of currency derivatives are taken directly to equity until the related hedged item is recognised. Fair value changes of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised directly in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of market prices. Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. There was no material hedge ineffectiveness that would have been required to be reported. Derivatives are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities and deferred income. The maturities of the currency derivatives used are mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are between six and ten years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecasted transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecasted transactions occurred as expected. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 75 No te s Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers, and licence income. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Sales revenue is recognised when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks of ownership have been transferred to the buyer. Effects resulting from application of the percentage of completion method are also recognised in the sales revenue. Expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Estimates and assumptions Preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. 76 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BALANC E SHEET D I SCLOSURES 1 Fixed assets S TAT E ME N T O F C H A N G E S IN INTA NGIB LE A SSET S Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in Intangible assets (€ thousands) such rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 34,588 33,470 37,142 36,664 1,326 1,841 73,056 71,975 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 831 295 4,375 478 – 1 5,206 774 Additions 3,714 1,299 – – 1,278 44 4,992 1,343 Disposals 194 1,024 – – – – 194 1,024 Reclassifications 1,426 548 – – – 1,301 – 560 125 – 12 Balance at 31 December 40,365 34,588 41,517 37,142 1,303 1,326 83,185 73,056 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 27,550 24,492 3,332 – – – 30,882 24,492 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 426 200 – – – – 426 200 Additions 3,423 3,882 – 3,332 – – 3,423 7,214 Disposals 194 1,024 – – – – 194 1,024 Reclassifications 64 – – – – – 64 – Balance at 31 December 31,269 27,550 3,332 3,332 – – 34,601 30,882 Carrying amount at 31 December 9,096 7,038 38,185 33,810 1,303 1,326 48,584 42,174 As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. We conduct our impairment tests once a year. If an additional impairment test is deemed to be required because there is an indication that an asset may be impaired (trigger event), the test is performed promptly. As in the previous year, this proved unnecessary in the year under review. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRS) applied were taken from a four-year plan, the basis of which was approved in December. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources (e.g. current VDMA publications) and our own knowledge of markets and competitors. For the first M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 77 No te s year we anticipated figures to remain basically on a par with those of the year under review. Over the subsequent years we expect a positive economic trend again. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the fourth plan year as a constant; we did not apply any growth rates. The reconciliation to cash flow is performed to adjust for the effects of scheduled investments for expansion. If the planned depreciation and amortisation amounts deviate significantly from planned replacement investments, the cash flows recognised are also adjusted. The carrying amounts of cash-generating units do not contain any items related to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM). Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure. The interest rate for risk-free ten-year Bunds was used as a base rate. In response to the global economic recovery we have lowered the market risk premium from 5 % to the pre-crisis level of 4 %; as in the previous year, a beta factor of 1.0 was used. The individual discount rate before taxes which was derived for each cash-generating unit ranges – depending on each country’s individual tax rates – between 7.40 % and 9.11 % (previous year: between 8.69 % and 10.69 %). The impairment test did not identify any impairment requiring a write-down. Last year’s impairment test revealed the need for write-downs of € 3,332 thousand at a cash-generating unit in Belgium due to economic difficulties. A 10 % increase in the relevant discount rate would require write-downs of € 648 thousand (previous year: € 0 thousand). Of the carrying amount of all goodwill totalling € 38,185 thousand (previous year: € 33,810 thousand) € 18,285 thousand (previous year: € 18,285 thousand) was attributable to the Dutch Group company DP industries B.V.; € 3,710 thousand (previous year: € 3,710 thousand) to the Italian company KSB Italia S.p.A.; € 2,980 thousand (previous year: € 2,980 thousand) to the German company Uder Elektromechanik GmbH and € 3,358 thousand (previous year: € 2,790 thousand) to the South African company KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd. € 3,710 thousand was attributable to the companies included in the consolidated financial statements for the first time (of which € 1,353 thousand to KSB Service Italia S.r.l., € 1,280 thousand to KSB Lindflaten AS and € 1,077 thousand to KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH). The remaining € 6,142 thousand (previous year: € 6,045 thousand) is attributable, as in the previous year, to another 12 companies. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the year under review. 78 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS S TAT E ME N T O F C H A N G E S IN PR OPERT Y, PLA NT A ND EQU IPME NT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant and Plant and operating and and assets under equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings machinery office equipment construction Total Historical cost 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 232,824 196,440 394,531 351,458 149,483 139,207 32,528 51,530 809,366 738,635 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 7,539 2,626 12,799 3,758 7,400 1,885 1,405 320 29,143 8,589 Additions 9,999 11,808 20,234 32,397 20,968 17,010 16,606 24,060 67,807 85,275 Disposals 314 791 10,525 11,838 8,361 10,470 1,696 46 20,896 23,145 Reclassifications 4,169 22,741 30,695 18,756 – 3,987 1,851 – 31,002 – 43,336 – 125 12 Balance at 31 December 254,217 232,824 447,734 394,531 165,503 149,483 17,841 32,528 885,295 809,366 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 99,564 94,718 244,126 234,941 100,158 95,796 – – 443,848 425,455 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 2,529 298 7,150 1,762 4,445 1,324 – – 14,124 3,384 Additions 6,444 4,998 24,366 18,736 13,915 12,424 – – 44,725 36,158 Disposals 230 450 9,582 11,311 7,473 9,388 – – 17,285 21,149 Reclassifications – – 2,212 –2 – 2,276 2 – – – 64 – Reversal (write-up) 913 – – – – – – – 913 – Balance at 31 December 107,394 99,564 268,272 244,126 108,769 100,158 – – 484,435 443,848 Carrying amount at 31 December 146,823 133,260 179,462 150,405 56,734 49,325 17,841 32,528 400,860 365,518 The volume of investment in property, plant and equipment declined by 20 % compared with the previous year’s level. After major investments were made in previous years, we returned to the usual level of investments in the year under review as anticipated in the previous year. Assets resulting from finance leases (almost exclusively real property) are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these recognised assets amounts to € 7,076 thousand (previous year: € 7,167 thousand). Disposals of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 1,781 thousand (previous year: € 1,538 thousand) and book losses of € 1,219 thousand (previous year: € 1,235 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other operating income and other operating expenses. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant and equipment in the year under review. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 79 No te s S TATE M E N T O F C H A NGES IN NON-C U R R ENT FINA NC IA L ASSETS Investments Non-current Non-current ﬁnancial (€ thousands) in affiliates Other investments financial instruments Loans assets Total Acquisition cost 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 50,572 45,119 14,617 13,099 718 688 2,876 2,851 68,783 61,757 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 8,349 139 – – 5 –1 – 24 – – 8,368 138 Additions 12,906 5,604 – 1,540 31 50 8,376 250 21,313 7,444 Disposals 1,613 312 – – – 19 189 225 1,802 556 Reclassifications 1,540 22 – 1,540 – 22 – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 55,056 50,572 13,077 14,617 754 718 11,039 2,876 79,926 68,783 Accumulated impairment losses 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Balance at 1 January 5,615 3,079 461 461 86 105 1,000 1,150 7,162 4,795 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 19 41 – – – – – – 19 41 Additions 6,312 2,495 1,379 – 8 – 548 – 8,247 2,495 Disposals 1,347 – – – – – – 150 1,347 150 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Reversal (write-up) – – – – – 19 – – – 19 Balance at 31 December 10,599 5,615 1,840 461 94 86 1,548 1,000 14,081 7,162 Carrying amount at 31 December 44,457 44,957 11,237 14,156 660 632 9,491 1,876 65,845 61,621 Investments in affiliates and other equity investments reported under non-current financial assets declined. Additions, above all resulting from the increase in our interest held in an Italian motor manufacturing firm, were more than offset by effects resulting from the first-time consolidation of six companies and by write-downs. These write-downs relate primarily to five smaller companies in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands. Our impairment tests at these companies identified impairment losses due to economic difficulties. The planned first-time consolidation of further companies in financial year 2011 is expected to result in another decline in this balance sheet item in 2011. The increase in loans is attributable to financing measures for a newly formed company in the Americas. For financial year 2011, we expect a significant decline in this item, too, as a result of the planned changes in the consolidated Group. We currently have no plans for the sale of investments in affiliates and other equity investments. € 9,434 thousand (previous year: € 1,817 thousand) of the loans are loans to affiliates. The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on fixed assets was a gain of € 14,112 thousand (previous year: gain of € 5,877 thousand). The list of shareholdings is included at the end of these Notes. 80 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Deferred tax assets Explanations on deferred tax assets are presented under “Taxes on income”. 3 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009* Raw materials and production supplies 129,718 124,253 Work in progress 85,710 60,276 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 91,853 100,275 Advance payments 17,237 17,564 324,518 302,368 *Adjusted prior-period presentation € 31,711 thousand (previous year: € 27,455 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the period under review amount to € 2,147 thousand (previous year: € 6,387 thousand). We reversed write-downs totalling € 3,431 thousand (previous year: € 3,742 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 778,595 thousand (previous year: € 749,468 thousand) were recognised as expenses in the period under review. 4 Receivables and other current assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009* Trade receivables 428,694 366,274 Intragroup and associate receivables 19,313 20,715 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 221,721 211,424 Advances received from customers (PoC*) – 122,410 – 129,913 Receivables recognised by PoC 99,311 81,511 Other receivables and other current assets 49,227 34,124 596,545 502,624 *Adjusted prior-year presentation Intragroup and associate receivables include loans to unconsolidated KSB companies amounting to € 5,823 thousand (previous year: € 5,945 thousand). Associate receivables totalled € 4,565 thousand (previous year: € 2,512 thousand). Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised profits of € 26,539 thousand (previous year: € 27,224 thousand) and costs of € 195,182 thousand (previous year: € 184,200 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounted to € 328,716 thousand (previous year: € 349,428 thousand). The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. The other receivables and other current assets include receivables from employees and deferred interest. They also include recoverable taxes (primarily from VAT) in the amount of M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 81 No te s € 11,294 thousand (previous year: € 6,319 thousand) and other financial assets from currency forwards in accordance with IAS 39 in the amount of € 1,519 thousand (previous year: € 2,037 thousand). As in the previous year, there are no receivables relating to interest rate derivatives. At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 139,105 thousand (previous year: € 112,179 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 5,532 thousand (previous year: € 16,430 thousand). The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards are as follows: (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Notional volume 2010 139,105 108,383 30,236 486 Notional volume 2009 112,179 104,043 8,136 – € 21,638 thousand (previous year: € 15,699 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 5 Current financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents Current financial instruments amount to € 500 thousand (previous year: none). Cash and cash equivalents are primarily term deposits with short maturities and call deposits. The German Group companies use € 18,900 thousand of cash and cash equivalents (previous year: € 16,100 thousand) for hedges of credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement arrangements. They are available to us at any time due to the underlying contractual structure. 6 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par value bearer shares. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves primarily include currency translation adjustments and consolidation effects taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 230 thousand (previous year: € 128 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount of € 20 thousand (previous year: € 11 thousand). 82 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A total of € 21,241 thousand (dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per preference share) was paid from equity by a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 19 May 2010. Equity also includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € – 750 thousand (previous year: € – 480 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2010 Opening balance at 1 January – 480 Disposals 2,713 Additions – 3,102 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 119 Closing balance at 31 December – 750 Non-controlling interest relates primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interest are contained in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. C APITAL DIS C L O S U R ES Adequate capital resources and sufficient financial independence are key requirements for sustainably increasing KSB’s enterprise value and safeguarding the company’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. In addition to order intake and sales revenue, our key performance indicators are the return on sales and our net financial position (i.e. the difference between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). The changes in the equity ratio are also relevant for us. We regularly monitor the development of these indicators and manage them through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financial structure, among other things. We present the development of these indicators in the management report. 2010 2009 Order intake € million 2,075.0 1,934.0 Sales revenue € million 1,939.3 1,892.8 Return on sales % 7.0 9.1 Net financial position € million 293.0 223.0 Equity ratio % 44.4 43.8 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 83 No te s 7 Deferred tax liabilities Explanations on deferred tax liabilities are presented under “Taxes on income”. 8 Provisions Change in consolidated Group/ Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2010 CTA* / Other Prepayments Reversal Additions 31 Dec. 2010 Employee benefits 379,581 3,663 – 106,598 – 2,713 106,398 380,331 Pensions and similar obligations 235,814 – 719 – 12,913 – 306 23,566 245,442 Other employee benefits 143,767 4,382 – 93,685 – 2,407 82,832 134,889 Taxes 17,559 789 – 15,579 – 406 21,133 23,496 Taxes on income 16,613 657 – 14,923 – 387 20,579 22,539 Other taxes 946 132 – 656 – 19 554 957 Other provisions 80,559 2,655 – 43,030 – 9,775 52,312 82,721 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 44,625 1,287 – 26,179 – 2,759 29,728 46,702 Miscellaneous other provisions 35,934 1,368 – 16,851 – 7,016 22,584 36,019 477,699 7,107 – 165,207 – 12,894 179,843 486,548 *CTA = currency translation adjustments PR OV IS IO N S F O R PE N SI O N S A N D SI M I L A R O B L I G ATI O N S More than 90 % of the provisions for pensions result from defined benefit plans of the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also included. There are smaller benefit plans at certain foreign Group companies. At the US companies, there are post-employment medical care obligations for employees. These are measured using comparable principles. The amounts provided for these defined benefit obligations and the annual expense for pension benefits are measured and calculated each year on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The actuarial assumptions are as follows: The discount rate applied to the obligations was reduced from 5.4 % to 5.3 %. As in the previous year, the assumed rate of future salary increases is 2.7 %, and the assumed growth rate for the pension trend is 2.0 % per annum. The biometric assumptions are based on the 2005G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck. A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) was applied to staff turnover. The retirement age used for the calculations is oriented on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. Actuarial gains and losses outside the 10 % corridor around the present value of the DBO are recognised. Where the cumulative gain or loss exceeds the 10 % corridor, the excess amount is spread over the average remaining working lives of the employees and recognised in the profit or loss of future periods. 84 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C H A NGES IN D B O (PR ESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION) (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Opening balance at 1 January 248,337 217,452 Current service cost 11,635 11,490 Interest cost 12,561 12,439 Benefit payments – 12,274 – 12,496 Transfer of assets – – Actuarial gains / losses (–/+) 4,256 19,009 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 2,422 443 Closing balance at 31 December 262,093 248,337 The present value of pension commitments amounted to € 217 million for 2008, € 215 million for 2007 and € 230 million for 2006. R EC ONC ILIAT ION TO C A RRYING AMOUNTS (€ thousands) 2010 2009 DBO at 31 December 262,093 248,337 Unrecognised gains / losses (–/+) – 16,651 – 12,535 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 12 Carrying amount at 31 December 245,442 235,814 A LLOC AT ION OF T H E AC TUARIAL GAINS / LOSSES IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Changes in balance 456 387 Changes in measurement parameters 3,800 18,622 Total gains / losses at 31 December (–/+) 4,256 19,009 EFFEC T S IN T H E INC OME STATEMENT (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Current service cost 11,635 11,490 Actuarial gains / losses 234 18 Interest cost 12,561 12,439 24,430 23,947 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 85 No te s The current service cost as well as actuarial gains and losses are recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. Contributions totalling € 25,849 thousand (previous year: € 23,361 thousand) were paid to state pension insurance funds in the year under review. OT HER PR OV IS IO N S Provisions for taxes contain amounts of tax still payable for the year under review and for previous years for which no final tax assessment has yet been received. Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, compensated absence, partial retirement and severance payments. The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers. The provisions for miscellaneous other obligations include provisions for expected losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (primarily from construction contracts with gross amounts due to customers in accordance with IAS 11 in the amount of € 840 thousand for 2010 and € 4,577 thousand for 2009), customer bonuses, accrued costs and environmental measures. € 40,203 thousand of the other provisions is non-current (previous year: € 43,482 thousand). This relates mainly to provisions for jubilee payments, partial retirement and warranty obligations. 9 Liabilities NON-C U R R ENT LIA B ILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009* Financial liabilities Liabilities on bonds issued 100,000 100,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 6,186 56,674 Finance lease liabilities 1,041 3,230 Other 2,417 154 109,644 160,058 Total non-current liabilities 109,644 160,058 *Adjusted prior-year presentation 86 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009* Financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 16,759 30,275 Finance lease liabilities 2,866 685 Other 1,795 4,215 21,420 35,175 Trade payables Trade payables to third parties 174,401 141,732 Intragroup trade payables 6,990 5,358 181,391 147,090 Other liabilities Advances received from customers* 60,650 43,299 Advances received from customers (PoC) * 55,188 12,924 Taxes 16,656 16,740 Social security and liabilities towards employees 19,543 16,270 Miscellaneous other liabilities and deferred income 50,987 39,793 203,024 129,026 Total current liabilities* 405,835 311,291 NON-C U R R ENT A ND C U R RENT LIABILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009* Total liabilities* 515,479 471,349 *Adjusted prior-year presentation To safeguard liquidity in the medium term, in 2009 KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note worth € 100 million with a 3-year and 5-year maturity. This originally served to ensure the solvency of the company even in a protracted crisis situation. Assets amounting to € 5,242 thousand (previous year: € 2,753 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, € 124 thousand (previous year: € 184 thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 3,674 thousand (previous year: € 1,254 thousand) to inventories, € 506 thousand (previous year: € 302 thousand) to receivables and € 938 thousand (previous year: € 1,013 thousand) to cash and cash equivalents, as well as other securities. € 9,389 thousand (previous year: € 8,648 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an openmarket credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 3.70 % (previous year: 3.05 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 87 No te s There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review. In 2009 covenant agreements had to be observed for three loans totalling € 60 million. These loans were repaid before maturity in the year under review due to the sound liquidity situation. In the previous year, two of these loans totalling € 50 million were subject to a creditor-defined indicator (equity ratio) which was not allowed to fall below 25 %. The covenants of the third loan in the amount of € 10 million referred to compliance with a dynamic debt to equity ratio and debt service coverage ratio. Here, too, both indicators were defined by the creditor. Taxes classified as other liabilities also relate to taxes that Group companies must remit for third-party account. Miscellaneous other liabilities include changes in the fair value of hedging instruments amounting to € 3,008 thousand (previous year: € 2,395 thousand). € 350 thousand (previous year: € 514 thousand) of this amount relates to interest rate derivatives. Deferred income amounts to € 2,030 thousand (previous year: € 848 thousand). This also includes investment grants totalling € 3,171 thousand (previous year: € 2,189 thousand) received for new buildings in Germany. I NC OM E STATEM ENT DISCLOSURES 10 Sales revenue The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review accounted for € 35,381 thousand; in the prior-period consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 24,059 thousand. Sales revenue includes revenue from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale amounting to € 1,773,346 thousand (previous year: € 1,782,444 thousand) as well as revenue for services rendered amounting to € 165,908 thousand (previous year: € 110,396 thousand). The breakdown of sales revenue by product group as well as by country of origin and third country is presented in the segment reporting. 11 Other operating income (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Gains from asset disposals and reversals of impairment losses (write-ups) 2,694 1,538 Income from current assets 2,614 2,865 Currency translation gains 2,165 1,515 Income from the reversal of provisions 12,507 13,902 Miscellaneous other income 15,941 12,454 35,921 32,274 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to services income, commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. 88 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income from government grants for individual projects amounted to € 470 thousand (previous year: € 1,022 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on other operating income; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 12 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Cost of raw materials and production supplies consumed and of goods purchased and held for resale 722,275 668,136 Cost of purchased services 68,580 67,890 790,855 736,026 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review accounted for € 10,126 thousand; in the prior-period consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 6,855 thousand. 13 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Wages and salaries 517,980 491,548 Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 113,485 112,440 Pension costs 18,379 14,280 649,844 618,268 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review accounted for € 14,230 thousand; in the prior-period consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 9,861 thousand. AVER AGE NU MB ER OF EMP LOYEES 2010 2009 Wage earners 6,689 6,625 Salaried employees 7,414 7,252 Trainees and apprentices 514 450 14,617 14,327 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review led to the addition of 270 people. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 89 No te s 14 Other operating expenses (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Losses from asset disposals 1,219 1,235 Losses from current assets 6,666 10,821 Currency translation losses 807 1,810 Other staff costs 19,666 16,963 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 84,978 94,116 Selling expenses 87,706 76,409 Administrative expenses 75,680 62,321 Rents and leases 22,187 20,019 Miscellaneous other expenses 40,598 40,011 339,507 323,705 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review accounted for € 6,329 thousand; in the prior-period consolidated financial statements they would have accounted for € 4,614 thousand. 15 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Financial income 11,410 9,407 Income from investments 4,201 5,148 thereof from affiliates (3,346) (4,425) Interest and similar income 7,159 4,150 thereof from affiliates (445) (433) Write-ups of financial assets – – Income from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial income 50 109 Financial expense – 28,662 – 20,821 Interest and similar expenses – 20,221 – 17,060 thereof to affiliates (– 3) (– 12) Write-downs of financial assets – 8,238 – 2,495 Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial expenses – 203 – 1,266 – 17,252 – 11,414 90 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on discounted pension provisions amounting to € 12,561 thousand (previous year: € 12,439 thousand). The increase in interest and similar income is attributable to the Group’s improved financial position. Write-downs of financial assets relate primarily to the above-mentioned impairment losses on the carrying amount of investments in non-consolidated companies due to economic difficulties. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the financial income / expense; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 16 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other operating expenses. TA XES ON INC OME (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Effective taxes 43,550 50,151 Deferred taxes 2,286 275 45,836 50,426 € 7 thousand (previous year: € 224 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 803 thousand (previous year: € 931 thousand) to tax arrears. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF D EFERRED TAX ES (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Change in deferred tax assets 623 – 3,744 Change in deferred tax liabilities 1,722 3,868 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet 2,345 124 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity 102 – 319 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation / adjustments / other – 161 470 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement 2,286 275 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 91 No te s A LLOC AT ION OF DEFE RRED TAX ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (€ thousands) 2010 2009 2010 2009 Non-current assets 1,286 1,282 28,612 27,453 Current assets 49,194 49,132 63,117 61,979 Non-current liabilities 18,243 18,696 290 355 Current liabilities 16,007 12,671 9,703 7,071 Tax loss carryforwards 112 542 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 84,842 82,323 101,722 96,858 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 68,018 – 64,876 – 68,018 – 64,876 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 16,824 17,447 33,704 31,982 At the reporting date, deferred tax assets amounting to € 1,293 thousand (previous year: € 1,332 thousand) were recognised, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no significant material effects in the year under review. Equally, changes in foreign tax rates did not have any significant impact on the total tax expense (€ 840 thousand), as in 2009. In the case of net income from affiliates and other equity investments, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 41,841 thousand (previous year: € 17,334 thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. The same applies to minor deductible temporary differences. 92 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF INC OME TAX ES (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Earnings before income taxes 135,796 172,784 Calculated income taxes on the basis of applicable tax rate (29 %) 39,381 50,107 Differences in tax rates – 101 2,007 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards 7,438 – 195 Tax-exempt income / non-deductible expenses – 4,367 – 711 Prior-period taxes 796 707 Non-deductible foreign income tax 1,419 1,319 Other 1,270 – 2,808 Current taxes on income 45,836 50,426 Current tax rate 34 % 29 % The applicable tax rate of 29 % is a composite rate resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade income tax rates. The tax effects in the amount of € – 220 thousand recognised in the statement on recognised income and expense relate, among other things, to the measurement of financial instruments. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the taxes on income; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 17 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interest The non-controlling interest in net profit amounts to € 12,767 thousand (previous year: € 14,826 thousand), and the non-controlling interest in net loss amounts to € 242 thousand (previous year: € 82 thousand). These relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any impact on the earnings after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interest; the same would have been reported in the priorperiod consolidated financial statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 93 No te s 18 Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 41,120 thousand (previous year: € 34,352 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any impact on the research and development costs; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 19 Earnings per share 2010 2009 Earnings after income taxes – Attributable to KSB AG shareholders (€ thousands) 77,435 107,614 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ thousands) – 225 – 225 (€ thousands) 77,210 107,389 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 44.09 61.32 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 44.35 61.58 The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the earnings per share; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. 94 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AD D ITI O N A L DI S C L O SUR ES ON FI NANC I AL I NSTRUMENTS The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the below disclosures on financial instruments; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: AS S E T S Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 31 Dec. 2009 Non-current assets Non-current financial assets Investments in affiliates, Fair value / other investments AfS Amortised cost 55,694 55,694 59,113 59,113 Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 660 660 632 632 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 9,491 9,491 1,876 1,876 Current assets Receivables and other current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 428,694 428,694 366,274 366,274 Intragroup and associate Fair value / receivables LaR Amortised cost 19,313 19,313 20,715 20,715 Receivables recognised by PoC Fair value / – net – LaR Amortised cost 99,311 99,311 68,586 68,586 Other receivables, Fair value / other current assets LaR Amortised cost 32,068 32,068 21,531 21,531 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n/a Fair value 959 959 1,052 1,052 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FAHfT Fair value 560 560 985 985 Current financial instruments AfS Fair value 500 500 – – Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 407,621 407,621 409,840 409,840 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 95 No te s E Q U I T Y A N D L I A B I L I T IES Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Class Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 31 Dec. 2009 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 108,603 102,507 156,828 142,717 Finance lease liabilities n/a in accordance with IAS 17 1,041 1,041 3,230 3,230 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 18,554 18,554 34,490 34,490 Finance lease liabilities n/a in accordance with IAS 17 2,866 2,866 685 685 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 181,391 181,391 147,090 147,090 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) LaR Amortised cost 55,188 55,188 – – Fair value / Other liabilities – Miscellaneous FLAC Amortised cost 42,777 42,777 34,360 34,360 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n/a Fair value 1,709 1,709 1,532 1,532 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FLHfT Fair value 1,299 1,299 863 863 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 941,310 941,310 888,822 888,822 Available-for-sale financial assets AfS Fair value 1,160 1,160 632 632 Available-for-sale Fair value / financial assets AfS Amortised cost 55,694 55,694 59,113 59,113 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT Fair value 560 560 985 985 Financial liabilities measured Fair value / at amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 351,325 345,229 372,768 358,657 Financial liabilities held for trading FLHfT Fair value 1,299 1,299 863 863 96 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets measured at amortised cost are identical. This also applies to finance lease liabilities, trade payables and other liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. In the case of financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities, the fair values are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets. The fair values of derivates included and not included in hedging relationships are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (i.e. as a price) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). NE T RES U LTS B Y M E A S U REMENT C AT EGORY IN 2 0 1 0 : From subsequent measurement From interest At fair Currency Net (€ thousands) and dividends value translation Impairment losses From disposal results LaR 7,159 – – 53 – 5,133 – 1,973 AfS 4,221 –8 – – 7,690 – – 3,477 FAH f T / FLH f T – – 1,202 – – – – 1,202 FLAC – 6,299 – 62 – – – 6,237 5,081 – 1,210 9 – 12,823 – – 8,943 NE T RE S U LTS B Y M E A S U REMENT C AT EGORY IN 2 0 0 9 : From subsequent measurement From interest At fair Currency Net (€ thousands) and dividends value translation Impairment losses From disposal results LaR 4,150 – – 228 – 7,893 – – 3,971 AfS 5,169 47 – – 2,495 – 2,721 FAH f T / FLH f T – 1,440 – – – 1,440 FLAC – 4,589 – 26 – – – 4,563 4,730 1,487 – 202 – 10,388 – – 4,373 The interest presented above is a component of financial income / expense; the other gains and losses are partly reported in other operating income and other operating expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement loss of € 8 thousand (previous year: gain of € 47 thousand), which was recognised directly in equity. As in the previous year, no withdrawals were made from equity and realised in the year under review. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 97 No te s Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in securities prices are not material for us. We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system. We define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. You will also find additional information in the Group management report, in particular in the Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations and Risk Management sections. C R EDIT R IS K The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled in part or in full. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. In addition, we take out trade credit insurance policies primarily through our European companies. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, cover is also taken out against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in certain countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are written off if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected. 98 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Impairment losses on “Trade receivables” are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Opening balance at 1 January 26,349 21,760 Additions 6,074 8,056 Utilised – 1,699 – 1,244 Reversals – 2,960 – 2,064 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 2,202 – 159 Closing balance at 31 December 29,966 26,349 The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31.12.2010 31.12.2009 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 331,168 279,462 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 36,308 36,660 31 to 90 days 27,609 18,313 91 to 180 days 11,978 11,705 >180 days 4,905 14,826 Total 80,800 81,504 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 16,726 5,308 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 46,692 31,657 Specific write-downs 29,966 26,349 Carrying amount (net) 428,694 366,274 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 99 No te s L IQ U IDIT Y R IS K Our liquidity management ensures that this risk is minimised in the Group, and that solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. In response to the extraordinary situation that arose in the wake of the global financial and economic crisis, and to provide for the risk of the crisis being of a prolonged nature, in 2009 we successfully placed a loan against borrower’s note with a 3-year and 5-year maturity as an added precaution. The reporting system additionally ensures that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and the individual companies. For our German companies, for example, we use a cash pooling system. We are also in the process of rolling out our receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. The following tables present the contractual undiscounted cash flows of primary and derivative financial liabilities. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Net payments on derivatives result both from derivatives with negative fair values and from derivatives with positive fair values. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will deviate significantly. 100 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NC IAL LIABILITIES 2010 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 years 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 144,158 25,670 113,871 4,617 Trade payables 181,391 181,286 105 – Other liabilities 42,777 37,656 4,782 339 Derivative financial instruments – 1,569 – 1,101 – 467 –1 366,757 243,511 118,291 4,955 C A SH FLOW S OF FINA NC IAL LIABILITIES 2009 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 years 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 215,930 39,159 172,129 4,642 Trade payables 147,090 147,090 – – Other liabilities 34,360 18,172 16,188 – Derivative financial instruments – 633 – 47 – 585 –1 396,747 204,374 187,732 4,641 M AR K ET R IS K Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices here can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the theoretical effects of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. As a rule, we do not hedge currency risk from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (EUR). The most significant foreign currency in the KSB Group is the USD. The volume of trade receivables denominated in USD amounts to around € 29 million (previous year: approximately € 27 million). The volume of trade payables denominated in USD amounts to around € 7 million (previous year: approximately € 5 million). For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 101 No te s At the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 7.2 million lower (higher); € 3.6 million results from USD and € 3.6 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 4.2 million lower (higher); € 2.9 million would result from USD and € 1.3 million from the other currencies. The theoretical effect on profit in the year under review would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 0.2 million. € 0.7 million would be attributable to USD and € – 0.9 million to the other currencies. The theoretical effect on profit in the previous year would have been an increase (decrease) of € 0.8 million. € 1.1 million would be attributable to USD and € – 0.3 million to the other currencies. Floating rate financial instruments are exposed to interest rate risk. In the case of long-term loans, we hedge against this risk using interest rate derivatives on a case-by-case basis. Fixed rate financial instruments are not exposed to this risk. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates and analyse the effects on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2010, the net interest balance would have been € 3.2 million (previous year: € 2.7 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.2 million). C ASH FLOW STATEMENT The cash flow statement is prepared using the indirect method. Cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and non-current financial assets. 102 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial receivables and liabilities. Employee deferred compensation is also presented here as it is externally funded. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash (e.g. cash used to hedge credit balances prescribed by law for partial retirement agreements), this is reported separately. Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 7,159 thousand (previous year: € 4,150 thousand) and cash flows from (income) taxes totalling € – 37.894 thousand (previous year: € – 43,529 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities include cash flows from dividends received amounting to € 4.201 thousand (previous year: 5,148 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from interest paid amounting to € – 7.660 thousand (previous year: € 4,621 thousand). € 5.2 million of the cash flows from operating activities is attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies; the prior-year figure would have been € 1.0 million. € – 0.6 million of the cash flows from investing activities is attributable to the first-time consolidation of companies; the prior-year figure would have been € – 0.0 million. The effect of first-time consolidations on cash flows from financing activities is € 0.0 million; the prior-year effect would have been € – 0.8 million. SEGM ENT R EP ORTI NG Segment reporting corresponds to our new internal organisational and management structure, as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. In our matrix organisation management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – order intake, sales revenue and earnings before income taxes – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service Business Units. Reporting the relevant assets (including the resulting depreciation and amortisation, impairment losses / write-downs), number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these Business Units is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the Business Units, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 103 No te s The Pumps product group covers singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves product group covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service product group covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying interim consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. There were no discontinued operations in the year under review, as in the comparable period of the previous year. The order intake of the Business Units by segment presents order intake generated with third parties and unconsolidated Group companies. The external sales revenue of the Business Units by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and unconsolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The segment results show earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The segment reporting format in the prior-period consolidated financial statements was by region, in line with the internal organisational and management structure in place at the time. 104 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER D I SC LOSUR ES The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the other disclosures; the same would have been reported in the prior-period consolidated financial statements. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ONT INGENT LIA B ILIT IES AND SECURITY GRANTED (€ thousands) 2010 2009 Liabilities from guarantees 2,738 7,846 Liabilities from warranties 7,400 6,509 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 3,151 3,046 13,289 17,401 At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obligations. Other financial obligations from rental agreements and operating leases (minimum lease payments) amount to a total of € 25,724 thousand (previous year: € 22,494 thousand). Of these, € 11,012 thousand (previous year: € 10,389 thousand) is due within one year and € 12,203 thousand (previous year: € 10,402 thousand) due between one and five years. In the year under review, € 10,389 thousand was spent on these agreements. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. FINA NC E LEA SES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2010 2009 2010 2009 Due within one year 2,990 748 2,866 685 Due between one and five years 862 3,199 789 2,949 Due after more than ﬁve years 252 295 252 281 4,104 4,242 3,907 3,915 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real property. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned, or there is a purchase option, as is the case for a property in Germany. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 28,498 thousand (previous year: € 33,166 thousand) over a term of one to five years. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 105 No te s As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments amounts to € 6,905 thousand (previous year: € 11,567 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2011. Other covenant agreements In the year under review there are two guarantee credit facilities for € 10 million for which covenant agreements defined by the lender must be observed. Both agreements relate to defined equity limits and to a dynamic debt level. There are currently no risks that the agreed covenants will not be honoured. Related party disclosures Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. A rental and services agreement has been entered into between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. This resulted in the recognition of expenses of € 77 thousand (previous year: € 24 thousand) and income of € 8 thousand (previous year: € 9 thousand) at KSB AG in the year under review. No interest (previous year: interest of € 3 thousand) was paid on short-term cash deposits by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB AG. Short-term deposits by KSB AG with Klein Pumpen GmbH and by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB companies carry appropriate rates of interest. Liabilities to Klein Pumpen GmbH as at 31 December 2010 amounted to € 7 thousand (previous year: € 473 thousand). All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. This is also demonstrated by the dependent company report prepared in accordance with section 312 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The total remuneration of members of the Supervisory Board amounts to € 1,310 thousand for financial year 2010 (previous year: € 1,257 thousand), and the total remuneration of the Board of Management amounts to € 4,027 thousand (previous year: € 3,705 thousand). € 19,580 thousand (previous year: € 21,026 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 1,436 thousand in the year under review (previ106 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ous year: € 1,428 thousand). Additions of € 1,770 thousand (previous year: € 1,906 thousand) were made to the pension provisions for active and former members of the Board of Management. Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors BDO AG, Frankfurt am Main, were appointed as the auditors and group auditors for financial year 2010 at the Annual General Meeting in on 19 May 2010. The expenses for financial year 2010 include audit fees of € 250 thousand (previous year: € 245 thousand). A further € 45 thousand (previous year: € 40 thousand) was incurred for the audits of German subsidiaries. In addition, fees of € 217 thousand (previous year: € 30 thousand) were incurred for other services. Events after the reporting period The tragic events in Japan have cast a new light on the discussion on the use of nuclear power as a source of energy. It is still too early to assess the extent to which this will impact on orders for energy industry components such as pumps and valves. In principle, KSB offers products suitable for all forms of energy conversion. Should the share of global electricity supplies accounted for by nuclear power fall in the future, this would drive up demand for conventional power plants or renewable energy facilities. From today‘s perspective, such a trend towards substitution would not put KSB at a disadvantage. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current statement of compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The statement of compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb.com) and has thus been made permanently accessible to our shareholders. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 107 No te s S h are h o l di n gs L I S T OF S H A R E H O L D I N G S Capital Net profit / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 1,534 PPA PMS Pumpenund Motoren Service GmbH, Neuss Germany N 100.00 635 277 KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas Spain N 47.00 583 48 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany C 100.00 1,023 PPA Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany C 100.00 26 PPA Motoren-Jacobs GmbH, Heide Germany N 100.00 703 40 Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany N 100.00 1,169 531 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany N 100.00 640 378 NOMIG GmbH, Reken Germany N 49.00 567 59 B & C Pumpenvertrieb GmbH, Cologne Germany N 100.00 882 225 Elektro Berchem GmbH, Cologne Germany N 100.00 506 220 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel Germany N 50.00 4,155 – 41 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany C 100.00 1,830 241 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany N 100.00 623 103 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 463 – 30 KSB OOO , Moscow Russia C 100.00 1,134 325 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany C 51.00 36,910 6,275 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA C 51.00 26,011 4,091 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA C 51.00 34,320 5,050 AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA C 55.91 8,153 1,170 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA C 51.00 8,201 1,715 PPM – KSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA C 51.00 2,225 –3 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA N 51.00 Ě Ě KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland C 100.00 3,411 604 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula Finland N 100.00 947 246 KSB Mörck AB , Askim (Gothenburg) Sweden C 55.00 3,709 748 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollenthuna Sweden N 55.00 643 174 KSB Lindflaten AS , Lysaker Norway C 89.83 2,093 – 362 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland C 100.00 6,921 963 KSB – Pumpy + Armatury s.r.o. koncernu, Prague Czech Republic C 100.00 3,187 86 KSB Cěrpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovak Republic N 100.00 113 – 200 KSB Szivattyú és Armatúra Kft., Budapest Hungary C 100.00 1,394 257 KSB Zürich AG , Zurich Switzerland C 100.00 1,696 14 ITACO s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy N 80.0 Ě Ě Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy N 25.00 5,700 1,531 KSB Bombas e Válvulas S.A., Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) Portugal N 95.00 1,125 456 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece C 100.00 1,627 – 18 KSB TESMA AG , Amaroussion (Athens) Greece N 59.74 1,444 12 KSB Viosen AG , Patras Greece N 60.28 470 0 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures V Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements Ě 1RGDWDDYDLODEOHDVFRPSDQ\KDVEHHQUHFHQWO\HVWDEOLVKHGDFTXLUHG N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements * Included 108 CONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Capital Net profit / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. N 49.00 1,179 469 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan C 58.89 7,211 880 MIL Controls Limited, Mala India C 70.86 10,005 3,027 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India N 100.00 997 724 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China C 100.00 1,941 794 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China N 100.00 3,843 490 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Lingang China N 45.00 15,953 0 KSB Taiwan Co. Ltd., Taipei Taiwan N 100.00 989 72 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea N 100.00 552 213 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan N 100.00 – 1,036 – 699 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand C 40.00 3,170 544 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Singapore C 100.00 7,797 1,602 * KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia (C) 100.00 – 114 –9 Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 5,798 1,380 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India C 40.54 63,516 8,460 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico C 100.00 1,432 495 KSB Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico N 100.00 103 –3 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile C 100.00 11,645 1,712 KSB Pars Co. (P.J.S.), Shiraz Iran N 100.00 402 – 58 KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 100.00 117,076 3,684 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 3,213 705 RES Rotary Equipment Services Ltd., Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 478 – 89 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 21,751 3,437 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn Netherlands C 100.00 22,119 8,097 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 3,902 – 1,072 Nederl. Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord Netherlands N 100.00 – 159 – 117 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders Netherlands N 100.00 468 – 153 KSB Belgium S.A., Wavre Belgium C 100.00 492 – 6,476 KSB Mechanical Services On Site NV , Antwerp Belgium C 100.00 – 7,554 – 9,411 KSB On Site Machining BVBA , Wilrijk Belgium N 100.00 136 – 100 VRS Industries S.A., Feluy Belgium N 100.00 60 – 90 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 52.86 10,627 573 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria C 100.00 2,148 124 KSB SRB d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrade Serbia N 100.00 40 1 KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France C 100.00 95,053 9,617 KSB Techni Pompe Service S.A.S., Hoerdt France C 100.00 1,733 348 KSB -Hydraulor Services, Algrange France C 100.00 1,069 129 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures V Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements Ě 1RGDWDDYDLODEOHDVFRPSDQ\KDVEHHQUHFHQWO\HVWDEOLVKHGDFTXLUHG N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements * Included M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 109 No te s S h are h o l di n gs Capital Net profit / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB Service SEME S.A.S., Forbach France N 100.00 1,482 56 KSB Service EITB SITELEC , Montfavet France N 100.00 – 1,049 163 SBCM S.à r.l., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 216 4 KSB Service Robinetterie, Rambervillers France N 100.00 520 135 Euro Techno Consulting, Montcenis France N 100.00 Ě Ě SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire France N 100.00 1,125 59 Metis Levage S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 679 34 KSB Artru Services S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 3,415 –4 KSB Artru Services Rhône Alpes S.A.S., Villefr.s. Saône France N 100.00 866 – 58 KSB Artru Services Auvergne S.A.S., Thiers France N 100.00 776 34 KSB Artru Services Bourgogne S.A.S., Châten. le Royal France N 100.00 953 – 68 Vibra Services S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 211 –2 KSB Export Afrique S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 – 180 – 140 Techni Pompe Service Maroc (TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco N 50.00 – 68 – 92 KSB Pompes et Robinetteries S.à r.l., Casablanca Marokko N 100.00 38 – 136 KSB Italia S.p.A., Concorezzo (Milan) Italy C 100.00 26,003 2,871 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy C 100.00 1,588 15 KSB AMVI , S.A., Madrid Spain C 100.00 3,693 442 AMVI Aplica. Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A., Burgos Spain C 100.00 10,900 991 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain C 100.00 18,804 1,671 KSB Service Suciba S.L.U., Sondika Spain N 100.00 481 166 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey C 99.00 7,480 1,526 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. C 100.00 4,602 – 144 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Riyadh Saudi Arabia N 50.00 5,165 2,463 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China C 80.00 52,499 3,495 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co. Ltd., Dalian China N 100.00 1,369 – 51 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia C 100.00 5,267 1,230 KSB Australia Pty. Ltd., Tottenham (Melbourne) Australia C 100.00 15,678 1,517 * KSB New Zealand Limited, Penrose / Auckland New Zealand (C) 100.00 676 287 KSB Algérie Eurl, Hydra-Algiers Algeria N 100.00 360 66 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 100.00 8,982 36 * Forty-Four Activia Park (Pty) Ltd. South Africa (C) 100.00 82 20 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 74.99 11,908 5,004 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 1,644 407 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil C 100.00 62,065 15,254 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Barueri Brazil C 100.00 3,166 762 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay Argentina C 100.00 3,670 687 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures V Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements Ě 1RGDWDDYDLODEOHDVFRPSDQ\KDVEHHQUHFHQWO\HVWDEOLVKHGDFTXLUHG N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG's consolidated financial statements * Included 110 C ONSOLIDAT ED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SU PE RVI S ORY B OA R D B OA R D OF MA NAGEMENT Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Dr. rer. pol. Wolfgang Schmitt, Bad Dürkheim ² (Honorary Chairman) (Chairman and Human Resources Director) Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Munich Auditor, Management Consultant Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal3 (Chairman) Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann, Frankenthal4 Karlheinz Leitgeb, Industrial Foreman, Pegnitz Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council and Jan Stoop, Bad Dürkheim 5 Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council, (Deputy Chairman) Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim1 Head of Corporate Legal / Compliance and Materials Management MVV Energie AG, (since 19 May 2010) Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Erpolzheim Board of Directors of other companies Senior Vice President Business Unit Service ¹ Palatina Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankenthal, Germany MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic (since 1 Jan. 2010) Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt 24/7 IT-Services GmbH, Kiel Reiner Euler, Engineering Technician, Grünstadt Member of the European Works Council, Chairman of the General Works Mandates of KSB AG‘s Board of Management members in the Council and the Frankenthal Works Council (since 1 Sept. 2010) Board of Directors of KSB companies ² KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Ludwig Udo Kontz, Dipl.-Ing., Wachtberg-Adendorf KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa Freelance Engineer, Owner of Kontz, Network & Group, Bonn KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., Mississauga / Ontario, Canada (until 19 May 2010) KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtschaftsing., Frankenthal Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH ³ SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council 4 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Richard Lederer, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Frankenthal Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Lingang, China Former Member of the Management of the 5 KSB Bombas e Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Energy Pumps Division of KSB AG KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Sigrid Maurer, Insurance Trader, Neustadt / Weinstraße KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore, Pakistan Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen / Frankenthal KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg Heinrich Dieter Müller, Techn. Draftsman, Worms-Pfeddersheim KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand Chairman of the European Works Council, the General Works Council and the Frankenthal Works Council (until 1 Sept. 2010) Dr.-Ing. Hermann Nestler, Regensburg Former Managing Director of BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Werner Stegmüller, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Mering Partner at Horváth & Partner GmbH M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2010 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 111 No te s S u pe rv i so ry B o ard an d B o ard Of Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e appro pri ati o n o f th e n e t re tai n e d e arn i n gs o f K S B AG P R O P O S A L ON T H E A PPR OPR IAT ION OF T H E NET R E TA I N E D EA R NINGS OF KSB AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 18 May 2011 to appropriate the net retained earnings of € 28,374,698.46 of KSB AG, Frankenthal, containing retained earnings brought forward of € 464,845.89, as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary no-par-value share = 10,639,380.00 € and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 12.26 per preference no-par-value share = 10,601,369.12 € Appropriation to revenue reserves 7,000,000.00 € Total 28,240,749.12 € Carried forward to new account 133,949.34 € 28,374,698.46 € Frankenthal, 14 March 2011 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG, Frankenthal, were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Frankfurt am Main, has audited these annual financial statements and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The annual financial statements are published in the electronic Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. 112 115 115 113 »Access to clean drinking water has been Drinking water supply is a deemed a human right by the UN since 2010. global challenge. Effective technology is required in order to meet the increasing demand for water among Will we be able to supply the world’s population. With our reliable and an increasing number of energy-efﬁcient pumps, valves and systems, we are doing our bit towards making the most of people with clean water? all the available resources. This includes extracting drinking water from our seas and oceans. Our technical solutions help to tap new sources, treat water and bring fresh water great distances to consumers.« Ahmed Fadil, Applied Market Researcher (Water) Inner casing of a pump for long-distance water supply in Algeria. 112 113 »Access to clean drinking water has been deemed a human right by the UN since 2010. Effective technology is required in order to meet the increasing demand for water among the world’s population. With our reliable and energy-efﬁcient pumps, valves and systems, we are doing our bit towards making the most of all the available resources. This includes extracting drinking water from our seas and oceans. Our technical solutions help to tap new sources, treat water and bring fresh water great distances to consumers.« Ahmed Fadil, Applied Market Researcher (Water) 116 The KSB Group once again improved its net financial position. At € 293 million, it provides sufficient financial resources to implement strategic projects and make further investments. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 117 GENER AL I NFOR MATION 118 Responsibility Statement 119 Auditor‘s Report 121 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 126 Corporate Governance: Statement of Compliance 127 Glossary 129 Contacts 118 GENER A L INFORMATION R E S P O N S I B I LIT Y STAT EMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the group.” Frankenthal, 14 March 2011 The Board of Management MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 119 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt AU D I TO R ’ S R EPORT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, comprising the balance sheet, the statement of recognised income and expense, the income statement, the statement of changes in equity, the cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the group management report for the business year from 1 January to 31 December 2010. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] are the responsibility of the parent company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [IDW – Institute of Public Auditors]. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the annual financial statements of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 120 GENER A L INFORMATION Our audit has not led to any reservations. In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 21 March 2011 BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dyckerhoff ppa. Erbe Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 121 Au di to r’s R e po rt C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po r t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt C ORPORAT E G OV E R N A N C E R EPORT / R EMU NER AT ION R EPORT The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report continue to be complied with or which recommendations as follows on corporate governance at KSB as well as on the were not or will not be applied and why”. The majority of remuneration principles for the Board of Management in acnew recommendations added to the Code in 2010 were imcordance with sections 3.10 and 4.2.5 of the German Corpoplemented, i.e. they were integrated into internal company rate Governance Code: workflows and pending decisions. The new recommendation which states that the Supervisory Board should specify conThe term “corporate governance” covers the legal and factual crete objectives for its composition was not complied with, regulatory framework for the management and supervision however, although, in principle, we are guided by the criteria of companies; it is geared towards responsible management specified in the Code in this context, and an age limit is in and control with the ultimate goal of sustainable value creaplace. Members of the Supervisory Board shall as a rule step tion. The principles of corporate governance at KSB are down at the Annual General Meeting held after they reach based on the German Corporate Governance Code. This the age of 75, and not later than upon reaching the age of 80. Code provides the basic framework for the management and These rules are currently being observed without exception. supervision of listed companies and formulates nationally Should Dr. Jacob and Mr. Lederer be proposed for re-election and internationally recognised standards of good and responat the Annual General Meeting in May 2011, their periods of sible corporate governance. We welcome the work of the office would, by way of exception, exceed the age limit Government Commission of the German Corporate Governrecommended in the Rules of Procedure, but end well before ance Code as well as the ideas and recommendations conthe they reach the age of 80. tained in the Code. These were last revised on 26 May 2010 and published on 2 July 2010 in the electronic BundesThe Board of Management and Supervisory Board once anzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. again submitted a Statement of Compliance on 8 December 2010 in accordance with section 161 of the AktG and made We are convinced that good, responsible corporate governthis accessible to shareholders on the company’s web site ance will contribute greatly to the company’s long-term sucwww.ksb.com together with statements from previous years. cess. This is why it has always ranked highly at KSB. Even before the Code was introduced, we implemented the core The Company complies with the recommendations of the corporate governance and control processes in such a way German Corporate Governance Code apart from two excepthat they complied with the current key requirements of the tions*. The statement will be updated as required. Code. We were traditionally guided in this by nationally and internationally recognised standards of transparent, compreGoing forward, we will continue to monitor and respond hensible corporate governance. During the past financial year, quickly to further developments in the German Corporate the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB Governance Code to ensure that suggestions and recommenAktiengesellschaft discussed compliance with the Code’s dations that are applicable to KSB are implemented in the inguidelines as well as the relevant legal requirements in detail terests of sustained transparency and growth in our enteron several occasions. Our objective is to continue developing prise value. At the same time we want to foster the trust the principles of corporate governance in all parts of our which investors, financial markets, employees, the public and company. our customers, in particular, have placed in us. S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P LI ANC E UP DATED SHAREHOLDERS AND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Pursuant to section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German KSB AG issued both no-par value ordinary shares and no-par Public Companies Act], the Board of Management and Suvalue preference shares. The holders of these shares, our pervisory Board of listed German public companies are under shareholders, exercise their co-determination and control the obligation to declare once per year whether the German rights at the Annual General Meeting which is held at least Corporate Governance Code “was complied with and will once a year. * SEE PAGE 126 122 GENER A L INFORMATION Each shareholder is entitled to attend the Annual General Continuous dialogue based on mutual trust between the Meeting in accordance with the requirements as stipulated in Board of Management and the Supervisory Board provides the Articles of Association and the law. If shareholders canan important foundation for the success of the company. not or choose not to attend in person, they can opt to apTheir common goal is to generate appropriate, sustainable point a proxy who will exercise their voting rights on their returns through the systematic pursuit and implementation of behalf. these principles. Both bodies thus collaborate closely for the benefit of the company. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Chair of the Supervisory Board presides over the Annual General The Supervisory Board receives regular, timely, comprehenMeeting. The Chair determines the order in which proceedsive updates from the Board of Management regarding all ings are conducted as well as the type and form of voting. planning, business development, risk position and compliThe Chair may reasonably restrict the time allocated to quesance issues which are relevant to the company. Decisions of tions and speeches by shareholders and, at the start of or fundamental importance must be approved by the Superduring the course of the Annual General Meeting, set time visory Board. Any departure in business performance from limits for the entire proceedings of the Meeting, the discusthe formulated plans and objectives is discussed in depth and sion of the various items on the agenda as well as on individopenly; particular importance is attached to maintaining ual questions and speeches. strict confidentiality towards other persons. The principles of the company’s strategic and organisational alignment are deThe Annual General Meeting reaches decisions pertaining to fined in close cooperation between the Board of Management all of the duties and responsibilities assigned to it by law (e.g. and the Supervisory Board and are reviewed constantly. At appropriation of net retained earnings, amendments to the times the Supervisory Board also convened without the Articles of Association, election of Supervisory Board memBoard of Management in order to intensify the exchange of bers). Each ordinary share authorises the holder to one vote. ideas within the Board. The preference shares only entitle holders to voting rights as prescribed by law but carry progressive additional dividend TRANSPARENCY rights. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds approxiKSB considers it extremely important to provide capital marmately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB ket participants with regular, comprehensive, consistent and Foundation], Stuttgart, holds a majority stake in Klein prompt information on the Group’s economic situation. RePumpen GmbH. porting takes place via annual reports, half-year financial reports and interim reports. All publications are published RE S PO N S I B L E C O O P ER ATI ON B ETWEEN THE B OAR D OF within the time frames specified. MAN AG E M E N T A N D THE SUP ERVI SORY B OAR D Good corporate governance requires an ongoing developIn addition, we provide information by means of press ment of the dual management system prescribed for German releases and ad hoc statements whenever necessary. All inforpublic limited companies in all sections of the business. This mation can be accessed online (www.ksb.com). At the web begins with independent management by the Board of Mansite, you will also find our financial calendar which contains agement which is monitored and advised by the Supervisory the scheduled dates for major recurring events and publicaBoard. To promote effective management, the Rules of Procetions. dure for both bodies specifically state that business shall be conducted in accordance with the German Corporate GovIn the event that any directors’ dealings take place which are ernance Code, with any departure from compliance with the subject to reporting requirements, you will find the relevant recommendations in justifiable, individual instances being information at Investor Relations / Corporate Governance / disclosed by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Directors’ Dealings*. Board. * www.ksb.com/investor-relations MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 123 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po r t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt KSB AG created an insider directory as required by section between cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing in15b of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Secuvestments on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the rities Trading Act]. Those persons affected are informed of other). We also attach great importance to managing our actheir current legal obligations and potential sanctions. tivities in accordance with the economic value added (EVA) concept. At the end of the financial year, the aggregate of all shares in KSB AG held by members of the Board of Management and Our internal control system is based both on guidelines and Supervisory Board, either directly or indirectly, did not exregulations that specify standard procedures as well as our ceed a total of 1 % of the shares issued. Group-wide risk management system. The organisation and implementation of this risk management system are docuMembers of the Board of Management and Supervisory mented in a manual. All Group units are responsible for idenBoard are under the obligation to act in the company’s intertifying and assessing risks and reporting these to Group ests. When making their decisions, they must neither pursue headquarters. personal interests nor use for their own purposes any business opportunities that present themselves for the company. They must also initiate countermeasures to avert or limit any Any conflicts of interest must be disclosed to the Supervisory damage. Reporting on identified risks and the countermeasBoard immediately. Should the need arise, the Annual Genures initiated is an integral part of the planning and controleral Meeting must be informed of any conflicts of interest ling process. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also and how they were dealt with. looks at the reported risks on a regular basis. AC C O U N T I N G A N D AUD I T OF THE FI NANC I AL STATEMENTS KSB identifies and communicates the risks based on the folThe consolidated financial statements and interim financial lowing categories: statements of KSB are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted Market / Competition by the European Union. After the consolidated financial Products / Projects statements have been prepared by the Board of Management, Finances / Liquidity they are audited by the auditors elected by the Annual GenProcurement eral Meeting (BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft) and Technology / Research and Development adopted by the Supervisory Board. Prior to the publication of Environment interim reports and the half-year financial report, these are Other risks discussed with the Audit Committee. The Internal Audits department performs regular reviews to An agreement has been reached with the auditors that the establish to what extent the specified guidelines and regulaChair of the Supervisory Board or the Chair of the Audit tions are observed and whether the operating units are apCommittee shall be notified immediately of any substantial propriately involved in risk management. findings or issues which emerge during the audit or of any grounds for exclusion or exemption. COMPLIANCE AS A KEY TASK OF CORPORATE MANAGEMENT MA N AG E M E N T PAR AM ETER S AND C ONTR OL SYSTEM Compliance in the sense of implementing measures to ensure As well as order intake and sales revenue, key performance observance of applicable law and internal guidelines by indicators for the management of the KSB Group are the reGroup units is one of the Board of Management’s key manturn on sales and the net financial position (i.e. the difference agement tasks. The Board of Management expressed its requirement of professional, honest conduct within our Group124 GENER A L INFORMATION wide Code of Conduct. As well as talking to designated REMUNERATION OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD people within the company, employees can call a whistleThe Supervisory Board’s remuneration system is set out in blower hotline or contact an ombudsman if they are or beour Articles of Association. According to this, Supervisory come aware of any violations of anti-trust, cartel or penal Board members shall receive lump sum remuneration in the laws or guidelines. An external law firm is on hand which amount of € 6,000 for the financial year. The chair is entitled will promptly forward any information to the Group Comto twice this amount and the deputy chair is entitled to one pliance Officer. and a half times the amount. In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board receive an attendance fee of € 2,000 per Some fundamental statements contained in the Code of Conmeeting of the Supervisory Board and its committees they atduct are addressed in more detail in other, separate guidetend; the attendance fee for committee chairpersons is lines. This particularly applies to the areas of anti-trust or € 3,000 per committee meeting attended. No attendance fees cartel law and anti-corruption measures. The applicable laws are paid for meetings of the Committee pursuant to section and regulations are explained in greater detail and useful in27(3) of the MitbestG [German Co-determination Act]. The formation on proper conduct in concrete situations is promembers of the Supervisory Board are also covered by direcvided. The latter is similarly applicable to the guidelines protors’ and officers’ liability insurance taken out by the comhibiting insider trading. This document provides an overview pany on behalf of the members of the Board of Management of current legal requirements and specifies a clearing house and the Supervisory Board at standard market conditions. which can be contacted in the event of any doubts. Finally, Supervisory Board members receive dividend-dependThe main emphasis of compliance activities in 2010 was the ent remuneration for the financial year. For every 25 cents by further development and management of our international which the dividend distributed to ordinary shareholders excompliance organisation, particularly with regard to drawing ceeds the amount of € 1.0, the remuneration paid out to Suup and implementing suitable report formats. In addition, a pervisory Board members amounts to € 1,200 for the chair, Group-wide compliance audit was conducted in order to € 900 for the deputy chair and € 600 for the remaining memdocument and assess how thoroughly previous measures bers. were implemented within the Group. To round this off, spot checks were performed on large-scale projects to ensure obAny additional remuneration is reserved for determination by servation of special aspects of compliance. The series of globthe Annual General Meeting. The total compensation paid to al training sessions for employees were continued and, for members of the Supervisory Board in 2010 amounted to the time being, completed. The aim of these sessions was to € 1,310 thousand (previous year: € 1,257 thousand). convey the core content of the guidelines in a practical manner and create a forum for discussion. Over the past three REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF MANAGEMENT years, these sessions gave more than 2,500 employees an op(REMUNERATION REPORT) portunity to learn about anti-trust, cartel and anti-corruption The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied legislation; updates are planned for the future. Another focus when determining the remuneration arrangements for the of the Compliance Office’s activities was to address basic Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is geared issues of IT compliance; these were addressed in greater towards the recommendations of the German Corporate depth and in more detail during the financial year in cooperaGovernance Code (section 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration with the department concerned. tion system in place for Board of Management members. This system is geared towards sustainable corporate development. It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based on the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to individual Board of Management compensation amounts. MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 125 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R e po r t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Manageno more than three monthly salary payments per financial ment are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. year in recognition of any special performance of individual The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board members of the Board of Management. Such decisions shall of Management members is determined based on various only be made on an irregular basis meaning that they do not parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the necessarily have to be made annually. remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of Management members, their personal performance, Furthermore, when entering into any Board of Management the economic situation, the company’s results and prospects contract it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Manas well as customary remuneration amounts when taking agement member in the event that his or her Board of Manpeer companies and the remuneration structure used elseagement tenure is terminated prematurely without good reawhere within the company into consideration. son shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of section 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). fixed and variable components. Fixed components are grantNo other payments have been promised to any Board of ed regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus Management members in the event of termination of service; benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disabilsimilarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeity, widow’s or orphan’s pension). over offer. The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the maximum annual salOn 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the ary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Annual General Meeting once again resolved not to disclose Board of Management members are equally entitled to the the details of the compensation for individual members of the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of Board of Management for a period of five years. The total rea company car, payment of insurance premiums and any paymuneration paid to Board of Management members for serments associated with a post-contractual non-competition vices provided during the past financial year amounted to clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to mem€ 4,027 thousand. During this period of time, additions of bers of the Board of Management in the year under review. € 1,770 thousand were made to the pension provisions for active and retired members of the Board of Management. No The variable component of remuneration is linked to the restock options or other share-based payment arrangements turn on sales achieved during the financial year in question, are granted to members of the Board of Management. Furwith a weighting factor of 15 % of the maximum annual salther disclosures on the remuneration of the Board of Manary. agement are to be found on page´105 of the Annual Report. Board of Management members also receive variable remuneration components which serve as a long-term incentive. These are determined based on an economic value added approach over a three-year period; a weighting factor of 25 % of the member’s maximum annual salary is applied. Any negative developments during this period are also taken into consideration when calculating payments for the third year. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional possibility of a premium, to be paid out in individual cases at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of 126 GENER A L INFORMATION COR PORAT E G OV E R N A N C E : S TAT EMENT OF C OMPLIA NC E Statement by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft on Compliance with the Recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code pursuant to section 161 AktG (German Public Companies Act) Since the publication of the last statement of compliance on 2. The total amount of the remuneration paid to the mem30 March 2010 KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), bers of the Supervisory Board for their service on the Board, has complied and continues to comply with the recommendaas well as of remuneration or advantages extended for sertions of the Government Commission on the German Corpovices provided individually, in particular advisory or agency rate Governance Code as set out in the latest applicable services, is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Finanversion – currently that dated 26 May 2010 –, with the excial Statements, but in the Corporate Governance Report the ception of the following: remuneration is disclosed neither separately for each member nor classified by components (subsection 5.4.6, paragraph 3). 1. With the exception of an age limit, the Supervisory Board does not specify concrete objectives regarding its composition Reason: The remuneration of the Supervisory Board mem(subsection 5.4.1, paragraphs 2 and 3). bers is described in detail in the Articles of Association; they can be referred to for information on the individual remuReason:We appreciate the diversity in the composition of the neration components in relation to the functions assumed on Supervisory Board aimed at by the Code, which will generthe Supervisory Board. Beyond that, we prefer to provide ally be conducive to the interests of the company. To date, we summarised information about the remuneration of the have always followed this principle. However, we take a critimembers of the Supervisory Board rather than breaking it cal view of detailed specifications, in particular of quota sysdown into the compensation paid to the individual members tems, as we believe that this would make it more difficult to and the components it contains, as we do not believe that the ensure an appropriate and adequately flexible composition latter would provide any additional benefits for shareholders of this body. or the development of the company. Frankenthal, 8 December 2010 For the Supervisory Board For the Board of Management Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 127 S tate m e n t o f C o m pl i an c e Gl o ssary GLOSSA RY KEY CORPORATE AND TECHNICAL TERMS Carbon footprint KSB CARE Total volume of greenhouse gas Relief fund of Asian KSB compaemissions, e.g. CO2 , that can be nies that support educational attributed to an organisation, an institutions event, a product or a person PumpMeter Global Compact Monitoring unit that indicates Global initiative for businesses whether a pump is operating launched by the United Nations efﬁciently and economically with the aim of shaping social and ecological globalisation Rare earths Minerals found mainly in China High-efficiency motor and Australia, which are necessary Extremely efﬁcient electric drive for key technologies such as electronics International Project Management Association Solar thermal energy Globally active project manageConversion of solar energy into ment and certiﬁcation association usable thermal energy ISO 14001 Efficiency classes IE1, IE2 International standard under which and IE3 companies can obtain certiﬁcation New international classiﬁcation for for the integration of environmenmotors (IE = International tal protection in their management Efﬁciency) system IE1 = standard efﬁciency IE2 = high efﬁciency IE3 = premium efﬁciency 128 GENER A L INFORMATION AB BR E V I AT I O N S ANSI IFRS American National Standards International Financial Reporting Institute Standards (previously IAS) BRIC ILO Collective abbreviation for the International Labour Organisation: emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, Special United Nations organisation India and China that deﬁnes international labour and social standards CRM Customer Relationship Management ISO International Organisation for StandEVA ardisation Economic Value Added: Indicator established by calculating SAP ERP system the difference between the return Enterprise Resource Planning System: from the capital employed and the SAP software application that supopportunity cost of that capital over ports all business-relevant areas of a a deﬁned period of time. A positive company ﬁgure represents the value the company has added. FM / UL Standard Factory Mutual Research Corp / Underwriters‘ Laboratories: US standard for products used in ﬁre protection MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2010 GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 129 Gl o ssary C o n tac ts C ONTACT S E D I TO R As a signatory to the United Nations Global ComKSB Aktiengesellschaft pact, KSB is committed to endorsing the ten princiJohann-Klein-Straße 9 ples of the international community in the areas of 67227 Frankenthal human rights, labour standards, environmental Tel. +49 6233 86-0 protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ON L I N E N E W S You will ﬁnd the latest news on the KSB Group at www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I N V E S TO R R E L ATI O NS Ralf Pfundmaier Tel. +49 6233 86-2053 Fax +49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com CO M M U N I C AT I O N S Ullrich Bingenheimer Tel. +49 6233 86-2138 Fax +49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CO N C E P T A N D D E S I G N KSB Communications (A-CC), Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PH OTO S Horst Kirsch, Frankenthal Robert Kwiatek, Frankenthal D. W. Schmalow, Mannheim PR I N TI N G Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH Ottweiler, Germany G L O BA L PR ESENC E KSB manufactures its products on all five continents. With production sites in 19 countries and a tightly knit global sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand when customers need to pump or reliably shut off fluids. KSB production sites KSB sales / service sites G L O BA L P RE S E N CE EU R OPE Austria | Vienna Belgium | Wavre Czech Republic | Prague Finland | Mänttä-Vilppula France | Châteauroux | Gennevilliers (Paris) | La Roche-Chalais | Lille Germany | Frankenthal | Halle | Pattensen | Pegnitz Greece | Amaroussion (Athens) Hungary | Budapest Italy | Concorezzo (Milan) Luxembourg | Echternach Netherlands | Alphen | Zwanenburg ASIA / PACIFIC Norway | Lysaker Australia | Tottenham (Melbourne) Poland | Warsaw China | Dalian | Lingang | Shanghai Portugal | Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) India | Chinchwad | Coimbatore | Nashik | Russia | Moscow Pimpri | Vambori Serbia | Belgrade Indonesia | Cibitung Slovak Republic | Bratislava Japan | Tokyo Slovenia | Maribor Malaysia | Kuala Lumpur Spain | Burgos | Madrid | Zarautz New Zealand | Auckland Sweden | Gothenburg Pakistan | Hassanabdal | Lahore Switzerland | Zurich Philippines | Manila Turkey | Ankara Singapore | Singapore Ukraine | Kiev South Korea | Seoul United Kingdom | Loughborough Taiwan | Taipei Thailand | Bangkok MID D LE EA ST / AFRICA Vietnam | Ho Chi Minh City Algeria | Hydra (Algiers) Egypt | Cairo AMERICAS Ghana | Accra Argentina | Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Libya | Tripoli Brazil | Barueri | Várzea Paulista / São Paulo Morocco | Casablanca Canada | Mississauga / Ontario Qatar | Doha Chile | Santiago Saudi Arabia | Riyadh Mexico | Querétaro South Africa | Germiston (Johannesburg) USA | Bakersfield / California | Grovetown / Georgia | United Arab Emirates | Abu Dhabi | Dubai Houston / Texas | Port Arthur / Texas | Richmond / Virginia F I NANCI A L C A L E N DA R 31 MARCH 2011 Financial press conference 10:00 h, Frankenthal 1 APRIL 2011 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 9 MAY 2011 Interim report January – March 2011 18 MAY 2011 Annual General Meeting 15:00 h, Frankenthal 19 MAY 2011 Dividend payment 12 AUGUST 2011 Half-year ﬁnancial report January – June 2011 NOVEMBER 2011 Interim report January – September 2011 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
