Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Chief Executive Statement I would like to reinforce our commitment and support of the UN Global Compact. We have had an exciting year, which has reflected our ongoing work to embed the UN Global Compact principles within our quality system and wider scope of influence. Highlights include being awarded a Queens Award for Enterprise in recognition of our approach to Sustainable Development. We also started a new community interest company called Building Lives, which supports some of the most disadvantaged individuals into sustainable work. We were selected as lead company for sustainability on a large project in Hackney. This has enabled us to influence the management of sustainability and ensure it is high on the agenda. I personally drive and manage our Corporate Responsibility team. In 2011, we have focused on improving communications including a new intranet systems and presentations to staff and suppliers on the UN Global Compact. . This document will be available on our website and communicated to our staff. Steve Rawlings, Chief Executive, 2011 Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Lakehouse has a vision to be a unique and outstanding employer and to create sustainable communities. Over the last year, we have reviewed our policies to ensure they support and respect the protection of human rights. We have invested in resources to ensure these policies are followed including the development of a supply chain monitoring system to uphold and monitor supplier performance. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy is now embedded with our procedures and ensures all suppliers must fulfil certain criteria to work with us. Our role as lead constructor for sustainability at Hackney has enabled us to influence the policies for a large project including the implementation of the London Living Wage for workers and diversity monitoring. Our new intranet system has enabled us to improve communications with regard to human rights to staff and wider stakeholders. We have also run a campaign through our site operations. Lakehouse has been recognised as leader in regarding to promoting human rights in the communities we work. We work in many of the most deprived communities in the UK. Highlights over the past year include A successful first year for our social enterprise, Building Lives, which has supported 100 with training and helped 26 individuals into apprenticeships with many individuals being homeless Recruitment of 55 apprentices from all age groups Organisation of a women and management course to tackle the under representation of women in the work place Launch of a new social enterprise called Building Lives Maintenance Company which employs service users from Thames Reach, a homeless charity. Strategic alliances with Thames Reach, St Mungo’s and Chapter One, to overcome homelessness and promote the rights of this excluded group Over the next year, we plan to develop a risk register for suppliers with regard to Human Rights and to audit the policies of suppliers. Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Principle 3: Freedom of association and collective bargaining We respect people’s right to have employee representation, including their right to join unions and we do not tolerate harassment. This policy also applies to our supply chain partners. The company has a staff representative group which is involved in strategic decision making and communications. We also consult staff via an annual staff survey and biannual team talks. Our employees are encouraged to seek professional membership of a relevant body. Lakehouse supports this process by paying for fees, and supporting training. In 2011, we were awarded Best Companies status and were given a National Diversity Award for our efforts. Our focus over the next year is to consult and communicate with staff and suppliers on diversity issues and freedom of association. Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour The construction industry has a poor reputation for the rights of individuals due to the high proportion of people engaged on a self-employed basis. Our HR policy is that all individuals must be employed on a fair wage. Our role at Hackney as lead constructor for sustainability has enabled us to promote the London Living Wage to suppliers and other main constructors. We have also started our own direct labour workforce which has enabled us to minimise the risk of forced or compulsory labour, Our sustainable procurement policy and supply chain policy clearly state that all suppliers must eliminate all forms of force and compulsory labour. We monitor this through our pre-qualification system and supply chain management software. Over the last year, we have promoted the London Living Wage to all our supply chain partners. Our goal next year is to audit sites to ensure supply chain partners are complying with our policy and expand our direct labour force. Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour We have a policy of zero tolerance to the use of child labour. We check the policies of all our suppliers and monitor compliance through site inductions and audits. Most of our supply chain partners are based in the UK, but product manufacturers are increasingly global. We are recognised as market leaders with regard to supporting children with education, work experience and jobs. This year, we have accommodated 55 young people on work experience placements, visited 51 schools and helped 55 individuals into work experience. Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Equalities and Diversity policy and strategy are monitored by our CSR steering group to ensure the policy is embedded throughout our business. The policy is updated yearly, in partnership with stakeholders such as clients. We were delighted to be recognised as market leaders with our approach to diversity by the National press with an award for being diversity champion of the year. The judges stating that Lakehouse is a company that is really showing the way forward for the construction sector. We are key note speakers on diversity at an upcoming conference. We also invested in targeted training for women in our workforce, and in those of our suppliers and customers to tackle the underrepresentation of women in our industry. We also started an all female team of operatives and ran an diversity campaign on our sites. Over the next year, we plan to have a diversity focus to our Corporate Responsibility plan and achieve the Diversity Works for London standard. Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Over the past year, we have had focused our efforts on improving our performance with regard to our operational environmental impact. We have been measuring our operational carbon footprint with the aim of establishing a baseline to reduce our carbon footprint. We have also made efforts to raise awareness of biodiversity and worked with a local school to introduce birdlife on new build projects. Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Our carbon reduction strategy at our head office has had a significant impact on a fuel usage at the business through the introduction of a fleet manager. We have upgraded our fleet to LPG and now have a policy of not using fuel cards. Lakehouse is a signatory of WRAP’s Halving Waste to Landfill and the May Day Agreement which is a pledge to reduce our carbon footprint. We have been featured as an example of by WRAP and published as a case study. We have demonstrated leadership by working closely with schools and the wider community to support them with reducing their carbon footprint. In Tower Hamlets we supported a school to achieve silver standard on the Eco-Schools standard. Our focus for the next year is to improve our reporting of carbon and raise awareness of our carbon reduction strategy through a green week. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and Principle 9: Encourage environmentally friendly The investment in an ISO14001 accredited environmental management system has helped the business to promote greater environmental responsibility. Lakehouse now has a team of quality managers and environmental managers who have supported awareness of environmental procedures through audits and training workshops on site. We have recently introduced a sustainability division at the business, which will focus on supporting customer and the wider community with environmental improvements to their properties. This year we successfully completed a Retro Fit for the Future project, reducing the carbon emission of a property by 80%. We have since shared this good practice by speaking at a number of conferences. Lakehouse has engaged clients, customers and the community in promoting greater environmental responsibility. This includes developing and engaging local schools to start an eco council within the community and organising training/workshops for clients and the community. For example, we recently established a training programme to help our customers and supply chain partners with understanding new environmental technologies. Lakehouse uses the Considerate Constructors Scheme to benchmark performance. Over the past year, the environmental scores have increased as a result of these initiatives. Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Waste Lakehouse has been working with WRAP, a UK government agency which aims to reduce waste. Lakehouse is committed to halving waste to Landfill. As a result we have: Introduced a full recycling system within our head office and regional offices Introduced site waste management plans for all our site operations Training for all staff on reducing waste A strategic alliance with key supply chain partners to reduce waste through less packaging and ‘plot packaging’ Reuse of materials and increase in recycling We have increased recycling rates within our office functions to 98% and 92% on sites. Carbon Reduction Lakehouse signed up to the UK May Day Pledge which is a commitment to reduce our carbon footprint. We are committed to reduce absolute carbon emissions by 20% by 2012. Over the past three years, we have used the Carbon Disclosure Project to communicate our performance externally. At present, we are monitoring scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions. Key activities to reduce our carbon footprint include: Investment in a fleet manager and new policies around travel A travel plan leading to car sharing for both offices and site operations. Bikes have been purchased for site managers. Investment in new environmentally friendly fleet, including LPG Monitoring of carbon emission on all sites Investment in retrofit technology for the refurbishment of sites Sustainable Procurement Lakehouse spends a significant amount of money on supply chain partners and materials. Following our commitment to the Compact, a Sustainable Procurement Policy was written and is now embedded within our procedures. The Mayor of London’s Green Procurement Code helps us monitor our performance. We also have a policy of using local suppliers, and supporting small to medium enterprises. Over the past two years, our procurement team has worked with our supply chain to reduce carbon emission and waste. This includes helping suppliers monitor carbon and the organisation of training workshops. Lakehouse Communication on progress 2011 Leadership We were selected as lead constructors for a large project in Hackney. This has enabled us to set common standards for measuring the impact of construction projects across three constructors and an extensive supply chain. We have also worked with the constructors to engage operatives and residents in training around environmental awareness. Over the next year we are looking to expand our sustainability services, engage suppliers and staff in carbon reduction and improve the accuracy of our reporting, Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Lakehouse has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery. We have a number of policies to support this including an anti-corruption policy and ethics policy. This is communicated throughout our procedures including our induction process. This year, we introduced a requirement for all members of staff to complete an authorisation form with regard to entertainment or gifts. This has enabled us to control and monitor any form of potential corruption.
