United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2011 We shape a better world www.arup.com United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 Contents −− A. Introduction 1 −− B. Human Rights 4 −− C. Labour 8 −− D. Environment 13 −− E. Anti-Corruption 20 Attachments −− 1. Global Human Rights Code of Practice −− 2. Key Speech −− 3. Global Harrassment Code of Practice −− 4. Global Health & Safety Policy −− 5. OHSAS 18001:2007 −− 6. UK Disciplinary Procedure −− 7. Corporate Report −− 8. Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice −− 9. Grievance Code of Practice −− 10. Sustainability Procurement Vision Statement −− 11. Sustainability Policy −− 12. Ethics Global Code of Practice and Procedure −− 13. Global conduct and Performance Code of Practice −− 14. Financial Statements 2010 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 A Introduction A Introduction We are an independent firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. Through our work, we make a positive difference in the world. We shape a better world. As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact, we are required to submit an annual Introduction to Arup Communication on Progress. We have approached our response in relation Arup is the creative force at the heart of many of to four key areas Human Rights, Labour, the world’s most prominent projects in the built Environment and Anti-Corruption, and seperate environment. chapters have been created for each of these. In line with the UN’s criteria we have set out our response −− Nearly 10,000 people in terms of Arup’s commitment. systems, activities −− over 60 years and indicators, and supporting documentation is appended. −− 70 countries in five regions −− 11,000 concurrent projects As a firm, we have in place a sustainability strategy that sets out our sustainability and corporate social −− 4 market sectors responsibility expectations from the top level. This strategy defines our approach and enables us to −− £800m turnover maintain leadership in this area. Our sustainability −− Trust ownership strategy is split into four areas: our business, our people, our facilities and our external relationships. We view our challenge as ‘Shaping a Better World’. At the heart of this is a deep understanding of Our Corporate Report which comprises Arup the issues driving the world’s growing urban Group’s performance in finance as well as environments – from the effects of climate change sustainability shares our progress with our to meeting the needs of a growing population. external stakeholders. Published anually, the report includes our performance against the Global Experience in cities is well established and growing Sustainability KPIs and the targets that have been – from icons like sydney opera house to chinese eco set going forward. cities, and is the strategic advisor to the C40 40 world cities committed to tackling climate change. The indicators used in this Communication on Progress are those that we report on in our In 2011, Arup’s influence on the built environment corporate report. As a result of the UNGC we have goes far beyond engineering. Our global, multiincluded additional indicators over and above our disciplinary consultancy practice delivers corporate reporting requirements. everything from traditional management consultancy, to environmental impact assessment, master-planning, and energy strategy services. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2011 1 Our clients range from city governments, to major corporations, international NGOs, utility companies, property developers and architects, and we have been helping local governance organisations across England deliver sustainable development and regeneration for over 60 years. A better Way The power to influence the future of the built environment carries with it a weighty responsibility. Many of Arup’s projects leave a legacy to subsequent generations: a legacy that outlasts any one individual. With 10,000 projects going on at any one time, Arup is doing the best possible job for current and future generations. Putting sustainability at the heart of its work is one of the ways in which Arup exerts a positive influence on the wider world. Put simply, Arup people are driven to find a better way. Arup’s independent ownership structure gives conviction a place in its decision-making, alongside the needs of clients and commercial imperatives. The result is clear-sighted, thoughtful decisions about its priorities as a business and as a member of society. ““…our lives are inextricably mixed up with those of our fellow human beings, and that there can be no real happiness in isolation…” Sir Ove Arup, November 1970 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 B B Human Rights In this section: −− Principle1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights −− Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses humanitarian values that this embraces. A person Committment cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Our approach to human rights covers the following areas: • Diversity • Self Esteem • Life Balance • Fair Reward • Effective Workplace • Integrity • Personal Development • Acting Honourably • Social Responsibility • Respect Our mission statement Arup supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. “ To shape a better world”. Our Global Human Rights Code of Practice, states • To enhance properity and the quality of that: life Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring • To deliver real value that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding • To have the freedom to be creative and and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an learn environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 4 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 Systems health and safety training, specialist advice, information instruction and supervision as may be necessary to personnel at all levels. The firm operates • Key Speech: within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements A speech written and delivered by our of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Please see founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that attachment 4 for a copy of our Global defines who we are, and sets our our core Health & Safety Policy values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. The speech sets out the firm’s humanitarian attitude which “leads to the creation of an organisation which is human and friendly in spite of being large and efficient...this attitude also dictates that we should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people...Humanitarianism also implies a social conscience, a wish to do socially useful work, and to join hands with others fighting for the same values” All employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. For a copy of the key speech, please see attachment 2. • Global Human Rights Code of Practice: Arup’s Global Human Rights Code of Practice sets out the firm’s expectation and approach on human rights. It is available to all staff via the company • Disciplinary Procedure: intranet. Please see attachment 1 for a copy of the global human rights code of The disciplinary procedure is designed practice. to be supportive and to encourage • Global Harrassment Code of Practice: improvements in individual conduct and performance. Disciplinary action follows Arup believes that all employees have for individuals who abuse Arup’s policies a right to be treated with dignity and procedures, including the Global and respect while at work and when Human Rights Code of Practice, and for representing the company outside any “actions which undermine working work. The Global Harrassment Code of relationships with colleagues and / Practice informs employees of the type or other organisations or which may of behaviour that is not acceptable and compromise our integrity as a firm and provides employees who are subjected our honourable dealings with people. to harrassment with a means of redress • Sustainable Procurement: without fear of reprisal. For a copy of the Global Harrassment Code of Practice Arup’s commitment to Human Rights please see attachment 3. in its procurement is managed through • Global Health & Safety Policy: the sustainable procurement plan which feeds into Arup’s sustainability strategies. Arup promotes the health and safety The plan is built on six themes which at work of all employees including are: temporary and contract staff, and of • Environmental Management other persons affected by our actions. The firm has set objectives to provide • Supplier equality and diversity Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2011 5 • Support of fair practices in our with our suppliers of on-site supply base services such as catering, cleaning and security. • Ethical Trading • Purchase of 100% renewable CCL • Promoting fair employment exempt electricity. practices • Investment and purchase of • Community benefits reporting tool Credit 360 to The plan contains specific categories of improve our environmental goods and services that are defined as reporting. priority areas through a sustainability • Reviewing occurrences of antirisk assessment incorporating these competitive practice within our themes. These priority areas are supply base. then managed through individual category plans developed to solely focus on improving the sustainable Indicators procurement of the goods and services. The category plans are used to embed our sustainability requirements in our • LA6: We have a pro-active UKMEA processes for supplier selection, goods/ Health & Safety Committee which services specifications, contracts and meets every three months with 28 contract management. representatives from across the region and business groups. The supplier’s sustainability ethos is • LA8: We have provided asbestos a key feature within Arup’s tendering awareness training to 251 people so far process to select responsible suppliers. this calendar year. Furthermore, Arup works to engage its suppliers in working together to deliver • Accident Incident Rate: 0.70 per 1000 improved sustainability performance. employees. • Accident Frequency Rate: 0.028 per 100000 employee hours. Activities • Communication of Policies and Procedures All employees are made aware of Arup’s policies and procedures with respect to human rights. All policies are available on Arup’s employee intranet. Sustainable Procurement Activities Sustainable procurement activities differ depending on the particular features of the goods and/or services purchased within each category. Examples of our activities in this area include: • Working with our catering supplier to source and purchase fair traded catering items such as tea and coffee and verifying the authenticity of the stated certification. • Ensuring the application of the London Living Wage for contracts Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 6 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 C C Labour In this section: −− Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining −− Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour −− Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour −− Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Committment Addressing gender imbalance in Arup is our priority in a wider diversity drive. We believe improving gender balance will help us to nurture creativity Arup is committed to the principles listed above. and innovation, tap hidden capacity for growth We recognise that to produce work of high quality, and improved competitiveness, and positively to maintain our reputation for innovation and impact financial performance. Our Diversity creativity and to understand and delight our clients Champion signed the UKRC CEO charter and our we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and Chairman has signed the UN Global Compact CEO knowledge that only a diverse workforce can offer. Statement of Support for Women’s Empowering Principles. We work to ensure that everyone feels that their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our process and through our Our mission statement training and development, which will encourage knowledge sharing, intellectual growth and stimulation. “ To shape a better world”. Subject to the relevant laws in the countries where we operate, we fully respect the right of our people • To enhance properity and the quality of to freedom of association and representation. life • To deliver real value We aim to ensure that our people have satisfactory wages and working conditions and that there is no • To have the freedom to be creative and exploitation of labour. learn We do not employ individuals that are younger than the legal school leaving age. We ensure that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination gender, race, origin, background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or age and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 8 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 Systems • Enable leadership and elected staff representatives to exchange information and consult on possible changes and draft policies • Key Speech: of significance. A speech written and delivered by our • Enable ideas to be harvested from founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that the body of the firm through defines who we are, and sets our our core the staff representatives for values and guiding principles. The Key the leadership to consider in Speech is the high-level framework that making decisions on issues that guides appropriate behaviour within significantly affect our professional the firm. One of the six core principles lives is a “humane organisation” which • Improve the flow of information should result in satisfied members. All between all members of staff. employees receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. For • Corporate Report 2010: a copy of the key speech, please see attachment 2. Pages 10 and 11 of our corporte report are related to our people. Our • Freedom of Association and people are essential to us creating a Representation: sustainable business. By making our work environments stimulating, and by Arups terms and conditions are not running our business in an equitable and governed by a collective agreement. rewarding way, we create the space for staff to innovate and lead in new areas In 1977, the founder of the firm, Sir Ove for the benefit of us and our clients. For Arup, gifted the firm to itself, creating a a copy of the Corporate Report 2010, visionary arrangement based on trusts, please see attachment 7. which are responsible for the long-term custodianship of the firm for the benefit • Equal Opportunities Procedure: of past, present and future employees. Membership of the trusts includes past Global and regional equal opportunities and current employees. As a self-owning procedures exist to ensure that organization, we have no external employment practices are applied shareholders, which is fundamental to fairly and equally. These procedures the way we are organized and how we cover: recruitment, training, career operate. development and promotion, pay, selection for redundancy, grievance and We have developed peer to peer monitoring. Every member of Arup has communications channels and we have a responsibility to uphold our equal effective formal and informal channels opportunities codes of practice in order between management and staff. We to ensure that everyone with whom we also have in place ‘Airtime’ a UK forum work is treated equally and honourably. for communication and consultation. The leaders have a particular Airtime provides the opportunity for responsibility to ensure that grievances us to influence and shape our internal are investigated, that confidentiality is world, recognise the diversity of our staff maintained and that appropriate action and enable them to develop holistic, is taken. innovative and creative approaches • Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice to all challenges, and work together to provide an environment which Arup’s global Diversity and Inclusion ultimately addesesses all aspirations in Code of Practice sets out its aim to both personal and professional terms. “recognise and respect each others’ Meetings are held between leadership differences and strive to build a working and elected staff representatives twice environment where our different values yearly. Airtime has a number of key and perspectives are actively harnessed to principles: Human Human Rights Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 9 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base”. The diversity Activities and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability • Diversity Strategy: and Human Rights. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our In 2010, the UKMEA Board approved clients, our suppliers and all those with the region’s Diversity Strategy. This is whom we choose to work. For a copy of regularly reviwed at board meetings and our global Diversity and Inclusion Code informs our approach to promotions, of Practice please see attachment 8. communications and training. The Diversity Strategy is communicated • Disciplinary Procedure: internally through a variety of channels, including: film, intranet, internal The firm takes its commitment to publications, Airtime (our staff forum equal opportunities very seriously. Any for communications and consultation) acts of discrimination by its members and your.ideas@arup.com (staff emails to will result in disciplinary action, the chairman). Replies to your.ideas are including termination of employment published annonymously to encourage if appropriate, in accordance with the further communication firm’s disciplinary procedures. • Airtime • Harassment Procedure: Airtime meetings are held twice yearly as Global and local harrassment procedures a forum for elected staff representatives are in place. Any complaint of to discuss internal changes. A record of harassment will be taken seriously and each meeting is issued to all staff in the the necessary resources deployed to form of the Airtime Broadcasts. The investigate and resolve the matter and broadcasts are intended to engage staff take appropriate action. and show them what issues are being • Grievance: Code of Practice: considered. Staff can raise any concerns or issues they have with their elected Arup believes that all its members regional representative. should have the opportunity to discuss • SET Fair Standards any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases This year staff were invited to respond employment related matters are likely to the SET Fair Standards survey. The to be resolved informally in this way. results of this will contribute to our If, however, the outcome of informal understanding of the current status and discussions is unsatisfactory then the inform our Diversity Strategy for 2012issue can be addressed through the 2014. grievance procedure. For a copy of our global Grievance Code of Practice please • Sustainable Procurement Vision: see attachment 9. Our sustainable procurement vision includes creating diversity as an • Young Workers: objective. We communicate this to new suppliers at tendering stage and have There are special UK laws to protect the revised our sourcing practices, supplier employment rights of young workers questionnaires, tender scoring criteria (aged 16 to 18) which Arup adheres to. and supplier contracts. We hold supplier These concern health and safety, what conferences to inform SME and BME’s jobs they can do, when they can work, about Arup’s sustainability vision and and how many hours to work. Arup does objectives, and to share best practice. not employ young people under the age of 16 in line with legislation Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 10 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • ConnectWomen: ConnectWomen is an internal network that improves the opportunities for women in Arup, to enable them to maximise their valued contribution to the firm, our clients and our industry. The ConnectWomen Network is open to all Arup employees (regardless of profession, position or sex) who support our aim of improving opportunities for women within our industry. Indicators • EC5: Arup does not pay below the minimum wage. • LA13: % of women employed at Management and other grades in the UKMEA. Grade Grade Grade All All 7 8 9 leaders grades 17% 10% 6% 13% 28% • Operating in the traditionally maleorientated industry, 28% of our UKMEA workforce are women. • In 2010, we had four women on our UKMEA Board. • In 2010 our female graduate intake was 37%, up from 31% in 2009 and against an industry average of 23%. • In 2010, 13% of management positions (Grades 7-9) were made up of women. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 11 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 D D Environment In this section: −− Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges −− Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility −− Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Committment Our mission statement Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission ‘to shape a better world”. We are taking steps to “ To shape a better world”. minimise the carbon emissions associated with our operations and will endeavour to prevent pollution • To enhance properity and the quality of within the scope of our activities. Our offices are life the second biggest contributor to Arup’s carbon • To deliver real value footprint, after travel. We are committed to taking a resource efficient, sustainable approach to the • To have the freedom to be creative and way we run our offices. learn Our Foresight and Innovation team is dedicated to managing the firm’s global innovation programme, Systems gathering and taking views on emerging technologies, and sharing these experiences with Arup offices and our clients around the world. • Key Speech: Every year we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this research. A speech written and delivered by our founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we defines who we are, and sets our our core can have on the environment is through our values and guiding principles. The Key work with clients. We try to embed sustainability Speech is the high-level framework that in everything that we do in the way we run our guides appropriate behaviour within the business, our projects, and our physical impacts on firm. Sir Ove Arup, established the firm the external environment. We help our clients to over 60 years ago with the principles of face the challenges of sustainability by investing ‘total design’ very much at the fore the in our passion for turning ideas into tangible tools integration of the design process and the and methodologies. interdependence of all the professions. He also championed the social value We extend our influence at every level, from of innovation and the humanitarian individual buildings and large portofolio owners purpose of good design. Today we to cities and Governments. Through our many understand this as a commitment to partnerships and committee memberships we sustainability. For a copy of the key disseminate best practice sustainable design. We speech, please see attachment 2. strive to deliver better solutions for our clients and create a lasting and positive legacy for future generations. Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 13 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • Global Sustainability Strategy and improvement of environmentally sustainable performance. Our Sustainability Strategy offers a • SPeAR® framework that sets out our sustainability Our global Sustainable Project Appraisal expectations from the top levels of the Routine software tool SPeAR® has firm. It defines our approach, and it undergone significant improvements. enables us to maintain our position of The latest developments to the tool make leadership in this area. it more flexible and internationally• Corporate Report applicable, and update SPeAR® to take account of emerging sustainability In the 2010 Corporate Report, which issues. The software now also takes into is the first since we introduced our account indicators such as those from Sustainability Strategy, we celebrate the Organisation for Economic Cosome of the achievements from the operation and Development and rating calendar year 2010 under the framework tools including LEED®, BREEAM and provided by our Sustainability Policy: CEEQUAL. Our Business, Our People, Our Facilities and Our External Relationships. Each SPeAR® was developed by Arup’s section contains a chart reporting on our software and sustainability experts performance against the key performance to help the firm support clients’ indicators in our Strategy collated from sustainability goals. The tool appraises all our regions. Where we measured projects based on key themes such it, we have included historical data to as transport, biodiversity, culture, demonstrate our trend in performance. employment and skills. Results are For a copy of the Corporate Report 2010 presented graphically on the unique please see attachment 7. SPeAR® diagram – a traffic light system indicates performance in each area. • Environmental Management System The software also generates a tabulated (EMS) summary of the input data so the process A strateguc approach has been taken is robust and auditable. to the implementation of EMS within Arup. Implementation occurs at the SPeAR® output is available in a range of group level, with our offices seeking languages including Chinese, German, certification locally to the requirements Italian, Polish and Spanish. of ISO 14001:2004. • Risk assessment The software can be used throughout a project where sustainability appraisal is Whilst all of the environmental impacts required, from initial design to operation. of our activities require management, the assessment of each activity and consequent impact is used as a guide to prioritise action through the environmental management system. This assessment results in a significant rating, calculated by considering the likelihood, severity and legal implications. • Audits and reviews of sustainability performance We carry out annual internal system audits, regular project audits and an annual management review to ensure compliance with our internal processes and management of our environmental aspects.Our environmental audit process contributes to ongoing monitoring Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 14 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 business by addressing these areas • Sustainability Policy Statement in the procurement of its goods and Arup’s Sustainability Policy states that services. We communicate this to new the firm will implement practices suppliers at tendering stage and have that promote economic security, revised our sourcing practices, supplier social betterment and environmental questionnaires, tender scoring criteria stewardship and will strive for and supplier contracts. We hold supplier continuous improvement of performance conferences to inform SME and BME’s in these areas. For a copy of the about Arup’s sustainability vision and sustainability policy statement please see objectives, and to share best practice. For attachment 11. a copy of Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement please see attachment • SusNet 10. SusNet is Arup’s intranet site for the • Arup Management System Sustainability Skills, guidelines, tools and technologies. The site is an ‘umbrella’ As a result of management review, the or gateway for all skills in Arup that Arup Management System (AMS) is relate to sustainability. It provides access evolving from the previous Combined to information across a range of other Management System (CMS), becoming sites to cover all aspects of sustainability a more robust and fully integrated at a business and project level. It also management system (IMS). The Arup has a forum where people can ask Management Systems embrace Health sustainability / environmental questions and Safety, Quality and Environmental and quickly get a response from an Management. This provides all staff expert within Arup. with appropriate procedures, processes and the accompanying documentation and forms in a single source. As a result some documentation still refers to the CMS and others have been produced as part of the new AMS. Arup has an implementation programme covering this change which will be fully implemented by April 2012, and includes achieving a “single certificate” to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 covering all UK offices. Activities • Global Sustainability Strategy • OvaGreen In 2010, our new Global Sustainability OvaGreen is a global network of Strategy was launched. The Global environmental volunteers in Arup’s Sustainability Strategy and Key offices. They coordinate environmental Performance Indicators (KPIs) act as initiatives within our offices, including: an overall barometer of how we are recycling waste, reducing energy, performing as a firm, and is a useful reviewing our purchase of products and tool for communicating our progress improving our use of transport. both internally and externally. These • Sustainable Procurement Vision KPIs are cascaded to regional plans. Our Sustainability Strategy is split into four Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision areas: our business, our people, our aims to improve the environmental, facilities and our external relationships. social and ethical performance of its Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 15 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • AssetMap Our building retrofitting services are underpinned by our proprietary software tool AssetMap, which brings together architectural, engineering and financial risk analysis in one place to enable us to quickly analyse the economic potential and potential to improve the environmental performance of a client’s building or property portfolio. It helps us to advise clients on where they might focus any physical interventions. • Climate Change Adaptation Framework (CCAF) Due to the increasing prominence of climate change, there is a growing need to carry out a general ‘climate change appraisal’ for projects, be they a single building or master plan. Arup has developed a framework that guides the user through a structured appraisal process. This takes into account all the factors that are deemed to be important and relevant. It then provides an objective ‘score’ and displays the information graphically. • Existing buildings The framework divides the issues into two groups, mitigation and adaptation, With 40% of the UK’s energy usage and which are then broken down into a 50% of GHG emissions being attributed number of ‘sectors’ shown as segments to existing buildings, Arup is committed of a circle. Mitigation concerns ‘carbon to working to reduce the impact these management’, which is the reduction assets have on the communities in which of greenhouse gas emissions that cause they are located. Arup has extensive climate change. Adaptation concerns the experience of assisting the property provision of increased physical resilience sector to embrace sustainability and to anticipated climate changes. transform their property portfolios. Our expertise covers the complete • New Central London Office property lifecycle from the design of new green buildings and guidance on Our new central London office opened property acquisitions, to the retrofitting at 8 Fitzroy Street, allowing us to of existing assets and development consolidate 1400 staff from eight other of strategies to reduce energy use and sites into one world-class building. change behaviours. Looking to the future Environmental features include a we are already considering how issues chilled-beam heating and cooling like new legislation, Responsible Property system, solar heated hot-water supply, Investing and net zero will impact the rainwater collection, daylight sensors property market and are working to help and significant sub-metering allowing us our clients around the world be ready to to monitor and control energy use. The meet these challenges and avoid the risk energy consumption is displayed in the of asset obsolescence. reception area as part of our intention to monitor and reduce our environmental impact. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 16 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • Shaping the Sustainability Agenda • Video Conferencing: Since 2001, we have invested in, and make extensive use of, All around the world, Arup people video conferencing and teleconferencing are actively involved in external in our work. Meetings take place across organisations that promote and progress locations, and often globally, with sustainabiltiy. This is a two -way activity, connections to multiple locations. For as they are also able to bring knowledge larger meetings, we use: back into the firm, ensuring we are at the forefront of the latest thinking on “See and Share” for remote viewing of sustainability. presentations with larger audiences. • Helping cities tackle climate change Video recording, which is then made available throughout the firm by As the sole strategic advisor to the C40, intranet. a group of 40 of the world’s largest cities committed to climate change, we are These technologies have enabled working with six member cities to deliver effective communication whilst reducing action-orientated UrbanLife workshops. the need for excessive travel. By taking a multidisciplinary approach and fusing the practical with the political, we are helping deliver robust, • Uniflow printing: In the UK, Arup’s realistic solutions to a specific challenge photocopiers hae been installed with facing each city. Uniflow print management software. • UrbanLife Report Instead of directly printing a document, it is sent to a print queue and staff then Arup’s UrbanLife reports capture the retrieve their prints by swiping their ID strategic and practical interventions badge. This has helped reduce wasted cities can make to tackle climate change. prints by automatically deleting those The first ‘Water Resilience for Cities’ is not collected within 24 hours. By based on the recommendations made April 2010, 30% of prints had not been to Ho Chi Minh City on water resources collected, which translates to a saving and flood management as part of Arup of around £60k in printing and paper and the C40 Cities Group’s UrbanLife costs. An additional feature allows the workshops, but tackles the common collection of prints from other copiers e.g issues faced by cities across the world. in another building (follow-me-printing). The uniflow solution picked up a green procurement award. • Nightwatchman: A power management solution that controls power schemes • Sustainable office environments and shuts down connected desktop computers at a scheduled time, so that Arup promotes multiple sustainability any computers still on after staff have left initiatives within the office environment will not consume power all night. focusing on reuse, recycling, energy • Bicycle facilities: Arup has cycle storage consumption and behavioural change. with cyclist changing rooms and showers We encourage our staff to consider their at all main offices in London. There is environmental impact and how we can an active employee community of 347 work together sustainably. registered cyclists called BUG (Bicycle User Group). Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 17 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • Other: Further environmentally • Recycling – London offices: Arup’s waste responsible initiatives include using management system is set up to segregate FSC or equivalent sourced materials and maximise recycling a number of (e.g. furniture), fair trade or equivalent waste streams. For general waste, a on coffee, tea, sugar, and rainwater number of waste collection options have harvesting in our recently renovated been implemented. offices. • Procurement: Arup has achieved the Major of London’s green procurement code Gold standard for the last two years, Indicators Arup was also this year’s winner of Best Large Corporation. • In 2009-2010, 23% of projects set • Stationery from “green / core” products: sustainability objectives. Arup has a core list of stationary • 41% of staff have received relevant and office supplies from recycled, sustainability training. environmentally friendly and sustainable materials, which encourages the business • 70% of arup staff are working in offices to identify with the economic and with an EMS certified to IS01 4001. environmental sustainability pillars. • Carbon emissions per full-time employee • Waste elimination: Arup use Vivreau per year (tonnes CO2) was 3.4. water bottles on our London estate and don’t procure bottled water, eliminating • Total wastes generated per full-time “empty bottle” waste from meetings and employee per year (kg) was 116. events. • Coffee packaging: In conjunction with our supplier, we have changed coffee packaging eliminating 2 tonnes of cardboard and aluminium waste per year. • Paint: We have specified a harder wearing paint to be more cleanable with the intention that it will extend periods between decorating. • Pocket Habitat: Pocket Habitat is a unique modular vegetation system specifically designed to promote biodiversity on roofs or brownfield sites set aside for future development. Each module or pocket is an independent unit containint different textured and coloured recycled substrates and wildflower seed. Human Rights Labour Environment Environment Anti Corruption 18 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 E E Anti Corruption In this section: −− Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Committment Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. • To enhance properity and the quality of life • To deliver real value • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Systems Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. Our Ethical Standards Policy, defines our core • Key Speech: objectives as to: • commit to acting honourably and with A speech written and delivered by our integrity in all its business dealings founder Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our our core • ensure that no financial or other values and guiding principles. The Key inducements to gain or retain work are Speech is the high-level framework that offered or accepted by or on behalf of guides appropriate behaviour within Arup the firm. One of the six core principles is “straight and honorable dealings”. • endeavour to raise the ethical standards Our global codes of practice support this of global business in the market in which and appropriate policy level statements we operate are supported by local procedures as • provide such training, advice, necessary. All employees receive a information as may be necessary to copy of the key speech as part of their personnel at all levels induction. For a copy of the key speech, please see attachment 2. • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 20 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 • Ovacode: Which sets our conditions of employment for all staff employed by Arup. This reinforces our global conduct and performance code of practice and ethical standards policy. • Global conduct and performance code of practice. “All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm’s role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure”. Please see attachment 13 for a copy of the global conduct and performance code of practice. • Ethical Standards Policy: This sets our ethical objectives as a firm (as listed previously under the • Disciplinary Procedure: committment heading). The disciplinary procedure is designed • Ethics Global Code of Practice and to be supportive and to encourage Procedure: improvements in individual conduct and performance. Disciplinary action This sets out our ethical values and follows for individuals who abuse Arup’s is intended to provide guidance on policies and procedures, including the acceptable business practice to ensure Ethical Standards Policy, and for any that these values, principles and “actions which undermine working standards are being met across a range of relationships with colleagues and / areas including: financial indusements, or other organisations or which may third parties, gifts and entertainment, compromise our integrity as a firm and competition, confidentiality, conduct our honourable dealings with people. and performance at work, client Please see attachment 6 for a copy of our activity, conflict of interest, political disciplinary procedure. contributions and asking questions and raising concerns. Please see attachment 12 for a copy of this procedure. Activities • Global Board representative / champion: Robert Care, Chair of the UKMEA Board has recently been appointed as the firm’s global champion for ethics. He works with others across the firm to create and approve policies and procedures and to Human Human Rights Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption 21 Arup /Communication on Progress 2011 continue the ongoing communications and education in this area. • Increased Communications Since his nomination as global board champion for ethics, Robert has released regular email communications, video guidance and updates, and created, launched and communicated a dedidicated intranet area for ethics, which is kept up to date with the latest relevant policies and procedures.   • Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure As previously mentioned, this new procedure provides practical guidance on acceptable behaviour across a range of areas. • Training and Development A training programme has been developed for all staff. It underlines the importance attached to high standards in all our business activities. The training is compulsory for all staff. Training is delivered bia an e-learning course. Indicators • Zero offences for corruption or bribery in the firm. • 100% of new employees received the key speech, setting out our guiding values and principles. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Arup / Communication on Progress 2011 22 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 F Partnerships Partnerships Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. Yorkshire Water JV Wind Power Ltd We are collaborating with Wind Power Limited A joint venture with Yorkshire Water to investigate to develop an innovative new 10 MW offshore the energy consumption associated with advanced wind turbine. The transformational design wastewater treatment. By implementing the results of the AerogeneratorX is half the height of an of our research, Yorkshire Water is reducing its equivalent horizontal-axis turbine with the weight site operational costs by 15%, which equates to a concentrated at the base, reducing fatigue in the potential reduction of over 16,000 tonnes of CO2 blades and making wind energy more cost-effective. each year and a £1.2m cost saving. Optimal Energy Electric vehicles (EVs) are evolving rapidly, and Harvard University Arup is leading the way through a number of partnerships and advisory roles. In South Africa, we are working with Optimal Energy to develop a Measuring and reporting of sustainability-related new manufacturing facility for South Africa’s own performance is relatively new. A white paper we EV, the Joule. authored with Harvard University puts forward a new methodology that could transform the way companies report on green issues. It provides a UK Central Government In the UK we are providing strategic advice to simple and cost effective way of reporting to allow central government as the delivery partner for the companies to focus on what matters most. Office for Low Emissions Vehicles’ infrastructure programme, Plugged-In Places, and adviser to the European Commission Technology Strategy Board (CABLED) and Energy The emerging technology of carbon capture and Technologies Institute. storage takes CO2 emissions from sources such as coal-fired power stations and stores them underground. Arup has undertaken a joint study Milton Keynes On a local level, we are advising Milton Keynes with Scottish Carbon Capture showing for the first on the procurement and installation of EV time on a Europe-wide scale, the network of pipes infrastructure. In order to stay at the forefront that will be required to transport CO2 across the of technology development, we have co-founded continent to make carbon capture and storage a HaloIPT, a company which provides wireless reality. charging for EVs and which may be the future of charging technology. Rockefeller Foundation Our International Development team has agreed a three0year grant with the Rockefeller Foundation, UNOPS We have undertaken an Australian Youth building on the role we have played with them Ambassadors for Development (AYAD) Program on the Asian Cities Climate Change Resilience with the United Nations Office for Project Services Network (ACCCRN). ACCCRN is a network of (UNOPS) Kenya Operations Centre (KEOC). The ten cities across India, Vietnam, Thailand and AYAD will work with team members to facilitate Indonesia working together to generate practical the adoption of new project tools and processes examples of how cities in fast-urbanising, low and mainstream these into the existing processes. and middle-income countries , can build urban The assignment also enatails the documentation resilience to the various impacts of climate change. of lessons learned and feedback mechanisms to inform future programming. United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 1 Attachment: −− Global Human Rights Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 2 Human Rights: Global Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Purpose Our approach on human rights reflects this by: Value Diversity. Ensuring that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Discrimination on the grounds of race, age, religion or gender or sexual orientation is in conflict with out guiding principles. Self Esteem. Providing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminated any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individual’s self esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Life Balance. Helping people to more easily balance their work, domestic and personal lives Fair Reward. Fairly compensating employees through wages and benefits for their labours. Providing for rewards and other means for staff to share in the firm’s success. Effective Workplace. Giving people a safe, clean, comfortable and healthy working environment that provides for the needs of all employees including those with disabilities. Integrity. Operating in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do when they are striving to achieve the best that they can. Personal Development. Treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 Global Code of Practice Page 2 of 2 Acting Honourably. Acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people Social Responsibility. Being aware of our social responsibility, striving to do socially useful work and joining hands with others who are working to achieve these values Respect. Ensuring that no-one is subjected to arbitrary interference in their privacy, home or family or attacks on their honour or reputation. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide and other third parties who are permitted access to the firm’s electronic communications systems, including temporary staff, people who are hired on contract, contractors, joint venture partners and clients. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 2 Attachment −− The Key Speech The Key Speech Sir Ove Arup A In its pre-natal stage, this talk has been These two general principles are not honoured with the name of ‘key in dispute. I will elaborate them a speech’. It is doubtful whether it can little further: live up to this name. What is it The first means that our work should supposed to be the key to? The future be interesting and rewarding. Only a job of the firm? The philosophy? The aims? done well, as well as we can do it and On 9 July 1970 Ove Arup spoke At the moment, sitting in my garden as well as it can be done is that. We to a meeting at Winchester of his and waiting for inspiration, I would be must therefore strive for quality in what partners from the practices more inclined to call it: ‘Musings of an we do, and never be satisfied with the around the world bearing the old gentleman in a garden’ and leave second-rate. There are many kinds of Arup name. His talk was in it at that. quality. In our work as structural response to the collective desire engineers we had and have to to continue working together, I have written before a piece called satisfy the criteria for a sound, lasting despite the changes that would ‘Aims and Means’ for a conference of and economical structure. We add to Senior and Executive Partners in take place as the founding that the claim that it should be pleasing London on 7 July 1969. It did not partners progressively retired and aesthetically, for without that quality it manage to deal much with means, gave up ownership, handing over doesn’t really give satisfaction to us or however, and it is of course difficult to control to the successors they to others. And then we come up generalise about means, for they must would choose for these practices. against the fact that a structure is vary with circumstances. The first part generally a part of a larger unit, and we of this paper was published in Newsletter are frustrated because to strive for The pre-natal name of ‘key37, November 1969. This you may quality in only a part is almost useless if speech’ for this talk has endured, have read but I will shortly summarise the whole is undistinguished, unless the in recognition of the fact that in it the aims of the firm as I see them. structure is large enough to make an Ove both states the aims of our impact on its own. We are led to seek There are two ways of looking at the firm and analyses in his very overall quality, fitness for purpose, as work you do to earn a living: distinctive way the principles well as satisfying or significant forms through which they may be One is the way propounded by the late and economy of construction. To this achieved. From time to time we Henry Ford: Work is a necessary evil, must be added harmony with the but modern technology will reduce it to surroundings and the overall plan. have asked ourselves whether a minimum. Your life is your leisure lived We are then led to the ideal of ‘Total what he said in 1970 remains in your ‘free’ time. valid for us, despite the fact that Architecture’, in collaboration with other The other is: like minded firms or, still better, on our inevitably some specifics about To make your work interesting and own. This means expanding our field of the firm’s organisation and rewarding. You enjoy both your work activity into adjoining fields architecture, individuals’ roles therein to which and your leisure. planning, ground engineering, he refers in passing have changed environmental engineering, computer We opt uncompromisingly for the over the years. On each occasion programming, etc. and the planning second way. we have found that it does, and and organisation of the work on site. thereby reaffirmed our There are also two ways of looking at commitment to these principles. the pursuit of happiness: It is not the wish to expand, but the One is to go straight for the things quest for quality which has brought us The Key Speech is required you fancy without restraints, that is, to this position, for we have realised reading for each person who without considering anybody else that only intimate integration of the joins Arup or who wants to be besides yourself. various parts or the various disciplines will produce the desired result. reminded of what we are all The other is: about, and for those who want to recognise that no man is an island, The term ‘Total Architecture’ implies to learn about us. that our lives are inextricably mixed up that all relevant design decisions have with those of our fellow human beings, been considered together and have and that there can be no real been integrated into a whole by a well happiness in isolation. Which leads to organised team empowered to fix an attitude which would accord to priorities. This is an ideal which can others the rights claimed for oneself, never or only very rarely be fully which would accept certain moral or realised in practice, but which is well humanitarian restraints. worth striving for, for artistic wholeness We, again, opt for the second way. or excellence depends on it, and for our own sake we need the stimulation produced by excellence. The humanitarian attitude hand and becomes very dangerous for and accepted. In short, we must be our harmony, unity and very existence. efficient individually, in all our subThe other general principle, the divisions, and as a world organisation. humanitarian attitude, leads to the It costs money to produce quality, creation of an organisation which is especially when we expand into fields I have tried to summarise the foregoing human and friendly in spite of being where we have no contractual in a number of points. Like all large and efficient. Where every obligations and can expect no pay for classification, it is arbitrary and rough member is treated not only as a link in our efforts. We may even antagonise but may nevertheless be useful as a a chain of command, not only as a people by poaching on their domain help to understanding and discussion, wheel in a bureaucratic machine, but or by upsetting and criticising traditional if its imperfections and its as a human being whose happiness is procedures. incompleteness are borne in mind. the concern of all, who is treated not only as a means but as an end. It also costs money to ‘coddle’ the staff The main aims of the firm are: with generosity and welfare, or to lose Group A Of course it is always sound business lucrative commissions by refusing to to keep your collaborators happy just 1 Quality of work bribe a minister in a developing country, as any farmer must keep his cattle in or to take our duty too seriously if 2 Total architecture good health. But there is or should be nobody is looking. 3 Humane organisation more in it than that. (We know what 4 Straight and honourable dealings happens to cattle.) If we want our work Money spent on these ‘aims’ may be to be interesting and rewarding, then wisely spent in the long term, and may 5 Social usefulness we must try to make it so for all our cause the leaders of the firm a certain 6 Reasonable prosperity of members. people and that is obviously much satisfaction but if so spent it is not more difficult, not to say impossible. It available for immediate distribution If these aims could be realised to a is again an ideal, unattainable in full, among the members, whether partners considerable degree, they should but worth striving for. It leads to the or staff. So aim No. 3 conflicts to that result in: wish to make everybody aware of, and extent with aims 1 and 2. Moreover, if interested in, our aims and to make the money is made the main aim if we are Group B environment and working conditions as more greedy than is reasonable it will 7 Satisfied members pleasant as possible within the accentuate the natural conflict about 8 Satisfied clients available means. how the profit should be distributed 9 Good reputation and influence. between our members the partners This attitude also dictates that we and staff or the different grades of staff. But this will need: should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. We The trouble with money is that it is a Group C should justify the trust of our clients by dividing force, not a uniting force, as is 10 A membership of quality giving their interest first priority in the the quest for quality or a humanitarian 11 Efficient organisation work we do for them. Internally, we outlook. If we let it divide us, we are 12 Solvency should eschew nepotism or sunk as an organisation at least as a 13 Unity and enthusiasm. discrimination on the basis of force for good. nationality, religion, race, colour or sex Of course there is not really any strict basing such discrimination as there So much for our aims. As aims, they demarcation between aims (Group A) must be on ability and character. are not in dispute. What is debatable, and means (Group C) and the results is how vigorously each shall be pursued (Group B) flowing from the whole or Humanitarianism also implies a social which is the most important; how to partial fulfilment of the aims in A. And it conscience, a wish to do socially useful balance long term against short term is not absolutely certain that these work, and to join hands with others aims. Let us first see what these results are obtained. For instance, A3 fighting for the same values. Our aims imply. and 4 (a humane organisation and pursuit of quality should in itself be straight dealings) can as well be useful. If we in isolated cases can show Obviously, to do work of quality, we considered as a means, and in fact all how our environment can be improved, must have people of quality. We must the points are to some extent both this is likely to have a much greater be experts at what we undertake to do. aims and means, because they effect than mere propaganda. Again, there are many kinds of quality, reinforce each other. And there will be and there are many kinds of job to do, members who are dissatisfied no There is a third aim besides the search so we must have many kinds of people, matter how good the firm is, and the for quality of work and the right human each of which can do their own job same may apply to clients, who may relationships, namely prosperity for all well. And they must be able to work not appreciate quality at all. But on the our members. Most people would say well together. This presupposes that whole, what I said is true. We should that this is our main aim, this is why we they agree with our aims, and that they keep the six aims in A in view all the are in business. But it would be wrong are not only technically capable but time, and concentrate on the means to to look at it as our main aim. We should acceptable to us from a human point of bring them about. rather look at it as an essential preview, so that they fit into our kind of requisite for even the partial fulfilment of organisation; and that they are But before I do this, I will try to explain any of our aims. For it is an aim which, effectively organised, so that the why I am going on about aims, ideals if over-emphasised, easily gets out of responsibility of each is clearly defined and moral principles and all that, and don’t get down to brass tacks. I do this In the following 13 points, which I must consider whether this way is possible, simply because I think these aims are have jotted down some time ago whether it leads to the desired result. very important. I can’t see the point in I found them in an old file I am Unless of course his goal is to go having such a large firm with offices grappling with this question, perhaps through, not to arrive anywhere, like the all over the world unless there is not very successfully. I give them to man in the sports car. But this only something which binds us together. you now: shows that it is the goal which is If we were just ordinary consulting important, whatever it is. engineers carrying on business just as Principles business to make a comfortable living, 1 Some people have moral principles. The star system is an attempt to soften I can’t see why each office couldn’t 2 The essence of moral principles is the rigidity of moral principles. But it carry on, on its own. The idea of that they should be ‘lived’. doesn’t really solve this dilemma. It is a somebody in London ‘owning’ all these little more flexible than moral precepts 3 But only saints and fanatics do businesses and hiring people to bring as to the way, but surely the ‘stars’ follow moral principles always. in the dough doesn’t seem very must be fixed for if they can be inspiring. Unless we have a ‘mission’ 4 Which is fortunate. changed ad lib the whole thing although I don’t like the word but 5 Are then moral principles no good? wobbles. And that in a way is what it something ‘higher’ to strive for and I 6 It appears we can’t do without does I can’t do anything about that. don’t particularly like that expression them. I should have loved to present you with either but unless we feel that we have a strictly logical build-up, deducing the 7 It also appears we can’t live up to aims for the firm from unassailable first a special contribution to make which them. principles. Or perhaps this is an our very size and diversity and our whole outlook can help to achieve, I for 8 So what? exaggeration for I know very well that one am not interested. I suppose that 9 A practical solution is what I call the this can’t be done. All I can do is to try you feel the same, and therefore my star system. to make the members of the firm like words to you may seem superfluous; 10 The star or ideal indicates the the aims I have mentioned. I would like but it is not enough that you feel it, course. Obstacles in the way are to persuade them that they are good everybody in the firm should as far as circumnavigated but one gets back and reasonable and not too impossible possible be made to feel it, and to on the course after the deviation. aims, possessing an inner cohesion, believe that we, the leaders of the firm, reinforcing each other by being not 11 The system is adopted by the only aims but means to each really believe in it and mean to work for Catholic church. Sins can be other’s fulfilment. it and not just use it as a flag to put out forgiven if repented it doesn’t on Sundays. And they won’t believe affect the definition of good or evil. ‘Stars’ like goodness, beauty, justice that unless we do. 12 That this system can degenerate have been powerful forces in the On the other hand, who am I to tell you into permanent deviation is history of mankind but they so often and the firm what you should think and obvious. are obscured by a mental fog or feel in the future when I am gone or 13 One needs a sense of proportion. perhaps I should say the opposite before that, for that matter? It wouldn’t they are created by a mental fog, and be any good my trying to lay down the Incidentally, they should not be taken when the fog lifts, they are seen to law, and I haven’t the slightest inclination as an encouragement to join the have been illusions. They are manto do so. That is my difficulty. I dislike Catholic church! made. I do not rate them less for that hard principles, ideologies and the like. reason but they are too remote, too They can do more harm than good, they I found also another tag: indefinable, to be of much practical use can lead to wholesale murder, as we ‘The way out is not the way round but as guide-lines. They sustain or are born have seen. And yet we cannot live life the way through.’ That’s rather more of the longings of mankind, and belong entirely without principles. But they have uncompromising, more heroic. It to the ideal world of Plato which is in some way to be flexible, to be springs from a different temperament. fixed for ever. Rigid ideologies feed on adaptable to changing circumstances. It’s equally useful in the right place. them. Not so practical politics. ‘Thou shalt not lie’, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, But the man that bangs his head are all very well, generally, but do not Our aims on the other hand are not against a wall may learn a thing or two apply if for instance you are tortured by nearly so remote. We will never from the reed that bends in the wind. fanatical Nazis or Communists to reveal succeed in fulfilling them in toto, but the whereabouts of their innocent The trouble with the last maxim is that they can be fulfilled more or less, and victims. Then it is your duty to mislead. it says something about the way, but the more the better. And they are not What these commandments should not about the goal. The way must be grasped arbitrarily out of the sky or define is an attitude. To be truthful adapted to the circumstances the wilfully imposed, they are natural and always, wherever it does no harm to goal is much more dependent on what obvious and will, I am sure, be other ideals more important in the sort of person you are. I admit that the recognised as desirable by all of you: context, to respect the sanctity of human last maxim also says a good deal so much so, in fact, that the thing to life and not to destroy life wantonly. But about the man who propounds it, a be explained is not why they are where to draw the line in border cases man of courage, of action, perhaps not desirable, but why I should waste any depends on who you are, what life has given too much to reflection, perhaps words on them. taught you, how strong you are. not a very wise man. The wise man will I do, as I pointed out at the beginning them, of course (and I think we have a more it needs to be organised. Most of this argument, because our aims are larger proportion of really good people strong men, if they are also wise, will the only thing which holds us together, than any other firm of our kind). And accept that. Somebody must have and because it is not enough to when we take on new people the authority to take decisions, the approve them, we must work for them choice is limited. Again we have to take responsibility of each member must be and the leaders must be prepared to the best we can get. We cannot pay clearly defined, understood and make sacrifices for them. Temporary them a much higher salary than our accepted by all. The authority should diversions there must be, we have to average scale, because that would also be spread downwards as far as make do with the second best if the upset our solvency and sink the boat. possible, and the whole pattern should best is not within reach, we have to Naturally our method of selection is be flexible and open to revision. accept expediencies and from a strict important, and what we can do to point of view all our activities can be educate our staff and give them We know all this, and we have such an considered as expediencies, for in opportunities to develop is important, organisation: we have both macro, theory they could all be better still but but I can’t go into details here. All I can micro and infra-structure. It has been the important thing is that we always say is that staff getting and staff developed, been improved, and it get back on the course, that we never ‘treating’ must not degenerate into a could undoubtedly be improved still lose sight of the aims. Hence the name bureaucratic routine matter, but must further. We are of course trying to do star system derived from comparison be on a personal level. When we come that all the time. The organisation will with old fashioned navigation. But I across a really good man, grab him, naturally be related to some sort of propose to abandon this expression, even if we have no immediate use for hierarchy, which should as far as partly because its meaning in the film him, and then see to it that he stays possible be based on function, and industry may confuse, especially as it is with us. there must be some way of fixing very opposed to our point of view, remuneration, for to share the available which is in favour of teamwork rather The last is the really important point, profit equally between all from senior than stardom: and also because it which in the long run will be decisive. partner to office-boy would not be suggests star-gazing, which I find Why should a really good man, a man reasonable, nor would it work. And all uncomfortably near the bone because I or woman who can get a job this is very tricky, as you know, might with some justification be anywhere or who could possibly start because, as soon as money and status accused of it. So I am afraid we have out on his own, why should he or she come into the picture, greed and envy to fall back on ‘philosophy’. Having choose to stay with us? If there is a and intrigue are not far behind. One dabbled in this subject in my youth I convincing and positive answer to that, difficulty is particularly knotty, the have been averse to seeing the term then we are on the right way. question of ownership, which is degraded by talk about the philosophy connected with ‘partnership’. There is of pile-driving or hair-dressing, but it is Presumably a good man comes to us dissatisfaction amongst some of those of course useless to fight against the in the first instance because he likes who in fact carry out the functions of a tide. The word has come to stay and the work we do, and shares or is partner dealing with clients, taking in ‘the philosophy of the firm’, it is not converted to our philosophy. If he decisions binding on the firm, etc used quite so badly. So that’s what I doesn’t, he is not much good to us because they cannot legally call have been giving you a dose of. anyhow. He is not mainly attracted by themselves partners but are ‘executive’ the salary we can offer, although that is partners or have some other title. I I will now discuss what we have to do of course an important point but by have discussed this problem in my in order to live up to our philosophy. the opportunity to do interesting and paper Aims and Means. If some viable And I will do it under the four headings rewarding work, where he can use his way could be found to make 100 10 to 13 in my list of aims and means: creative ability, be fully extended, can partners, I wouldn’t mind, but I can’t grow and be given responsibility. If he think of any. 10 Quality staff finds after a while that he is frustrated 11 Efficiency by red tape or by having someone In the Ove Arup Partnership we have all breathing down his neck, someone for but eliminated ownership the senior 12 Solvency whom he has scant respect, if he has partners only act as owners during 13 Unity and enthusiasm. little influence on decisions which affect their tenure of office because his work and which he may not agree someone has to, according to the laws But it will of course be necessary to with, then he will pack up and go. And of the country. And I wish that system mix them up to some extent. so he should. It is up to us, therefore, could be extended to all our to create an organisation which will partnerships. It no doubt irks some allow gifted individuals to unfold. This is people that the money invested in the Quality of Staff not easy, because there appears to be firm may one day (with some How do we ensure that our staff is of the a fundamental contradiction between contriving) fall into the turban of people right quality, or the best possible quality? organisation and freedom. Strongwho have done nothing to earn it but willed individuals may not take easily to what can we do? The money is We all realise, of course, that this is a directions from above. But our work is needed for the stability of the firm, it key question. The whole success of teamwork and teamwork except makes it possible for us to earn our our venture depends on our staff. But possibly in very small teams needs to living and to work for a good cause, so what can we do about it? We have the be organised, otherwise we have why worry? staff we have we must make do with chaos. And the greater the unit, the It may be possible to devise a different My advice would be: calibre, you may accuse me of leaving and better arrangement than the one ‘Stadig over de klipper’, reality behind. ‘As you said yourself’, we have now, more ‘democratic’, more or if you prefer: you may say, ‘our work is teamwork. fair: it may be possible to build in some ‘Take it easy!’ And most of this work is pretty dull. It is defences against the leaders ‘More haste less speed!’ designing endless reinforced concrete misbehaving and developing boss‘Hâtez-vous lentement!’ floors, taking down tedious letters complexes and pomposity and ‘Eile mit weile!’ about the missing bolts, changing forgetting that they are just as much ‘Hastvaerk er lastvaerk!’ some details for the nth time, attending servants in a good cause as everybody site meetings dealing with trivialities, else only more so. This is partly a It’s the fruit that matters. I have a taking messages, making tea what is legal question depending on the laws lingering doubt about trying to gain a exciting about that? You are of the country. But I have neither the foothold in various exotic places. Might discriminating in favour of an elite, it’s ability nor the time to deal with all that we not say instead: Thank God that we undemocratic. What about the people here. What I want to stress is the have not been invited to do a job in who have to do the dull work?’ obvious fact that no matter how Timbuctoo think of all the trouble we wonderful an organisation we can are avoiding. It’s different with the work devise, its success depends on the we do in Saudi Arabia, Tehran and Equality of opportunity people working in it and for it. And if Kuwait1. There we are invited in at the all our members really and sincerely top, working with good architects, You have certainly a point there. Of believed in the aims which I have doing exciting work. We are not course I am discriminating in favour of enumerated, if they felt some hammering at the door from outside. quality, and I would do anything to enthusiasm for them, the battle would But as a rule, grab and run jobs are not enable our bright people to use their be nearly won. For they imply a so useful for our purpose. I think the talents. You cannot equate excellence humanitarian attitude, respect and Overseas Department agrees with this with mediocrity, you cannot pretend consideration for persons, fair dealings, in principle, if not in practice. they are the same. We would be sunk and the rest, which all tend to smooth if we did that. We need to produce human relationships. And anyone It’s also different with civil engineering works of quality, and we need those having the same attitude who comes work, provided we have control who can produce them. One perfect into an atmosphere like that, is at least complete control over the design and job is more important for the morale of more likely to feel at home in it. And if are not ‘sharing’ the job or having a the firm, for our reputation for the right kind of people feel at home quantity surveyor or ‘agent’, etc, producing enthusiasm, than 10 with us, they will bring in other people imposed on it preventing us from doing ordinary jobs, and enthusiasm is like of their kind, and this again will attract a the job our way. The general rule the fire that keeps the steam-engine good type of client and this will make should be: if we can do a job we will going. Likewise one outstanding man is our work more interesting and be proud of afterwards, well and good worth 10 men who are only half good. rewarding and we will turn out better but we will do it our way. In the long This is a fact of life we cannot change. work, our reputation and influence will run this attitude pays, as it has already It is no good pretending that all are grow, and the enthusiasm of our done in the case of Arup Associates. equal they aren’t. There should be members will grow it is this And incidentally, the control of such jobs equality before the law, and as far as enthusiasm which must start the should be where our expertise resides. possible equality of opportunity, of process in the first place. course. But the fact that you are good To export Arup Associates’ jobs is at something is something you should much more difficult, for whilst we may be grateful for, not something to be be able to build a bridge or radio tower conceited about. It doesn’t mean that And they all lived happily in a foreign locality, good architecture you are better as a human being. And ever after? presupposes a much more intimate there are probably many other things knowledge of the country. Long Yes, it sounds like a fairy tale, and you are hopeless at. distance architecture generally fails. perhaps it is. But there is something in But that does not mean that the ideal No man should be despised or feel it. It is a kind of vicious circle except of Total Architecture is irrelevant to our ashamed because of the work he that it isn’t vicious, but benevolent, a purely engineering partnerships or does, as long as he does it as well as lucky circle. And I believe that we have divisions. In fact they have been he can. What we should aim at, made a beginning in getting onto this founded on the idea of integrating naturally, is to put each man on to the lucky circle. I believe that our fantastic structure with architecture and work he can do. And, fortunately, there growth has something to do with our construction, and in Scotland for is nearly always something he can do philosophy. And I believe our instance they are trying to give well. We will have square pegs in round philosophy is forward looking, that it is architects a service which will unite holes, we shall have frustrated people, what is needed today, is in tune with these domains2. unfortunately those who are not the new spirit stirring in our time. But of course there are many other and frustrated one way or another are in the Coming back to my main theme, I dangerous spirits about and too much minority. But fortunately people vary, as realise that when I have been talking growth may awaken them. Too much jobs vary, and few would want to do about quality, about interesting and growth may also mean too little fruit. the job another calls interesting if they rewarding work, about Total are no good at it. Architecture, and attracting people of 1. In 1970 Arup was carrying out a good deal of 2. In 1970 Arup’s Scottish practice had just work in the Middle East. begun to offer a multidisciplinary engineering service for buildings. If we can reach a stage where each worry us for the time being. At the the old leaders retire and growth takes man or woman is respected for the job moment the need for solvency is place mainly locally, the ties that bind they do, and is doing his or her best restricting, and is the most frequent us together may weaken. We should because the atmosphere is right, cause of having to compromise. That prevent this by forging more ties, because they are proud of what we are we may have to do but let’s not do it forming new friendships, and always and do and share in the general unnecessarily, and let’s get back being true to our principles. Improve enthusiasm, then we are home. And on course. communications the universal each job is important. Secretaries, for injunction nowadays. Absence does instance. They could have a And Unity and Enthusiasm, the last not make the heart grow fonder, tremendously civilising influence on our item, is in a way what my talk has been unfortunately. There will always be a staff. They could teach them to write about. It is a question of giving the firm need for a strong coordinating body English, for instance, a most important an identity. What do we mean, when which is at the moment formed by the and necessary job. But secretaries who we speak about the firm, about ‘we’ or senior partners which has the power can do that are of course at a ‘us’? Is it the whole collection of people to interfere if our principles are seriously premium. We must try to find them. It in dozens of offices in different places? betrayed. For should that happen, it is even more important than that they Are ‘we’ all of them or some of them, would be better to cut off the offending are good-looking and nobody could and which? limb, less the poison should spread. accuse me of being indifferent to that. Our name must not be allowed to I think it is unavoidable that ‘we’ should cover practices which conflict with our Our messengers and cleaners how mean different things in different philosophy. But at the moment there is important it is that they are reliable and contexts. Sometimes what is said is no danger of that, and we can take likeable, human, with a sense of only relevant to the upper layers of comfort from what has been achieved. humour. A cheerful remark can brighten management, sometimes it is meant to Perhaps that should have been the gist the day. All our people are part of us, include everybody. What we must aim of my talk? But you are seeing it for part of our ‘image’, create the at is to make ‘we’ include as many as yourself. I could also have dwelt on atmosphere we live in. possible as often as possible. To how far we have still to go; it would increase the number of those who perhaps have accorded more with my But it doesn’t alter the fact that the have a contribution to make, however star-gazing habits. But my time is up services of a messenger are less small, who agree wholeheartedly with my speech should have been valuable to the firm than those of a our aims and want to throw in their lot condensed to one-third but it is too gifted designer or an imaginative with us. We might think about them as late now. I hope at any rate that I mechanical engineer, a fact that even members of our community; the haven’t deserved the warning which the messenger will understand. others, who come and go, might be the Duke of Albany addressed to called staff. Of course there can never Goneril in King Lear: But there are of course people we be any clear line of demarcation it is cannot employ usefully. Masses of not a question of signing a form or How far your them, in fact. Those we should not bestowing a title it is a matter of how eyes may pierce take on, obviously, except on a strictly each feels and what we feel about I cannot tell. temporary basis. But sometimes they them. For it is a two-way business. Striving to better, are found inside the firm. They may oft we mar have been good once, but are on the But what binds our membership what’s well. way down. I am a case in point myself. together must be loyalty to our aims. But their loyal service, their place in the And only as long as the leaders of the hierarchy, makes it difficult to de-grade firm are loyal to these can they expect them. To deal with them requires much and demand loyalty from the members. tact, and is embarrassing. But they This speech is too long already, and I should not be allowed to pretend to do have not even touched on what you jobs they are no good at. They must perhaps expected to be the main not prevent the good ones from subject of my talk, the relationship functioning. It’s a problem all firms between the Ove Arup Partnership and have, it’s one of the cases where the Overseas Partnerships. But from humanity and efficiency clash. To the foregoing my point of view should resolve it tactfully may be expensive, be clear. not to resolve it is fatal. The fact that we have these outposts So far I haven’t said much about all over the world is of course an solvency. Stuart Irons3 can tell you enormous source of strength to us and something about that. I compare it to to you, it helps to establish our stability in engineering structures reputation and power for good, and without it the whole thing collapses but opens up opportunities for all our if you have much more money than members. This is however only you need the usefulness of it declines because the leaders in these places until it becomes distracting and are our own people, bound to us by dangerous. That danger need not common aims and friendships. But as 3. The then Financial Director. Arup’s core values maintain the vision established by Sir Ove Arup (1895-1988): • We will ensure that the Arup name is always associated with quality. • We will act honestly and fairly in dealings with our staff and others. • We will enhance prosperity for all Arup staff. Our priorities are: • our clients and our industry • our creativity • our people • sustainable development. We shape a better world: • to enhance prosperity and the quality of life • to deliver real value • to have the freedom to be creative and to learn. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ, UK tel +44 (0)20 7636 1531 fax +44 (0)20 7580 3924 email corporate@arup.com www.arup.com United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 3 Attachment: −− Global Harrassment Code of Practice Global code of practice Harassment Harassment : code of practice Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 4 Attachment: −− Global Health & Safety Policy Global Health and Safety Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • promote the health and safety at work of all our employees including temporary and contract staff, and of other persons affected by our actions; • provide such health and safety training, specialist advice, information, instruction and supervision as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • set measurable performance targets; • monitor our performance in complying with this policy and strive for continual improvement; and • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with applicable legal and other requirements; • maintain a high standard of health and safety awareness by training and developing our staff; • develop and record health and safety competencies for key staff; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business. ............................................................... ............................................................... Jenny Baster ............................................................... Arup Group Health and Safety Director ............................................................... Leader for ............................................................... www.arup.com group/office ............................................................... Last reviewed October 2010 Note: Groups should also refer to their own regional policy. United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 5 Attachment: −− OHSAS 18001:2007 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 6 Attachment: −− UK Disciplinary Procedure UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : UK disciplinary procedure 1 Applicability This procedure applies to all members of Arup in the UK, and to UK members seconded temporarily to work with the UK Partnership, outside the UK. Employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup will be subject to a modified procedure as outlined below in section 4. 2 Introduction The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. It provides clear guidelines on the standard of conduct and performance which is expected, whilst also offering support to those who experience difficulty in meeting the standard. Where there are no improvements in conduct/performance, sanctions may be imposed. Particularly in the case of performance issues, the action may be to consider suitable alternative work within the firm or suitable training which may improve the situation. Conduct: The following list of examples of conduct which may result in disciplinary action is a guide and is not exhaustive. Unsatisfactory conduct could lead to disciplinary action such as the issue of a warning and/or the imposition of sanctions. Unsatisfactory conduct includes such things as: • poor time-keeping • abuse of Arup's policies and procedures • wilful refusal to carry out reasonable instructions given by someone in authority or other acts of unjustifiable insubordination • persistent or unauthorised absences • actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and/or other organisations or which may compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Some behaviour is completely unacceptable and could result in summary dismissal with no warnings being given. Such behaviour, termed gross misconduct, includes: • misappropriation or abuse of the firm's property, including electronic property, or wilful damage to it • instances of harassment or discrimination • any kind of physical assault, threatened or actual, during employment or whilst using premises provided by the firm • breaches of Arup's health and safety practices, or any action which endangers people's health or safety • incapacity to work through being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs • theft, attempted theft, fraud, misuse, or any other act intended to deprive the firm of its finances or property, including intellectual property and software; timesheet and expense claim falsifications are included • serious breach of confidentiality, for whatever reason, except where specifically allowed by relevant UK legislation • distribution by any means, including electronic, of material of an offensive, libellous, sexual, or racist nature. 1/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Performance: Before commencing any role within Arup employees should be aware of the performance standards expected. Where those standards are not met, the firm's disciplinary procedure will be used to agree the action required to rectify the situation. 3 The procedure Wherever appropriate, an informal discussion will be held between you and the person to whom you directly report to discuss a case of poor performance or conduct. A written record will be made of this discussion, a copy given to you and a copy kept on your personnel file. If this discussion does not lead to the agreed improvement, the disciplinary procedure as outlined below will be used and this informal record of your discussion will be taken into account in subsequent disciplinary meetings with you. Where the situation is more serious the formal disciplinary procedure will be used straight away. There are four formal stages to the procedure, the fourth stage being dismissal. Serious breaches of conduct or repetitions of unsatisfactory conduct/performance may result directly in an appropriate warning, not necessarily at the first stage. Cases of gross misconduct could result directly in the fourth stage, dismissal. In this case dismissal will be summary, ie with no notice. 3.1 First stage warning (verbal warning) • If conduct/performance does not meet expected standards you will be invited, in writing, to attend a discussion with the person to whom you directly report to talk about the issue and agree action to improve the situation. The letter you receive will give you at least 48 hours' notice of the meeting and will include: the reason for the meeting; who will be present and your right to be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup. • The person to whom you directly report will investigate the circumstances of the incident. He/she may do this by taking statements from any available witnesses which will be available to you. You will be asked during the meeting to present any other relevant information. • The meeting should cover clearly: • a brief description of the conduct/performance to be addressed • reasons for the unsatisfactory conduct/performance • the improvement required • the action agreed with you to achieve this • the timescale within which the improvement is required to take place • the consequences of not achieving the necessary improvement. • No travel costs will be paid in connection with a colleague of your choice attending the meeting with you. During the meeting your colleague may clarify points, request clarification and take notes but, may not answer questions on your behalf. • The person to whom you report will conduct the meeting and your Administrator may be there to take notes. • If it is decided that there is a case for disciplinary action, after the meeting you will be sent a note confirming the items discussed in the meeting. You will be required to sign and return a copy of it to confirm receipt and that copy will be held in your personnel file for the period specified in the note. The more serious the matter the longer the warning remains in your personnel file. The warning might include sanctions such as demotion or a salary freeze, depending on the severity of the matter. Your employment record with the Partnership will be taken into account in determining any such sanctions. 3.2 Second stage warning (written warning) • If there is no improvement within the agreed timescale or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar), another meeting will be held. This second stage will 2/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance follow the same format as the first stage. The person to whom you report directly may also take into account any previous warnings you have received for whatever reason and which are still current. • Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. • After that meeting you may be issued with a second stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.3 Third stage warning (final written warning) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of a more serious nature, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. In some instances, an appropriate member of the Human Resources Group may attend in place of either the person to whom you report directly or your Group Leader. • If the issue to be addressed is a serious conduct issue and you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed, providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. If the meeting results in a warning being issued, your assignment may be ended with immediate effect. After this meeting you may be issued with a third stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.4 Fourth stage (dismissal) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of gross misconduct, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Because of the serious nature of the fourth stage, your Group Leader or equivalent will be expected to attend this meeting rather than the person to whom you report directly, along with a senior member of the Human Resources Group. • In serious cases, particularly of gross misconduct, you may be suspended on full pay whilst circumstances are investigated. This period should not exceed 10 working days. • If you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. • The decision to end your employment is made jointly between your Group Leader, or equivalent, and the Human Resources Group. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal and details of your right to appeal. • If it is decided that the matter is one of gross misconduct, then you may be summarily dismissed, ie without notice. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal, and details of your right to appeal. 4 For employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup The firm's principles of fairness and reasonableness will apply to conduct/ performance issues which are raised with you. During your first six months of service, your performance will be monitored and appropriate training and guidance given where needed. 3/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance You should note that you are subject to the firm's Conduct & Performance code of practice and its associated disciplinary procedure, but it will be modified such that there will be three instead of four stages to the disciplinary procedure; the second stage of the procedure will be omitted. 5 Appeal You may appeal against any measures imposed as a result of the disciplinary procedure. An appeal must be made in writing, outlining your justification for the appeal and sent to your Human Resources Manager. This must be done within five working days of the notification of the measure to be imposed. Your appeal will be heard within 10 working days of the receipt of the appeal, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. The appeal will be heard by a Group Leader outside the Group in which you are employed. You will be required to attend and present your case and you will be entitled to be accompanied by a colleague from within the firm. The appeal may be upheld or rejected or an alternative disciplinary measure to that already taken may be substituted. (The decision reached is final no further appeal will be heard.) Whilst an appeal against dismissal is pending, the dismissal will continue and the appeal heard afterwards. If the appeal is successful and you are reinstated, your employment with the firm will be deemed to be unbroken by the dismissal and you will receive payment for all salary owed to you. 6 Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group is available to provide advice and guidance to all employees involved in issues arising from this code of practice and its associated procedure. Those investigating action under this code of practice are required to keep the Human Resources Group informed of all disciplinary matters. The Human Resources Group is responsible for overseeing any dismissal action meetings (and third stage warning meetings, where appropriate) and for hearing any appeal against measures imposed at any stage of this disciplinary procedure. 4/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 7 Attachment: −− Corporate Report Corporate Report 2010 Design is about taking better decisions, creating better solutions and better results Arup is a global firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. We operate in five regions, the Americas, Australasia, East Asia, Europe and the UK, Middle East and Africa (UK-MEA), with our corporate centre based in the UK. Arup is owned in trust on behalf of its employees. With no shareholders or external investors, we are able to determine our own direction as a business and set our own priorities, independently. We are not obliged to report on our performance in the same way as listed companies. Instead, we have chosen to use our Corporate Report as an opportunity to reflect on the past year and report on our sustainability performance and goals. Our financial results are appended at the end of the report. Chairman’s foreword The last 12 months has been a period of much turbulence, with many ‘western’ economies still affected by the world financial crisis, but some developing economies very active and providing plenty of opportunities. Fortunately, Arup’s geographic and sector diversity has helped us enormously, and our turnover and resource base will be roughly the same as the previous year, albeit that this conceals some regional variations. In previous recessions we have always seen one thriving part of our firm helping another less-buoyant part. Today, we operate much more as a true global network, sharing resources and delivering the best skills to appropriate projects no matter where the individuals are based. We are still seeing strong growth in several parts of Asia, especially China, and a healthy economy in Australasia. In the Americas and Europe, including the UK, we have more of a mixed picture, where infrastructure opportunities generally predominate, with property markets beginning to improve in many prime locations. In April, we set out a fresh Arup Group Strategy focussing on the four themes of Investment, Design, Talent and Operations. We have a long and successful history of investing for the future, and have now set down our focus areas for the next few years, including geographic and sector priorities as well as extending our collaborative research plans through Memorandum of Understandings with a small number of the best Universities. At the same time, we continue to see design – providing our clients with innovative joined-up solutions to their complex problems – as a strong differentiator for Arup. Our strength is ‘total design’, combining our best local, technical and sector knowledge. Our newly-formed Arup Design Council is chaired by Sir John Sorrell, who has joined Arup as Group Advisor, and is focussed on reinforcing a design culture across the firm and promoting Arup as being central to the creative world. The sustainability of Arup depends upon our ongoing success in attracting new people, and caring for and retaining those who align with our core values. Learning and development has always been at the heart of the firm, and the launch of the Arup University will help us maintain our learning culture for Marina Bay in Singapore current and new generations. exemplifies Arup’s ‘total design’ approach. It I am pleased to report that our financial position is stable, and with our Trust integrates Singapore’s ownership we can take long-term decisions free from the need to satisfy prestigious waterfront shareholders through the usual annual cycle. We have taken advantage of the promenade with iconic changing marketplace to move some of our best people, including some key retail, entertainment and hotel facilities, public leaders, who then not only bring fresh ideas and experience, but also set-up spaces and breathtaking bonds that strengthen the cohesion of our firm for the years ahead. city views. Pedestrian access to the resort is I have visited many of our offices throughout the year, and met many of our via the landmark Helix clients. Their appreciation of the quality of our work, the way it also benefits footbridge inspired by the the communities in which they operate, and the enthusiasm of our people, all geometric arrangement of DNA. The Marina Bay give me strong optimism for the future. Sands Hotel has the world’s longest public cantilever, the SkyPark, which is an engineering marvel. Philip Dilley, Chairman Sustainability at Arup During these difficult economic times, it would be easy to put sustainability to one side and focus on areas that are more obviously business critical. We feel that to take this approach would be short-sighted, and over the last 18 months have strengthened our understanding of sustainability and worked to articulate more clearly what it means for Arup and our clients. Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission to shape a better world. Our founder, Sir Ove Arup, established the firm over 60 years ago with the principle of ‘total design’ very much at the fore – the integration of the design process and the interdependence of all the professions. He also championed the social value of innovation and the humanitarian purpose of good design. Today we understand this as a commitment to sustainability. Sustainability relates not just to our environmental performance, emissions and resource use, but to our economic performance, our impact on society, the culture of our firm and every element of our operation. Only by being sustainable in the way we conduct our business can we be successful in our mission to shape a better world. In 2007, the Group Board formalised our approach by introducing Arup’s global Sustainability Policy. As we implement the Policy throughout our operations there are inevitable challenges in embedding and measuring sustainability across our global operations. To address this and support our journey, we launched a Sustainability Strategy in April 2010 to provide a framework for sustainability and provide us with measurable targets. In this, our first Corporate Report since we introduced our Sustainability Strategy, we celebrate some of the achievements from the calendar year 2010 under the framework provided by our Sustainability Policy: Our Business, Our People, Our Facilities and Our External Relationships. Each section contains a chart reporting on our performance against the key performance indicators (KPIs) in our Strategy, collated from all our regions. Where we measured it, we have included historical data to demonstrate our trend in performance. The ongoing economic The contents of this report have been selected from across our regions downturn in much of Europe for their contribution to furthering the sustainability agenda for our clients, means that land owners are within Arup and for society. Although we could have included many more, reconsidering their strategies we hope these examples provide insight into our ‘total design’ thinking. for empty plots that are not required for buildings. We suggested that our client, Zuidas Development, establish an urban farm on one of its empty plots in central Amsterdam. The farm has a strong community element with neighbourhood schools invited to celebrate the harvest, and is transforming the perception of the future development among local people. Our business As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we can have on sustainability is through our work with clients. But we try to embed sustainability in everything that we do – in the way we run our business, our projects, and our physical impacts on the external environment. Equipping ourselves to help our clients We help our clients to face the challenges of sustainability by investing in our passion for turning ideas into tangible tools and methodologies. Every year we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this research. This ensures we are equipped to continue to provide our clients with the best possible solutions. Some of our awards In the maritime industry, for example, sustainability is high on the agenda, Our East Asia Region won the with ports obliged to comply with Sustainability Award at the strict regulations under tight financial British Business Awards constraints. To support clients through this complex process, our maritime Arup Associates was named engineers in Madrid have adapted Arup’s Sustainable Designer of the established SPeAR® sustainability Year by the UK’s Sustainability appraisal tool, to develop SuPort, a Awards holistic evaluation and diagnostic tool for assessing sustainability performance The New Acropolis Museum in in ports and harbours. 1 Athens won the Sustainability Award at the International In the UK, we have formally Lighting Design Awards incorporated sustainable business outcomes into our up-front discussions The Property Council of Australia with clients. In this way, we engage with Innovation and Excellence clients to explore how we might help Awards gave the Sustainable them achieve their sustainability goals. Development Award to 2 Victoria Avenue, Perth Our building retrofitting services are underpinned by our proprietary software Stanford Graduate School of tool, AssetMap, which brings together Business, California, was named architectural, engineering, and financial Green Project of the Year by the Silicon Valley/San Jose Business and risk analysis in one place to enable Journal us to quickly analyse the economic potential of a client’s building or Beijing Changxindian Low property portfolio. It helps us to advise Carbon Community project won clients on where they might focus any the International Society of City physical interventions, improve value and Regional Planners Awards for money and develop and deliver the for Excellence strategy to take their portfolio forward. 2 4 ©Arup/Kevin Chamberlain Photography 5 1 SuPort 2 AssetMap 3 9 Hunter Street 4 Crossrail 5 Beijing 3 A considered approach Our work is informed by rigorous testing and analysis, and we are not afraid While many buildings lend themselves to challenge established methodologies, where we think there is a better way. naturally to the principles of sustainable And by approaching projects in a holistic way, we can deliver solutions that design, challenges often arise when leave a positive legacy for our clients, the community and the environment. trying to resolve these design options within the constraints of fire engineering. We are addressing this in Australia In Crossrail, a major new railway Hong Kong recently announced its with a paper which highlights the connection beneath central London, our long-awaited plan for tackling climate need for the earlier adoption of fire energy and infrastructure teams saw change which consists of a series of engineering in projects, particularly an opportunity to innovate by applying individual strategies for each of its those with sustainability objectives. geothermal borehole technology to the different sectors. We think there is a Our refurbishment of 9 Hunter Street tunnels. They approached Crossrail with need for the city to adopt a framework achieved a 6 star Green Star rating the idea of embedding cold-water pipes that considers the interactions between and illustrates how a balance can be into the tunnel linings which would be these strategies, rather than approaching achieved. heated by the relatively-high ambient them in isolation. To stimulate public temperature of the air in the tunnel. This debate – with the aim of achieving In Beijing we have partnered with would then provide warm water to heat a better end result for Hong Kong – the Beijing Institute for Urban local buildings, potentially providing our local office developed a Carbon Planning to assess the city’s carbon our client with a revenue stream and Calculator that considers these emissions arising from its City Plan, reducing the cost of operating ventilation interactions. For example, the emission and developing strategies for reducing fans to cool the tunnels. Crossrail has reduction attributed to adopting electric Beijing’s carbon footprint. commissioned us to investigate the cars will depend on the efficiency of the feasibility and potential market for electricity grid. this solution. ©2010 Wind Power Limited and Grimshaw ©Chargemaster 6 7 Collaborative working Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. We bring together ©Yorkshire Water teams of people from diverse disciplines and with unique skills on a global scale. This helps us collectively to tackle tough issues and find imaginative solutions to real problems. 8 One such example is a joint venture study for the European Commission with an equivalent horizontal-axis turbine with Yorkshire Water to investigate the Scottish Carbon Capture and Storage, with the weight concentrated at the energy consumption associated with showing for the first time on a Europebase, reducing fatigue in the blades and advanced wastewater treatment. By wide scale, the network of pipes that will making wind energy more cost-effective. implementing the results of our research, be required to transport CO2 across the Yorkshire Water is reducing its site continent to make carbon capture and Electric vehicles (EVs) are evolving operational costs by 15%, which equates storage a reality. rapidly, and Arup is leading the way to a potential reduction of over 16,000 through a number of partnerships and tonnes of CO2 each year and a £1.2m Our International Development team advisory roles. In South Africa, we are cost saving. has agreed a three-year grant with the working with Optimal Energy to develop Rockefeller Foundation, building on a new manufacturing facility for South Measuring and reporting of the role we have played over the past two Africa’s own EV, the Joule. In the UK we sustainability-related performance years working with them on the US$40m are providing strategic advice to central is relatively new. A white paper we Asian Cities Climate Change Resilience government as the delivery partner for authored with Harvard University puts Network. ACCCRN is a network of ten the Office for Low Emission Vehicles’ forward a new methodology that could cities across India, Vietnam, Thailand and infrastructure programme, Plugged-In transform the way companies report on Indonesia working together to generate Places, and adviser to the Technology green issues. It provides a simple and practical examples of how cities in fastStrategy Board (CABLED) and Energy cost-effective way of reporting, and urbanising, lowand middle-income Technologies Institute. On a local level, allows US companies to focus on what countries, can build urban resilience to we are advising Milton Keynes on the matters most. the various impacts of climate change. procurement and installation of EV infrastructure. In order to stay at the The emerging technology of carbon We are collaborating with Wind Power forefront of technology development, capture and storage takes CO2 Limited to develop an innovative we have co-founded HaloIPT, a company emissions from sources such as coalnew 10MW offshore wind turbine. which provides wireless charging for fired power stations and stores them The transformational design of the EVs and which may be the future of underground. We have undertaken a joint AerogeneratorX is half the height of charging technology. Our indicators 09-10 08-09 07-08 06-07 05-06 04-05 Trend in performance Aggregated from regional estimates based on Project Plans, Project Projects setting sustainability Quality Plans and various databases. 23 23 12 not measured objectives (%) Application of sustainability objectives to projects has been maintained. Profit on turnover (before tax, exceptional items and staff profit share). Profit (% on turnover) 2.6 8.6 11.2 8.5 7.2 2.9 Level of profitability reflects global economic circumstances. Investment in the business and its people, necessary for the continued success of the business. Investments (% of income) 1.5 2.4 2.7 2.6 1.9 1.7 Commitment to investment maintained despite global economic circumstances. Cash at bank (weeks of costs, Cash reserves necessary to meet our working capital demands. 7.7 7.9 8.1 6.6 6.9 5.3 before profit share) Cash reserves have been maintained. Aggregated from regional client satisfaction surveys and various databases. Repeat clients (%)1 76 58 70 50 50 52 Level of repeat clients has increased despite challenging economic times. 1 Results recalculated pre 2009-10 using revised methodology Better solutions One of our aims is to do quality work that brings real benefits to our clients and which create a positive legacy for the lives of people and for the environment. GREEN TOMORROW is a zerocarbon house designed for Samsung as a showcase of sustainable design for South Korea. It is the first zero-carbon building in East Asia to achieve a LEED Platinum level. By incorporating the green concepts, Samsung aims to halve energy use in its new apartment developments by 2013. In Mauritius, we are delivering the first project to be rated using an international environmental standard. The BREEAM-rated Mauritius ©Samsung C&T Commercial Bank incorporates a photovoltaic farm, rainwater harvesting and is orientated to eliminate solar gain. 9 In Melbourne, commercial buildings San Francisco’s Laguna Honda Hospital ©Arup/David Wakely Photography/Anshen + Allen are responsible for 48% of greenhouse specialises in the long-term care of gas emissions. As part of the City’s the city’s homeless, elderly and poor, 1200 Buildings programme to stimulate many of whom rely on the hospital for retrofit of existing commercial their wellbeing. We incorporated these buildings, we have been commissioned unique issues into a design to increase to study Melbourne’s building stock patient wellbeing and to ultimately and to segment it into those with lower the overall cost of care. Features higher, medium and lower potential include organic walking trails to help for mitigating CO2 emissions. Our treat Alzheimer’s patients, a farm, 10 recommendations and database enabled greenhouse, and communal eating and the City Council to break down the recreation areas to increase patient 6 Electric vehicle charging station 7 AerogeneratorX large volume of information so it could interaction. The hospital achieved LEED 8 Yorkshire Water wastewater treatment effectively target building owners and certification, making Laguna one of the 9 Green Tomorrow operators. first ‘green hospitals’ in the US. 10 Laguna Honda Hospital Our people Our people are essential to us creating a sustainable business. By making our work environments stimulating, and by running our business in an equitable and rewarding way, we create the space for staff to innovate and lead in new areas – for the benefit of us and our clients. A learning organisation Shaping the sustainability agenda Learning is at the heart of our All around the world, Arup people organisation, and one of our ongoing are actively involved in external aims is to improve standards and provide organisations that promote and progress better coordination for our learning, sustainability. This is a two-way activity, knowledge sharing and research. To as they are also able to bring knowledge further these aims, we have established back into the firm, ensuring we are at the Arup University, which acts as the forefront of the latest thinking on an umbrella for much of our learning sustainability. activities. It will raise standards, ensuring that what we learn meets the • Desiree Carolus, on the Board of 1 firm’s needs and is accessible to all staff. Enerkey in South Africa, which Active collaborations with external improves sustainability through urban Some of our awards universities will help to ensure the Arup energy projects University’s academic independence. • Andrew Chan, Chairman of the Hong Winners of the Olympic Delivery Kong Green Building Council Authority Diversity Award for One of the courses on offer is a • Fiona Cousins, on the Board of Most Improved Organisation Masters-level module in Sustainability Directors of the New York chapter of Leadership, which aims to develop the US Green Building Council Our Hong Kong office won the a cadre of people working together Manpower Developer Award for to address the broadest and most • Bora Kovacevic, on the Management outstanding accomplishments in challenging questions relevant to our Board of the Russian Green Building training and development business. The module has been designed Council in partnership with the University of • Ramón Rodríguez, Vice-President of Australian National Association Cambridge, and 23 staff from across our the Green Building Council Spain for Women in Construction regions enrolled on the course this year. • Sara Turnbull, Council Member Award for Innovation in Design given to Kathy Franklin and Trustee of the UK Women’s Engineering Society 37% Highest ranked consulting • Frank Vromans, on the Board of engineers in the Hong Kong Top the Australian Green Infrastructure 100 Graduate Employer List Council • Jeremy Watson, Chief Scientific Engineers Australia Young Adviser to the UK’s Department for Inspiring Engineer Award given Communities and Local Government to Steven Lindsay • Jaap Wiedenhoff, member of the Rotterdam Climate Initiative in the UK Women in Construction Netherlands Awards Professional/Consultant of the Year Award given to The proportion of our graduate recruits Kate Hall in the UK-MEA who are women Our indicators 09-10 08-09 07-08 06-07 05-06 04-05 Trend in performance Women in the firm Based on staff at all grades. 30 29 29 30 29 29 (all Grades) (%) Proportion of women in the firm has been maintained. Women in management Based on staff at Grades 7-9. 13 13 12 not measured positions (Grades 7-9) (%) 1 Proportion of women in management has been maintained. Staff who have received Based on training records and external accreditation for staff relevant sustainability 41 17 16 not measured at all Grades. training (%) Significant improvement has occurred. 1 Introduced as a KPI this year 2 4 Grassroots sustainability Challenging superstition This November, we celebrated the In China, superstition holds that it is tenth anniversary of OvaGreen, unlucky for women to enter a tunnel our global network of environmental before it is completed. We worked volunteers in Arup offices. The work closely with our client and with of this grassroots network predates the contractors on the Hong Kong West creation of Arup’s formal sustainability Drainage Tunnel to break this tradition policy, and was started by a group by placing Priscilla Huong as the of passionate staff in 2000. A lot of resident geologist on the project. She has OvaGreen’s early initiatives are now been accepted in her role and says: “I am 3 managed by Arup’s central systems, such honoured to work as one of the female as purchasing departments, IT, facilities pioneers in the tunnelling industry. I will 1 Arup University 2 OvaGreen Swap Shop management, and through strategies work hard to demonstrate that female 3 OvaGreen showcase such as the firm’s Group Sustainability engineers can play an equivalent role in 4 Priscilla Huong Strategy. OvaGreen’s work is not over, this industry, just as male engineers do.” however. Today, OvaGreen is dedicated to making our operational practices more sustainable, and promotes staff awareness of and involvement in sustainability issues, both in the workplace and in the community. Our facilities Sustainability is a key consideration for the way we manage our offices, in the resources that we use and the goods and services that we buy. ©Arup/Hufton+Crow 1 2 Greening the Arup estate Some of our awards Our offices are the second biggest flush toilets, maximum use of daylight contributor to Arup’s carbon footprint, and diverting waste materials from the Best Large Corporation in after travel. We are committed to taking refurbishments from landfill. the Mayor of London’s Green a resource efficient, sustainable approach Procurement Code Awards to the way we run all our offices, and Our new central London office opened we aim to achieve the International at 8 Fitzroy Street, allowing us to Bronze award for the Green Organisation for Standardisation’s consolidate 1400 staff from eight other Office Management Award from Environmental Management System sites into one world-class building. the Hong Kong Green Council Certification (ISO14001) across 95% of Environmental features include a our estate by the end of 2012. chilled-beam heating and cooling Winner of the Hong Kong system, solar heated hot-water supply, and Asian Most Admired Our offices in Germany, the US and rainwater collection, daylight sensors Knowledge Enterprise Award the Gulf have now achieved ISO14001 and significant sub-metering allowing us certification, as have Bristol, Singapore, to monitor and control energy use. The Gold Award from the Intranet Istanbul, Bangkok, Beijing, Hong energy consumption for the building is Innovation Awards for our Kong, Shanghai, Shenzhen, Tokyo and displayed in the reception area as part of Discussion Forums and a Moscow. This brings the proportion of our intention to monitor and reduce our Commendation for Arup Arup staff working in offices that are environmental impact. Projects, our knowledge base of project information ISO14001 certified to 70%. Our San Francisco office also launched In the Americas, our Boston and Los an energy metering and visualisation Angeles offices received the additional system. This ‘energy dashboard’ shows accolade of being awarded Leadership real-time and historical data feeds of the in Energy & Environmental Design electricity used by the lighting, server (LEED) Silver ratings. The certificate and plug loads of the office. Data can be recognises design features and strategies accessed through various interfaces to to improve performance, such as dual increase understanding of energy use. Our indicators 09-10 08-09 07-08 06-07 05-06 04-05 Trend in performance Staff working in offices Based on the number of staff working in EMS (ISO14001) certified with an EMS certified to 70 70 68 34 43 40 offices in all regions. ISO14001 (%) Certification of offices to ISO14001 has been maintained. Carbon emissions per Based on regional estimates of direct and indirect emissions including full-time employee per year 3.4 3.4 1 3.1 1 not measured business travel 2. (tonnes CO2) No trend identified. Based on monitoring of waste generation in Australasia, East Asia, Total wastes generated per full115 122 not measured Europe and UK-MEA Regions. time employee per year (kg) No trend identified. Based on regional records of lost time accidents (previously Lost time accidents per 99 219 141 107 94 118 reportable accidents 2003-07). 100,000 employees 3 Reduction in the number of lost time accidents. 1 Recalculated using revised 2009 emission factors and resolving calculation errors 2 Using the ‘WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting’ definition of Scopes 1, 2 and 3 3 Recalculated in 2010 following a global review of accident statistics Sustainability investments begin to pay In the UK, Arup’s photocopiers have been installed with Uniflow print management software. Instead of directly printing a document, it is sent to a print queue and staff then retrieve their prints by swiping their ID badge. This has helped reduce wasted prints by automatically deleting those not collected within 24 hours. By April 2010, 30% of prints had not been collected, which translates to a saving of around £60k in printing and paper costs. We also improved the call quality and user experience of our video conference facilities by moving from a single hub located in the UK, which served all 3 our regions, to four hubs across the 1 The Los Angeles office Americas, Australasia, East Asia and 2 8 Fitzroy Street 3 Video conferencing UK-MEA. This has driven the volume 4 Eyjafjalljokull volcano of video calls from an average of 300 per month in 2008 to 900 per month in 2010. The value of the investment was clear in April 2010 when the widespread cancellation of flights due to the volcanic ash cloud from Iceland’s Eyjafjallajokull volcano resulted in a peak of 1100 calls, the first time that call volume had 4 exceeded 1000. Our relationships We work hard to develop partnerships that bring about a genuine exchange of knowledge and ideas, helping to drive further improvements in sustainability both within and outside Arup. This means promoting the benefits of sustainability to clients and partners, providing leadership in our local communities and helping to minimise our environmental impacts on society. 1 2 Helping cities tackle climate change As the sole strategic advisor to the In Toronto, we focused on the challenges C40, a group of 40 of the world’s of translating the Mayor’s energy largest cities committed to tackling targets into action at a neighbourhood climate change, we are working with level. With Melbourne, we explored six member cities to deliver actionhow the city could use information oriented UrbanLife workshops. By technology to encourage people to taking a multidisciplinary approach and change their behaviour and enable fusing the practical with the political, city managers to better understand the we are helping deliver robust, realistic impact of their climate policies. São solutions to a specific challenge facing Paulo’s workshop explored how a new each city. Our workshops also consider approach to waste management could the bureaucratic challenges of delivering create a renewable energy resource, and far-reaching programmes that cut across in Ho Chi Minh City we focussed on the traditional departmental boundaries how to marry the city’s rapid growth of city government. with greater resilience to flooding and water shortages. In 2011, we will lead workshops with Addis Ababa and Warsaw. Our indicators 09-10 08-09 07-08 06-07 05-06 04-05 Trend in performance Direct charitable donations in all regions, including those from Charitable donations the Ove Arup Charitable Trust. 742 761 410 not measured (£, to nearest £000) 1 Donations are in line with the target of 1% of management account profit. Based on equivalent cost of pro bono staff engagement in all regions. Pro bono engagement (£ equivalent staff cost, 582 715 109 not measured In the context of ongoing improvements to the consistency of reporting, level of pro bono engagement acceptable given the to nearest £000) challenging economic condition. 1 Includes charitable donations through UK charitable trusts Sustainable insight Our founding partnership with Cambridge University’s Programme for Sustainability Leadership continues. We are lead partner in a new programme that aims to encourage companies and governments to recognise that natural capital is a fundamental basis for business value. We have established a sustainability hub within our Brisbane office, bringing together four separate notfor-profit organisations working in the environment and sustainability sector. The hub’s central mission is to integrate sustainability more broadly through our major infrastructure projects, buildings and communities. The hub organisations include Brisbane City Council’s CitySmart, Green Cross, Australian Green Infrastructure Council, and the Green Building Council of Australia. 3 Our Relationship with the World 1 UrbanLife workshop in Toronto 2 Wilfred Lau in Ho Chi Minh City Economic Forum continued. Following 3 Natural capital the publication in 2009 of the SlimCity 4 SlimCity cards Knowledge Cards which we researched and produced in collaboration with the Forum, this year we produced a SlimCity e-platform. The online tool furthers the aim of the SlimCity programme, to inspire Mayors and the private sector to take committed action towards achieving resource efficiency at a city level. Users can now browse the cards online and leave comments for discussion. An innovative radial diagram maps the connections between the SlimCity topics. To date the cards have been used in workshop events in Tokyo, Toronto, Melbourne, San Francisco and London. 4 Humanitarian causes One of the many things that sets Arup apart is its commitment to humanitarian causes. Our founder, Ove Arup, established the firm as ‘an organisation which is human and friendly’ and with ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to join hands with others fighting for the same values.’ We fulfil this commitment through giving, doing and developing, including through our global initiative that seeks to encourage and leverage staff abilities to reduce suffering and improve people’s lives, the Arup Cause. We give money and allow our people to give their time; we fund staff to provide technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations around the world; and we encourage our staff at a grassroots level to undertake networking and education activities on charitable and community issues, under the umbrella of Arup’s Poverty Action Network. Giving Top ten monetary donations in 2009-10 Each year, we aim to donate 1% of our The Ove Arup Foundation £139,271 profits to charitable causes, and we also contribute staff time. Wherever Thanks to Arup’s support, £46,436 possible, we try to combine money and the Smith Family has been Engineers Without Borders time to bring about the greatest impact. RedR £40,626 We partner with organisations and able to expand initiatives The Climate Group £25,000 charities with which Arup can have an such as an innovative Red Cross £23,126 ongoing relationship, and community family and child centre in engagement groups in each of our Townsville, and our online The Smith Family £23,087 regions allocate donations across a broad mentoring programs were Habitat for Humanity £22,394 range of areas: education, social care, assisted by Arup staff. health and welfare, disaster relief and A generous donation of Sports Aid £20,500 poverty alleviation, local community development, sustainability and the $25,000 provided further The Royal Academy of Engineering £18,800 environment, and technology. support to our programs. Unicef £15,790 Other (less than £10,000) £366,970 Our largest donation is to The Ove Arup Foundation, a charitable organisation Damian Foley, General Manager Total donations £742,000 that aims to promote new thinking in Queensland, The Smith Family engineering and architectural education. In particular, it aims to build a greater understanding between these different disciplines, and promote a more holistic approach to design. Over 50% of The Foundation’s donations made in 2009-10 were to universities. ©WZQ Foundation 2 3 1 SportsAid competition 2 Wu Zhi Qiao 3 Haiti earthquake 1 Doing Each of our five regions has established a areas of China. In June, we launched a on a not-for-profit basis, we provided small number of strategic partnerships global bridge design competition to technical assistance to a number of with charities that enable us to provide gather the best ideas from around Arup non-governmental agencies that are an ongoing programme of support. for a footbridge that provides safe access contributing to relief and recovery efforts. We want to maximise the impact of to schools and the local market for the these partnerships by aligning our remote community of Mixia Village We have been advising Habitat for skills, knowledge and interests with in Yunnan Province. Each project Humanity on its transitional shelter each charity’s mission, and with their is informed by a fusion of modern programme in Haiti and in developing immediate and longer-term needs. As construction knowledge, and local its strategic plan to assist communities these partnerships develop we believe wisdom and materials. in re-building their homes. We assessed the enthusiasm of our staff will make a pre-earthquake housing programme as a real difference, will improve the In partnership with SportsAid, the a potential benchmark for reconstruction personal development of our staff, Construction Youth Trust and the Royal and prepared technical guidance notes and help our business to become more Academy of Engineering, we invited on a variety of topics including wind closely engaged with the communities in students aged 12-14 from across London loading, damage assessment and which we work. to design and submit plans for a new building typologies which have been sports venue. Over 200 children took shared with the UK Shelter Forum and The Smith Family is an independent part, supported by 60 Arup staff, with UN Shelter Cluster. children’s charity in Australia committed 30 entries from 11 schools. Ten finalists to helping disadvantaged children by competed for the prestigious accolade providing them with education and at a public forum hosted at our offices. learning opportunities. We work together Talks are underway with our partners to to enable children and their families to expand the competition nationwide access the support they need to have next year. $65,000 better futures. The Haiti earthquake on 12 January In East Asia, we work with the Wu Zhi 2010 caused extensive damage and made Qiao (Bridge to China) organisation, hundreds of thousands homeless. Through providing engineering support to teams our International Development team, of university student volunteers on which provides assistance to development Amount raised for Haiti earthquake bridge rebuilding projects in remote and humanitarian agencies relief by staff in the Americas Developing In the Ashanti region of Ghana, we continued our relationship with NGO Ashanti Development to provide safe and accessible water and better waste management to local communities. We provided two specialists on a 50% voluntary basis, 50% funded as Arup Cause activities. Our work is undertaken alongside villagers and is sustainable in that no village is allowed to become dependent on us. Eighteen staff members from Cardiff took part in a project to design and build an orphanage in Uganda. As well as providing architecture, structure, infrastructure, landscaping and environmental assessment services, they gained planning permission and hired a local workforce to build the Orphanage. Arup Cause funding supported the engineers’ travel to Uganda to oversee construction for two week stints. Arup’s Poverty Action Network (PAN) originated as a global grassroots community of staff focused on international development and disaster relief work. PAN has since grown into a vehicle for action for our staff – enabling those that have an interest in humanitarian issues, social injustice and sustainable development to take action in the local and wider community. Regular events include monthly talks, ‘wear red for RedR’ fundraising events in all our 4 regions for the international charity, 3279 and volunteering to provide free home repairs to low-income homeowners in Los Angeles through the organisation, Rebuilding Together. Hours of unpaid voluntary time donated by staff to oversee construction of the orphanage in Uganda 5 531 4 Ashanti Development 5 Wear red for RedR Global subscribers to Arup’s Poverty Action Network Forum Our indicators Sustainability Policy Objectives Key Performance Indicators 2009-10 Final 2011-12 Target Our business Projects setting sustainability objectives (%) 23 50 • provide value to clients by building upon its reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects Profit (% on turnover) 2.6 –1 • deliver projects recognised for their sustainability credentials, in line with client expectations • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and Investments (% of income) 1.5 –1 opportunities and, where appropriate, discuss these with the client • achieve performance that ensures the firm’s economic, environmental Cash at bank (weeks of costs, before and financial viability 7.7 –1 profit share) Repeat clients (%) 76 –1 Our people Women in the firm (all Grades) (%) 30 35 • employ and retain staff who have a high degree of awareness and expertise in sustainability for all disciplines practised Women in management 13 15 • provide continual education and training for all staff on sustainability positions (Grades 7-9) (%) issues relevant to the firm’s businesses • support innovative approaches to implementation of sustainability Staff sustainability training (%) 41 35 strategies on projects Our facilities Staff in offices with EMS to ISO14001 (%) 70 95 • maintain management systems to assist with implementation of sustainability objectives Carbon emissions per full-time employee 3.4 2.9 2 • aim to use resources efficiently and to minimise waste, usage of water, per year (tonnes CO2) energy and other consumables in the office environment • develop a strategy to move towards minimising carbon emissions in its Total wastes generated per full-time 115 3 110 4 operations employee per year (kg) • endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of its activities Lost time accidents per 100,000 • develop a strategy for the firm to move towards sustainable procurement 99 186 2 employees of the goods and services used in its operations Our external relationships Charitable donations 742k 1% of management • partner with organisations that practise sustainability and that enable the (£, to nearest £000) 5 (1.1%) account profit exchange of ideas and the promotion of sustainability leadership across its businesses Pro bono engagement • fund and work on community projects that achieve sustainability goals 582k –1 (£ equivalent staff cost, to nearest £000) 1 No target set 2 15% reduction on 08-09 outcome 3 Excludes Americas Region 4 10% reduction on 08-09 outcome 5 Includes charitable donations through UK charitable trusts After several years of data collection we opportunities for further improvement it is apparent that in some areas planned are in a position to understand trends will be identified and implemented. improvement will take significant effort in our performance. Our Group Board to attain, that other activity areas should articulated a set of global targets in 2009 The table above shows a summary of achieve their target by 2012, and some to measure delivery of our Sustainability our 2009-10 performance against our we already comfortably achieve. Strategy. These targets identify sustainability targets. In this first year of performance to be achieved by the end implementing our Group Sustainability We will be guided by this review of our of the 2011-12 financial year. At that Strategy, it is too early to draw performance in setting and modifying our time, the Strategy will be reviewed and conclusions from our progress. However, sustainability delivery plans for 2011. Cover image: The Korea Pavillion, Shanghai Expo, China | Ⓒ Arup/Hufton+Crow Contents Directors’ report 1-2 Independent auditors’ report 3 Profit and loss account 4 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 4 Group balance sheet 5 Company balance sheet 6 Cashflow statement 7 Notes to the financial statements 8-22 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 1 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 Directors’ report The directors present their report together with • Turnover and profit per person is a financial KPI the financial statements for the year ended used to monitor the continued contribution to 31 March 2010 which were approved by the the Group. In calculating this measure profit Board of Directors on 22 October 2010. is stated before tax, dividends and profit share. For the year ended 31 March 2010, turnover per The capital of the Company is divided into equity person was £90k (2009: £85k) and profit per shares, which are held in trust for the benefit of person was £11k (2009: £8k). the employees (past and present) of the Group, and voting shares that are held by the Ove Arup • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure Partnership Charitable Trust. of business performance. For the year ended 31 March 2010, staff turnover was 12.7% Principal activity (2009: 10.0%). The Company and its subsidiaries practice in Directors and their interests the field of consulting engineering services, in architecture and in other related professional skills. The directors of Arup Group Ltd during the year were as follows: European Union branches J Baster (Appointed 01/11/09) The Group has significant branches operating in the M D Bear (Appointed 01/10/09) European Union countries of Poland and Romania. A J Belfield Review of the business R F Care and future developments T G A Carfrae The Group turnover for the year remained A K C Chan unchanged (2009: increased by 22.5%) and the P G Dilley Group made a total profit before tax, dividends and staff profit share of £104.1m (2009: £76.6m). G S Hodkinson The performance and development of the Group is L M Lui in line with the expectations of the directors. J C Miles The directors draw attention to the following M Raman matters that have had an impact on the reported D J Singleton performance in the current year: D A Whittleton • The results include the defined benefit pension No director has an interest in the shares of the scheme liabilities and assets as calculated under Company (or any other member of the Group) FRS 17. This shows as a net liability on the other than through their interest as an employee of balance sheet of £83.4m (2009: £98.9m). the Group in the employee trusts which own the • The closure of the pension scheme and the equity shares of the ultimate parent Company. move from RPI to CPI valuation resulted in two exceptional credits to the profit and loss account Auditors of £42.3m and £38.5m. At an extraordinary general meeting of Arup Group The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Limited held on 7 October 2010, a resolution was business include foreign exchange risk and risk passed to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for resulting from the diverse geographical spread of the year ending 31 March 2011 as the Company the business and its ability to continue to secure and Group auditors. A thorough audit tender new projects and deliver the performance of existing process was undertaken, considering industry projects in line with management’s objectives. To knowledge, audit quality and cost efficiency. monitor these, the directors use the following financial key performance indicators (KPIs): Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 2 Directors’ report (continued) Charitable donations • select suitable accounting policies and then During the year the Group made donations to apply them consistently; charities and for charitable purposes of £730k • state whether applicable accounting standards (2009: £761k), of which £372k (2009: £551k) was have been followed, subject to any material to beneficiaries in the UK. departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and Employees • prepare the financial statements on the going The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is concern basis unless it is inappropriate to key to the future of the Group. Health and Safety assume that the Group will continue matters are regularly reviewed by the directors and in business. it is their policy to ensure that: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate • full and fair consideration is given to all accounting records that are sufficient to show and applications for employment made by disabled explain the Group’s transactions and disclose with persons, having regard to their capabilities; reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure • when existing employees become disabled that the financial statements comply with the (whether from illness or accident) every Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for reasonable effort is made to continue to provide safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for suitable employment either in the same, or by taking reasonable steps for the prevention and training, in an alternative job; and detection of fraud and other irregularities. • disabled persons are given equal consideration Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the for training, career development and opportunities preparation and dissemination of the accounts and for promotion within the Group. the other information included in Annual Reports The Group is active in the field of employee may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. communications and employees are encouraged to The maintenance and integrity of the Group express their views on major policy issues. Each website is the responsibility of the directors; the year employees are provided with a Chairman’s work carried out by the auditors does not involve report and financial information. Employees consideration of these matters, and accordingly the receive the balance of Group profits each year auditors accept no responsibility for any changes after transfer to reserves. that may have occurred in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. Statement of directors’ responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Audit Directors’ Report and the financial statements for So far as the directors are aware, there is no each financial year in accordance with applicable relevant audit information of which the Group’s laws and regulations. auditors are unaware, and the directors have taken The directors have elected to prepare financial all steps that ought to have been taken as directors statements in accordance with United Kingdom in order to make themselves aware of any relevant Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United audit information, and to establish that the Group’s Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable auditors are aware of that information. law). Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are By Order of the Board satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are M J Ansley-Young required to: Company Secretary • make judgements and estimates that are 22 October 2010 reasonable and prudent; Registered Office: 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 3 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 Independent auditors’ report We have audited the financial statements of Arup Opinion on financial statements Group Limited for the year ended 31 March 2010 In our opinion the financial statements: which comprise the group profit and loss account, the group and parent company balance sheet, the • give a true and fair view of the state of the group cash flow statement, the group statement of Group’s and the parent company's affairs as at total recognised gains and losses and the related 31 March 2010 and of the Group’s profit for the notes numbered 1 to 25. year then ended; The financial reporting framework that has been • have been properly prepared in accordance with applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Practice; and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). • have been prepared in accordance with the This report is made solely to the Company's requirements of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders, as a body, in accordance with Sections 495 to 496 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Opinion on other matters prescribed might state to the Company's shareholders those by the Companies Act 2006 matters we are required to state to them in an In our opinion the information given in the auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept the financial statements are prepared is consistent or assume responsibility to anyone other than the with the financial statements. Company and the Company's shareholders as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of directors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 and auditors requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are • adequate accounting records have not been kept responsible for the preparation of the financial by the parent company, or returns adequate for statements and for being satisfied that they give a our audit have not been received from branches true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the not visited by us; or financial statements in accordance with applicable • the financial statements are not in agreement law and International Standards on Auditing (UK with the accounting records and returns; or and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration Standards for Auditors. specified by law are not made; or • we have not received all the information and Scope of the audit of the explanations we require for our audit. financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Auditing Practices Board’s website at www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKNP. David Chitty (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants London 9 November 2010 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2010 4 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 2010 2009 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Notes Turnover 1c & 2 889,212 888,794 Staff costs 3 (487,537) (502,235) Exceptional staff costs 3 80,800 Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (228,162) (203,091) Accommodation (54,077) (50,968) Depreciation 8 (21,450) (16,778) Communications and other overheads (87,441) (69,798) (391,130) (340,635) Operating costs (797,867) (842,870) Operating profit 5 91,345 45,924 Dividends received 11 Other finance (charges)/income (7,088) 26 Interest receivable 1,088 2,107 Interest payable 6 (645) (36) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 2 84,700 48,032 Taxation on ordinary activities 1e & 7 (24,705) (13,531) Profit for the financial year 17 & 18 59,995 34,501 2010 2009 Statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Profit for the financial year 17 & 18 59,995 34,501 Exchange translation gain/(loss) 17 & 18 3,582 (2,455) Actuarial losses recognised in the pension schemes 25 (65,287) (92,323) Deferred tax asset movements related to the actuarial losses 18,300 24,886 Total gains/(losses) recognised since last annual report 16,590 (35,391) The notes on pages 8 to 22 form part of these financial statements. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 5 Balance sheet | as at 31 March 2010 Company number 1312454 2010 2009 Balance sheet – Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 8 135,786 71,212 Unlisted investments at cost 10 4 38 135,790 71,250 Current assets Debtors 11 267,090 281,020 Investments 12 422 282 Cash at bank and in hand 102,256 125,673 369,768 406,975 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 13 (323,973) (341,035) Net current assets 45,795 65,940 Total assets less current liabilities 181,585 137,190 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Mortgage (43,281) Lease incentives (996) (729) Finance leases (93) (127) (44,370) (856) Provision for liabilities and charges Deferred taxation 1e (199) Net assets excluding pension liabilities 137,215 136,135 Pension liabilities 25 (83,359) (98,869) Net assets after pension liabilities 53,856 37,266 Capital and reserves Share capital 16 120 120 Capital reserve 17 3 3 Profit and loss account 17 52,909 36,319 Revaluation reserve 17 824 824 Shareholders’ funds 18 53,856 37,266 Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 22 October 2010 and signed on its behalf: P G Dilley Chairman The notes on pages 8 to 22 form part of these financial statements. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Company number 1312454 Company balance sheet | as at 31 March 2010 6 2010 2009 Balance sheet – Arup Group Ltd excluding its subsidiary undertakings £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 8 2,494 2,557 Investment in subsidiary undertakings 9 131,434 53,626 Unlisted investments at cost 10 4 4 133,932 56,187 Current assets Debtors 11 10,209 36,444 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 13 (62,042) (60,187) Net current liabilities (51,833) (23,743) Total assets less current liabilities 82,099 32,444 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year Mortgage (43,281) Net assets 38,818 32,444 Capital and reserves Share capital 16 120 120 Profit and loss account 17 38,698 32,324 Shareholders’ funds 38,818 32,444 Approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 22 October 2010 and signed on its behalf: P G Dilley Chairman The notes on pages 8 to 22 form part of these financial statements. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 7 Cashflow statement | for the year ended 31 March 2010 2010 2009 Cashflow statement £’000 £’000 Notes Net cash inflows from operating activities 29,241 64,540 Returns on investment and servicing of finance Interest received 1,088 2,107 Interest paid (645) (11) Interest element of finance lease rental payments (25) Dividends received 11 Net cash inflow on investment and servicing of finance 443 2,082 Taxation Corporation tax paid (10,862) (16,904) Capital expenditure and financial investment Payments to acquire fixed assets (85,682) (28,750) Receipts from sales of fixed assets 434 671 Payments to acquire investments (95) Receipts from sales of investments Net cash outflow on capital expenditure and financial investment (85,343) (28,079) Financing Receipts from long term loan 45,000 Repayments of long term loan (1,719) Net cash inflow from financing 43,281 (Decrease)/increase in cash (23,240) 21,639 Reconciliation of net cashflow to movement in net funds 15 Net funds at 1 April 125,291 103,652 (Decrease)/increase in cash (23,240) 21,639 Cash inflow from increase in debt financing (43,281) Movement in net funds in the period (66,521) 21,639 Net funds at 31 March 58,770 125,291 Notes to the cashflow statement Reconciliation of operating profit to net cashflow from operating activities Operating profit 91,345 45,924 Depreciation charges 21,450 16,778 Loss/(gain) on foreign exchange 2,378 (8,890) Loss on disposal of fixed assets 395 111 Difference between pension charge and cash contributions (93,266) (8,589) Decrease/(increase) in debtors 21,559 (37,268) (Decrease)/increase in creditors (14,620) 56,474 Net cash inflow from operating activities 29,241 64,540 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 8 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, the excess The financial statements have been prepared in accordance is included as amounts recoverable on contracts (lump sum with all applicable accounting standards under the historical cost projects), and as accrued income, (time basis projects), within convention modified to include the revaluation of debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered exceeds turnover, freehold properties. the excess is included as fees in advance, within creditors. Having considered past year end trading and forecasts and h) Other contracts the cash resources available to the Group, the directors are Other contracts are mostly time basis contracts which are valued satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to use the going at external charging rates. Profits are taken as services are concern assumption. performed. b) Basis of consolidation i) Pension costs The consolidated financial statements include the Company Contributions to the Group’s defined contribution schemes and all its subsidiary undertakings. Intragroup trading is are charged to the profit and loss account when they fall due. eliminated within charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs and communications and other overheads. The Group also operated two defined benefit schemes during the year as described in note 25. Under FRS 17, the assets of c) Turnover the defined benefit pension schemes are measured at their fair Turnover represents the value of work performed on contracts in (market) value at the balance sheet date and compared to the the year. liabilities of the schemes, at the same date, measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method. The discount rate d) Depreciation used is the rate of return at the balance sheet date on a high Fixed assets are written off over their estimated useful lives on quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the a straight line basis. Provision for depreciation is made on all scheme liabilities. The extent to which the schemes’ assets assets excluding buildings at a rate of 25% per annum on a exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a surplus/deficit straight line basis. Freehold buildings are depreciated on a in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is shown net of straight line basis at 1% per annum. Expenditure on leasehold deferred taxation. properties is written off over the period of the lease. The increase in the present value of the pension schemes’ e) Deferred taxation liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the In accordance with FRS 19, full provision is made for timing current period is charged to operating profit. Any increase differences at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the in the present value of pension schemes’ liabilities arising periods in which the timing differences are expected to in the current period but as a result of employee service reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted in prior periods is charged to operating profit on a straight or substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect line basis over the period in which the increases in of timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the benefit vest. balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between The amount of expected return on the schemes’ assets and the Company’s taxable profits and its results as stated in the the increase during the period in the present value of the accounts, which are not permanent. Deferred tax is measured scheme liabilities arising from scheme liabilities being one on a non-discounted basis. year closer to payment are included as other finance income In accordance with FRS 19, no deferred tax has been provided in the profit and loss account. for on revalued amounts, where no binding agreement to sell any Management assessed the expected return on plan assets based property has been entered into prior to the balance sheet date or on a review of past returns and professional advice of the level where the gain on any property contracted to be sold will be of future returns. rolled over into replacement assets. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of total Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they arise from recognised gains and losses. timing differences where the recoverability is foreseen with reasonable certainty. j) Leased assets Where the Group has entered into finance leases, the obligations f) Exchange rates to the lessor are shown as part of the borrowings, and the rights Assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated to the corresponding assets are treated in the same way as fixed into sterling at year end exchange rates. The trading results of assets. Leases are regarded as finance leases where their terms overseas operations have been translated using an average rate transfer to the lessee substantially all the benefits and burdens of for the year. ownership, other than the legal right to title. Exchange differences on the translation of the results of overseas Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit operations together with those on assets and liabilities in foreign and loss account as incurred. currency are taken directly to reserves. All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account. k) Company profit and loss account In accordance with the concession quoted under Section 408(3) g) Long term contracts of the Companies Act 2006, the Company profit and loss account The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable costs has not been separately presented in these financial statements. plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as technical staff costs and related overheads plus project expenses. As projects reach stages where it is considered that their outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of the expected total profit are brought into the financial statements. Provision is made for all known and anticipated losses. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 9 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 2 Segmental report 2010 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 £’000 Turnover United Kingdom 298,736 372,550 Asia 157,750 125,765 Australasia 149,903 113,410 Europe 112,880 104,023 Middle East & Africa 102,920 94,055 Americas 67,023 78,991 889,212 888,794 Profit before taxation United Kingdom 30,687 19,250 Asia 16,205 6,498 Australasia 15,399 5,860 Europe 11,596 5,375 Middle East & Africa 10,573 4,860 Americas 6,885 4,081 91,345 45,924 Net interest and other financing income (6,645) 2,108 Group profit before taxation 84,700 48,032 Net assets Excluding pension liabilities United Kingdom 108,356 26,526 (5,708) Asia 5,809 4,280 9,309 Australasia 3,944 3,944 4,240 Europe 4,430 4,430 2,998 Middle East & Africa 4,161 4,161 6,953 Americas 10,515 10,515 19,474 137,215 53,856 37,266 The method for allocating the consolidation adjustment is now based on the subsidiaries net asset value not turnover by project location as this is considered to be a more appropriate method of allocation. The comparison data for net assets has been restated so that it is on the same basis as the 2010 data. 3 Staff costs 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Ordinary staff costs Salaries 389,969 392,011 Staff profit sharing 19,434 28,581 Social security 31,473 32,788 Pension contributions 19,008 20,039 Redundancy costs 3,651 Other staff costs 24,002 28,816 487,537 502,235 Exceptional staff costs Curtailment of the pension scheme (42,300) Past service costs (38,500) (80,800) Total staff costs 406,737 502,235 The closure of the pension scheme, to which the Group was irrevocably committed at 31 March 2010, and the move from using the Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price Index for calculating deferred pension increases has resulted in two exceptional staff cost gains of £42.3m and £38.5m respectively. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 10 3 Staff costs (continued) 2010 2009 Average number of persons employed by the Group Number Number Engineering and technical staff 7,805 8,277 Administrative staff 1,606 1,643 Government site staff 441 426 9,852 10,346 4 Directors’ remuneration 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Aggregate remuneration: Aggregate emoluments paid 4,254 4,086 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 93 94 Number of Directors accruing pension benefits under: Number Number Defined benefit schemes 9 9 Highest paid Director: £’000 £’000 Total emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 427 421 Accrued annual pension from defined benefit scheme as at 31 March 59 2010 2009 5 Group operating profit £’000 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting): During the year, the Group obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 99 99 Fees payable for other services: Audit of the Company’s subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 294 308 Tax services 216 486 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 395 111 Loss/(profit) on foreign exchange from trading activities 4,322 (15,366) Research and development costs 14,023 12,599 Operating leases land & buildings 39,367 28,341 plant & machinery 957 998 2010 2009 6 Interest payable £’000 £’000 Bank interest 578 1 Finance lease interest 25 Other interest 67 10 645 36 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 11 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 7 Taxation 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 28% 3,231 12,137 Less: double tax relief (6,789) (6,520) (3,558) 5,617 Over provision of UK corporation tax in respect of prior years (2,992) (253) (6,550) 5,364 Non-UK tax for the current year 9,923 5,712 Under/(over) provision of non-UK tax in respect of prior years 902 (479) Current tax charge 4,275 10,597 Deferred taxation for the current year 20,745 3,140 Over provision in respect of prior years (315) (206) Total tax charge 24,705 13,531 b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 28%. The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 84,700 48,032 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax of 28% 23,716 13,449 Effects of: Permanent differences 801 (606) Timing adjustments (22,175) (893) Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior years including non-UK tax charge (2,090) (732) Unrelieved losses carried forward 941 7 Non-UK tax in excess of UK tax/(UK tax in excess of non-UK tax) 3,082 (628) Current tax charge 4,275 10,597 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 12 8 Tangible assets Group £’000 Leased Freehold land Leasehold Furniture, Motor motor & property property fittings & IT vehicles vehicles Total Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2009 900 41,635 113,657 1,334 298 157,824 Additions during the year 62,891 11,097 11,611 51 32 85,682 Disposals during the year (8,235) (20,687) (110) (36) (29,068) Adjustment for exchange differences (450) 2,749 98 29 2,426 Balance at 31 March 2010 63,791 44,047 107,330 1,373 323 216,864 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2009 15,739 69,935 797 141 86,612 Charge for the year 693 4,945 15,575 181 56 21,450 Eliminated in respect of disposals (7,747) (20,365) (90) (36) (28,238) Adjustment for exchange differences (19) 1,233 45 (5) 1,254 Balance at 31 March 2010 693 12,918 66,378 933 156 81,078 Net book value at 31 March 2010 63,098 31,129 40,952 440 167 135,786 Net book value at 31 March 2009 900 25,896 43,722 537 157 71,212 During the year the Group acquired the freehold of our head office at 13 Fitzroy Street in London. Revalued assets As at 31 January 2006 the freehold property then held by the Group was externally valued at £1.25m by Strutt & Parker, International Property Consultants, based on market value, as defined by the RICS Appraisal and Valuations Standards (Red Book) 5th Edition. The freehold property was valued, on an interim basis, on 10 March 2009 at £0.9m by an independent chartered surveyor. Had the freehold property not been revalued the net book value based on original cost would have been £76k. 8 Tangible assets Company £’000 Leasehold property Cost or valuation Balance at 1 April 2009 3,790 Balance at 31 March 2010 3,790 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2009 1,233 Charge for the year 63 Balance at 31 March 2010 1,296 Net book value at 31 March 2010 2,494 Net book value at 31 March 2009 2,557 Leasehold property Included in the leasehold property of the Group and Company is long leasehold property at a cost of £3.6m (2009: £3.6m) and accumulated amortisation of £1.1m (2009: £1.1m). Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 9 Subsidiary undertakings The companies noted below were all wholly owned by Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2010, unless stated otherwise. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company, except for Arup (Luxembourg) Sarl and Arup Property Guernsey Ltd whose principle activity is property holdings. Direct holdings: Country Indirect holdings: Country of incorporation of incorporation Arup Americas Inc USA Arup Associates Ltd England & Wales Arup Botswana Ltd England & Wales Arup Canada Inc Canada Arup BV Netherlands Arup doo Serbia Arup China Ltd Hong Kong Arup Engineering Design and India Consulting Services India Pvt Ltd Arup Consulting Engineers EPE Greece Arup Environmental Consultants Australia Arup Corporate Finance Ltd England & Wales Pty Ltd Arup GmbH Germany Arup Gulf Ltd England & Wales Arup International Consultants China Arup International Ltd England & Wales (Shanghai) Co Ltd Arup Ltd England & Wales Arup Italia Srl Italy Arup New Zealand Ltd New Zealand Arup (Luxembourg) Sar1 Luxembourg Arup North America Ltd England & Wales Arup Muhendislik ve Musavirlik LS Turkey Arup Pacific Pty Ltd Australia Arup Partner Pty Ltd Australia Arup Pensions Administration Ltd England & Wales Arup Pty Ltd Australia Arup Property Guernsey Ltd Guernsey Arup Services BV Netherlands Arup Services New York Ltd England & Wales Arup SIGMA Ltd Mauritius Arup Texas Inc USA Arup Singapore International Ltd England & Wales Arup USA Inc USA Arup Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore Arup Vietnam Ltd Vietnam Fitzroy Insurance Services Ltd Guernsey Broomco (1469) Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Danmark A/S Denmark Heathrow Hub Ltd (83% holding) England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Hong Kong Ltd England & Wales Heathrow Hub Property Ltd Guernsey Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd England & Wales OASYS Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Isle of Man Ltd Isle of Man Ove Arup & Partners Detroit Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Japan Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Korea Ltd Republic of Korea Ove Arup & Partners PC USA Ove Arup & Partners Poland Sp z o o Poland Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Ltd Scotland Ove Arup & Partners SAU Spain Rossmore Dempsey & Company Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Thailand Ltd England & Wales Rossmore MCA Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup (Thailand) Ltd Thailand Rossmore Turner Lombard Ltd England & Wales Ove Arup Incorporated England & Wales Ove Arup Partnership Ltd England & Wales Rossmore Group Ltd England & Wales Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 14 9 Subsidiary undertakings (continued) £’000 Movement of investment Cost at 1 April 2009 53,626 Additions 77,808 Cost at 31 March 2010 131,434 10 Unlisted investments at cost Country of incorporation 1 Ordinary Share of £1 in Ovarpart Nominee Ltd England & Wales 100 Ordinary Shares of €1.27 each in Arup Ireland Partner Ltd Ireland 2 shares of £1 each in The Arup Partnerships Trustees Ltd England & Wales 4 Ordinary Shares of US$1 each in Arup Africa Inc Mauritius 50 Ordinary Shares of 10,000 Riyals each in Arup Iran SSK Iran 1,250 Ordinary Shares of £1 each in Architecture Today Plc England & Wales 30,000 Ordinary Shares of 1p each in St Helena Leisure Corporation Ltd England & Wales 11 Debtors £’000 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Amounts recoverable on contracts 50,882 3,920 44,742 4,518 Trade debtors 145,944 171,782 6,419 Amounts owed by Group undertakings 5,789 25,407 Foreign tax recoverable 6,794 6,880 Deferred taxation 5,306 2,892 Corporation tax recoverable 8,743 3,447 Other debtors 10,094 450 9,628 Prepayments and accrued income 39,327 50 41,649 100 267,090 10,209 281,020 36,444 12 Current asset investments £’000 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Unlisted investment 422 282 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 15 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Creditors £’000 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Amounts falling due within one year Fees in advance 196,470 215,719 Bank overdraft 51 190 Trade creditors 21,096 17,999 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 58,226 54,952 Amounts due on finance leases within one year 61 65 Provision for foreign tax 2,862 1,539 Corporation tax 1,724 1,582 5,081 2,686 Taxation and social security costs 10,135 12,040 Other creditors 14,153 668 8,836 854 Accruals and deferred income 77,421 1,566 79,566 1,695 323,973 62,042 341,035 60,187 Amounts falling due after more than one year 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Within one year 3,691 3,462 120 In two to five years 14,502 13,846 651 After five years 26,177 25,973 85 44,370 43,281 856 14 Deferred taxation Group £’000 2010 2009 Provided Unprovided Provided Unprovided Timing differences due to accelerated taxation depreciation allowances 2,130 (78) 543 346 Short term timing differences 3,176 233 2,150 308 5,306 155 2,693 654 Movement of deferred tax provision: Balance at 1 April 2,693 2,752 Under provision of deferred tax in respect of previous years 315 206 Restated opening balance 3,008 2,958 Charge for the year (20,745) (3,140) Less: Deferred tax on Pension Scheme deficit 22,664 2,442 Exchange rate difference 379 433 Balance at 31 March 5,306 2,693 Deferred tax asset 5,306 2,892 Deferred tax liability (199) 5,306 2,693 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 16 15 Analysis of changes in net funds £’000 At 1 April Cashflow At 31 March 2009 2010 Cash at bank and in hand 125,673 (23,417) 102,256 Overdrafts (190) 139 (51) Mortgage (43,281) (43,281) 125,483 (66,559) 58,924 Finance leases (192) 38 (154) 125,291 (66,521) 58,770 2010 2009 16 Share capital £’000 £’000 Group and Company Issued, called up and fully paid: 65 voting shares of £1 each 120,000 equity shares of £1 each 120 120 120 120 17 Reserves £’000 Group Company Capital Property Profit Profit reserve revaluation and loss and loss account account Balance at 1 April 2009 3 824 36,319 32,324 Retained profit for the financial year 59,995 6,374 Actuarial losses recognised in the pension schemes (65,287) Deferred tax asset movements related to the actuarial losses 18,300 Exchange translation differences 3,582 Balance at 31 March 2010 3 824 52,909 38,698 Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liabilities 136,268 Pension liabilities (83,359) Profit and loss reserve 52,909 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 17 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 18 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds Group 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 37,266 73,007 Revaluation reserve (350) Retained profit for the financial year 59,995 34,501 Exchange translation difference 3,582 (2,455) Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (65,287) (92,323) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial gain 18,300 24,886 Closing shareholders’ funds 53,856 37,266 Shareholders’ funds excluding pension scheme liabilities 137,215 136,135 Pension scheme liabilities (83,359) (98,869) Closing shareholders’ funds 53,856 37,266 19 Trust monies The Group operates a number of bank accounts which are maintained in the name of Group companies in Australia on behalf of third party clients. These accounts are not available to meet any liabilities of the Group and are therefore excluded from the consolidated balance sheet. The total of such accounts at 31 March 2010 was £6.4m (2009: £8.9m). 20 Contingent liabilities The Company has guaranteed bond support facilities granted to other companies in the Group. The guarantee is supported by a secured debenture dated 28 September 2009. No borrowings were outstanding as at 31 March 2010. 21 Capital commitments £’000 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Contracted for 540 229 22 Other financial commitments £’000 The Group and Company have the following annual property leasing commitments, at the year end, in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2010 2009 Group Company Group Company Within one year 2,804 4,679 In two to five years 13,847 12,145 After five years 22,275 18,457 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 18 23 Ultimate controlling party Arup Group Ltd is owned by the Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and the Arup Service Trust. 24 Related party transactions The Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries transact with each other in the normal course of business. These transactions are not disclosed, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, as the transactions and balances between Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation. 25 Pension commitments During the year, the Group operated two defined benefit retirement schemes for employees, one UK registered and one Hong Kong registered. UK Registered Scheme During the year, the Group operated a UK registered, contributory, defined benefit retirement scheme for employees. Contributions to the scheme have been made in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2007 using the projected unit method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 31 March 2007 on an ongoing basis represented 92% of the actuarially calculated liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members and the scheme’s assets had a market value of £463.5m at that date. The most significant assumptions made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation were the discount rate of 5.8% and the consumer price inflation of 2.9% pa. There was an employer’s contribution for the year to 31 March 2010 of £16.5m (2009: £17.3m). No special employer’s contribution was made during the year to 31 March 2010 (2009: £Nil). The next actuarial valuation is being carried out as at 31 March 2010 but the results will not be available until December 2010 at the earliest. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2010 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010 the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. A new pension arrangement on a defined contribution basis was opened on 1 July 2010. Hong Kong Registered Scheme The Group operates a defined benefit scheme in Hong Kong. Contributions to the scheme are made in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of regular actuarial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 1 April 2008 using the attained age method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 1 April 2008 on an ongoing basis represented 120% of the liabilities that had accrued to members and had a market value of approximately £22 million at that date. The most significant assumption made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation was that the investment return would be 6% per year. There was an employer’s contribution for the year to 31 March 2010 of £2,261k (2009: £1,905k). The next actuarial valuation will be carried out as at 1 April 2011. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 19 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 25 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return at 31 March: Long term rate of return expected UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 Equities and property 8.50% 8.00% 8.80% 8.00% Bonds and cash including net current assets 4.60% 5.00% 3.30% 5.00% Value of assets in the schemes UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 £’m £’m £’m £’m Equities and property 303.9 303.4 23.2 15.0 Bonds and cash including net current assets 190.9 56.5 5.6 5.5 Total market value of assets 494.8 359.9 28.8 20.5 Present value of defined benefit obligation (608.5) (492.0) (31.0) (24.0) Deficit in the scheme (113.7) (132.1) (2.2) (3.5) Less: Related deferred tax asset/(liability) at 28% 31.8 37.0 0.6 (0.2) Net scheme liability (81.9) (95.1) (1.6) (3.7) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets: UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 Equities and property 61% 84% 81% 73% Bonds and cash including net current assets 39% 16% 19% 27% 100% 100% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 £’m £’m £’m £’m Current service cost (5.8) (8.8) (1.8) (1.6) Interest on obligation (34.3) (34.9) (1.6) (1.4) Expected return on plan assets 27.3 34.3 1.5 2.0 Past service costs 38.5 Gain on curtailments and settlements 42.3 Net charge 68.0 (9.4) (1.9) (1.0) Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 20 25 Pension commitments (continued) Movement of deficit during the year UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 £’m £’m £’m £’m (Deficit)/surplus in scheme at 1 April (132.1) (58.1) (3.5) 5.7 Movement in the year: Current service cost (5.8) (8.8) (1.8) (1.6) Employer’s contributions 16.5 17.3 2.3 1.9 Past service costs 38.5 Interest cost (34.3) (34.9) (1.6) (1.4) Expected return on scheme assets 27.3 34.3 1.5 2.0 Actuarial (loss)/gain (66.0) (81.9) 0.7 (10.4) Curtailments and settlements 42.3 Adjustment for exchange difference 0.2 0.3 Deficit in scheme at 31 March (113.7) (132.1) (2.2) (3.5) The closure of the pension scheme and the move from RPI to CPI valuation were the main factors contributing to the decrease in the UK scheme deficit in the year. UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 £’m £’m £’m £’m Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation: Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 492.0 511.8 24.0 16.4 Current service cost 5.8 8.8 1.8 1.6 Interest cost 34.3 34.9 1.6 1.4 Members’ contributions 8.3 8.8 Actuarial loss/(gain) on scheme liabilities 167.8 (56.3) 5.5 (0.4) Benefits paid (18.9) (16.0) (1.3) (1.7) Past service costs (38.5) Curtailments and settlements (42.3) Adjustment for exchange difference (0.6) 6.7 Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 608.5 492.0 31.0 24.0 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets: Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 359.9 453.7 20.5 22.1 Expected return on scheme assets 27.3 34.3 1.5 2.0 Actuarial loss on scheme assets 101.8 (138.2) 6.2 (10.8) Adjustment for exchange difference (0.4) 7.0 Actual return on scheme assets 129.1 (103.9) 7.3 (1.8) Employer contributions 16.5 17.3 2.3 1.9 Members’ contributions 8.3 8.8 Benefits paid (18.9) (16.0) (1.3) (1.7) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 494.8 359.9 28.8 20.5 Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 21 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 25 Pension commitments (continued) Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages): UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 At 31 March Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A 3.8% 4.5% 4.5% Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.9% 2.8% N/A N/A Future average rate used to discount liabilities 5.8% 7.0% 4.9% 7.0% Retail price inflation 3.6% 2.8% 3.0% 3.0% Consumer price inflation 2.9% N/A N/A N/A Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% N/A N/A Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% 2.3% N/A N/A NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5%LPI) 3.4% 2.8% N/A N/A Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5%LPI) 2.3% 2.0% N/A N/A NGMP – Non Guaranteed Minimum Pension LPI – Limited Price Indexation Mortality 2010 & 2009 UK Hong Kong PNA00 birth year mortality tables using Age Mortality (%) Hong Kong the 92 series medium cohort projections, Life Table 2001 allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% pa. Male Female % % 25 0.062 0.024 30 0.070 0.030 35 0.083 0.042 40 0.127 0.070 45 0.205 0.112 50 0.332 0.172 55 0.557 0.270 60 0.907 0.409 Cash commutation 2010 & 2009 UK Hong Kong 30% of members’ pensions assumed to N/A be taken as cash. Assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 for the UK and age 60 for Hong Kong: UK Hong Kong 2010 2009 2010 2009 Number of Years Number of Years Retiring today Males 22.4 22.3 21.4 21.4 Females 24.8 24.7 25.9 25.9 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.3 24.2 21.4 21.4 Females 26.7 26.6 25.9 25.9 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 22 25 Pension commitments (continued) UK Registered Scheme History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (608.5) (492.0) (511.8) (538.5) (504.4) Scheme assets 494.8 359.9 453.7 463.6 405.2 Scheme deficit (113.7) (132.1) (58.1) (74.9) (99.2) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 12.4 11.9 (5.0) (20.6) (11.2) Experience adjustments on plan assets 101.8 (138.2) (54.3) 5.4 54.5 Hong Kong Registered Scheme History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (31.0) (24.0) (16.4) (17.1) (18.0) Scheme assets 28.8 20.5 22.1 20.9 19.7 Scheme (deficit)/surplus (2.2) (3.5) 5.7 3.8 1.7 Experience adjustments on plan liabilities Experience adjustments on plan assets 6.2 (10.8) (0.5) 1.5 1.3 Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the defined benefit schemes next year are: UK Hong Kong £’m £’m Employer 9.0 2.2 Employees 2.0 11.0 2.2 Defined contribution schemes The Company has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £11.8m (2009: £9.9m). Arup Group Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom David Singleton Group Sustainability Director t: +61 3 9668 5404 e: david.singleton@arup.com Martin Ansley-Young Company Secretary t: +44 20 7755 3580 e: martin.ansley-young@arup.com Cover image: Stonecutters Bridge www.arup.com ©Arup/John Nye United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 8 Attachment: −− Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 1 Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We will work to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our processes and through our training and development. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. Our employment and recruitment practices will adhere to, and strive to exceed, local legislation wherever we work in the world. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. Purpose Arup recognises that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation for innovation and creativity and to understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide, our applicants and all those with whom we have contact with through our working lives. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 9 Attachment: −− Grievance Code of Practice Global code of practice Grievance Grievance : code of practice Purpose The purpose of a grievance code of practice is to assist the employee in seeking fair, unbiased redress of an employment-related issue. It provides an explicit framework in which employment-related problems can be discussed and addressed. It does not apply to matters related to the outcome of disciplinary action, as there is a separate procedure for this. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup believes that all its members should have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the grievance procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10501 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 10 Attachment: −− Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 11 Attachment: −− Sustainability Policy Sustainability Policy Statement Mission • achieve performance that ensures the To shape a better world firm’s economic, environmental and financial viability. Objectives For its people The firm will implement practices that promote economic security, social betterment • employ and retain staff who have a high and environmental stewardship and will degree of awareness and expertise in strive for continuous improvement of sustainability for all disciplines practised; performance in these areas. • provide ongoing education and training To deliver this, the firm aims to: for all staff on sustainability issues relevant to the firm’s business; and • set a sustainability strategy for the firm; • support innovative approaches to the • be a leader in sustainable development in implementation of sustainability strategies areas relevant to its business; on projects. • work with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable business For its facilities outcomes; • endeavour to prevent pollution; • promote sustainable practices; • aim to use resources efficiently and to • use its skills and influence to improve minimise waste, usage of water, energy the built environment and to maintain the and other consumables; integrity and quality of the natural and • implement a strategy to move towards cultural environments; minimising carbon emissions in its • hold its performance accountable to its operations; and staff through objective measurements; • implement a strategy for the firm to move • report on its sustainability performance towards sustainable procurement of the and achievements; and goods and services used in its operations. • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements For its external relationships of ISO 14001. • engage with organisations that practise sustainability and that enable the Outcomes exchange of ideas and the promotion In meeting these objectives, the firm will: of sustainability leadership across its For its core business businesses; and • comply with legal and other requirements • implement a strategy to work on that relate to its environmental aspects; community projects that achieve • provide value to clients by building upon sustainability goals. its reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects; • deliver projects recognised for their David Singleton sustainability credentials, in line with Arup Group Sustainability Director client expectations; 17 September 2009 • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and opportunities and, where appropriate, work with the client to deliver a more sustainable outcome; and Last reviewed October 2010 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 12 Attachment: −− Ethics Global Code of Practice and Procedure Global Procedure Ethics Ethics : global procedure 1 Introduction The ethical values of integrity, openness and fairness apply to all the activities of a company. It is important not only to have standards, but also to demonstrate to clients, and under possible media scrutiny, that such standards are being met; there is considerable reputational risk associated with ethical failures at a time when anti-corruption issues are high on the media and wider business agenda. The construction sector has been identified as one of the most vulnerable, and global companies that are exposed to diverse local business practices are particularly at risk. The Board accepts responsibility to see that the values, principles and standards of business conduct underpinning how Arup operates are established and applied globally and in accordance with the Ethical Standards Policy has nominated a member of the Arup Group Board to be responsible for ethical business practices. This code of practice is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards, are being met. Our behaviour will be judged against these standards. 2 Financial inducements • Arup will not, in any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage. • Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments (payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. The only circumstances in which a facilitating payment should be authorised is where there is a real risk to your health and/or safety, or that of a third party, if such a payment is not made. In such event the payment should be reported so that actions can be taken as appropriate. 3 Using third parties (including agents) or working in a Joint Venture • Arup commits to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with. • If we are required to use agents or representatives in particular countries these must they must have a clearly defined scope of service and agree to abide by the applicable laws and the terms of this policy as we may be liable for any financial inducements that our agent makes, or offers to make. • Any agency or joint venture agreements that we enter into should require the partners to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and to comply with this policy. • Arup should reserve the right under any such agency or joint venture agreements to terminate the arrangements if there is a breach of any applicable laws or of this policy. 4 Gifts & Entertainment • You should exercise discretion in accepting or offering gifts or hospitality and in determining whether it is appropriate you should ensure you are aware of the circumstances and implications of the offer. Arup Date: April 2011 Rev 3.0 Global Procedure Ethics • Gifts and entertainment may be perceived as a financial inducement and should never be offered or accepted where the purpose is to gain an improper business advantage. • Wherever possible, gifts from clients should be shared within the group that has been involved in the project. • The following should be considered when determining if it is appropriate to accept or offer a gift or entertainment: • Any gifts or entertainment should be of a modest value, occur occasionally and be appropriate in all the circumstances. If you would feel embarrassed that colleagues or anyone outside of Arup knew about the gift, it is likely to be inappropriate. • The purpose of the hospitality must have a legitimate business purpose. It is not acceptable to accept hospitality if our business contact will not be present, and vice versa. • It is important to consider if the recipient is allowed to accept gifts, government officials and public bodies may be unable to do so. • As a general rule, we should only offer as gifts and entertainment what we would be comfortable to accept; and vice versa • There are some gifts and entertainment which cannot be accepted without prior approval from your Group Leader; these include, but are not limited to money; hospitality that lasts more than one day and that involves meals and/or travel being paid for. 5 Competition • Competition, however fierce, should always be undertaken honestly and fairly. • You must not use improper means to obtain information about our competitors. 6 Confidentiality • Information that is not in the public domain or that may be regarded as confidential in relation to Arup’s business or concerning any other organisation with which you, in the course of your work have had business dealings, must be kept confidential. • You are reminded that there are laws in many countries that prohibit the use of confidential or unpublished information for insider trading on the stock market 7 Conduct & performance at work • You are expected to apply due skill, care and diligence in the services that you provide for clients. You should, at all times, work to the best of your ability. • It is your personal responsibility to acquaint yourself with the legal standards and restrictions that are applicable to the location in which you are working any to comply with these in all respects. • Many of the professional bodies of which staff are members have ethical standards or Codes of Ethics that we individually, and corporately, must adhere to. • If you are responsible for supervising others in Arup you should: • Promote ethical behaviour and compliance with the policy • Monitor compliance with the policy and enforce it as is necessary • Support employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good faith Arup Date: April 2011 Rev 3.0 Global Procedure Ethics 8 Client activities • If you are reasonably concerned abut the ethical aspects of a particular project, you will be allowed to decline involvement following appropriate consultation and agreement with your group leader • If you are reasonably concerned about ethical aspects of a client’s activities, you will be allowed to withdraw from working with that client after appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader and the approval of the Region Chair. 9 Conflicts of interest • You must not allow your private interests to influence your business judgment or decision making on behalf of Arup. • Arup does not prohibit employees from owning shares in any of our client, partners, contractor’s or competitor’s businesses but it is essential that these business dealings do not raise a conflict of interest or give the appearance of doing so and you must comply with insider trading legislation at all times. • Arup employees may be asked to serve on the board of directors of another organization. Where this is a commercial organization, approval by the Group Chair is required before such a post may be accepted. • Executorships, trusteeships or other outside interests may cause concerns in respect of time and commitment, financial exposure and reputation and as such approval by the Group Chair is required before such a post may be accepted. • Jobs/affiliations of close relatives may give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest and this should be taken into account. • The conflict of interest policy can be found at: http://essentials.intranet.arup.com/policies_guidelines/policystatements/conflict_of_in terest.cfm 10 Political contributions • Arup funds or facilities may not be used to make political contributions to any organisation or candidate for public office. You are not restricted from contributing financially, from your own funds, to political campaigns from participating, in your own time, in political campaigns. 11 Asking questions & raising concerns • Arup encourages all staff to discuss any queries or concerns that relate to ethical business practices. • If you have a concern or suspect that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you have a duty to report these concerns. • You may report suspected breaches of this policy anonymously, although you are encouraged to identify yourself so that a full investigation is possible. Investigation may not be possible or effective where reports are anonymous. Arup will conduct any investigations sensitively and will take all reasonable steps to keep your identity confidential but in some cases disclosure will be unavoidable. • All potential breaches of this policy that are reported in good faith will be investigated responsibly. • Arup will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who report, in good faith, breaches or potential breaches of this policy. • If you would like to ask a question or to report a suspected breach, you should: • Direct all queries are directed through your Group Leader in the first instance. Arup Date: April 2011 Rev 3.0 Global Procedure Ethics • Where this is not possible or appropriate, employees may choose to contact the nominated member of the Arup Group Board 12 Disciplinary procedure for breach Failure to comply with the spirit or letter of this policy may result in significant reputational damage to Arup and breaches of the law, of any country, is a serious matter which may subject Arup and/or individual employees to civil and criminal penalties. In addition to the above, where individuals are in breach of the terms of their contract of employment they may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Approved by Group Board, January 2010 Arup Date: April 2011 Rev 3.0 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2011 13 Attachment: −− Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United National Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2011 14 Attachment: −− Financial Statements 2010 Cover image: The Korea Pavillion, Shanghai Expo, China | Ⓒ Arup/Hufton+Crow Contents Directors’ report 1-2 Independent auditors’ report 3 Profit and loss account 4 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 4 Balance sheet 5 Notes to the financial statements 6-15 Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 1 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 Directors’ report The directors present their report together with • Turnover and profit per person is a financial the financial statements for the year ended KPI used to monitor the continued contribution 31 March 2010 which were approved by the to the Company. In calculating this measure Board of Directors on 27 September 2010. profit is stated before tax and staff profit share. For the year ended 31 March 2010, turnover per The capital of the ultimate parent company is person was £100k (2009: £95k) and profit per divided into equity shares, which are held in trust person was £19k (2009: £9k). for the benefit of the employees (past and present) of the Group, and voting shares that are held by • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust. of business performance. During the year to 31 March 2010, staff turnover was 15% Principal activity (2009: 6.8%). The Company practices in the field of consulting engineering services, in architecture and in other Directors and their interests related professional skills, principally in the United The directors of Ove Arup & Partners International Kingdom and Continental Europe. Limited during the year and up to the date of signing this report, were as follows: The Company operates significant branches in Russia, Poland, Romania and Ireland. J Baster* (Appointed 01/05/10) A J Belfield* Review of the business A K C Chan* (Appointed 01/04/09) and future developments P G Dilley* During the year the Company's turnover decreased T M Hill by 8.6% (2009: increased by 11.4%) and the Company made a total profit before tax and staff L J Lovell (Resigned 30/11/09) profit share of £85m (2009: £43.8m). A R M Marcetteau The performance developments of the Company J C Miles* are in line with the expectations of the directors. D J Singleton* (Resigned 31/07/10) The directors draw attention to the following J G Turzynski (Appointed 01/04/09) matters that have had an impact on the reported D A Whittleton* performance in the current year: No director has an interest in the shares of the • The results include the defined benefit pension Company (or any other member of the Group) scheme liabilities as calculated under FRS 17. other than through their interest as an employee This has brought net liabilities onto the balance of the Group in the employee trusts which own sheet of £81.8m (2009: £95.1m). the equity shares of the ultimate parent company. • The closure of the pension scheme and the move All directors marked with an * were also Directors from RPI to CPI valuation resulted in two of Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2010. exceptional credits to the profit and loss account of £42.3m and £38.5m. Auditors The principal area of risk and operating At the next general meeting of Ove Arup & Partners uncertainty for the business is its ability to International Limited, a resolution will be proposed continue to secure new projects and deliver the to appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for the performance of existing projects in line with year ending 31 March 2011 as the Company’s management's objectives. To monitor these, auditors. A thorough audit tender process was the directors use the following financial key undertaken, considering industry knowledge, performance indicators (KPIs): audit quality and cost efficiency. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 2 Directors’ report (continued) Charitable donations • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; Charitable donations during the year amounted to £372k (2009: £449k). • state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material Employees departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is key to the future of the Company. Health and • prepare the financial statements on the going safety matters are regularly reviewed by the concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume Directors and it is their policy to ensure that: that the Company will continue in business. • full and fair consideration is given to all The directors are responsible for keeping adequate applications for employment made by disabled accounting records that are sufficient to show and persons, having regard to their capabilities; explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial • when existing employees become disabled position of the Company and enable them to ensure (whether from illness or accident) every that the financial statements comply with the reasonable effort is made to continue to provide Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for suitable employment either in the same job, or safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence by training, in an alternative job; and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and • disabled persons are given equal consideration detection of fraud and other irregularities. for training, career development and opportunities for promotion within the Company. Audit The Company is active in the field of employee So far as the directors are aware, there is no communications and employees are encouraged to relevant audit information of which the Company’s express their views on major policy issues. Each auditors are unaware, and the directors have taken year, employees are provided with a Chairman's all steps that ought to have been taken as directors, Report and financial information. in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information. Statement of directors’ responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the financial statements for By Order of the Board each financial year in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The directors have elected to prepare financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors must not M S Tweedie approve the financial statements unless they are Company Secretary satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 27 September 2010 state of affairs of the company and of the profit or Registered Office: loss of the company for that period. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: • make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 3 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2010 Independent auditors’ report We have audited the financial statements of • have been properly prepared in accordance with Ove Arup & Partners International Limited for the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting year ended 31 March 2010 which comprise the Practice; and profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheet and • have been prepared in accordance with the the related notes numbered 1 to 20. requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Opinion on other matters prescribed United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United by the Companies Act 2006 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). In our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report for the financial year for which This report is made solely to the Company's the financial statements are prepared is consistent shareholders, as a body, in accordance with with the financial statements. Sections 495 to 496 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's shareholders those Matters on which we are required to matters we are required to state to them in an report by exception auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the We have nothing to report in respect of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or following matters where the Companies Act 2006 assume responsibility to anyone other than the requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Company and the Company's shareholders as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the • adequate accounting records have not been kept, opinions we have formed. or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or Respective responsibilities of directors • the financial statements are not in agreement and auditors with the accounting records and returns; or As explained more fully in the Statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration responsible for the preparation of the financial specified by law are not made; or statements and for being satisfied that they give a • we have not received all the information and true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit the explanations we require for our audit. financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Board's Ethical Standards for Auditors. Scope of the audit of the David Chitty (Senior Statutory Auditor) financial statements for and on behalf of Crowe Clark Whitehill LLP, A description of the scope of an audit of Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants financial statements is provided on the London Auditing Practices Board’s website at 13 October 2010 www.frc.org.uk/apb/scope/UKNP. Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the financial statements: • give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 March 2010 and its profit for the year then ended; Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2010 4 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 2010 2009 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Notes Turnover 1b & 2 445,008 486,779 Staff costs 3 (235,575) (276,130) Exceptional staff costs 3 80,800 Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (115,003) (113,431) Accommodation (32,899) (32,580) Depreciation 8 (10,672) (8,955) Communications and other overheads (52,012) (28,824) Provision against balance due from Group undertakings 2,719 914 (207,867) (182,876) Operating costs (362,642) (459,006) Operating profit 5 82,366 27,773 Interest receivable 545 804 Interest payable 6 (87) Other finance charges (7,000) (600) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 75,824 27,977 Taxation on ordinary activities 7 (20,063) (5,484) Profit for the financial year 14 & 15 55,761 22,493 2010 2009 Statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Profit for the financial year 14 & 15 55,761 22,493 Exchange translation losses 14 & 15 (148) (3,341) Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme 20 (66,000) (81,900) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 18,500 22,900 Total gains/(losses) recognised since last annual report 8,113 (39,848) The notes on pages 6 to 15 form part of these financial statements. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 5 Balance sheet | as at 31 March 2010 Company number 952468 2010 2009 Balance sheet £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 8 39,809 34,935 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 9 25,352 10,352 65,161 45,287 Current assets Debtors 10 198,714 210,202 Cash at bank and in hand 12,668 37,608 211,382 247,810 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 11 (169,835) (196,202) Net current assets 41,547 51,608 Total assets less current liabilities 106,708 96,895 Net assets excluding pension liabilities 106,708 96,895 Pension liability 20 (81,830) (95,130) Net assets after pension liabilities 24,878 1,765 Capital and reserves Share capital 13 45,000 30,000 Profit and loss reserve 14 (20,122) (28,235) Shareholders’ funds 15 24,878 1,765 Approved and authorised by the Board of Directors on 27 September 2010 and signed on its behalf: A R M Marcetteau, Director The notes on pages 6 to 15 form part of these financial statements. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 6 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting g) Other contracts The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost Other contracts are mostly time basis contracts which are valued at convention, in accordance with applicable accounting standards external charging rates. Profits are taken as services are performed. and on the going concern basis. h) Research and development Having considered post year end trading and forecasts and the All research and development cost is expensed in the cash resources available to the Company, the directors are year incurred. satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to use the going concern assumption. i) Pension costs The accounts present information about the Company as an Contributions to the Company’s defined contribution scheme individual entity and not about its Group. As the Company are charged to the profit and loss account when they fall due. and its subsidiaries are included in the publicly available The Company also operated a defined benefit scheme during consolidated accounts of its parent company it is exempt from the year as described in note 20. Under FRS 17 the assets of the requirement to produce Group accounts. the defined benefit pension scheme are measured at their fair (market) value at the balance sheet date and compared to the b) Turnover liabilities of the scheme, at the same date, measured on an Turnover represents the value of work performed on contracts in actuarial basis using the projected unit method. The discount rate the year. used is the rate of return at the balance sheet date on a high c) Depreciation quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities. The extent to which the scheme’s assets Fixed assets are written off over their estimated useful lives exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a surplus/deficit on a straight line basis. Provision for depreciation is made in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is shown net of on all assets excluding leasehold properties, at a rate of 25% deferred taxation. per annum on a straight line basis. Expenditure on leasehold properties is written off over the period of the lease. The increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the current period is d) Deferred taxation charged to operating profit. Any increase in the present value In accordance with FRS 19, full provision is made for timing of pension scheme liabilities arising in the current period but differences at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the as a result of employee service in prior periods is charged to periods in which the timing differences are expected to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period in reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or which the increases in benefit vest. substantially enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect of The amount of expected return on the schemes’ assets and the timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences between liabilities arising from scheme liabilities being one year closer the Company's taxable profits and its results as stated in the to payment are included as other finance income in the profit accounts, which are not permanent. Deferred tax is measured and loss account. on a non-discounted basis. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of total No deferred tax has been provided for on any gain arising recognised gains and losses. from the sales of any assets where the taxable gain has been, or will be, rolled over to replacement assets. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice of the Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they arise from level of future returns. timing differences where the recoverability is foreseen with reasonable certainty. j) Leased assets Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit e) Exchange rates and loss account as incurred. Assets and liabilities in foreign currency have been translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. The trading results of Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an overseas operations have been translated using an average rate operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease for the year. term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate Exchange differences on the translation of the results of overseas is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter operations together with those on assets and liabilities in foreign period is used. currency are taken directly to reserves. All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account. f) Long term contracts The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable costs plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as technical staff costs and related overheads plus project expenses. As projects reach stages where it is considered that their outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of the expected total profit are brought into the financial statements. Provision is made for all known and anticipated losses. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, the excess is included as amounts recoverable on contracts on lump sum projects, and as accrued income, on time basis projects, within debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered exceed turnover, the excess is included as fees in advance, within creditors. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 7 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 2 Geographical segmental analysis of turnover 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 United Kingdom 342,816 394,125 Europe 75,364 76,284 Middle East & Africa 17,313 2,854 Asia 6,178 10,015 Americas 2,839 138 Australasia 498 3,363 445,008 486,779 2010 2009 3 Staff costs £’000 £’000 Ordinary staff costs Salaries 194,707 220,510 Staff profit sharing 9,155 15,811 Social security 17,913 20,515 Pension contributions 5,999 9,013 Redundancy costs 2,534 Other staff costs 5,267 10,281 235,575 276,130 Exceptional staff costs Curtailment of pension scheme (42,300) Past service costs (38,500) (80,800) Total staff costs 154,775 276,130 The closure of the pension scheme, to which the company was irrevocably committed at 31 March 2010, and the move from using the Retail Price Index to the Consumer Price Index for calculating deferred pension increases has resulted in two exceptional staff cost gains of £42.3m and £38.5m respectively. Average number of persons employed by the Company Number Number Engineering and technical staff 3,628 4,229 Administrative staff 817 890 4,445 5,119 2010 2009 4 Directors’ remuneration £’000 £’000 Aggregate remuneration Aggregate emoluments paid 2,746 2,636 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 2 28 Number of Directors accruing pension benefits under Number Number Money purchase schemes 1 1 Defined benefit schemes 8 8 2010 2009 Highest paid Director £’000 £’000 Total emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 413 339 Accrued pension from defined benefit scheme as at 31 March 94 Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 8 5 Operating profit 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting) During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Fees payable for audit services 187 185 Fees payable for other services relating to taxation 132 486 Loss/(profit) on disposal of fixed assets 408 (6) Loss/(profit) on foreign exchange 2,687 (15,152) Research and development costs 14,023 12,599 Operating leases for land & buildings 19,068 18,489 2010 2009 6 Interest payable £’000 £’000 Bank interest 4 Other interest 83 87 2010 2009 7 Taxation £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 28% (3,612) 3,014 Less: double tax relief (7) (127) (3,619) 2,887 Over provision of UK corporation tax in respect of previous years (234) (208) (3,853) 2,679 Non-UK tax for the current year 487 216 Under provision of non-UK tax in respect of previous years 368 Current tax (credit)/charge (3,366) 3,263 Deferred taxation for the current year 23,566 2,402 Over provision in respect of previous years (137) (181) Total tax charge 20,063 5,484 b) Factors affecting the tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 28%. The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 75,824 27,977 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax of 28% 21,231 7,834 Effects of: Group Relief (2,126) Permanent differences (1,319) (777) Timing adjustments (23,524) (2,098) Non-UK tax in excess of UK Tax 480 270 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years including non-UK tax charge (234) 160 Current tax (credit)/charge (3,366) 3,263 Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 9 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 8 Tangible fixed assets £’000 Furniture, Leased Leasehold fittings & Motor motor property equipment vehicles vehicles Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2009 29,852 55,166 156 51 85,225 Additions during the year 10,534 5,780 16,314 Disposals during the year (8,246) (15,453) (28) (36) (23,763) Adjustment for exchange differences 58 4 62 Balance at 31 March 2010 32,140 45,551 132 15 77,838 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2009 12,071 38,066 110 43 50,290 Charge for the year 3,293 7,354 25 10,672 Eliminated in respect of disposals (7,759) (15,157) (26) (36) (22,978) Adjustment for exchange differences 41 4 45 Balance at 31 March 2010 7,605 30,304 113 7 38,029 Net book value at 31 March 2010 24,535 15,247 19 8 39,809 Net book value at 31 March 2009 17,781 17,100 46 8 34,935 9 Subsidiary undertakings The companies noted below were all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited at 31 March 2010. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company. Country of incorporation Direct holdings Arup Associates Limited England & Wales Arup doo Serbia Arup Gulf Limited England & Wales Arup International Limited England & Wales Arup Limited England & Wales OASYS Limited England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Limited England & Wales Indirect holdings Arup Engineering Design and Consulting Services India Private Limited India Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Limited Scotland Movement of investment £’000 Cost at 1 April 2009 10,352 Additions 15,000 Cost at 31 March 2010 25,352 Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 10 10 Debtors 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Amounts recoverable on contracts 17,122 15,312 Trade debtors 47,956 57,235 Amounts owed by group undertakings 95,275 103,160 Foreign tax recoverable 124 1,049 Deferred tax asset 1,053 782 Corporation tax 8,738 3,447 Other debtors 2,857 2,215 Prepayments and accrued income 25,589 27,002 198,714 210,202 2010 2009 11 Creditors £’000 £’000 Amounts falling due within one year Fees in advance 92,248 103,013 Trade creditors 9,075 9,965 Amounts owed to group undertakings 31,267 34,400 Provision for foreign tax 27 33 Taxation and social security costs 7,429 10,186 Other creditors 402 326 Accruals and deferred income 29,387 38,279 169,835 196,202 12 Deferred taxation 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Movement of deferred tax asset: At 1 April (782) (803) Under provision of deferred tax in respect of previous years (137) (181) Restated opening balance (919) (984) Credit for the year 23,566 2,402 Less: deferred tax on pension scheme deficit (23,700) (2,200) At 31 March (1,053) (782) The provision comprises: Accelerated capital allowances (659) (386) Short term timing differences (394) (396) Deferred tax asset as at 31 March (1,053) (782) Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 11 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Share capital 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Issued, called up & fully paid 45,000,000 (2009: 30,000,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 45,000 30,000 14 Profit and loss account 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April (28,235) 11,613 Retained profit for the financial year 55,761 22,493 Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (66,000) (81,900) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 18,500 22,900 Adjustment for exchange differences (148) (3,341) Balance at 31 March (20,122) (28,235) Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 61,708 66,895 Pension liability (note 20) (81,830) (95,130) Profit and loss reserve (20,122) (28,235) 15 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 1,765 41,613 Increase in share capital 15,000 Retained profit for the financial year 55,761 22,493 Actuarial loss recognised in the pension scheme (66,000) (81,900) Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss 18,500 22,900 Adjustment for exchange differences (148) (3,341) Closing shareholders’ funds 24,878 1,765 16 Capital commitments 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Authorised and contracted for 435 229 Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 12 17 Other financial commitments The Company has the following annual property leasing commitments at the year end, in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2010 2009 £’000 £’000 Within one year 644 1,953 In two to five years 1,472 2,724 After five years 17,005 14,020 18 Ultimate parent company The Company’s ultimate parent company is Arup Group Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales. Arup Group Limited is owned by the Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and the Arup Service Trust. 19 Related party transactions The Company transacts with other Group companies in the normal course of business. These transactions, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, are not disclosed as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are publicly available. 20 Pension commitments During the year, the Company operated a UK registered, contributory, defined benefit retirement scheme for employees. Contributions to the scheme are made in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2007 using the projected unit method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 31 March 2007 on an ongoing basis represented 92% of the actuarially calculated liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members and the scheme’s assets had a market value of £463.5m at that date. The most significant assumptions made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation were the discount rate of 5.8% and the consumer price inflation of 2.9% pa. There was an employer’s contribution for the year to 31 March 2010 of £16.5m (2009: £17.3m). No special employer’s contribution was made during the year to 31 March 2010 (2009: £Nil). The next actuarial valuation is being carried out as at 31 March 2010 but the results will not be available until December 2010 at the earliest. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2010 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010 the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. A new pension arrangement on a defined contribution basis was opened on 1 July 2010. Relationship between the reporting entity and the trustees (managers) of the defined benefit scheme The pension assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the scheme are required to act in the best interest of the scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of trustees to the scheme is determined by the scheme’s trust documentation. The Group has a policy that one-third of all trustees should be nominated by members of the scheme, including at least one member by current pensioners. In addition to its statutory duties the board of trustees have been granted the power to ‘call’ for additional contributions in the event of certain circumstances. The circumstances in which the trustees can exercise this power include a disposal that accounts for more than 15% of the net assets, as reported in the consolidated balance sheet or when the funding position of the scheme falls below 65% of the scheme liabilities. This disclosure is also provided in accordance with FRS 12 ‘Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets’. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 13 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 20 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return at 31 March: Long term rate Value of assets of return expected in the scheme 2010 2009 2010 2009 £’m £’m Equities and property 8.5% 8.0% 303.9 303.4 Bonds and cash including net current assets 4.6% 5.0% 190.9 56.5 Total market value of assets 494.8 359.9 Present value of defined benefit obligation (608.5) (492.0) Deficit in the scheme (113.7) (132.1) Less: Related deferred tax asset at 28% 31.8 37.0 Net scheme liability (81.8) (95.1) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets 2010 2009 Equities and property 61% 84% Bonds and cash including net current assets 39% 16% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: 2010 2009 £’m £’m Current service cost (5.8) (8.8) Interest on obligation (34.3) (34.9) Expected return on plan assets 27.3 34.3 Past service income 38.5 Curtailments and settlements 42.3 Net income/(charge) 68.0 (9.4) Movement of deficit during the year 2010 2009 £’m £’m Deficit in scheme at 1 April (132.1) (58.1) Movement in the year: Current service cost (5.8) (8.8) Employer’s contributions 16.5 17.3 Past service income 38.5 Interest cost (34.3) (34.9) Expected return on scheme assets 27.3 34.3 Actuarial loss (66.0) (81.9) Curtailments and settlements 42.3 Deficit in scheme at 31 March (113.7) (132.1) The closure of the pension scheme and the move from RPI to CPI valuation were the main factors contributing to the decrease in the scheme deficit in the year. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 14 20 Pension commitments (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2010 2009 £’m £’m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 492.0 511.8 Current service cost 5.8 8.8 Interest cost 34.3 34.9 Members’ contributions 8.3 8.8 Actuarial loss/(gain) on scheme liabilities 167.8 (56.3) Benefits paid (18.9) (16.0) Past service income (38.5) Curtailments and settlements (42.3) Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 608.5 492.0 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets 2010 2009 £’m £’m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 359.9 453.7 Expected return on scheme assets 27.3 34.3 Actuarial gain/(loss) on scheme assets 101.8 (138.2) Actual return on scheme assets 129.1 (103.9) Employer contributions 16.5 17.3 Members’ contributions 8.3 8.8 Benefits paid (18.9) (16.0) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 494.8 359.9 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) 2010 2009 At 31 March Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A 3.8% Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.9% 2.8% Future average rate used to discount liabilities 5.8% 7.0% Retail price inflation 3.6% 2.8% Consumer price inflation 2.9% N/A Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.4% 2.3% NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5%LPI) 3.4% 2.8% Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5%LPI) 2.3% 2.0% NGMP Non Guaranteed Minimum Pension LPI Limited Price Indexation Mortality 2010 & 2009 PNA00 birth year mortality tables using the 92 series medium cohort projections, allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% pa. Cash commutation 2010 & 2009 30% of members' pensions assumed to be taken as cash. Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 15 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2010 20 Pension commitments (continued) The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 2010 2009 Number Number of years of years Retiring today Males 22.4 22.3 Females 24.8 24.7 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.3 24.2 Females 26.7 26.6 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. History of experience gains and losses 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (608.5) (492.0) (511.8) (538.5) (504.4) Scheme assets 494.8 359.9 453.7 463.6 405.2 Scheme deficit (113.7) (132.1) (58.1) (74.9) (99.2) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities 12.4 11.9 (5.0) (20.6) (11.2) Experience adjustments on plan assets 101.8 (138.2) (54.3) 5.4) 54.5) Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme by the employer next year is £9.0m. The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme by the employees next year is £2.0m. Defined contribution schemes The Company has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £0.8m (2009: £1.0m). Ove Arup & Partners International Ltd | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2010 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom t +44 20 7636 1531 www.arup.com
