sustainable development 2010 Innovation through people and packaging SKG at a glance Totally focused on packaging With sales in 2010 in excess of e6.5 billion, Smurfit Kappa Group (SKG) is one of the world’s leading paper-based packaging businesses. Operations are concentrated at some 330 sites in Europe and in Latin America, where the Group also owns and manages forests. SKG is fully dedicated to the sustainable supply of paper-based packaging solutions and has no ownership of significant businesses outside this field of expertise. Product life cycle u Paper Life Supply Chain Packaging Expertise Expertise based on people SKG is involved in all aspects of the production and use of paper-based packaging. At every stage of this cycle the people working for SKG have the experience The product life cycle starts with virgin and recovered fibres being processed through and expertise necessary to deliver customer satisfaction in a sustainable manner. the mills to become paper and board, which are delivered to box converting plants 38,000 people are employed throughout the SKG operations and they understand where corrugated and solid board packaging is produced. Flat packaging is delivered the need to harness their expertise in pursuit of ensuring a sustainable as well as to customers’ packing and filling operations, where it is erected, filled and used profitable business. They also clearly appreciate that this means supplying paper to transport, protect, display and promote goods through the supply chain. and packaging products which contribute to the success and sustainability of our The recycling process begins when the flattened used packaging is collected customers’ businesses, as well as meeting customers’ commercial and technical (mainly from retail outlets), sorted and then returned to the mills for reprocessing. expectations. Smurfit Kappa people are passionate about the very real contribution their efforts can make to customer success and a sustainable product life cycle. At every stage of this cycle SKG has the experience, expertise and passion for both success and sustainability. Contents 2 Highlights 5 Letter from CEO 6 Corporate Governance Statement 9 Stakeholder Dialogue 10 Scope of the Report 12 Paper Packaging Recycling 14 Sustainable Development – a Summary 20 Our Performance in 2010 22 Long Term Commitments 26 Environment 42 Social Development 56 Sustainability in our Business 64 Data Tables 74 GRI Guidelines 79 Business in the Community Ireland 80 United Nations Global Compact 81 Independent Assurance Report 83 Glossary This report follows a similar structure to previous reports, beginning with a brief introduction by Gary McGann, the Group CEO, on page 5. The first section of the report summarises our overall approach to sustainability, our achievements and long term commitments. The report is then divided into four parts covering Environment, Social Development, Sustainability in our Business and concluding with an Information section, including a glossary. In preparing this report every effort has been made to follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. 2010 Highlights n Chain of Custody Certification. Since the first quarter of 2011, 100% of our paper mill system in Europe is FSC and/or PEFC certified. n Certified Packaging. Significant progress was made in the certification process of our packaging manufacturing operations. n CO2 reduction. With an overall increase in production of 3.6%, the Group reduced its yearon-year direct and indirect CO2 fossil emissions by 1%. Globally our mill system cut CO2 fossil emissions by 5.4% per tonne of paper produced. n Decreased water discharges. A 28% decrease in water discharges per tonne of paper (measured by COD tests) was achieved in our European paper mill system over a five year period (2005-2010), in excess of the targeted improvement of 25%. n Decreased water intake. In Latin America, our mills decreased their water intake year-on-year by 15% per tonne of paper produced. n EMS in Latin America. Almost 50% of our mill system in Latin America is now operating under an Environmental Management System. n Major customer recognition. Smurfit Kappa won Unilever’s global ‘Winning through Sustainability’ supplier award. Coca-Cola Enterprises gave Smurfit Kappa the award for best Corporate Supplier in the category ‘Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability’. 2 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Christophe Camin and Joël Cazenave at the Smurfit Kappa Cellulose du Pin paper mill at Facture near Bordeaux, FR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 3 4 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP caption to go here. caption to go here. caption to go here. caption to go here. Letter from CEO Introduction by Gary McGann Gary McGann, Group Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to introduce our Group’s various products that range from fourth annual Sustainable Development fragile and valuable to large and bulky. Report, showing our vision and Availability and affordable activities in the important area SKG contributes to a sustainable access to raw materials of sustainability. Although business world by designing and delivering our main challenge conditions improved compared to cost effective packaging solutions for Our main risks and challenges are 2009, they continue to be very our customers, by preventing waste detailed on pages 16 to 18 and they challenging. In particular raw material of packaged products by optimising clearly indicate the importance of availability and costs have escalated material usage and by reducing a constructive dialogue between rapidly. Notwithstanding these transport trips through appropriate legislators and the business community. challenging conditions, Smurfit Kappa packaging design. Our customers Group (SKG) is determined to continue increasingly recognise the sustainability In all areas where we face risks and to develop its efforts and commitments value of our products reflected in challenges both the national and in this important area. I would like to Sustainability Awards and recognitions European legislators hold the key to take the opportunity to highlight the which we receive as a key supplier. Our creating and maintaining fair trading following points. products contribute to a sustainable conditions within a credible and world thanks to their recyclable and reasonable legislative framework. Sustainability growing renewable characteristics. To further In all its efforts to guide Europe to a ever more important underpin our drive to improve the competitive, sustainable, water and sustainability performance of our Over the past 12 months, sustainability energy efficient and low-carbon products, I am pleased to introduce has become more important for economy, the EU needs to maintain the long term measurable commitments consumers and hence for our principle of a global level playing field in the area of emissions to air, water customers and ourselves. Compared thus ensuring that our industry has and Chain of Custody certification of to a few years ago, consumers have access, at affordable and competitive our operations and products. a much better understanding of the costs, to wood, recovered paper, and subject of sustainability, taking the the capacity to secure adequate energy Transparent and open and water supply without distortive different stages in the value chain communication taxes and/or subsidies. into consideration, thus requiring us to cooperate more closely with both As mentioned earlier, we engage in an customers as well as our suppliers. open and transparent communication To guarantee the business conditions We also believe that it is critical to process and we increasingly seek to needed to satisfy all our key involve, inspire and get commitment engage in dialogue with our different stakeholders, we will continue to from our own employees in this area. stakeholder groups. We are also work together with the Confederation This creates a win-win-win situation determined to have our progress in of European Paper Industries (CEPI), as inspired employees will improve sustainability independently appraised the European Federation of Corrugated our products that will benefit our and evaluated by others. Besides the Board Manufacturers (FEFCO) and customers and ultimately consumers. introduction of the measurable targets other industry associations to Lastly, we believe that an open and mentioned above, I am also pleased encourage key governmental decision transparent communication climate to report that we have advanced our makers to take the position of our will soon become standard. reporting in accordance with the industry into account when drafting Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) from legislative changes and/or allowing SKG introduces long term level B+ to A+. Also, in early 2011 subsidies. commitments we have joined the Water Footprint Network to increase our understanding I hope you enjoy exploring the SKG operates in, and focuses on, of the sustainability issues surrounding content of our 2010 Sustainable one main business area, that of paper water usage. As for 2009, we sought Development Report. based packaging. This brings us into external assurance on a number contact with almost every other of environmental indicators. business involved in the manufacture As commented upon in last year’s or supply of products. Our packaging Report, we continue to support the makes contributions to the general UN Global Compact initiative and way of life by protecting products the Social and Ethical Data Exchange Gary McGann while being transported from their (Sedex) and to participate in the GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER place of origin to the place of Carbon Disclosure Project initiative consumption and by packaging (CDP). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 5 Corporate Governance Statement Members of the SKG Board and senior Mexican The Directors are committed to Sustainability Governance management at the board meeting in Mexico maintaining the highest standards in August 2010. Sustainable development is a core of corporate governance and this Left to right: Roberto Silva, Paul Stecko*, principle in all facets of SKG’s statement describes in summary the Frits Beurskens*, Ian Curley*, Gary McGann*, operations and activities. The Board German Esguerra, Samuel Mencoff*, Group’s governance at Board level. has overall responsibility for ensuring Tony Smurfit*, Liam O’Mahony*, Nicanor The full Corporate Governance Report that the Group plays an appropriate Restrepo*, Juan Michelsen, Sergio Martínez, is set out in the 2010 Annual Report. Luis Mercader, Javier Morgan, Rosemary Thorne*, role in promoting a realistically Michael O’Riordan, Thomas Brodin*, Eduardo sustainable development agenda in Ysunza, Mario Garza. Board of Directors the paper based packaging sector. * Member of the Board of Directors of SKG The development and implementation The Board is primarily responsible of SKG’s policies in this area are for assuring the long term success sponsored by the Group CEO. of the Company, for setting the Group’s strategic aims, for the At executive management level, leadership and control of the a Group Steering Committee sets Company and for reviewing the out the strategy and objectives for Group’s system of internal control sustainable development in SKG and and risk management. There is a reviews the progress made in meeting clear division of responsibilities within our commitments. This committee the Group between the Board and comprises the most senior executives executive management, with the in the Company including the three Board retaining control of strategic executive directors (Group CEO, and other major decisions under a Group COO and Group CFO) and formal schedule of matters reserved management from each division to it. and from the Group headquarters. 6 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Left to right: Thomas Brodin, María Teresa Zaldívar, Mario Garza, Left to right: Paul Stecko, Samuel Mencoff, Javier Morgan, Tony Smurfit Gary McGann, Juan Guillermo Castaneda The Group Steering Committee is Group Secretary clearly in written terms of reference, supported by a Sustainability Working which have been approved by the The Directors have access to the Group comprising key representatives Board, are reviewed annually and are advice and services of the Group from each of the main operating available on the Group’s website. More Secretary who is responsible for divisions in Europe and Latin America details on the current membership and ensuring that Board procedures are as well as Group headquarters. the roles and responsibilities of these followed and that compliance with This Group’s task is to monitor the Committees can be found in the 2010 applicable rules and regulations is achievement of targets across a wide Annual Report. achieved. The Directors also have range of sustainability indicators and access to independent professional to promote the theme of sustainable advice, at the Group’s expense, if Codes of Conduct development in SKG’s interface with and when required. customers, suppliers and the general SKG has a series of codes of conduct environment. The Working Group is covering a number of areas related also responsible for the preparation Meetings to its management and operations. and production of the annual These are based upon the following The Board met six times in 2010 and Sustainable Development Report. international conventions and codes: details of the meetings held during the period, both of the Board and of the 1. International Labour Organisation Membership of the Board Board Committees, are contained in (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental the 2010 Annual Report which also Principles and Rights at Work At the year-end there were fourteen includes information on individual (core conventions) Directors on the Smurfit Kappa Group attendance. The Board holds at least plc Board, comprising: a non-executive one of its meetings each year in the 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental Chairman, three executive Directors Group operations to give the Directors Human Rights and ten non-executive Directors. an opportunity to meet with a wider 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational More detail on the composition of range of management and to see at Enterprises the Board and biographical details first hand the Group’s operating of the Directors are set out in the 4. UN Global Compact activities. In 2010, the August Board 2010 Annual Report. meeting was held in Mexico. The Group provides the foundation for Chairman key components of internal control by Induction and Development ensuring appropriate discipline and The Chairman of the Board is structure through a number of policies On appointment, all non-executive independent and is responsible and programmes which serve to define Directors receive comprehensive for the leadership and efficient acceptable business practices, the documents and briefings on the and effective working of the Board. resolution of conflicts of interest and Group and its operations. During He sets and manages the Board the expected standards of ethical the year Directors meet with senior agenda to ensure that it addresses behaviour. We have also created management, both at Board all matters reserved to the Board specific policy statements in key areas meetings and during individual and that adequate time is available of sustainability and they are integral site visits. for discussion on strategic issues. in the drive to improve SKG’s performance. These policy statements Senior Independent Director Board Committees cover Environment, Sustainable The Board has established three Forestry, Sustainable Sourcing, Social The Senior Independent Director’s duties Citizenship and Health and Safety Committees to assist in the execution include being available to shareholders issues. of specific matters within its area of if they have concerns which cannot responsibility. These are the Audit be resolved through the Chairman or All of these Codes and policies Committee, the Compensation Group Chief Executive Officer. He is also are available on our website Committee and the Nominations available to serve as an intermediary for www.smurfitkappa.com. Committee. The responsibilities of other Directors if necessary. each of these Committees are set out SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 7 Ethical standards Most other business units are the views known to the parties concerned, subject of local statutory audits. either directly or through industry The Smurfit Kappa Group’s Code of bodies such as CEPI, FEFCO and the Business Conduct, which provides In addition to the annual audit, the European Round Table of Industrialists the underlying modus operandi for Group’s Internal Audit Department has (ERT). It also works closely with each and every employee in every its own extensive work programme in the Irish Business and Employers jurisdiction, sets out the organisation’s the context of the Company’s overall Confederation (IBEC) and equivalent position in relation to compliance with Risk Management System. During the bodies in other countries. the law, adherence to ethical standards course of 2010, 66 such internal audits and the Group’s commitments to those were completed. At all times those representing the with whom it comes in contact. views of the Smurfit Kappa Group The Group’s Code of Business Conduct do so having due regard to its Code The fundamental objective of the and Good Faith Reporting Statement of Business Conduct and the local Code of Business Conduct is to ensure have been made available and their laws and regulations applying to the that the Group operates its business purpose explained to employees. Group’s operations. There were no in accordance with the highest ethical criticisms of the organisation in this standards. An appropriate training programme to respect in 2010. review and refresh the understanding Each Group company and its of established employees and cater for Any financial contributions made employees, regardless of geographic the needs of recent employees will by Smurfit Kappa to political parties location, are required to apply the be developed during the course of are in line with the Group’s Code of Code and abide by the particular 2011/12. Business Conduct. During the course laws and practices applicable to of 2010, such contributions were their industry and/or required by the During 2010, there were 10 minor negligible. No national government jurisdiction in which they operate. incidents of what the Group considers is a shareholder in SKG. to be behaviour non-compliant with The Group’s Code of Business the organisation’s Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that personal Conduct. These were investigated Compliance and professional integrity is the and appropriate and prompt remedial It is Group policy to comply with the responsibility of each employee. actions were taken. applicable laws and regulations in each Complementing the Code of Business of the countries in which it operates Conduct is the Good Faith Reporting Public Policy and to ensure that its employees are Policy Statement (‘Whistleblower aware of this and conduct themselves As a multi-national organisation, appropriately. No significant fines were Code’) which enables employees Smurfit Kappa Group’s businesses imposed on the Group in 2010 in to report wrongdoing or potential are subject to legislation and rules respect of any breaches of such laws wrongdoing. determined by the jurisdictions in and regulations. Each significant business unit is the which it operates. subject of an external and independent In that context, SKG adopts positions audit conducted by the Group’s on a variety of matters that are External Auditors on an annual basis. relevant to its business, making its 8 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Stakeholder Dialogue SKG engages extensively with its key stakeholders on a range of issues in order to agree common objectives on sustainability and ways to achieve those. The ultimate aim of engagement with stakeholders is to reconcile their expectations and demands with the achievement by SKG of appropriate environmental and other standards and adequate economic returns. These interactions are summarized below and are explained in more detail in the appropriate sections of the report. 1 Customers As well as the normal business interaction that one would expect, we have a very high degree of engagement with our customers on key sustainability issues and in various projects concerning carbon footprint and fibre sourcing, participation in conferences and customer sustainability initiatives. 2 Employees Our employees are the key to the success of the Smurfit Kappa Group. We place significant emphasis on their safety, health and welfare. There are numerous training activities ranging from training on the job to advanced management courses internally as well as externally in order that all our people can achieve their full potential. 3 Investors There is an extensive programme involving road shows, investor days, one-on-one meetings and telephone conferences, and participation in industry-related investor conferences. 4 Suppliers As well as the usual levels of communication, there are specific initiatives such as audits and questionnaires. SKG’s operations are encouraged to source products and services from local suppliers where possible, consistent with the need to ensure appropriate quality at the right price and support for sustainability. 5 (E)NGOs Various memberships, dialogue (both direct and indirect) and cooperation on specific topics like water and CO2 sequestration. The level of engagement with organisations active in the area of sustainability has increased appreciably in recent years. 6 Local Social projects, health, employment and environmental initiatives. communities The underpinning principle is to assist communities in self-help. 7 Government Memberships of industry associations at national and international and society level, participation in forums related to broader business issues and society in general. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 9 Bert Bos performing a pallet test at Smurfit Kappa’s Development Centre in Hoogeveen, NL Scope of the Report The information in this report covers all For 2010, SKG applied the GRI at an data for both our European and Latin the international activities of the Smurfit A+ application level. American operations. Kappa Group for the calendar year 2010 and includes some information relating to Every effort has been made to provide For the most part, data are based on early 2011. data that is as accurate as possible. Since measured or metered quantities, or 2008, data relating to environmental on best estimates based on industry SKG fully recognises that sustainable matters are gathered through a Group knowledge and established calculation development embraces social and wide IT based reporting system factors. CO2 emission calculations business subjects as well as environmental implemented in all operations of the have been based on established fuel topics. These subjects and topics have Group. consumption and specific CO2 emission been selected on the basis of input from factors. Definitions and calculations the various stakeholder groups. SKG This tool is integrated into the Group’s for the performance indicators can be collected data from all its manufacturing intranet, enabling sites to report their found in the glossary on pages 83 to 87. operations that were operational at the environmental, economic and social data end of 2010. SKG does not have any joint online according to the GRI guidelines. We are making ongoing efforts to ventures. As the information is stored centrally, this further standardise the data gathering allows for easier and faster processing. system in SKG to improve data quality When quantified performance or targets and consistency in the use of Group are mentioned in this report, they are During 2010, significant efforts have been definitions and scope requirements of related to production levels. Other made to introduce new functionality to our key indicators. In 2010 we made information is reported in absolute allow the individual operations to compare progress on this by introducing internal figures, unless otherwise stated. their performance with the previous data collection on a quarterly basis. reporting period, and to alert them where Among the various references used for the significant deviation occurs. Additionally As in 2010, we involved an external development and identification of baseline during 2010, monitoring protocols (test assurance provider, whom we data included in this report are the G3.1 methods, frequency of sampling, collation commissioned to provide limited Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued and aggregation) have been revised assurance on a selected number by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and further enhancements made to of environmental parameters that an independent institution whose mission more precisely define protocols for each are important to our business. is to provide a trusted and credible category of operations. Our goal is to The assurance report of KPMG framework for sustainability reporting. ensure the continuous consistency of can be found on pages 81 and 82. 10 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Maja Grosch and Diana Baas at the Smurfit Kappa Zedek print & display plant, Deventer, NL SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 11 Paper Packaging Recycling Efficient packaging solutions contribute For SKG’s manufacturing operations in packaging available as the industry’s significantly to the sustainability of the Europe, 77% of our fibrous raw materials raw material comes from renewable total supply chain of goods. Packaging came from recycled fibres in 2010. sources and the end product is fully not only protects products during transit, recyclable. In SKG we consume over it often helps to preserve the product, In Latin America, the rate of recycled 5 million tonnes of used paper each carries important product information fibres in all our fibrous raw materials year. Of this figure, 4.3 million tonnes for consumers and provides marketing was 70% for 2010 and, while official are in Europe and most of this is supplied opportunities for both manufacturers industry figures are not currently through our own recovery and recovered and retailers. available, our recycling rate is considered paper supply system which makes us to be significantly better than the the clear industry leader in this regard. Paper based packaging is almost totally industry average for that region. Over 50% of our Latin American needs renewable and recyclable. The recycling are also collected within our own system rate for paper and board packaging Paper packaging is the most or secured through contracts with third within the EU’s 27 member states for environmentally friendly form of party suppliers. 2008, which is the latest year for which official statistics are available, reached Packaging Recycling Rate in EU (%) 81%, up from 77% the previous year. [Source: EU DG Environment: “Rates of 100 packaging recycling and recovery in the 80 Member States of the EU”.] Paper based 77 81 packaging has a higher recycling rate 60 67 68 64 66 than any other material. 40 The graph shows 2007 and 2008 30 20 28 recycling rates in Europe for the different raw materials. 0 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 paper metal glass plastic 12 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 13 Victor Mauricio Franco from the forestry nursery in Smurfit Cartón de Colombia giving instructions to forestry workers Sustainable Development a Summary Our Commitment number, and it continues to carefully use and recycle a wide range of Sustainability implies a clear natural resources. commitment to building a sound future for our Group on three important principles: 1) Environment SKG is committed to: n Protection of the environment n Beneficial social development n Complying at a minimum with national and international n Economic value generation environmental legislation and seeking to achieve best practice SKG regards sustainability as an through the promotion of integral part of its business strategy, continuous improvement considering sustainability and programmes profitable growth to be perfectly compatible. In meeting its business n Applying appropriate objectives of creating increasing environmental management economic value, SKG will ensure that systems throughout the Group the social and natural environments n Continuing to use natural within which SKG operates are resources as efficiently respected and protected both today as possible and into the future. The Group provides direct income to n Meeting all reasonable approximately 38,000 people and expectations of stakeholders indirectly to a significantly greater concerning environmental performance. 14 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Julien Blavot, Jérôme Dagneaux, Sébastien Lestocquoy, Stéphanie Micard, Xavier Dewaleyne at a meeting in the Bag-in-Box plant at Epernay, FR 2) Society 3) Business When dealing with the environmental, social and business aspects of the SKG is committed to: SKG is committed to: Group’s sustainability programmes, SKG is committed to: n Ensuring that all employees work n Ensuring the expectations in a healthy and safe environment of shareholders and other n Ensuring compliance with all and that local legislation remains stakeholders are met with statutory, regulatory and legal the minimum acceptable standard, regard to profitable, sustainable requirements with best international practice as long term business development the goal for all operations in the changing local and global n Maintaining codes of conduct economies that support our core values n Applying the principle of equal of integrity, responsibility and employment opportunity n As the biggest global business in respect, when managing our the field of paper based packaging, n Managing our business in an business activities in all locations. demonstrating leadership to ethical and equitable manner customers and other stakeholders, Whenever it is practical and and meeting all of our social when it comes to developing more economically feasible, SKG is responsibilities sustainable packaging solutions committed to going further than n Ensuring that employees and complying with legal requirements. n Working closely with customers suppliers are aware of the SKG recognises that factors such as and other stakeholders to company policy on social ethical behaviour, transparency in provide packaging with strong responsibility governance standards, identification credentials regarding sustainability, of risks and stakeholder engagement n Meeting our commitment to taking account of factors such are fundamental for the sustainable protect and advance human as packaging optimisation, success of the company. We seek to rights, particularly those of the recyclability and Chain of Custody maintain and improve the recognition indigenous communities where n Supporting suppliers, customers of SKG as a responsible company we have operations and others in the supply chain by all our stakeholders and by n Promoting and enhancing on their own sustainability the community at large and as a strong relationships with the development projects progressive company for current communities within which our and future employees. n Providing packaging solutions businesses have the privilege which make a positive contribution to operate. to sustainability, especially by minimising customers’ product wastage and by reducing their distribution and transportation requirements. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 15 Forestry workers planting Eucalyptus in Colombia Key Risks and Challenges paper for energy production. Financial thermal use. This is particularly the case support for wood as a renewable fuel when a reordering of a sequential use SKG recognises the fundamental role feedstock is of particular concern, of this scarce resource will still fully of natural resources for the global as this drives up prices for our raw achieve the renewability objectives. economy and fully supports shifting materials and puts the paper and the towards a resource efficient and low Another reason for adhering to this paper packaging industry at a clear carbon economy. For SKG, it is a key hierarchy is the fact that the European competitive disadvantage both globally objective to deliver on economic paper industry is already the single and in comparison with alternative performance whilst efficiently largest user and producer of biopackaging materials. Given the using natural resources, mitigating energy, with further untapped Group’s limited ownership of forests, climate change and minimising the potential. It should prove possible to particularly in Europe, we see this environmental impact of all activities. extract even more benefits from wood challenge as significant for our industry and a totally inappropriate primary use fibres through the further development The key challenges and risks that face of wood. The National Renewable of integrated bio-refinery technologies. SKG and the paper packaging industry Energy Plans from the individual EU as a whole are: SKG’s risk concerning wood fibre member states predict a large increase in the use of wood for renewable availability is mitigated by our 1) Fibre Availability energy purposes. ownership of forestry in Latin America and the relationships we This is the most basic necessity for have developed and will continue to The EUwood study confirms the our business. develop with key suppliers of wood. likely future shortage of wood. The EU should reasonably be expected to Wood and recovered paper are the Growth of global recovered paper have a biomass supply policy, just as fundamental raw materials which consumption is high, predominantly it has a coal and gas supply policy. provide fibre for paper making. led by China continuing its strong Further policies should be targeted Sustainable forestry and paper economic growth. Demand will rise at at the agricultural sector, which is recovery systems are of paramount an even faster pace than supply, due to modelled to supply more than half of importance for a company such further investment in recycled-based the biomass needed for energy, but for as SKG. paper and board capacity in the which there are no measures foreseen in the Common Agricultural Policy developing world, where suitable wood Therefore, SKG is very concerned review in 2012. One possible solution sources are in short supply, and by a with the effect on the availability of would be to encourage the growth of modest increase in the usage rate of its primary raw materials of the EU crops suitable for biomass on set-aside recovered paper in the developed Renewable Energy policy targets. farmland. world. Long term prices of recovered By 2020, the EU has stipulated that paper are on an upward trend and 20% of all energy consumed should SKG also strongly advocates the rising energy costs are also creating be from renewable sources such as concept of a resource hierarchy, pressure for further recovered paper wind, solar energy and bio-energy. giving priority to higher value added price increases. To ensure the future The last category can include the applications such as paper making over availability of suitable recovered paper, incineration of wood and/or recovered lower value added applications such as separate collection at source is 16 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP fundamental. Co-mingled collection are dealt with properly. The European decrease in the use of direct fossil fuel drives down quality and threatens paper industry needs a continued and CO2 emissions per tonne of paper further improvements to recyclability recognised status as a ‘carbon and board. This penal approach seems rates. SKG is concerned to see an leakage’ industry in order to remain counter intuitive. SKG is committed avoidance of any further increase in competitive. Although we consider to invest in energy efficiency projects collection systems where this quality the benchmarks for specific paper and fuel mix changes shifting, where aspect is not taken into account. and board grades that have been possible, from the use of fossil fuels established in 2010 and have been to biogenic fuels. SKG’s risk concerning recovered paper adopted by the EU in early 2011 to availability is mitigated by our position be very tough, we accept that they In 2010, the use of non-fossil fuels in the supply chain, through our own have been made according to the ratio in our European mill system recovered paper operations and long rules set in the ETS legislation. was 51%, an improvement of 8% term supply agreements with key compared to 2009. The use of suppliers. We consider it a major shortcoming in non-fossil fuel in our mill system the agreed system, however, that no in Latin America accounted for emission credits are allocated for the 23% of primary energy consumption. 2) Energy and CO2 production of electricity through the This is similar to the level in 2009. Our industry is amongst the most system of Combined Heat and Power The biomass energy produced by energy intensive in the world. (CHP), which is the most efficient way Cali mill in Colombia has increased Although energy intensive, the carbon of producing both electricity and heat by 4% compared to 2009 but our intensity is mitigated by the extensive (steam). This policy results in the virgin mill at San Felipe in Venezuela use of bio-energy in the sector. The majority of paper and board mills in operated for half the year as a recycled long term upward trend in energy the industry needing to buy CO2 mill due to energy restrictions in that prices presents a key challenge for SKG emission allowances (EUA) to meet country. Consequently the overall ratio and the entire industry. Despite the emission targets despite the so-called for Latin America remained the same considerable cost increase associated ‘carbon leakage’ status of the industry. as that in 2009. with this long term trend, SKG fully As the legislators chose to rule that supports the need for (fossil) CO2 there will be no free allocation to any In 2010, SKG’s costs for energy were emission reductions to be realised electricity production in the EU ETS approximately €450 million which through different Emission Trading directive itself, this cannot be changed equates to 7.1% of our total costs. Systems around the world, if and before 2020. The CHP measures in the We are focusing our efforts on when a global level playing field and 2020 energy efficiency plan for priority reducing specific types of energy usage agreed carbon price are established. grid access can only support CHP to and we are also aiming to reduce a certain extent. Therefore, we believe greenhouse gas emissions by investing The continued absence of a solid that this treatment of CHP is a in more energy efficient systems such international agreement on CO2 conceptual flaw in the system. as CHP plants, alternative energy emissions makes it even more essential options such as biomass, and by that the post 2012 European Emission Energy costs for SKG’s European mill driving production efficiencies. Trading System (ETS) should function system will increase considerably under correctly and safely and that key issues the post 2012 ETS, despite a continued SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 17 Nicolas Dejeux at the Smurfit Kappa Bag-in-Box plant at Epernay, FR Tim Snijckers and Willem Schoenmakers at the Roermond paper mill, NL 3) Water plants, over 90% of the water intake Our industry actively continues is returned to the water systems from its efforts to ensure the safety of Global pressure on freshwater which it was extracted. SKG is strongly recycled packaging. A successful resources is increasing. This committed to find ways to further example is the phase out of DIBP development is gaining speed improve water usage efficiency and (di-isobutyl-phthalate) glue, after because of the impact of climate to reduce discharges. Underpinning a recommendation made by the change. As our business is dependent this commitment SKG has invested German authorities in 2008. CEPI and on this natural resource, both water over €20 million in upgrading existing other associated federations (FEICA, availability and the impact of our installations or building new water EuPIA, CITPA), jointly recommended water usage are high on our agenda. treatment plants since 2007 and will phasing out the use of DIBP from Sufficient availability of good quality continue to do so where appropriate. paper and packaging applications. water at an affordable cost is key for A survey performed by CITPA in 2010 an industry like ours. As we support confirmed that one year after the initiatives to develop ‘water footprints’ 4) Food Contact and recommendation to phase out the and water stewardship standards, Food Safety use of phthalates in adhesives, 60% in early 2011 SKG joined the Water The challenge our industry faces on of recycled fibres used for food Footprint Network, which is a food safety reflects the fact that we packaging contained quantities of frontrunner in developing such endeavour to repeatedly recycle our DIBP below the recommended limit standards. The transparency these paper materials as much as we can (0.3mg DIBP/kg food), versus only standards provide for water usage in the interest of environmental 20% the previous year. Further is especially needed in those places sustainability and cost efficiencies. decreases are expected in the where availability of freshwater is coming years. already an issue or is fast becoming As our raw material is mostly postone. SKG is closely monitoring the SKG contributed actively within consumer recovered paper there are upcoming ISO standard on water the European paper and packaging traces of additives such as ink, starch footprinting and the work of the associations CEPI and FEFCO to and other chemicals in the recycled Alliance of Water Stewardship and develop industry initiatives and to product. Our industry, therefore, European Water Partners via its define best practices. SKG has an has to go to great lengths to extract industry association CEPI. internal team that is dedicated these substances, where necessary, or to ensure that they will not be to food contact and product The paper industry is seen as a water detrimental to packaged goods. food safety issues. intensive industry. However, there is More specifically, we must also ensure a misconception in this assertion. that they comply with the European The paper industry is predominantly Regulation on materials that come processing rather than consuming into contact with food. significant volumes of water. After treatment in modern water treatment 18 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Smurfit Kappa Cellulose du Pin paper mill at Facture, near Bordeaux, FR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 19 KEY AREA Code of Business Conduct Social Citizenship Corporate governance Employee Development Community Policy Health and Safety Continuous Improvement OUR Policy SKG PERFORMANCE EMS Europe EMS Latin America IN 2010 CoC Europe In our 2009 Sustainable Development CoC Latin America Report we published a roadmap which identified commitments to Pulp Purchase be reached over the coming years. Third Party Paper Suppliers Europe The information which now follows measures our performance against the 2010 commitments. Third Party Paper Suppliers Latin America Environment Energy Europe Energy Latin America Achieved Water Discharges Europe Partially Achieved Water Discharges Latin America not achieved Hazardous Chemicals Europe Hazardous Chemicals Latin America Air Emission Europe Air Emission Latin America Suppliers Other Customers stakeholder dialogue Social Responsibility Investment Ratings GRI Reporting Guidelines 20 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP COMMITMENT 2010 RESULTS Review where appropriate and maintain. We maintained implementation of this Code in all our operations and implemented it in operations acquired in 2010. Continue to apply in all operations worldwide. For details see page 41 to 55. This is delegated locally. Continue to have programmes to help educate, train and promote For details see page 44 and 45. employee opportunities. Continually encourage local involvement appropriate to local needs. For details see page 53 to 55. Ensure full adherence. We maintained implementation of this policy in all our operations and implemented it in operations acquired in 2010. Continue to improve on previous year‘s performance with an The average improvement in the frequency rate, year-on-year, over the past annual improvement of 10% in the frequency rate. three years is 7%; nevertheless the targeted improvement of 10% in 2010 vs 2009 has not been met (see page 51). Action to ensure policies are understood and implemented in all We maintained implementation of these policies in all our operations and operations. Review and refine as necessary. implemented it in operations acquired in 2010. Maintain the certification of all European mills. Environmental Certification has been maintained in all mills. Management System is implemented in all European mills (containerboard and board mills) from June 2009. Two additional mills to be certified EMS by end of 2010. Cerro Gordo and Los Reyes, two of our Mexican mills have been Certified ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System standard) in the course of 2010. Achieve 100% certification of our recycled mills (paper and board At end of 2010, 86% of our production of recycled containerboard paper mills) by 2010. was certified Chain of Custody under the FSC and/or PEFC scheme. Continue our programme of CoC certification of the converting The overall level of certification reached 100% at end of the first quarter units to reflect customer demand. of 2011. 33% of our European converting units reached Chain of Custody certification during 2010. For details see page 66 and 67. Continue to maintain CoC certification in Colombia. FSC certification of our Colombian forest and Chain of Custody certification attained in 2009 for all Colombian operations (mills and converting units) have been maintained in 2010. This process on CoC certification in Venezuela is still on hold. Continue to apply the commitment on pulp purchase according to European and Latin American mills, purchase market bleached pulp only from SKG Forestry policy. pulp mills with Chain of Custody certification under PEFC or FSC schemes. Communication and commitment process continued to ensure Implementation of a specific protocol assessing compliance of all third party compliance by strategic suppliers by end of 2010. virgin papers suppliers with our forestry policy. Strategic suppliers complied with forestry policy as planned at end of 2010. Received written confirmation of compliance for 80% of purchased virgin paper. Communication and commitment process will commence in 2010. Progress made in assessing our external paper suppliers during the year 2010. Ensure 60% compliance by end of 2010. At end of 2010, 82% of the strategic virgin paper supplies were compliant. Commissioning new boiler in Zülpich and start up of the Dalkia Achieved as planned in all three sites for details see page 31. biomass boiler in Cellulose du Pin in 2010. Re-commissioning of CHP (from a closed mill) to our solid board mill in Nieuweschans by 2010. Rate of biofuel usage in our mill system to increase to 27% by 2010. Rate of biofuel usage reached 26% by end of 2010. (Rate adjusted for the fact that our kraftliner mill in San Felipe (Venezuela) in 2010 operated for 6 months as a recycled mill due to energy disruptions in the country.) The second upgrade phase of the fifth WTP is due to start mid 2010. Upgraded WTP started mid 2010 as planned in Sanguesa mill (Spain). Achieve 25% reduction in COD discharge by 2010 over 2005. Compared to 2005, a COD reduction of 28% was achieved in 2010 in our European mill system. Reduction is expressed per tonne of paper and board produced. Target 2% reduction in each of the next four years to 2013 on Compared to 2009 and relative to production, reduction of COD, BOD and COD, BOD and TSS. TSS discharges reached 8%, 11% and 3% respectively. Continue to maintain best practices to minimise use of hazardous Minimising use of hazardous chemicals is fully integrated into the procedures chemicals. defined in the EMS in place in all mills. Start assessment to minimise usage of chemicals hazardous to Process on how to minimise use of hazardous chemicals implemented in all environment each time it is technically possible. our Latin America mills. In five of our mills hazardous chemicals were replaced by less hazardous ones. Air emission monitoring of our European mill boilers will comply At end of 2010, monitoring systems of emissions to air recommended by the with new EU/IPPC regulations by 2010. By law, compliance has new EU Regulation (Industrial Emissions Directive) is in place in all our large to be achieved by 2014. combustion plants using fossil fuel. Not all black liquor boilers yet have the required monitoring protocols. Implementation of the monitoring system will start – 70% to be The operating boilers at all facilities (mills and converting units) performed achieved by 2010. at least one air emission monitoring in 2010 for each air contaminant listed in their permit. Continuous implementation and assessment to achieve compliance Started a compliance verification programme applicable to all strategic by strategic suppliers. suppliers of inks, glues, starch and chemicals including physical audits on site. Objective to complete verification programme by end 2011 and to continue these verifications of compliance thereafter. Final aim is to conduct an operational risk assessment. Continue agreements with customers on Sustainable Packaging Continuous cooperation with customers on their pressing sustainability issues, Strategies. Include Sustainability Metrics in our Customer building targets together and achieving them. Clear acknowledgement Support Tools. through public awards by some customers of our work on sustainability. Sustainability metrics included in our tools (Pack Expert and Paper-to-Box). Participate when appropriate in ratings and other relevant initiatives. Signatory to UN Global Compact initiative, participating in Carbon Disclosure Project and continued membership of Sedex. Continue to report as previous years and increase our transparency. Objective is to achieve A+ reporting status in 2012. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 21 The Smurfit Kappa recycled paper mill at Zülpich, DE. This is a state of the art mill with a totally closed loop system for process water. Our Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments In this section of the Report, we set 1. Sustainable use of fibre within all our operations to ensure a out our key commitments under four sustainable supply of paper we produce Fibres account for more than 90% of the headings: sustainable use of fibre; or source externally, to support well raw materials used for SKG’s products. CO2 emissions; water; and code of managed forest practice and to provide Our main concern is that 100% of the business conduct. our customers with third party verified wood, wood fibres and pulp used by SKG sustainable packaging. originates from non-controversial sources. SKG recognises and utilises FSC and commitment PEFC, the two major international forest certification bodies, to qualify the wood By 2015: and the virgin fibre based products we 1. All our fibres produced or purchase as well as the paper, board and purchased will be from packaging we produce in our operations. sustainable origin 2. Over 90% of the paper and Achievements to date board produced will be certified Chain of Custody n Our Colombian forests have been certified FSC since 2003, with the 3. Over 90% of our converting remaining operations in Colombia operations will operate certified since 2009. under a Chain of Custody certification. n Since January 2009 all our virgin paper mills in Europe are certified PEFC or FSC. Because of our relatively small forestry ownership (only in Latin America), over n In 2009 we started to implement 90% of the wood we use is delivered by FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody third parties. Our approach has been to certification in our EU recycled implement Chain of Custody certification paper and board mill system. 22 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Smurfit Kappa Cellulose du Pin’s biomass boiler situated at Facture, FR Activities and results in 2010 2. CO2 emissions Activities and results in 2010 n 72% of the paper and board we Climate change represents the most n In 2010, total CO2 fossil emissions produce in our Group mill system important sustainability issue for SKG of all SKG operations were is certified for further labelling today. We have taken global initiatives reduced by 4.0% compared Chain of Custody according to to address this subject. to 2009. This emission comparison either PEFC or FSC. is volume adjusted. n At the end of 2010, 32% of our commitment converting operations at Group Current and future activities 20% reduction in relative CO2 level are certified Chain of Custody emissions from fossil fuels in n In our sack kraft paper mill according to either PEFC or FSC. our global paper and board mill in Nervión (Spain), we are n In 2010 we reviewed our suppliers system in 2020 compared to 2005 constructing a new larger and ensured that no wood fibre (CO2 emissions defined as direct steam turbine to increase the originated from controversial and indirect CO2 emissions from production of biomass-based sources. fossil fuel relative to production). renewable energy. This new turbine is due to start operating towards the end of 2011 and Current and future activities Achievements to date will further reduce fossil based n Early in 2011 we completed the CO2 emissions from the mill. n SKG has been switching from Chain of Custody certification fossil fuel to renewable energy n In our kraft paper mill in Navarra of our EU recycled paper and where possible and economically (Spain), producing testliner and board mill system. feasible (Piteå biomass boiler machine glazed paper, in mid n At the end of 2013, we aim installed in 2007, new black 2011 we will start to transform to have at least 85% of our liquor boiler in Cali mill installed the current boiler into a bubbling converting operations, both in in August 2008, Cellulose du fluidised bed combustor. The Europe and in Latin America, Pin (Facture) biomass boiler mill will reach a doubling of the Chain of Custody certified commissioned in August 2010). production of steam with 100% according to either PEFC or FSC. generated by biomass. The n For over two decades SKG has upgraded boiler is scheduled to n At the end of 2013, we aim to been focused on reducing CO2 start up in the second half of have over 85% of the paper and emissions from fossil fuels relative 2012. board produced in our Group to production (see pages 36-37 certified Chain of Custody. for examples). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 23 3. Water Activities and results in 2010 4. Code of Business Conduct After fibres, water is the second n In 2010, water intake by the We have operations in 31 countries natural resource that is vital to our European operations relative to on different continents and we employ business. We have worked hard during production decreased by 11% approximately 38,000 employees. the last five years to continuously compared to 2009. As a truly multinational Group, the reduce the environmental impact of employee base has grown considerably the water we discharge after usage. n Relative to production, the water not only in size but also in cultural and intake of the Latin American mills social diversity. This diversity demands was reduced by 15% compared the development and adherence to commitment to 2009. shared core values and business Reduce the organic content principles in the area of business discharged in our process water Current and future activities practice, health and safety, employee (COD) by 10% by 2020 compared relations, human rights, environment to 2010. The reduction is relative n There are several investments and community involvement. to the organic discharge in water treatment facilities in The Group’s commitment to these measured by COD, expressed both Europe and Latin America principles is confirmed by our Code per tonne of paper produced. that are ready for decision and of Business Conduct, to which all of implementation in the next our companies and employees alike few years. must adhere. Achievements to date n We are implementing a programme of best practice in the The Code of Business Conduct is n Between 2007 and 2010 we treatment of our process water supported, and further expanded invested over €20 million to both in Europe and Latin America. upon, by a number of policies and upgrade existing plants and to Best practice for water treatment statements detailing the Group’s build new water treatment plants includes biological treatment commitment to excellence in our in our European mill system. before discharging. relationships with our employees, n This investment programme shareholders, customers and suppliers, resulted in a 28% reduction, n We became a member of the and governmental authorities in relative to production, of the Water Footprint Network (WFN) the countries in which we operate. organic content in the water in March 2011. discharges (COD) of our European commitment mill system in 2010 compared to 2005. This achievement exceeded To continuously emphasise the target reduction of 25%. the importance of the Code of Business Conduct to our employees and to integrate these principles into our day-to-day business dealings. 24 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Achievements to date n Where concerns with regard to Current and future activities our Code of Business Conduct n Established and implemented a n The Code of Business Conduct were raised investigations took number of Group wide policies and related policy statements place and, where appropriate, in areas like ethical business will be benchmarked against disciplinary actions were taken. behaviour, finance, health and best practices and revised as safety, environment and sourcing. n Every level of management appropriate. throughout the Group has a n Code of Business Conduct is n An awareness campaign will responsibility to monitor and applicable to all employees be undertaken, including enforce the Group’s guidelines across the Group. translation of the business on Competition Policy. codes into 17 languages, and n Appointment of a Group Approximately 900 managing the development of appropriate Compliance officer with an and sales directors, sales managers guidelines explaining the active reporting role to the and other senior management implications of the various codes. Group Board (Audit Committee). across the Group confirmed their understanding of the Group’s n A Corporate Social Responsibility n Good Faith Reporting Policy zero tolerance policy with regard (CSR) programme is in place Statement (‘Whistleblower Code’) to anti-competitive behaviour. at operating company level provides channels to all employees The process required written which aims to support certain to confidentially raise concerns certification from each manager community involvement in relation to perceived improper that he had not been engaged programmes and to increase the actions. in, nor was aware of, any such transparency of all community actions. involvement of the Group’s Activities and results in 2010 operating companies. n An internal control questionnaire n In 2010 we became a signatory to n New Board-approved was completed at each of our the UN Global Compact initiative. Group Foundation for CSR 330 operations. All general Through our Sustainability co-investment activity to n managers and financial controllers Sourcing Policy we commenced be set up in 2011. confirmed their understanding auditing our strategic suppliers and adherence to the Code of on their Code of Conduct Business Conduct. This process programmes. required written certification that all employees had been made n A Safety Opinion Survey was aware of the Code of Business carried out in all our European Conduct and Whistleblower Code plants to measure safety and that any known or suspected conditions and to identify violations had been reported areas for improvement. appropriately. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 25 Carlos Mario Jiménez and Claudia Gómez with colleagues at the Restrepo forestry nursery, CO Environment 1. Sustainable use The chart on this page indicates the source of fibres used in our operations. of fibres SKG aims to produce products Both our own forest operations Fibre origins 2010 All operations using only raw materials with nonand our wood purchasing practices controversial origins. For this reason are based on the principles of we have very strict policies in place, environmentally compliant forest 18% 57% applicable to all operations, to monitor management schemes. In 2007, the origin of the fibres forming the we committed to a programme of basis of our products. Our packaging Chain of Custody certification, giving 5% products are mainly produced initial priority to our operations which 1% handle wood. We have extended this with paper and board consisting of virgin and recycled fibres that is management system to our entire manufactured within our own Group. mill system (both virgin and recycled 25% of fibres used by SKG are virgin paper and board) and are currently 19% and 75% come from recovered paper. extending this system to our Less than 10% of the wood we use packaging operations. for the production of virgin fibres originates from SKG owned forests. Our Sustainable Forestry statement Recycled pulp produced internally We are very active in ensuring with and our Sustainable Sourcing policy Wood pulp produced internally suppliers that the supply of wood is are available at our website and Market virgin pulp from sustainable origins, that our describe our codes of conduct Virgin papers purchased suppliers implement strict policies for with regard to all supplies of Recycled paper purchased monitoring the origin of wood fibres wood products, whether coming and ensuring the protection of natural from our own forests or purchased resources in the countries from which from third party suppliers. we source them. 26 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Panoramic view of Smurfit Kappa owned forest in Colombia showing a mosaic of both natural and planted forest Typical products involved are wood, SKG’s sustainable fibre In Venezuela, the Forestry Division virgin pulp and paper and board approach in forestry owns 35,000 hectares in three containing virgin fibres. western states of the country. SKG owns and manages forests in Of this total, 21,000 hectares are SKG recognises and utilises the two Colombia and Venezuela, where commercial plantations, 13,000 major international forest certification we have over 105,000 hectares. hectares are natural reserves and the schemes, The Forest Stewardship These plantations provide the mills balance is given over to infrastructure. Council (FSC) and the Programme in both countries with almost all Commercial plantations include for the Endorsement of Forest of their virgin fibre requirements. 12,600 hectares of short fibre Certification (PEFC), as well as the (Eucalyptus and Gmelina) while 6,400 schemes that have gained international SKG’s largest forest plantations hectares are long fibre (Pinus caribaea). recognition by the PEFC council. are in Colombia. Here, we have The balance is used for research and 69,500 hectares, including 6,700 development such as silviculture, The certification process ensures hectares under management. This plantation management, forest that assessments are performed area comprises 44,350 hectares of protection and forestry research. regularly by independent accredited commercial plantations, 21,400 organisations, providing assurance hectares of protected natural forest The forest plantations in Venezuela that the wood and fibres we source and 3,750 hectares for infrastructure. have not yet been certified but are externally originate from sustainable Of the commercial plantations, 62% well advanced in terms of best practice forests and are legitimately sourced. is pines with the remaining 38% and will seek certifications when local This certification process is important Eucalyptus. The company manages circumstances permit. for our customers, our own operations its forest estate based on sustainable and for our suppliers. development principles, promoting The main species harvested in both economic growth, a responsible use countries are varieties of Eucalyptus Our ultimate aim is to reach Chain of of natural resources and fostering and the ones most commonly Custody certification for almost all of social equity in the regions where planted in our forests are grandis our relevant operations and for all the the forest plantations are located. and urograndis. products we deliver to our customers. SKG is operating its Colombian For all our stakeholders, this shows our forest under a management system During the plantation life cycle, commitment to a sustainable managed that has been certified in accordance SKG conforms to the numerous supply chain ranging from sustainable with FSC since 2003. governmental legal, technical and forest management practices to environmental regulations, for which, delivering Chain of Custody certified in most cases, annual renewals are products to our customers. required. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 27 SKG sustainable fibre approach Overview of certification in place at the end of 2010* SK Mills and Converting plants Certified Chain of Custody under PEFC or FSC VIRGIN PAPER Production Production % SKG’s sustainable fibre ktonnes capacity with certified approach in paper and CoC certification paper board production EUROPE With the exception of our San Felipe mill in Venezuela, all our wood Kraftliner products 1,571 100% 70% handling operations are Chain of Other virgin papers (sack paper, 245 100% 26% Custody certified by FSC or PEFC. MG paper) These include all our mills producing virgin fibres and the wood supply LATIN AMERICA companies of the Group in France Kraftliner, printing and writing paper, 285 91% 91% and Spain. SC fluting As mentioned in the Roadmap in RECYCLED PAPERS AND BOARD Production Production % our previous report, from 2009 we ktonnes capacity with certified have been working to achieve Chain CoC certification paper of Custody certification for all our EUROPE recycled paper and board mills. Containerboard recycled papers 2,869 86% 86% By early 2011 we successfully achieved Solid board and carton board 947 100% 82% this certification for our complete paper and board mill system in Europe LATIN AMERICA consisting of mills producing virgin and Containerboard recycled papers 634 21% 21% recycled containerboard, cartonboard, solid board, sack paper and machine Cartonboard 163 0% 0% glazed papers. PACKAGING Number Percentage of Certification of our mills in the Latin of sites sites with CoC America region is progressing with certified Certification Chain of Custody certification in EUROPE place in all Colombian operations since 2009 and a commitment to Solid and carton packaging 7 88% achieve certification for our other Corrugated packaging 60 31% paper and board mills in Argentina and Mexico by the end of 2013. LATIN AMERICA Venezuela is currently not included Corrugated packaging 6 23% in this commitment. Folding packaging 0 0% Sacks 3 40% See page 29 for explanation of this table * Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report can be found on pages 81 and 82. 28 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP SKG’s sustainable fibre The first two sections of the table replaced by plantations, thus approach in packaging give the ratio of our paper or board maintaining biodiversity, preserving operations production capacity operating with watersheds and helping to conserve Chain of Custody certification while natural habitats. In 2009 we initiated a programme in the last column reports the exact our packaging operations to supply percentage of the paper or board The guiding principles of the Group’s customers with Chain of Custody that can be sold certified for a forestry policy in Latin America are certified products. This programme further labelling of the packaging. to: has been very successful so far and This information is disclosed by to date 32% of our packaging type of paper and board produced n develop continuously and operations are Chain of Custody by SKG in both regions. systematically research certified (FSC and/or PEFC). Our programmes to preserve and objective is to reach a level of 90% These percentages reflect the enhance soil productivity. of our packaging operations certified situation at the end of 2010. n identify appropriate species and by the end of 2015. To simplify the calculation, where forestry systems that will enable a mill obtained the certificate an increase in plantation yields SKG’s sustainable fibre during the year, the annual while protecting the production of the mill is taken approach to suppliers environment. into account for calculating To make further progress on the the ratio. n preserve natural forests located certification of our products, in on company lands to ensure the 2010 we commenced a verification The third section of the table relates sustainability of forest diversity programme with our external to the converting operations. Here and thereby contribute to the paper suppliers to ensure that, as a the number of sites operating with protection of water sources and minimum, all virgin fibres contained CoC certification is reported and the habitat of flora and fauna. in the supplied papers or board are second column gives the percentage of non-controversial origin and are of sites with CoC certification. In Colombia, Smurfit Kappa Cartón preferably certified by PEFC or FSC de Colombia (SKCC) is continuously schemes. This verification process investing in research projects, includes all our external paper Biodiversity frequently in cooperation with other suppliers and is based both on As all our forest ownership is located research institutes as the following questionnaires and physical audits. in Latin America, the following examples show. Our objective is to reach 95% comments are concentrated on of external paper supplies to be that region. In Colombia 31% of the Together with the National Centre Chain of Custody certified by total forest area of 69,500 hectares for Coffee Research (CENICAFÉ) and the end of 2012. is protected natural forest, while with the Forestry Engineering School in Venezuela 37% of the 35,000 of Universidad Nacional de Colombia A complete overview of the status hectares owned by the Group is in Medellin, SKCC has continued its of the certification programme of protected natural forest. These research on the water consumption our operations at the end of 2010 protected parts of our forests are of Eucalyptus grandis, which is one is shown on page 28. kept as natural forest and not of the main sources of short fibre for SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 29 our Colombian mills. The field work 14 are considered threatened under de Bacias Hidrográficas do Brasil is now complete for Eucalyptus the different classification categories. (PROMAB) as part of a comprehensive grandis and also for Pinus tecunumanii The threatened species included five effort to understand how commercial plantations throughout the forestry species of flora, five species of birds forestry plantations compare and land base. A mathematically modelled and four species of mammals of interact with other similar soil uses testing and validation of assumptions which several have been classified as and nearby communities in tropical for both species will be carried out vulnerable or endangered. Examples and sub-tropical regions. The selected during 2011 and final results are include the Andean Walnut tree micro river basins are expected to expected by the end of 2012. Juglans neotropica, a species of bird, be fully equipped with measuring the Baudo Guan Penelope ortoni, instrumentation by the end of 2011. In addition to the water usage project, and the Spectacled Bear Tremarctos SKCC and CENICAFÉ worked on ornatus. Besides these research projects, SKCC the potential carbon sequestration fully recognises the responsibilities capabilities of the pine and eucalyptus The identification of flora and fauna that come with being members of the species planted by SKCC. A model for biodiversity within natural forests community. Through the programmes estimating the amounts of carbon and benefits the scientific community and it has with local communities and CO2 equivalents was developed during serves to further optimise the natural with the help of its social foundation, 2010. The model named “3CFix” forest protection policies of SKCC. SKCC helps to improve the living (Cartón de Colombia Carbon Fix) Community education and support condition of the communities near allows SKCC to calculate the amount schemes for the endangered species our operations. There are several of carbon captured in the standing are being developed. programmes on work skills, plantations as well as in the wood harvesting, forestry, etc. delivered to the virgin paper mill At the Claridad farm, located in the in Cali. Cauca region of Colombia, a seed SKCC also contributes to the orchard has been established using development of a forestry culture In flora and fauna research projects the best clones from the genetic through open information exchange a total of over 500 flora and fauna improvement programme, involving with interested individuals and species have been identified and hybrid crosses between diverse tree organisations. There is also a recorded since 2005. SKCC together species. These combine the optimum continuous dialogue with customers, with staff from local universities features of the species in relation to communities, government, employees identifies, classifies and counts growth, disease resistance and quality and investors aimed at improving populations of endangered species. of fibre. goods and services obtained from sustainable forest management. All species recorded are checked The study designed by the Forestry against the threatened species lists Engineering School of Medellin and published by the International Union the Forestry Research Department Protected Areas for the Conservation of Nature, the of SKCC concerning a micro river We have identified the SKG operations Convention on International Trade in basin with pastures, native forest which are either within or in close Endangered Species of Wild Fauna regeneration and eucalyptus proximity to legally protected areas and Flora and the Colombian Ministry plantations on former grassland has or areas of high biodiversity value. of the Environment and Land been accepted by the Programa Development. Of the species recorded, de Monitoramento e Modelagem 30 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Natura 2000 is an ecology network 2. Efficient use of In June 2010 a new gas turbine at of protected areas in the territory of our solid board mill in Nieuweschans the European Union which has been energy and carbon (Netherlands) was commissioned, created in 1992 after governments management allowing the mill to cogenerate adopted legislation protecting the the total electricity needed for its most seriously threatened habitats Contributing to action on production. and species across Europe. Ten of climate change our European sites are located within The boiler house at our paper mill or adjacent to such protected areas. The pulp and paper industry is energy in Bernal (Argentina) was originally intensive and has a responsibility to designed to provide steam and Eleven other sites are adjacent to or look carefully at the impact of electricity with multiple boilers and within areas protected by national or fossil fuels. Given the volatility in steam turbines for six paper machines. local legislation. Additionally, four of the pricing of energy over the past Now there is only one paper machine our operations draw from or discharge number of years, there is also a to supply and consequently a new water to watersheds that are protected commercial imperative to achieve steam boiler with an economiser or classified as sensitive. the most efficient use of energy. connected to it has been constructed. SKG looks upon improved energy With this configuration, an efficiency SKG is keenly aware of these situations usage as a major priority. of more than 90% is reached, which and continues to take all necessary significantly reduces the CO2 emissions steps to ensure both the environmental SKG’s overall energy from biomass of Bernal. The mill is also investing in protection and the sustainability of has increased by 6% since 2009. a new water treatment plant which these sensitive areas. This improvement is the result of our produces biogas in the anaerobic most recent investments in biomass stage. In the future it will also be The complete list of these sites boilers in Europe and Latin America. possible to burn this biogas in the can be found on our website at: new boiler further reducing the http//www.smurfitkappa.com/NR/ Reduction of fossil CO2 fossil CO2 emissions of the mill. rdonlyres/51C8AA92-70AE-4DE2emissions through B171-7AF2DFC88B38/0/ The new outsourced biomass boiler investments in co-generation ProtectedareasSKG2009.pdf at our paper mill Cellulose du Pin Since mid 2010 at our mill in Zülpich (France) came into operation at the (Germany) the new multi-fuel boiler end of 2010, substantially raising for the production of electricity and the cogenerating power of the mill. steam for the paper is in operation. From 2011, we expect to significantly With this new power boiler, producing reduce the fossil CO2 emissions both steam and electricity, the ratio resulting from a significant increase of cogenerated electricity for this mill in non fossil fuel usage at this site. reached 95% at end of 2010. Fuel for the boiler consists of brown coal mined in the region of the mill, organic waste from the paper recycling process and biogas derived from the anaerobic process water treatment at the mill. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 31 Fuel consumption 2010 European and Latin American operations 41% 49% Natural Gas Coal Other fossil fuels Biofuel 4% 6% Energy efficiency initiatives In 2010, many of our operations, the plant a lighting system is installed both mills and converting operations, that automatically switches off when An internal study done in 2010 have taken energy efficiency initiatives. the correct light level required for each has produced an overview of all The following examples highlight the area is reached. This system results (theoretically) possible savings on breadth of these initiatives. in a reduction of 20% in electricity energy needs per tonne of paper consumption used for lighting. produced, both in electrical and steam In our Spanish virgin paper mills, usage, as well as on the efficiency of the upgrade of the biomass power Compared to 2009, in 2010 the the energy conversion. Projects for plant at Nervión made considerable co-generation ratio for the usage specific CO2 have also been identified progress, while it was decided to of electricity increased in Europe by in this study. All European paper mills invest in an increased usage of 4% for all our operations, despite have been included to date but the biomass in the boiler in the SK the closure of our mill in Sturovo study will continue in 2011 including Navarra mill at Sanguesa. (Slovakia), which generated half of the mills in the Specialties Division and its electricity needs. This increase is Latin America. The results of this study The pulper cleaning loop project at the result of the installation of the will form an important element in the recycled paper stock preparation new CHP installations mentioned decision making on energy related of mills, analogous to the principle earlier. In Latin America, the increase capital expenditure projects. which has been introduced at SK was even higher as the rate of self Roermond Papier (Netherlands), has produced electricity increased by 12% been started. This will result in savings resulting from the new recovery boiler Germany on electricity usage per tonne of paper in Cali (Colombia), with its additional Hoya increasing energy in these mills. capacity for electricity generation. This efficiency boiler has been operating since 2009. The Swisswell corrugated plant in In our Hoya Papier mill, since Möhlin (Switzerland) has refurbished Energy, CO2 emissions and other air 2009 we have been working on its steam boiler resulting in a reduction emissions related data are reported for a project to extend the paper of fossil CO2 emissions by one third. all our operations (including details machine for the production of The modernised steam generator came for individual mills in Europe and lightweight paper. This project into operation at the end of 2010. Latin America) in the tables on pages is a good example of a 64 and 65 and pages 68 to 73. commercial and environmental In our Burgos packaging plant in The methods applied for calculations win-win project, as there will Spain an energy saving lighting as well as details on specific definitions also be much more efficient system was introduced. The roof of are given in the glossary on pages energy usage. During 2010 the the plant which is located in a part 83 to 87. From 2008 the web-based mill completed the first part of of Spain that enjoys much sunshine reporting tool is in place in all our the project, which involved but at the same time experiences operations. In 2010 we made a major improvements in the stock cold winters is constructed such that step forward to increase the data approach system, the forming it maximises both insulation and the quality by implementing a new section, the dry-end system and use of sunshine in the plant. Inside functionality in the reporting tool replacement and installation of new elements like a film press, electrical drives and white water heating. 32 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Distribution of raw materials CO2 emissions for transport by mode of transport 2010 of raw materials 2010 European operations European operations 7% 250,000 Rail 47% 200,000 Ship CO2-eq (tonnes) Road 150,000 100,000 50,000 46% 0 Rail dedicated to operations for their Road 3. Reducing CO2 and 2020. On a project by project own internal checking. Alerts are basis, we develop more ambitious Ship automatically generated where emissions reduction targets from time to time if deviations in reported data are In 2010, the total fossil CO2 emissions commercially viable. As CO2 emissions noticed compared to the previous (sum of direct and indirect emissions) reduction and energy savings are of period. of our European operations, amounted high importance to us, CO2 reduction to 2,323 ktonnes. The absolute CO2 is progressively taken into account in We realise that energy and CO2 fossil emissions decreased by 109 investment decisions. information from biofuel involves ktonnes compared to 2009 and the uncertainty due to the nature of the specific CO2 emissions (expressed per data. In this report, measured Lower tonne of production) decreased by Mexico Heating Values and CO2 emission 7% compared to the previous year. Boiler improvements factors have been used to calculate The main reason for this decrease was the energy use and CO2 emissions the closure of the Sturovo (Slovakia) In our Los Reyes corrugated from biofuels. The purpose is to have mill at the beginning of 2010, which plant, boiler improvements more accurate figures compared to had produced energy with a coal fired led to reductions in energy the default values which were used power plant. consumption and emissions. by most mills in 2009. Through technical In Latin America the absolute total improvements to the boiler, We have reprocessed the energy and fossil based CO2 emissions increased combustion gases from the CO2 data from biofuels for the years by 63 ktonnes. However, the CO2 chimney can be fed back into 2007, 2008 and 2009 to provide emissions relative to production were the boiler’s burners. The consistent data in the graphs on the identical to 2009, mainly as a result improvements, consisting of next page, giving the trend of biofuel of the new recovery boiler in Cali. additional piping and boiler and fossil fuel usage over the years control mechanisms, increased 2007-2010. At Group level, the specific total fossil the boiler’s efficiency, reduced based CO2 emissions dropped by 4.0% natural gas consumption by We will continue to focus on year-on-year. 9% relative to production and improving the quality of our reduced emissions of NOx (40%) environmental data and for this Historic trends in fossil CO2 emissions and CO2 (5%). purpose we will enhance internal for both Europe and Latin America controls on data quality across are shown in the graphs on page 34. the Group. SKG endorses the emission reduction targets defined in the EU ETS Directive post 2012. SKG is committed to reducing its CO2 emissions relative to production by 20% between 2005 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 33 Energy consumed: biofuels, fossil fuels, Energy consumed: biofuels, fossil fuels, electricity from grid electricity from grid All European mills All Latin American mills PJ GJ/tonne PJ GJ/tonne 32 18 16 32 16 28 28 16 14 14 24 24 14 12 12 20 12 10 20 10 10 8 16 8 16 8 12 6 12 6 6 8 4 8 4 4 4 2 4 2 2 0 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 20 Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid Specific (GJ/tonne) Specific (GJ/tonne) Absolute (PJ) Absolute (PJ) Direct (Scope 1) CO2 emissions Direct (Scope 1) CO2 emissions All European mills All Latin American mills ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 2,000 1,000 2,000 1,000 1,800 900 1,800 900 1,600 800 1,600 800 1,400 700 1,400 700 1,200 600 1,200 600 1,000 500 1,000 500 800 400 800 400 600 300 600 300 400 200 400 200 200 100 200 100 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Relative (kg/tonne) Relative (kg/tonne) Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Transport paper supplied to our corrugated plants by external parties. The Netherlands In Europe we calculated the CO2 Road “Trains” emissions related to the transport of For 2010, CO2 equivalent amounted our main raw materials to our mills Smurfit Kappa is co-sponsoring to 217 ktonnes. The breakdown and converting plants. and participating in a project by mode of transport is shown in the testing the use of extra-long graph on page 33. The CO2 emission This includes transport of wood, “road trains” (some 25 metres factors by transport mode are recovered papers and market pulp in length) for paper deliveries extracted from the European Reference used in our mills to produce paper and from our paper mill in Life Cycle Database version II (ELCD). board. The transport of raw materials Roermond to our local to the second stage of the supply Volumes transported by road and corrugated plant in Etten-Leur. chain (reels of paper, corrugated by sea, adjusted for distance, are This is a real innovation, as sheets board, sheet board, plastic similar and account for 93% of the long/heavy trucks are not very films and other items to the converting total volume, the balance being common and only accepted by plants) is also taken into account. transported by train. Dutch law on a temporary basis. EU legislation has yet to be While the calculation of CO2 emissions We have not been able to do a developed and so far, these for the transport of reels between similar exercise for Latin America long/heavy trucks operate on our own mills and the converting due to the structure of our supplier an approved exception basis. plants (representing 75% of reels) is base. We have yet to establish the If successful, this method of accurate, we believe we have made parameters of the journeys to transport could help to reduce a good estimate of emissions for the and from our paper mills. CO2 emissions in transport. transport of the remaining reels of 34 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 35 Dr Steinmüller (r.) of the Johannes Kepler Nettingsdorfer paper mill (Austria) Universität of Linz, Austria handing over the certificate for exemplary energy A successful balance 20 years by 69% since 1990, however management to Dr Fuhrmann (Smurfit Kappa Nettingsdorfer). of energy management Nettingsdorfer was able to decrease CO2 emissions from fossil fuels by 32% “As an energy-intensive industrial and fuel consumption per tonne of location, we began to deliberately paper by 34%. These improvements ENERGY reduction focus on energy saving potential are far greater than the reductions Nettingsdorfer and Roermond and systematic energy management needed for the Kyoto and/or European at a relatively early point in time” emission reduction targets. Introduction said Ferdinand Fuhrmann, CEO of Nettingsdorfer. Consequently, energy consumption Paper producers in Europe have been engaged for many years in a per tonne of paper in Nettingsdorfer In the last 20 years, Nettingsdorfer continuous process of reduction in is currently some 20% lower than that management have made internationally energy consumption. Two excellent of the European competition. recognised progress in the area of examples of what has been achieved energy management and have Nettingsdorfer was the first Austrian in some of our paper mills are identified significant potential for paper producer to receive a certificate Nettingsdorfer, our Austrian kraftliner energy savings by thoroughly analysing for exemplary energy management mill, and Roermond, our Dutch the production process. from the Energie Institut of the recycled paper mill. Johannes Kepler Universität of Linz Continuous improvements and (Austria) in February 2011. optimisations have resulted in a reduction of over 50% in fossil based The graph depicts the performance CO2 emissions relative to production. achieved during the 20 past years. Although paper production increased 60% less CO2 fossil fuel per tonne of paper in the last 20 years Nettingsdorfer 500 500 20 100% 169% 450 166% 162% 450 Paper production 18 (ktonnes/year) 400 135% 400 16 Paper production Fossil CO2 emissions 350 350 14 300 300 CO2 emissions 12 (kg/tonne paper) 250 64% 250 10 (ktonnes/year) 100% (kg/tonne paper) 200 54% 48% 200 8 150 40% 150 6 100 100 4 50 50 2 0 0 0 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 36 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Inside the Roermond paper mill, NL Roermond paper mill (Netherlands) In 1989 a contract was signed The goal of this agreement is that between the Dutch government all Dutch paper mills should reach and the Dutch Paper Association ’best practice’ level in 2012. (Royal VNP) with the goal of saving 20% of total energy per tonne of Although the Roermond mill was paper produced in 1998. Both already at world class level in energy primary energy (fuel consumption) consumption when this second and electricity taken from the agreement took effect in 1999, the national grid were covered by this mill improved its energy performance agreement, with the aim to promote even further relative to production in CHP. Smurfit Kappa Roermond Papier the last decade. Since 1989, energy joined this initiative. consumption per tonne of paper decreased by 31%. As the graph Subsequently, a second agreement, below shows, during the same period concerning primary energy, was the CO2 emissions per tonne of signed between both partners. paper decreased by 32%. Specific CO2 fossil fuel emission SK Roermond Papier CO2 emissions (kg/tonne) Production (ktonnes/year) 600 500 Paper production 500 100% 135% 144% 182% 450 (ktonnes/year) 164% 400 400 300 CO2 emissions 100% 350 (kg/tonne) 200 87% 86% 83% 300 100 68% 0 250 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 37 European mills: COD discharge European mills: Process water discharge (relative to production) (relative to production) 5% 10% 0% 5% -5% 0% -10% -28% -5% -15% -15% -10% -20% -15% -25% -30% -20% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 4. Water Management our performance. Where economically starting in 2005. This was also feasible, we will implement these achieved through continuous Water is essential for manufacturing opportunities over time. improvement of our existing water paper. Although this natural resource systems and water treatment facilities. is a vital element for our process, actual water consumption is less than 4.1 Europe In August 2010, our Navarra paper mill 9% of our water intake. Over 90% of Our objective is to continuously in Sanguesa (Spain) commissioned the the quantity of fresh water needed in improve the quality of water we second phase of the upgrade of its our processes is returned to the source discharge to the environment. water treatment plant. This new phase after cleaning. Therefore, in our 2007 Sustainable included the conversion of the old Development Report we committed sedimentation basins into activated SKG continuously invests in the best to reducing the organic content sludge basins and a new secondary available techniques to treat the water (COD) of process water discharged clarifier, involving aerobically activated before returning it to the water source. by our European mill system by 25%. sludge treatment. SKG has made considerable efforts In 2010, our European mill system and sizeable investments in upgrading successfully met this target with an The CD Haupt recycled paper and its water treatment facilities in the last achievement of 28% reduction relative board mill at Wrexen in Germany five years in order to increase efficiency to production in comparison to 2005. rebuilt its water treatment plant in the use of water and to improve the in 2010 and started up the new quality of water discharged, thereby COD measures the organic content installation in December 2010. The lowering the impact of our activities in water. The graph above (on the project consisted of a new anaerobic on the environment. In general, SKG left) shows the trend in the quality reactor, followed by flash aeration mills practise a high degree of water of process water discharged over and activated sludge treatment. re-use with one mill in Germany, the years 2005 2010. Biogas produced at the anaerobic Zülpich, operating a totally closed stage is further treated to remove loop system for process water. In that period also many actions were hydrogen sulphide in order to burn undertaken to improve water usage it in the existing boiler. During 2010, we carried out a survey in efficiency resulting in 15% less process all of our European recycled paper mills water being used in our European In 2011 we will invest in an extension under the title ‘Sustainable Mill Project’. paper and board mills (relative to of the water treatment facilities in our The main objective of this “water production) as shown in the graph paper mill in Ania (Italy). The current audit” was to find opportunities to above (on the right). installation will be extended with an decrease water intake and to increase anaerobic reactor. By desulphurising the quality of the discharged water. Both of these achievements are a we can burn the generated biogas The survey also aimed at finding result of an ambitious investment with energy recovery in the mill boiler. opportunities to improve the water programme of over €20 million in five systems in our production sites. The years in upgrading and/or building survey has resulted in a list per mill of new process water treatment facilities theoretical opportunities to improve in five of our major European mills, 38 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Water performance of the With regard to the quality of water production in December 2010 for a European paper and board mills discharges, good overall improvement few days to discuss how the discharge has been achieved by the Latin situation could be improved. Since In 2010, water intake by the European American mill system. As reported then, the mill has been operating operations relative to production in the chapter “Our performance in normally and is now regularly decreased by 11% compared to 2009. 2010”, COD discharges per tonne communicating data on its discharges of product produced dropped by to the local authorities. All water indicators measuring the 8%, BOD by 11% and TSS by 3%. impact of process water discharges The capital project, agreed at the end were significantly improved in 2010 The system has more than achieved of 2009, to build a water treatment compared to 2009. COD decreased by the 2010 2% target reduction for plant in the Bernal mill is on schedule 16%, BOD by 38% and TSS by 12%. these three indicators. and is due to start in the first quarter of 2012. An anaerobic reactor These improvements reflect our As well as the paper mills, other followed by an activated sludge significant investment programme Latin American operations have basin are currently being built. in water treatment facilities since improved their process water 2005. The graphs on page 41 give discharges during 2010. an overview of our total performance 4.3 Performance data concerning water usage and Our sack plant in Costa Rica has The treatment of the process water treatment. commissioned a plant to treat process used in the mills is either carried out water, previously contaminated with on-site, as is the case in the majority 4.2 Latin America glue and ink. A complete waste water of our mills, or is sub-contracted to treatment plant has been installed. an external third party. For the latter, The water systems for most of the It is composed of a physical-chemical in all disclosures relating to the process Latin American mills performed well in treatment stage, followed by an water content (COD, BOD, TSS), we 2010. Significant improvements have aerobic biological treatment. report levels in the water discharged been achieved for all water indicators. An activated coal filter at the final by the mills prior to this external stage removes soluble chemicals treatment. During 2010 the Latin American such as pigments that have not been operations committed to revise their eliminated by the two previous stages. Water related data are reported for water consumption rates resulting in all our operations (including details a significantly decreased water intake The treatment plant is highly efficient for individual mills in Europe and of 15%, relative to production, while and successfully reduces COD and TSS Latin America) in the tables on pages the absolute water intake for all Latin initially present in the process water 64 and 65 and pages 68 to 73. America operations showed a drop by 99% and the initial BOD by 91%. of 10%. In September 2010, our Bernal mill The insert, on the following page, in Argentina was non compliant on describes all major actions undertaken discharges for COD and TSS for a by the Latin American operations for short period of time. As a result, the this programme. local authorities requested us to halt SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 39 Water Reduction Initiatives in Latin America During 2010, all Latin American operations committed to revise their water consumption rates and to find opportunities to decrease water usage within the production process. These efforts resulted in a decrease in water total intake by 10% in the region for 2010 compared to 2009. n Cali mill (Colombia). By far the largest reduction was achieved at this paper mill. Water usage was reduced by 28%, mainly by installing three cooling towers to reuse water from the recovery boiler. n Bernal mill (Argentina) achieved a 15% reduction by replacing the use of fresh water with clarified water in vacuum pumps and by re-using collected water from the paper machine floor at the pulping stage. n Los Reyes mill (Mexico) achieved a 23% reduction in fresh-water usage per tonne of paper produced through reformulating the fibre furnish and increasing the use of treated water in the stock-preparation and on the paper machine. Besides these operational improvements, major action was taken to stop fresh-water leakage through the various pipelines. n Monterrey mill (Mexico) achieved reductions in fresh-water usage of approximately 0.5 cubic metre per tonne of paper produced by increasing the recirculation of treated water. Secondary or biologically treated water was used to replace fresh water in the dilution process of certain chemicals. n Guadalupe Corrugated (Mexico) converted into a zero effluent plant by improving its water management system through the installation of an electro-coagulation water treatment plant. Currently the treated water is used in the starch preparation, for the cleaning of machinery and gardening. Savings of water consumption exceeded over 100 m3 per month. n Cagua Corrugated (Venezuela) reduced water consumption by 12%. Water coming out from the single facer is reused in the same system. Fresh water is used only to replace evaporated water. n Valencia Corrugated (Venezuela) installed closed water systems for the starch process and the cooling system for the flexo feeding pump seal. These measures reduced water consumption by 760 m3 per month. 40 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Waters sources 2010 European and Latin American operations 2% 12% Surface Ground Grid 86% Water intake Water intake European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm3 m3/tonne Mm3 m3/tonne 110 55 110 55 100 50 100 50 90 45 90 45 80 40 80 40 70 35 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 40 20 40 20 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water intake absolute Water intake relative Water intake absolute Water intake relative Water released Water released European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm3 m3/tonne Mm3 m3/tonne 110 55 110 55 100 50 100 50 COOLING 90 45 90 45 COOLING COOLING 80 40 80 40 COOLING 70 35 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 PROCESS PROCESS 40 20 40 20 PROCESS PROCESS 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water released absolute Water released relative Water released absolute Water released relative Process water discharges Process water discharges European paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS Latin American paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 30 18 30 18 16 16 25 25 14 14 20 12 20 12 10 10 15 15 8 8 10 6 10 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 0 0 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 2007 2008 2009 2010 COD BOD TSS COD BOD TSS Relative (kg/tonne) Relative (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Absolute (ktonnes) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 41 John Spa and Frits Finke at the Smurfit Kappa Zedek print & display plant, Deventer, NL Social Development In this section, under the heading of n human rights Social Development, we deal with n freedom of association three subjects relating to Corporate Social Responsibility: n child labour n forced labour and abuse 1. Social Citizenship n employee respect 2. Health and Safety n diversity and non-discrimination 3. Community Involvement. n fair compensation. 1. Social Citizenship The full policy statement can be SKG is committed to managing downloaded from SKG’s website its business in accordance with its www.smurfitkappa.com. declared values which recognise that good social citizenship, reflected in Employee demographics the manner in which we interact with and turnover our employees, business partners and local communities, is an essential n During 2010, the Group had some ingredient in creating and maintaining 38,000 employees, of whom a sustainable future. 5% were managerial, sales and administrative and 95% were This policy statement summarises the production and support personnel. Group’s commitments in this regard. n Of the total number employed, SKG’s Social Citizenship Policy almost 80% were in France, statement covers subjects such as: Germany, Benelux, Mexico, 42 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Mirjan Bischop and Berend Bosch at the Smurfit Kappa Trimbach solid board packaging plant, NL Total Employees by Age 2010 Management Gender 2010 Length of Service Total Employees 2010 30+ yrs 30+ yrs Female 15% 30+ yrs 15% Female 0 yrs 1% <20 yrs 1% 60+ yrs 3%10% <5 yrs 60+ <51% yrs yrs 3% <20 yrs <5 yrs 10% 10% 26% 26% 26% 21-30 yrs 16% 21-30 yrs 16% 21-30 yrs 16% 51-60 yrs 20% 51-60 yrs 20% 21-30 yrs 21-30 yrs 21-30 yrs 18% 18% 18% 31-40 yrs 27% 41-50 yrs 33% 31-40 yrs 27% 31-40 yrs 27% 41-50 yrs 33% 11-20 yrs 11-20 yrs 11-20 yrs 25% 5-10 yrs 25% 5-10 yrs 25% 5-10 yrs 21% Male 85% 21% Male 85% 21% Venezuela, Colombia, Spain, n In terms of gender, 86% of n A total of approximately 1,700 United Kingdom, Italy and all employees were male and people left the organisation Sweden, with the remaining 14% were female. during 2010. Of this number, 20% distributed between the over 1,100 left as a result of n Of approximately 1,600 other 20 countries in which the retirement or to pursue other management employees, 85% Group has a production and/or careers and interests. Over 600 were male and 15% female. sales and marketing presence. employees left the organisation n In terms of age profile, 17% mainly as a result of operational n There were some 16 nationalities of SKG employees were under changes in response to market represented at the most senior 30 years of age, 60% were and competitive circumstances. levels in the Group. Although we between 30 and 50, and 23% In a number of cases, we were have a policy of hiring the best were over 50 years of age. able to transfer employees to person available for any position, other nearby Group locations. in practice over 90% of senior n Over 50% of employees have operational management positions 10 or more years of service n There were over 1,300 new are held by local managers (same while 28% have 20 or more entrants to the Group during nationality as country where years of service. 2010. operation is located) and over n Headcount numbers at the n Overall employee turnover at 95% of our non-management end of 2010 were down by 5.4% is considered relatively low. employees are of local origin. 1.5% compared to 2009, Thus, the composition of our primarily reflecting decreases In common with many large workforce typically reflects local in the Specialties Division in businesses, Smurfit Kappa Group ethnic diversity thereby enhancing Europe as a result of the sale provides a range of employee bonds with the local communities. of our sack converting business. benefits. Some, such as, maternity SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 43 Management Gender 2010 Number Male Female 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 France United Germany Benelux Mexico Spain Colombia Sweden Venezuela Italy Kingdom Top 10 Countries Headcount 2010 Number 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Germany France Benelux Mexico Venezuela United Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Kingdom and paternity leave, are provided During the course of 2010, no Employee Training and under the legislation of the country incidents of discrimination were Development in question. reported. Continuous training and development Other employee benefits such as of our employees is a key objective of Pension Plans and Life Insurance, form Child Labour the organisation, with each employee an integral part of the employee’s SKG is committed to ensuring that encouraged to reach his or her remuneration package provided by it will not employ in any capacity potential. the Group in various countries. any individual, male or female, who has not either reached the SKG supports learning and The Group does not discriminate mandated school leaving age or the development programmes reflecting between men and women in terms minimum age set for employment the necessity to constantly review and, of salary, benefits or any other in his/her country. where necessary, raise the standards consideration. The Group applies the of business performance. We also policy of ‘same job, same pay’. There No such issues under either heading encourage the exchange of best is no formal system at Group level were identified in 2010. practice in terms of knowledge and that allows us to measure the precise skill transfer and health and safety. ratio for remuneration by gender. SKG ensures that the Group’s Forced and Compulsory business ethics and standards are While the basic salary of an individual Labour fully understood by all and reflected manager may be different from that The organisation does not, and in their day-to-day conduct. of a colleague in an identical or similar will not, condone forced labour role, the difference will generally The company promotes opportunities or physical abuse. be a reflection of the difference for individual progression and supports in experience, size of the job, No issues under this heading have development and learning activities, performance, etc. and not as a result arisen during 2010. all of which aim to result in: of nationality or any other such reason. n better performance SKG values the differences reflected Indigenous communities n higher commitment in its diverse workforce. The Group is committed to developing n better team motivation and maintaining a constructive and It is committed to the elimination of mutually supportive relationship with n a learning organisation any unfair practices which may arise its host communities. in the day-to-day conduct of the n a meritocratic organisation. business – whether it be in relation to There were no incidents of violation its own employees or external parties SKG places the development of its of the rights of indigenous people with whom employees of the Group people at the top of its agenda. during 2010. may have contact. The company seeks to create an 44 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Smurfit Kappa’s Alain Merle talking to the AMD group about health and safety in Bristol, UK environment that facilitates people at The Group also continued strong The school provides the opportunity all levels of the organisation to realise links with the London Business School to employees from different plants their potential. This is evident in the and various senior executives have to share experience, benchmark range and scope of training and completed its highly regarded general performance and to learn skills and development activities at Group, management programmes. capabilities from other colleagues. regional and country level. This significant initiative ties in Over the last two years, internal seamlessly with local activities at Across the organisation during 2010, business economics training courses plant level as well as development the number of training hours in were successfully implemented programmes at Group Level, fostering respect of the entire suite of learning in Europe with more than 1,800 training throughout the entire and development initiatives averaged employees participating. This activity organisation. 20 hours per employee. and others such as the Continuous Improvement Workshops, are being Smurfit Kappa Latin America has The total direct expenditure on training rolled out across the Group. a long-standing relationship with and development during the year Purdue University and other recognised amounted to approximately €3 million A further initiative is a Talent schools in the USA. For the past 15 with further significant indirect costs. Development Programme for line years, it has taken a slightly different and staff functions across all of its approach offering studies in those At Group level, the Advanced operating divisions, designed by institutions for degrees in business Management Development Smurfit Kappa Benelux, dealing and paper technology. This programme Programme (AMD), which has now with team building and situational has benefited approximately 30 been running for 11 years, helps to leadership. managers since the late 1990s. develop managers, both professionally as well as personally, to progress At country level, Graduate Trainee The organisation currently within the company. The AMD Programmes are now well established undertakes an annual Performance programme has been continuously and secure talent inflow for the Group. and Development Review of 90% improved every year and this year’s The format and structure of each of its managers. version will bring the total number programme are adapted to the local of participating managers since 2000 business needs and exchange among Typically, these are conducted on to more than 240. Many of these the participants across the organisation a one-to-one basis involving the participants have achieved significant is facilitated. This network aims to individual concerned and his/her advancement within the Group. support and develop our trainees, immediate manager. creating a multi-cultural environment, The English Immersion Programme, which will enhance individual Performance reviews are also which is run various times during the development and business conducted with non-managerial year, is now well established with performance. employees, currently applying to some close to 300 participants since 2007. 50% of this category of personnel. It forms a crucial programme in Smurfit Kappa Italy has been running conjunction with English language an internal training school since 2007, courses at national or local level in covering training courses in different advancing English language skills of functional areas, ranging from sales our employees English being the and marketing to health and safety. official business language of the company. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 45 Internal Communication Trade Unions currently represent The matters covered at such some 13,000 employees or 35% meetings include: We value regular, timely and efficient of the Group’s workforce of 38,000, communication with our employees the Group’s financial status with the level of representation n and their representatives, conducted and conduct of formal bargaining in an open and constructive manner, n projected developments arrangements varying from country to exchange views on all matters n relocation, production to country. affecting our business. Topics include curtailments or business health and safety, working conditions, Collective Agreements currently apply closures in any country terms and conditions of employment, at 90% of the Group’s sites and are where there are the performance of the business, the the result of either local and/or transnational implications business outlook, investment decisions industry and/or national negotiations and acquisitions and disposals. n environmental protection in the countries concerned in both Europe and Latin America. n employment opportunities We are committed to providing our employees with regular updates on the n health and safety. We are not aware of the association overall performance of the Group and or bargaining rights of any individual the individual business units, and on For consultation purposes the employee or group(s) of employees following matters are covered: any issues that may potentially have either being at risk or being denied an impact on them. In doing so, we to them. make use of appropriate media which n transnational issues affecting include departmental and function employees’ interests in two or meetings, site general briefings and European Works Council more businesses in different management/employee representative countries The SKG European Works Council meetings at local, national and (EWC), which covers the entire n mergers and/or acquisitions regional levels. The internet and SKG workforce of the Group in the having social impacts. intranet are also use extensively. European Union, was created to assist in the development of The Council meets at least twice a In addition, there is an extensive year. Experts, who may be full-time an open, two way communication network of local employee trade union officials, are allowed to process with all employees as newsletters and we also publish attend a pre-EWC meeting at the prescribed by European regulations. a high-profile customer magazine request of the relevant EWC member. “People and Packaging” which is The council currently consists of translated into several languages. 30 members representing all When queries arise from our employees. The procedure for employees and/or their representatives SKG respects the rights of its or meetings are requested, our policy selection, nomination and election employees to join Trade Unions and is to respond in a timely manner. of the various members is in be represented by them. In the event accordance with national regulations of employees not being members of The four year agreement signed in or practices. The EWC is not a Trade Unions, the Group is committed May 2006 between the Company and negotiating forum, but complements to respecting the rights of those the EWC describing how the Company existing local structures where employees to be represented by and the EWC will work together is due information dissemination and bona fide employee representatives. for renewal. By mutual consent, the consultation take place. term of that agreement was extended 46 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP to the end of 2011. During the second In this regard, the Group is a In keeping with the Sustainable half of 2011 the EWC and the participant in the UN Global Sourcing Policy Statement, SKG aims Company will enter into discussions Compact Initiative which includes to work with suppliers who share with a view to arriving at a new human rights among its core its declared values of good social agreement by the year-end. principles. citizenship in particular in such areas as compliance with the relevant When a decision is taken to introduce regulations, the provision of healthy any change, employee consultation Investment and and safe work environments and and/or negotiation, as appropriate, Procurement Practices demonstrable adherence to human takes place at the earliest possible A key aspect of due diligence in rights in all its aspects. time. During the course of such any acquisition process involving discussions, the impact of the SKG is an examination of the target Of equal significance to SKG is the proposed changes, together with organisation’s human resource commitment of these same suppliers the implementation plans, is policies and practices, both in terms and contractors to similar socially discussed with employees and of their compliance with local, responsible behaviour in the conduct their representatives. national and international laws and of their own businesses. in their day-to-day interpretation The outcome, reflecting local and/or and application in the organisation. Strategic suppliers are being national custom and practice or encouraged to join the UN Global legislation, will result in one or more In the event of any potentially Compact Initiative. They are also being of the following: severance pay, career serious issues arising as a result, the encouraged to disclose relevant data counselling, job search workshops, acquisition process will be reviewed, as in this regard, either directly to SKG financial advice (including pension) to the appropriateness of continuing or through a recognised organisation. and early retirement where with it. appropriate. During the course of 2010, we There were three acquisitions during developed a robust questionnaire to The periods of notice, measured in the course of 2010 and no such facilitate the auditing of key suppliers terms of the time between the initial issues arose. in respect of a number of indicators communications to the employees such as human rights. concerned and the introduction of SKG is committed to the principles the changes, range from 6 weeks reflected in its Code of Business This is currently under test and review, to 24 weeks. Conduct and its Sustainable Sourcing prior to its more general introduction Policy Statement in all of its dealings in 2012/2013. with its suppliers and contractors. Human Rights The SKG Sustainable Sourcing Respect for Human Rights as defined Policy and Social Citizenship Policy under the internationally recognised Statements, together with the Code Conventions and Declarations of Business Conduct, can be underpins the approach by the downloaded from the Group’s SKG to its operations, proposed website. investments and supplier/contractor selection processes. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 47 Senior SKG, Divisional and plant management at the presentation of safety Senior SKG, Divisional and plant management at the presentation award to Smurfit Kappa’s Swisswell corrugated plant in Switzerland. of safety award to Smurfit Kappa Recycling Germany. Left to right: Roberto Villaquiran, Bill Fox, Thomas Berndt, Manfred Howald, Left to right: Erik van den Bos, Alain Baudant, Thomas Tony Smurfit, Georg-Dieter Fischer. Greitenevert, Klaus Ulbricht, Tony Smurfit, Henri Vermeulen. Group Awards Our retirees have a special relationship SKG will conduct its activities in a with the Group which is grateful responsible manner, taking care of the In 2010, as in previous years, there for their contribution to its growth health, safety and welfare of everyone were recognition awards at divisional and success over many years. Today affected by its activities and minimising level for the Best Plant of the Year there are over 11,500 pensioners the impact of the business on the and the Innovation of the Year. from SKG and there are a variety environment. Health and safety will At regional and divisional level there of different associations in different be an integral part of our business were also awards in the area of Safety, countries that manage a host of and we will promote adherence to recognising not only the Best Overall social activities which greatly help to the highest standards in the operation Performance but also the Most maintain the bonds the pensioners of our facilities. Improved Performance. enjoyed as working colleagues. To achieve this SKG will: In early 2011 a decision was taken Whilst most of the activities are to add a sustainability award to the measure and benchmark health managed by pensioner associations n existing award schemes. This reflects and safety performance on a themselves, there is also ongoing the importance to the Group of continuous basis Group support. excellence in the different areas of sustainability. With this competition, n continually assess our processes in order to reduce risks and to SKG wants to show its commitment 2. Health and Safety to environmental improvements, social seek continuous improvement and health and safety activities and SKG is conscious of its responsibilities in health and safety practice community involvement both internally towards its employees and towards and performance and externally. The competition others with whom it comes into n maintain management systems also provides an excellent way to contact. At all times SKG promotes that help to protect employees, communicate and share activities safe and healthy working conditions visitors, contractors and the public and successes in sustainability within and conduct within the working from injury and ill health the Group. environment. n take all practical steps to develop Group, regional and divisional Health and safety is an important a positive safety culture and safe awards serve several purposes. The agenda item at all Group, regional, behaviour throughout the Group core objective is to recognise, reward divisional, operational board, n include health and safety and encourage entrepreneurship, management and employee meetings. performance as an important innovation and superior performance We recognise that a formal statement element by which all managers whether it is in the area of operations, of our health and safety policy are measured. innovation, safety or sustainability. and the appropriate focus on its The awards are visible to the 38,000 implementation are essential features The elements of the policy and employees of the Group and this of the working of the Group. subsequent working standards were helps in sharing the objectives of the designed in accordance with the organisation, creating an aspirational The Health and Safety Policy has an OHSAS (ISO) 18001 Health and Safety climate and enforcing its priorities. opening Declaration of Intent which Management System. notes that: Retired Employees 48 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Senior SKG, Divisional and plant management at the presentation of safety award to Smurfit Kappa’s Trimbach solid board packaging plant in the Netherlands. From left to right : Ad Smit, Alain Merle, Tony Smurfit, Jan van de Moosdijk, Fred Bosman, Bauke van der Molen Kuipers. The policy document includes: As a common practice, the Group Every site is required to have performs cross audits in health and appropriate equipment and facilities n the general requirements safety using the in-house Health and to enable first aid to be carried out. Safety coordinators and conducts n the policy statement briefings and training sessions with It is obligatory for each site to have a n planning for risk assessment all new employees. Safety Committee which must include and control representatives from all levels of the The majority of the Group’s sites have organisation and must be illustrated n implementation and operation a medical doctor or nurse who attends in the safety organisation chart for the n checking, reporting and at regular intervals – typically twice a business unit. The safety meetings are corrective action week for designated periods. chaired by the site General Manager n management review. and are required to be held on a He/she typically deals with preregular basis (at a minimum, monthly When significant accidents do occur, employment medicals, return-to-work for the larger plants). each is reported and details are assessments following absence due communicated to every manufacturing to illness or occupational injury and There are safety coordinators at plant General Manager and onward to current health issues. country and subdivision level who our employees. In this way, experiences liaise with the Group Safety Manager Advice and support on lifestyle who in turn reports to the Group VP are shared which in turn can help the matters, such as diet, smoking, Human Resources. prevention of similar accidents exercise and other health-related issues elsewhere in the Group. with consequences for employees, The responsibilities of the Group Safety The Group has drawn up a written their families and communities is also Manager include: document covering an extensive list provided by these professionals. Such issues, both occupational and nonn elaboration of Group safety policy of Health and Safety Standards which, occupational, cover topics such as and standards together with the Policy document, has been issued to every SKG site and HIV/AIDS, diabetes and stress. n measurement of performance made available to every employee via through safety statistics, reviews In addition, an appropriate number of notice boards, intranet, meetings and and audits trained personnel qualified in First Aid other appropriate media. are designated for each site. The n development and the fostering objectives are to be able to provide: of best practices As a minimum, induction programmes must include a review of the n provision of communication and n initial treatment for injury or ill company’s health and safety policies fostering assistance to divisions health until professional medical and regulations, emergency and plants where needed help arrives procedures, escape routes, assembly n proactively identifying developing points and the specific rules of the job n treatment of minor injuries which best practice. to be undertaken. These are also given would otherwise have no to temporary workers and contractors. treatment, or which do not require treatment by a medical professional. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 49 All performance reviews at plant, Group Health and Safety safety system immediately stops the country, division and regional level initiatives conveyor line and all other equipment have safety as a priority on the in line with the conveyor, such as agenda. Annual management The Group has decided to promote shredders and balers. performance reviews include new operating standards to ensure measurement of progress in safety better segregation between Positive communication is more and performance against pre-agreed pedestrians and vehicles in its more seen as an effective tool to targets. operations. The access of pedestrians promote safety. Increasingly, plants into warehouses is restricted and are organising safety events to Since January 2008, all plants are permitted only when lift trucks are communicate the importance of requested to report details to not in operation. All our new lift safety with employees, the families Group HQ on: trucks will be equipped with a set of employees, subcontractors, local of safety devices, including speed authorities and neighbouring n injuries to contracted employees governors or limitation devices, in communities. order to improve the safety of drivers n restricted workday cases and of pedestrians in the vicinity. At the beginning of 2010 a Safety n medical treatment cases Opinion Survey was carried out in all More focus is also being placed on a our European plants. The objective of n first aid cases new approach to risk analysis, in order the survey was to measure the safety n near misses. to go deeper into the identification conditions in each operation and to of hazards and to have a better identify improvement opportunities. The Group presents annual awards assessment of potential risks. These We plan to carry out this survey every to the’ safest plant’ and the ‘most renewed risk assessments have, for two years which will enable us to improved plants’ in each reporting example, led to the ranking of some measure progress and help to raise division and region for their safety hazards such as work on roofs at a the importance of health and safety achievements. higher level than previously. As a in each operation. consequence it has been necessary After several years of improvement to equip roofs with new safety devices in our health and safety performance, such as mobile hand rails, walkways, Health and Safety Initiatives disappointingly in 2010 our frequency and protection of roof windows, at local level examples rate increased from 0.75 to 0.81, and together with the integration of these In order to achieve better commitment our severity rate increased from 18.1 elements into the design of new from suppliers and subcontractors to 19.5. buildings. to meet SKG’s own internal health and safety standards, our Roermond While future target improvements vary In our recycling facilities all our paper mill (Netherlands) has between divisions and regions, the employees are now wearing Radio introduced formal Third Party Group commitment is to continue Frequency Identification Device (RFID) Regulations. All suppliers and to improve on the previous year’s transponders on their wrist or attached subcontractors working at the mill performance by means of an ongoing to their belts, and our conveyor belts have to sign and comply with these annual re-check. are equipped with control units and regulations. The objective is to create specific antennae. In the event of safer working conditions with a goal unexpected access or someone falling of zero accidents or incidents with unconscious on the conveyors, the suppliers and subcontractors. 50 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP SKG: Number of Accidents, Severity Rate: Full Year 2009 vs 2010 2009 vs 2010 30 600 14,000 500 12,000 25 550 25.5 506 10,000 11,008 20 400 20.5 20.3 19.5 8,000 18.3 18.1 17.1 300 15 6,000 13.1 13.0 12.3 200 10 4,000 100 2,000 5 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 Corrugated Paper Specialties Latin America Group Severity rate: Number of days lost x 100,000/Number of hours worked Number of Accidents Days L SKG: Days Lost Frequency Rate: Full Year 2009 vs 2010 2009 vs 2010 1.2 30 600 14,000 12,000 13,290 1.0 25 500 550 1.01 25.5 506 0.90 10,000 11,008 0.8 0.87 400 20 20.5 20.3 0.82 0.81 0.76 0.75 19.5 8,000 18.3 0.71 18.1 0.68 30017.1 0.6 15 6,000 13.1 13.0 12.3 0.47200 0.4 10 4,000 0.2 5 100 2,000 0.0 0 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 20092009 2010 2010 2009 2010 Corrugated Paper Specialties Latin America Group Frequency rate: Number of accidents x 100,000/Number of hours worked Number of Accidents Days Lost Number of Accidents: Full Year 2009 vs 2010 350 300 294 280 250 200 150 165 100 104 50 74 55 48 36 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Corrugated Paper Specialties Latin America Days Lost Due to Accidents: Full Year 2009 vs 2010 7000 6,719 6000 5,884 5000 4000 3,955 3000 2,868 2000 1,847 1,494 1000 763 769 0 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 Corrugated Paper Specialties Latin America SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 51 Resulting from a health checking UK Occupational Health Health awareness featured as the programme for all employees the most common aspect of new activities Smurfit Kappa SSK has employed the Roermond mill initiated a programme aimed at employees. Attention was services of an Occupational Health under the name BRAVO which in given to raising awareness about the provider since 2003. The Occupational Dutch and other languages means dangers of stress and excess weight Health programme comprises activities ‘well done’. The individual letters and the benefits of general fitness, such as pre employment health of the word BRAVO stand in this together with the need for health screening, health surveillance of programme for more physical exercise, checks. The local health authorities employees and also includes a service less smoking and alcohol, healthy were sometimes involved. A specific ensuring that employees on sick nutrition and sufficient recreation and initiative at Townsend Hook in the leave are helped to return to work relaxation. As part of the programme UK encouraged cycling to work – utilising rehabilitation and recovery a rowing competition was held, now being incentivised by the UK programmes. SSK is very proactive fitness stimulated and a cycling tax authorities. also in preventing ill health in the plan was promoted. workplace by supporting training and The Zülpich recycled paper mill in Our corrugated packaging facilities health promotion. Germany introduced an ambitious at Obaly Sturovo (Slovakia) celebrated new training and development plan. Over the years, many specific topics 1,000 days without an accident The aim is to improve the knowledge have been highlighted to support in October 2010, demonstrating and functional capacity of plant employees covering such areas as this facility’s dedication to health personnel through a systematic mental well-being, stress, managing and safety. training programme. The subject weight, giving up smoking and the matter covered includes not only the The plant at Almeria (Spain) received benefits of healthy eating and exercise. different technical skills needed to external recognition for its health and On the planned days, the plant board operate the various processes in the safety management system, when it room is turned into a walk in clinic for plant, but also topics such as English was presented with an award by the employees, fresh fruit is made available language skills and computer software local mayor. and goody bags containing free health training. The intention is to have a conscious giveaways such as energy specific training programme tailored Our Finnish organisation focused drinks, healthy snacks or relaxation for each of the 200 employees in the on improving employees’ health aids. On the stress awareness day, two plant and already significant progress and fitness through a project in trained massage therapists were has been achieved through a number co-operation with a company employed to offer head and shoulder of in-house training courses. specialising in advanced heart beat massages to employees. analysis. The main idea of the project Our corrugated operation Massa was that a fitter employee performs In our UK mills a great deal of Lombarda at Imola (Italy) was awarded better at work with the additional emphasis is placed upon improving the highest recognition for its business benefit of lower sick leave rates. Every safety. This is often extended to practices by the Confindustria Ravenna employee including management involving employees’ families in safety (district of Ravenna Industrial and participated in the programme, which awareness, achieved by various Entrepreneurs Association). 2010 was was partly financed by a Finnish initiatives, including safety magazines. the first year that this association had company providing pension insurance. There is also significant attention given set out to honour a local company in to involving suppliers in safety matters. this manner and Massa Lombarda 52 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Students at a Farming and Stockbreeding Technical School in Venezuela that is funded by Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Venezuela. achieved first place. The award was n participation in school initiatives Fundraising in the UK based on its achievement with regard by offering items such as printing In the UK, employees of Smurfit to both environmental (ISO 14001) material or facilitating school Kappa Composites climbed to the top and health and safety (OHSAS 18001) visits for educational purposes of Scafell Pike, the highest mountain standards. Competitors for the award n meeting and offering time to in England, to raise money in memory came from many different branches citizen groups that represent of their late colleague, Chris Pae. of industry and the local association local communities The money raised will be donated intends to make this an annual event. n playing a positive role in to the Palliative Care Ward of a supporting and contributing local hospital. 3. Our involvement to the disadvantaged Also in the UK, Chris Martin from with the Community n mentoring small/start-up our Yate facility raised money for a SKG has over 330 manufacturing businesses and co-operatives. charity close to his heart. He collected facilities in 31 countries. Community his sponsorship money from friends activity and involvement is both Our particular bias is towards and family after running his first ever encouraged and promoted and this partnership to assist communities marathon and made the donation element of our social responsibility in self-help activities. to St Peter’s Hospice. is mainly delegated to local plant SKG is involved in community activities level where managers and staff are Improving Health in in many different ways. The Group best positioned to make a positive maintains an active dialogue with Venezuela contribution in supporting the the communities that live in close The Health Brigades programme in community. proximity to its facilities. In particular, Venezuela was originally designed An important element of every we respond promptly at a senior level to offer preventive health service plant manager’s role is to represent to any complaints or issues of concern in the rural communities around the the company as part of the local to the communities around us and forestry division of Smurfit Kappa community and play a positive part take appropriate remedial action Cartón de Venezuela in Portuguesa, in its development. Community where necessary and possible. Lara and Cojedes States. In two involvement can take many forms In some cases, our local manager years the programme has benefited and typically includes: will personally visit the homes of 43 communities providing medical local residents in order to resolve service to more than 75,000 people n co-investment in projects where any issues that arise. and helping them with more than the local community is working 335,000 items of medicine. The Health to improve their welfare The examples which follow illustrate Brigades, like so many social activities, the wide breadth of activities both depend very much on the voluntary n charitable donations to local in Europe and in Latin America. support of our employees. volunteer groups or welfare organisations n support to local sport organisations SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 53 Children are among the main beneficiaries of the Smurfit Kappa Health Brigades programme in Venezuela. Sponsoring Community children. Among the activities The project’s aim was to encourage Activities in Austria supported were women’s cycling, recycling and involve school children and Spain competitive rowing and ever popular and local residents in local community local football leagues. Financial activities. In Austria, Smurfit Kappa Interwell support was given to gyms and donated €3,500 to a prominent boxing club facilities. Upper Austrian newspaper, UK local community Oberösterreichische Nachrichten Promoting Recycling involvement by Smurfit (Upper Austria News), which each Several sites undertook initiatives Kappa SSK year organises a Christmas donation to promote the benefits of recycling. There was also much support given The SSK paper mill also donates to programme to support people in need. to improving local environments in the ‘Nechells in Bloom’ initiative that general. One unit was involved in a promotes a partnership approach Also in Austria, Smurfit Kappa Wellkart “beat the trash” initiative. Another between the local community in the sponsored the ARS ELECTRONICA was involved in new public amenity Nechells neighbourhood and the local festival which is an annual event in herbaceous planting and a third in businesses working together on Linz (Upper Austria) attracting some establishing a wildlife garden. improving the environment through 30,000 visitors. This year’s motto was planting projects in the immediate “Sustainability” and all furniture Education area. Smurfit Kappa SSK also helps displayed was designed by a group Several sites continued with activities to organise specific projects such as of artists using corrugated board in support of the Group’s “learning is turning a small piece of wasteland from Smurfit Kappa in total over for life” commitment. There was into an attractive planted area which 200 pieces. involvement with local schools and SSK regularly maintains. On site, SSK’s universities. planted areas are well maintained In Spain, our plant in Huelva sponsors and form part of the area judged the main football team Smurfit Kappa UK Adding colour for a local competition. Palma in Palma del Condado city. This team plays in the highest regional to recycling In 2010, SSK organised an open day football league. The Huelva plant also In Birmingham (UK), Smurfit Kappa for local residents, allowing them to financed the provision of a large tent Recycling, together with our SSK take a tour of the mill site and see for civil protection (disaster relief, paper mill, sponsored the installation the paper-making process in action. traffic accidents, etc). of a recycled paper bank and the It is the intention to make this an subsequent decoration of the bank annual event. SSK has also run a A number of the Smurfit Kappa with a special floral montage. This number of tours for the University recycled paper mills in Spain and the was done by local volunteers and of the Third Age who are promoting UK pursued active social development school children as part of a local self managed lifelong learning activities during 2010 as follows. project which works alongside co-operatives for older people Birmingham City Council’s no longer in full time work. Sport environmental wardens and street Many Smurfit Kappa units sponsor cleansing departments to improve sporting activities for employees and the neighbourhoods around Nechells also for local people, especially where the plant is situated. 54 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Students in their new computer class at one of the ITAF schools in Cajibio, Colombia. Supporting Employment The best two graduates from each These activities have benefited more Initiatives in the Netherlands ITAF receive a scholarship from the than 2,000 students in the local rural SKCC Foundation to continue their communities. In the Netherlands, our Roermond education. Currently there are mill continued the cooperation with 33 scholarship recipients who are a municipal action plan to help people Donating Logistical Help pursuing technical and professional under 27 find employment, resulting degrees in universities. and Health Aid to Haitian in grants to job-applicants, job fairs, Earthquake Victims etc. Resulting from this programme, In Venezuela, various education On 12 January, 2010 Haiti suffered we recruited 11 new employees in programmes have been supported a catastrophic earthquake that took 2010, who all enrolled in a two year for many years. The Farming and the lives of over 230,000 people and apprenticeship programme including Stockbreeding Technical School left 1.3 million people homeless. an ‘on the job’ training element in supporting talented students of local Smurfit Kappa Dominican Republic the mill. rural communities has been the main (SKDR) sells about 10% of its educational project of Smurfit Kappa production in Haiti. Immediately Fostering education in Cartón de Venezuela for the last 15 following the earthquake it provided forestry and agriculture in years. Starting in 2009, an internship cartons for the transportation of programme with our Venezuelan the most urgently needed goods. Colombia and Venezuela organisation was offered to graduates SKDR also contributed to the health In Colombia, we have been involved as well. 19 young people have taken of the homeless population by in education since 1986 with initiatives part during 2009 and 2010, working donating funds for the building and which developed into the Agricultural in different areas within the company, furnishing of five community shelters, and Forestry Technical Institutes receiving a salary and gaining real construction of 100 latrines and (Institutos Técnicos Agropecuarios y work experience. payment for the waste collection. Forestales – ITAF). The schools are All work was done by Haitians on financially supported and guided by In another programme, the a “cash for work” basis. Our efforts the Forestry Division and the Smurfit Environmental Education Programme, supported surviving victims to Kappa Cartón de Colombia (SKCC) focus is on primary school students. re-organise their daily lives after Foundation in Colombia. Students pay The objective is to familiarise them this catastrophe. a nominal fee to cover supplies and with our activities and our efforts food and provide their own to preserve the environment. This transportation. In addition, 365 programme has been rolled out to company employees support 107 more than 15 schools in Venezuela. students through scholarships. The three schools had 510 students Also in 2010, with the help of enrolled in 2010. company volunteers, four schools were restored and redecorated in a joint effort with the local community, some of our customers and suppliers. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 55 Jan Berends and Theo Schurink at the Zedek print & display plant at Deventer, NL Sustainability in our Business Introduction The Latin American segment comprises forestry, paper, corrugated, folding SKG is an integrated paper and cartons and paper sack activities in paperboard manufacturer and 9 Latin American countries. converter with operations in Europe and Latin America. Operating in Except for our Bag-in-Box product 31 countries on two continents, line, all our products are virgin and/or the Group’s activities are divided recycled paper based and are therefore into Packaging Europe, Specialties renewable. Europe and Latin America. In Europe, the Packaging segment, Product Responsibility and which is highly integrated, includes Product Safety a system of mills, corrugated and As a business-to-business company converting plants that produce a SKG produces material to manufacture full line of containerboard that is and also manufactures packaging converted into corrugated containers products. Most packaging produced and display packaging. The Specialties by SKG is used for distribution, segment comprises paper based transportation and retail display activities dedicated to the needs of purposes. alternative packaging markets or niche markets. These areas include solid board, folding boxboard and Bag-in-Box. 56 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Christine Tellier in the R&D department at the Smurfit Kappa Bag-in-Box plant at Epernay, FR SKG has always demonstrated a Our Product Safety Department GMP that fulfils the requirements of strong commitment to product safety. was set up to manage such issues, EU regulations has been implemented Not only will we comply with any in particular with regard to food at all our European paper mills. legislation on health and safety contact end use. The department is We have also made progress in aspects of our products, we also equipped with a laboratory that tests implementing the CEN 15 593 have agreed to voluntary codes of the purity of SKG products (papers, standard on management of hygiene conduct which, among others, are boards, corrugated and solid board in the production of packaging for based on the OECD Guidelines for packaging). It conducts research and foodstuffs in our production facilities. Multinational Enterprises. implements development projects in During 2010, the Herzberger solid the area of food contact. SKG regularly board mill and converting operation At all stages in our production submits its products to the set of (Germany), the solid board converting process from the design of our analyses recommended by various facility in Neuss (Germany) and the product to its delivery to the customer European and national legislation Sanguesa paper mill in Spain were we assess product safety. As many applying to our products. This successfully certified according of our products are used as transport department is third party accredited to this standard. packaging, product safety mainly according to the ISO 17025 standard. ensures that our products are safe Driven by customer needs, some 42% and easy to use for those handling The knowledge developed here of our converting plants now have and using them. A significant part has been transferred throughout all processes in place and are certified of our packaging is intended for the production operations of the Group by one of the following recognised agro-food industry. For this sector the in both Europe and Latin America. hygiene codes or standards: ISO product safety aspects mainly involve We follow the evolution of regulations 22000, CEN 15 593, BRC (British ensuring that food can be safely in all countries and are very active at Retail Consortium), AIB (American packed in our products whether there European and national association Institute of Baking) or International is direct or indirect contact with food. level within the paper industry with Good Manufacturing Practice for All our products are therefore assessed regard to product safety issues. Corrugated and Solid Board for health and safety considerations. Packaging. European regulations that apply to SKG had no recorded incidents of packaging intended for food contact It is our aim to certify all our non-compliance with regulations or have been revised and reinforced over converting plants for which this voluntary codes in the area of product recent years. Implementation of the is relevant. safety and product responsibility. Guide for Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) in paper mills and As a result of our central set-up, we converting operations producing are able to monitor our progress in packaging for food applications is performance with regard to both now required by law. safety and hygiene for food and this SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 57 in turn allows us to respond to any Registration, Evaluation, Smurfit Kappa Group will pro-actively market concerns. Our Product Safety Authorisation and restriction follow the development of the REACH department responds as required of Chemicals (REACH) regulations and in particular the to food safety alerts coming from update of the so-called candidate European or National authorities. Our We are mainly affected by REACH as list (Substances of Very High analyses and knowledge permit us to downstream users of chemicals and Concern), thereby assessing possible modify our papers in response to these we therefore liaise closely with the consequences for all our products alerts in the shortest possible time. suppliers of chemicals to ensure that and mitigated them appropriately. they fulfil their obligations with regard The strong involvement in product to assurances that the chemicals we safety of the entire paper based introduce in our products do not Working together with packaging industry in the last few contain any substances of high customers years has been demonstrated by concern in concentrations above the Increasingly, customers demand the phthalate alert. Through a level of 0.1%. Our centralised sourcing packaging to be sustainable, considerable joint effort with our organisation provides us with an innovative, fit for purposes, as well as suppliers, the concentration of efficient way to accomplish this task. cost effective. SKG works closely with di-isobutyl phthalate has been reduced customers to achieve more sustainable by two thirds since 2007 in all our Additionally, our kraft mills are solutions. For example, we deliver recycled paper and board grades. themselves producers of chemicals packaging which uses less material or (liquors, tall oil, tall oil soap and lighter material and transit packaging In the course of 2010 a piece of turpentine). which makes it possible to reduce research indicated that traces of primary packaging. Our creative design undesirable mineral oil could enter At an early stage, before REACH teams explore what is possible in the packaged food possibly resulting from regulations came into force, SKG most open minded way. mineral oil present in the recycled raw appointed a REACH Implementation material for paper making and/or the Specialist to ensure timely compliance Working innovatively together with inks used for printing the packaging. with REACH by all our EU operations. customers on sustainability has two According to the Bundesinstitut für Duties include the careful assessment main aspects to it. Firstly, SKG gives Risikobewertung (BfR, or German of the current and future impact of the customers a credible guarantee that Federal Institute for Risk Assessment), legislation on our business and our the packaging it supplies is produced the research is still incomplete. product portfolio. in the most sustainable way, using However, SKG takes the issue seriously materials from sustainable sources and and is cooperating with the various All of our European virgin mills have utilising every possible design skill. parties involved to develop adequate registered (before December 2010) the solutions when and if the findings are relevant by-products generated in the But looking at the packaging alone is validated. kraftliner manufacturing process in a not enough, as the direct CO2 impact timely manner. of our packaging is only around 4% in a typical customer’s supply chain. One of the main tasks of our REACH However the packaging related specialist is to liaise with our customers indirect impact (damage/destruction and to provide complete and updated of the packed product, logistics, waste, information on the position of our disposal, etc) is much more significant products with regard to these for the sustainability of a customer’s regulations. 58 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP supply chain. Therefore the second To ensure customer satisfaction each such as Innobook. We hold regular aspect on which we focus is the customer is served by dedicated teams Innovation Award competitions to design and development of packaging of designers, sales and service people assess the effectiveness and originality which minimises a customer’s total and this important consideration is of our joint developments with sustainability impact per unit of discussed routinely with every customers. The competitions are held product delivered to the consumer. customer. in both Europe and Latin America, with judging panels drawn from our In SKG, that means that for many Our marketing communications are key customer base. These measures customers we carry out evaluations essentially business-to-business by promote the pursuit of excellence in with the help of the Smurfit Kappa nature. In this regard we ensure design and, most crucially, a close web-based suite of design software, on a continuous basis that these alignment with the needs of our Innotools (Pack Expert, Paper-to-Box, are in line with all generally accepted customers. Innobook), seeking to optimise the ethical and cultural standards such direct and indirect impact of our as avoiding privacy intrusion or dual A selection process was undertaken packaging on sustainability through standards, not influencing vulnerable throughout Europe to identify the the entire supply chain. For example, audiences such as children or designs which would be considered for by changing the pallet pattern or case portraying gender roles in a European Awards. To demonstrate the count it is possible to increase the disrespectful way. As part of our Code importance of sustainability within quantity of products loaded on to a of Business Conduct, we voluntarily SKG, the impact on the environment pallet, reduce the number of road trips adhere to the OECD Guidelines for was one of the main criteria used in and thereby reduce the CO2 emissions Multinational Enterprises which the selection processes. from transportation. explicitly mentions consumer interests. SKG has no recorded incidents of The awards jury looks for a balance non-compliance with regulations or between the ability of packaging to Customer satisfaction protect products, transport them voluntary codes concerning marketing As SKG strives to be a customercommunications. efficiently and to assist in the in-store oriented and market-led company, marketing of the customer’s product the satisfaction of our customers is at point of sale. Sustainability is also of utmost importance to us. Besides Innovation in sustainable a key consideration. All of the designs aiming to provide our customers with packaging solutions considered in the competitions are optimal packaging solutions we also As a market-focused company, SKG added to Innobook, the unique SKG want to ensure that they are satisfied knows innovation is of strategic design resource, thereby further with our proactive approach and importance in securing and retaining enriching the database. As part of the services. In our mills we have a ‘first our customers’ business, especially in process of using design innovation as time right’ monitoring system in current challenging times. Innovative a means of developing sustainable place measuring the percentage of design is a unique selling point for packaging, we continue to work with production delivered to the customer’s the Group and serves to differentiate customers to: satisfaction. In our converting us in the marketplace. To foster operations we welcome the regular innovation, we share best practice audits that are done by major among the plants and divisions in customers on our performance. the Group using our web-based tools SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 59 Innovative collection box created and produced by Smurfit Kappa in the UK to collect batteries. SKG is proud to have received this testimony n design packaging solutions that from Pernod Ricard, resulting from collaborative are both efficient and user friendly work between the two businesses. n optimise the supply chain, including palletisation, Working in partnership with warehousing and distribution our main suppliers n reduce over-packing by looking at fit for purpose specifications Pernod Ricard and Smurfit Kappa have both benefited based on optimisation, rather from several years of mutual cooperation. During these than the use of historical data years many common challenges were successfully resolved. When it comes to Sustainability, a very hot n reduce complexity in the topic on the market today, we can confirm the aligned packaging portfolio as this leads approach of both companies towards this topic which to higher productivity, less material has resulted in common targets and vision. This can be usage and less waste. illustrated by the following examples: Business Development Stories 1. Both companies support the UN Global Compact initiative. New “clever” battery recycling 2. Pernod Ricard promotes sustainable agriculture and box in the UK Smurfit Kappa certifies according to FSC/PEFC Chain Smurfit Kappa UK was instrumental of Custody schemes, so as to be able to provide in supporting the development of guarantees of sustainably sourced raw materials. an ambitious, ‘closed loop’ battery 3. Pernod Ricard is constantly implementing energy recycling collection system by Valpak, reductions in their processes, as does Smurfit one the UK’s leading providers of Kappa, which now uses approximately 50% of environmental compliance and biomass as energy in paper production. consultancy services. The scheme will result in the prevention of batteries 4. Carbon footprint reduction, water usage reduction going into landfill, the prevention of and waste reduction are also on the sustainability chemical leakage into the ground and agendas of both companies. the recovery of re-usable metals. As a strategic supplier Smurfit Kappa supported Pernod The recycling of batteries will be Ricard in a packaging material optimisation project achieved through a ‘closed loop’ which brought reductions of carbon emissions for system – using uniquely designed Smurfit Kappa and thereby reduced the carbon footprint innovative collection boxes from of Pernod Ricard products. We see Smurfit Kappa as Smurfit Kappa. The innovative a partner today, and in the future, for tackling other collection boxes were designed for sustainability issues, thus continuing to bring benefits use in a variety of community spaces, to both businesses. so that the recycling of batteries is made convenient for the consumer. 60 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP The Governor of the Leningrad region of the Russian Federaton, Valery Serdukov, presenting the Innovative Enterprise award to Patrik Strom (Smurfit Kappa St. Petersburg). The eye-catching exterior of the box Innovation awards for VITOP® This study clearly demonstrated that is designed to attract attention to the the Smurfit Kappa patented the 3 litre Bag-in-Box package (with collection point. taps for Bag-in-Box respectively 159kg CO2 equiv./1,000 litres in Sweden and 157kg CO2 To date, with the help of battery Smurfit Kappa is a regular winner equiv./1,000 litres in Norway) has a scheme members like Energiser and of external awards for packaging very low carbon footprint, which is The Co-operative Group which allows innovation. While the awards are five times less than that of a 75cl consumers to drop off their old usually for corrugated and solid board glass bottle. batteries while picking up their packaging, another frequent winner is shopping at the local neighbourhood our patented tap for our Bag-in-Box Among the parameters that store, Valpak has installed over 30,000 systems. significantly lessen the environmental collection points where batteries can impact for Bag-in-Box are: be dropped off. During 2010 VITOP received an innovation award from the region of n Package optimisation Alessandria in Italy and also a Gold A 3 litre Bag-in-Box package only Russia – innovative medal for the innovative measure tap weighs a total of 179g (reference enterprise award for viscous liquids. weight for the study) of which In December 2010, Smurfit Kappa 144g is corrugated board (which St. Petersburg won an award for Scandinavian study shows is recyclable and renewable) and being the best Innovative Enterprise just 35g of plastics (bag and tap). Bag-In-Box packaging has of the Leningrad Region. The award a low carbon footprint n Optimisation of waste ceremony took place in the Leningrad management Region Legislative Assembly buildings August 2010 saw the publication of Recycling of the raw materials in St. Petersburg where the Governor a “Nordic Life Cycle Assessment Wine is a major factor contributing of the Leningrad region, Mr. Valery Package” study, conducted by Bio to a reduced carbon footprint. Serdukov, presented a certificate Intelligence for Systembolaget and Incineration with energy recovery signifying the award to the Managing Vinmonopolet (the Swedish and is also an effective option more Director of SK St. Petersburg, Norwegian alcohol retail monopolies preferable to landfill. As 80% Mr. Patrik Strom. respectively) and several package of a 3 litre Bag-in-Box package manufacturers (including Smurfit consists of corrugated board In his speech Mr. Serdukov Kappa Bag-in-Box). The principal goal (which in Scandinavia is recycled emphasised that the modernisation was to identify the environmental at a rate of 85%), effectively 68% of industry is one of the key impact of various wine packaging of the package is recycled, with development targets for the region solutions. the remaining plastic materials and the award recognised Smurfit (other than PET) being recycled Kappa St. Petersburg’s significant Five different packaging solutions, at a rate of 76%. contribution to this goal. PET bottles, glass bottles, beverage cartons, Bag-in-Box and Stand-up Pouches) were assessed. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 61 Left to right: Michael B Polk (Unilever), Siegfried Jacobi (SKG), Left to right: Hubert Patricot (Coca-Cola Enterprises) presents the Tony Smurfit (SKG), Mark Taylor (Unilever). CRS supplier award to Roberto Villaquiran (SKG), together with Arco Berkenbosch (SKG) and Dim Mozin (Coca-Cola Enterprises). Los Reyes award The category ‘Winning through Ceremony in Europe and Smurfit Sustainability’ in which SKG won Kappa won the prestigious Corporate The Los Reyes corrugated plant in the Award, was created to recognise Responsibility and Sustainability Mexico received special recognition suppliers who have helped Unilever supplier award. The Sustainability from the Mexican Environment to create competitive supply chains, Summit brought CCE together with its Ministry, and from both Johnson & making positive contributions to the key suppliers to discuss collaboration Johnson and Grupo Jumex, the latter a environment, to social development or on sustainability issues across its supply large Mexican multinational company economic development thus delivering chain – from bottling and distributing, in the food industry that specialises tangible benefits to Unilever’s brands, to selling and consuming beverages. in fruit juices, by participating in a consumers or customers. programme for environmental The Summit was followed by an improvement entitled “Environmental Unilever commented on SKG winning Awards Ceremony, where CCE’s Leadership for Competitiveness”. this award as follows: ‘Smurfit Kappa’s Chairman and CEO, John Brock, and end-to-end approach to sustainable President of Europe, Hubert Patricot, The site undertook a programme of paper packaging has made them the presented awards to those suppliers improvements to its boiler (outlined on leader in the field. They look at the who contributed most to the success page 33) consequently allowing both whole process from raw material of the business in 2010. The Johnson & Johnson and Grupo Jumex sourcing through to the recyclability of Sustainability Summit underlined to reduce the carbon footprint of the the consumer pack, as well as assisting CCE’s commitment to Corporate boxes they use, therefore supporting Unilever in the development of our Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS). environmental improvement in the Paper and Board policy. One example supply chain. of their focus on sustainable Ink Supplier Siegwerk packaging, coupled with customer Supports Children’s Education Significant Sustainability market insight and leading R&D for a Brighter Future facilities is the newly developed Customer Awards “Shopper Pack”. This was developed Our Sustainability Sourcing Policy for Unilever’s Household cleaning expressly states that we encourage Unilever: ‘Winning through category in Europe. The packaging suppliers to develop strong Sustainability’ Award looks more appealing on the shelf, relationships with the communities SKG’s efforts to contribute to and has enabled Unilever to remove within which they operate. sustainability were recognised by around 140 tonnes of coated-polyester Unilever through a global supplier tear-tape, greatly improving its Many of our suppliers adhere to award on sustainability. recyclability and all of that at lower this policy and share our declared cost to the consumer.‘ values in good social citizenship. As At the Unilever ‘Partner to Win’ event an example, Siegwerk’s “Supporting in March 2011 in London, some Children’s Education for a Brighter Coca-Cola Enterprises: outstanding examples of partnerships Future” charity concept centres on ‘Corporate Responsibility and were recognised through a Supplier the education and development of Sustainability’ Supplier Award disadvantaged young people through Awards ceremony within different categories: Innovation, Sustainability, Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) recently local foundations or programmes in Business Integration, Winning in held its second annual Supplier many countries including India, Developing and Emerging Markets. Sustainability Summit and Awards Argentina, Chile and Germany itself. 62 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Participants in one of Siegwerk’s “Supporting Children’s TimSafe Optimised Logistic Solution for Unicef. Education for a Brighter Future” programmes. To drive forward Siegwerk’s social Weight savings are approximately 40% In addition, a number of executives commitment, every country compared to traditional solutions. play an active role on the committees organisation will be asked to start of CEPI, FEFCO and other relevant its own CSR project. In addition to industry organisations. TimSafe Boxes for UNICEF these local activities, Siegwerk started a global “lighthouse project” which Last year we reported on our activities SKG is also actively involved as will award the best local social on this project for UNICEF, involving a member of, or participant in, a development project supporting the disposal of used syringes number of organisations active in children. An internal competition worldwide. More recently, we have the area of environmental reporting will be held to select the Siegwerk made considerable improvements by and sustainability. These include the ‘lighthouse project’ for 2011. means of TOLS, the Timsafe Optimised Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), the Logistic Solution. Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), SKG recognises the significant the Water Footprint Network (WFN) importance Siegwerk attributes to its Through newly designed boxes, we and the World Business Council for CSR activities and encourages all its can transport double the amount Sustainable Development (via its local suppliers to further develop strong of syringes per container while the chapter in Colombia). Membership local community relationships. transport costs for UNICEF have of such organisations is not passive halved. The new box allows us to and customarily involves providing reach considerable production them with a significant amount of Sustainability through economies and glue and pack the information on our operations, usually Simply Optimised Solutions boxes 50% faster with our new auto in the form of a detailed questionnaire. (SOS) in solid board packer. Increased container loading Smurfit Kappa is always searching is also achieved due to optimised SKG’s participation in the UN Global for generic solutions to improve packaging, utilising a slip sheet Compact is explained more fully on fundamental packaging issues such solution. page 80. as palletisation. The Group CEO is a member of Memberships in organisations the European Round Table, a forum With our new Simply Optimised Solutions (SOS), trucks can hold more SKG is an active member of a number of over 40 chief executives and pallet loads. The solutions consist of a of industry and business organisations. chairmen of major multinational pallet lid and bottom, cardboard collar These include CEPI, both at Group companies of European parentage and an interleaving sheet. The lid is level and through various national covering a wide range of industrial made of PE coated solid board for paper organisations, FEFCO through and technological sectors. increased protection against moisture. a number of national corrugated The lid and bottom are double folded organisations, the International SKG’s subsidiary companies are to increase stability and add strength Corrugated Cases Association (ICCA), also members of a large number when strapping. The collar is made of the European Solid Board Organisation of national industry and business extremely strong and moisture (ESBO) and the European sack kraft associations in both Europe and resistant heavy duty corrugated board. manufacturers’ association (Eurokraft). Latin America. For simpler handling in and out of the Several senior SKG executives are collar, the sheet has rounded corners. board members of CEPI, CEPI Containerboard, FEFCO and ESBO. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 63 Input/Output for 2010 All European Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood (1) 4,689 ktonnes ar Papers (All grades) 4,689 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 82 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 4,584 ktonnes Recovered Paper 4,367 ktonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 944 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,715 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 313 ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 16 ktonnes Sacks * 9 ktonnes Starch (all types) 239 ktonnes ar Other packaging 15 ktonnes Inorganic raw materials 230 ktonnes ar Emissions to air Other organic raw materials 193 ktonnes ar CO2 fossil (direct) 1,878 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 3,106 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.5 ktonnes SOX from processes 0.6 ktonnes NOX from processes 4.7 ktonnes Energy Energy output Energy from purchased fossil fuels 31,917 TJ Electricity to third party 178 GWh Energy from purchased biofuels 2,140 TJ Thermal energy to third party 470 TJ Electricity from grid 1,931 GWh Biomass sold 1,693 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 6.1 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes sent to landfill 196 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 391 ktonnes Water Discharges to water Fresh water 90 Mm3 Water released 82 Mm3 COD 20 ktonnes BOD 3.3 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 3.0 ktonnes AOX 0.008 ktonnes N 0.4 ktonnes P 0.07 ktonnes ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received (1): wood and sawmill chips as delivered to the mill * partly produced with SKG paper or board The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 68 to 70. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. 64 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Input/Output for 2010 All Latin American Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood (1) 967 ktonnes ar Papers (All grades) 907 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 3.3 ktonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 772 ktonnes Recovered Paper 891 ktonnes ar Board 176 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 246 ktonnes ar Converted Board * 49 ktonnes Starch (all types) 28 ktonnes ar Sacks * 46 ktonnes Inorganic raw materials 87 ktonnes ar Other organic raw materials 34 ktonnes ar Emissions to air CO2 fossil (direct) 1,007 ktonnes CO2 biogenic 437 ktonnes Dust from fuels 0.2 ktonnes SOX from processes 2.9 ktonnes NOX from processes 0.9 ktonnes Energy Energy from purchased fossil fuels 15,172 TJ Energy output Energy from purchased biofuels 0 TJ Electricity from grid 611 GWh Electricity to third party 0 GWh Thermal energy to third party 40 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 6.3 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes sent to landfill 167 ktonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 48 ktonnes Water Fresh water 38 Mm3 Discharges to water Water released 33 Mm3 COD 13 ktonnes BOD 3.3 ktonnes Total Suspended Solids 5.0 ktonnes AOX** N/A N 0.2 ktonnes P 0.04 ktonnes ktonnes ar: kilotonnes as received (1): wood chips as delivered to the mill * partly produced with SKG paper or board **AOX is not measured in our Latin American operations because this is not required under any of the relevant permits for our plants in that region. The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 70 and 71. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 65 Certification of Management System Forestry Forest Management* Latin America CO Colombia Forest FSC VE Venezuela Forest Wood Sourcing Chain of Custody* ES Central Forestal PEFC & FSC FR SK Comptoir du Pin Aquitaine PEFC & FSC European Mills Quality Environmental Chain of Management Management Custody* System System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Virgin mills AT SK Nettingsdorfer • • PEFC & FSC ES SK Navarra • • PEFC & FSC SK Nervión • • PEFC & FSC FR SK Cellulose du Pin • • PEFC & FSC SE SK Piteå • • PEFC & FSC Recycled mills CZ SK Morava • • PEFC & FSC DE SK Baden Karton • • PEFC & FSC SK CD Haupt • • PEFC & FSC SK Herzberger • • FSC SK Hoya • • PEFC & FSC SK Viersen • • PEFC & FSC SK Zülpich • • PEFC & FSC ES SK Mengibar • • PEFC & FSC FR SK Papier Recycle France Papeterie Alfa d’Avignon • • PEFC & FSC SK Papier Recycle France Papeterie de La Seine • • PEFC & FSC SK Papier Recycle France Papeterie de Rethel • • PEFC & FSC SK Papier Recycle France Papeterie de Saillat • • PEFC & FSC IT SK Ania • • PEFC & FSC Certificates acquired in 2011 are shown in italics * Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report can be found on pages 81 and 82. 66 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP European Mills Quality Environmental Chain of Management Management Custody* System System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Recycled mills NL SK SBM Coevorden • • PEFC & FSC SK SBM Hoogkerk • • PEFC & FSC SK SBM Nieuweschans • • PEFC & FSC SK SBM Oude Pekela • • PEFC & FSC SK Roermond • • PEFC & FSC UK SK SSK • • PEFC & FSC SK Townsend Hook • • PEFC & FSC Latin American Mills Quality Environmental Chain of Management Management Custody* System System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 Virgin mills CO SK Cali • FSC VE SK San Felipe Recycled mills AR SK Coronel Suarez (1) SK Bernal CO SK Barranquilla • FSC SK Barbosa • FSC MX SK Cerro Gordo • • SK Los Reyes • • SK Monterrey • VE SK Caracas SK Valencia (1): national scheme Certificates acquired in 2011 are shown in italics * Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report can be found on pages 81 and 82. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 67 European Mills 2010 Environmental Data Nettingsdorfer, Cellulose du Pin, Morava, Alfa d’Avignon, CD Haupt, Hoya, Viersen, Zülpich, Mengibar, Navarra, France Piteå, Austria Spain Sweden Czech Republic Germany Germany Germany Germany Spain France bkl, tl tl, mg bkl, wtkl, wtkl, bkl, tl, fl fl, sb, tl tl, fl, fl, tl fl, tl fl, tl paper wttl wttl cart wttl, tl PRODUCTION ktonnes 426 105 484 661 57 304 369 70 452 197 73 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 162 58 170 325 65 92 169 121 13 (1) Hydro electric power GWh 0.1 3.3 0.2 Net Grid supply GWh 139 75 227 270 20 31 59 23 13 13 18(2) Total electricity GWh 302 133 397 595 23 96 150 23 181 134 30 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 3,516 1,996 8,020 11,005 9 26 57 231 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 1,212 443 926 176 311 1,452 2,324 324 3,194 1,537 454 Total fuels TJ fuel 4,728(3) 2,440 8,947 11,181 319(3) 1,478 2,382 324 3,425 1,537 454 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 12 5.0 9.6 33 0.3 0.0 1.8 1.3 0.9 Ground Mm3 1.0 0.0 0.8 2.3 0.3 0.4 0.0 Grid Mm3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.1 Total Mm3 12 5.0 11 33 0.3 0.8 2.5 0.3 2.2 1.4 0.9 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 75 29 54 16 17 81 130 18 234 88 26 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 28 29 20 11 11 13 25 10 5.4 5.1 1.6 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 367 210 899 1,185 0.6 2.3 4.8 19 3.4 1.1 Dust tonnes 36 25 46 372 0.2 0.4 1.1 0.5 NOX as NO2 tonnes 250 111 1,227 780 10 71 93 8.2 248 425 33 SOX as SO2 tonnes 28 76 20 94 2.9 1.1 0.3 77 57 0.5 To water Process water Mm3 5.2 3.0 10 13 0.3 0.4 2.0 0.2 1.2 0.6 Cooling water Mm3 6.9 1.9 20 0.0 0.0 0.1 1.3 COD tonnes 6,773 1,048 3,947 1,403 30 111 312 N/A 297 39 BOD tonnes N/A 507 1,047 103 3.4 6.7 12 N/A 52 5.1 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 168 185 740 116 3.2 N/A N/A N/A 112 10 Total N tonnes 37 N/A 74 40 2.5 0.6 13 N/A 14 N/A Total P tonnes 9.1 2.1 18 10 0.1 0.3 1.1 N/A 2.3 2.6 Solid wastes Landfill tonnes 5,968 2,717 16,495 10,438 5,492 2.5 7,481 25,579 Recovery tonnes 18,674 8,694 38,789 28,189 2,446 22,639 21,595 6,767 11,924 960 6,617 Hazardous wastes tonnes 176 49 214 94 5.2 110 63 1.5 50 21 6.9 bkl: brown kraftliner mg: machine glazed wtkl: white top kraftliner cart: carton board sb: solid board wttl: white top testliner fl: recycled flute tl: testliner water emissions in grey italics: external waste water treatment 68 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Roermond, Townsend Hook, Oude Pekela, Hoogkerk, Coevorden, Nieuweschans, Badenkarton, Herzberger, Total mills La Seine, Nervión, the Netherlands UK the Netherlands the Netherlands the Netherlands the Netherlands Rethel, Germany Saillat, Germany Ania, SSK, France France France Italy UK Spain tl tl, fl fl fl, tl tl, fl tl, fl fl, tl cart sb sb sb sb sb sack paper 62 232 39 204 561 192 222 147 249 53 112 97 124 142 5,633 61(1) 20(1) 36 117 62 98(1) 63 81 18 19 23 87 1,861 2.1 1.0 1.5 8.1 22 53(2) -(2) 39 39 5 -(2) 10 -(2) 19 7 15 96 1,200 22 116 20 75 156 67 98 64 92 18 19 26 37 183 3,069 18 26 157 52 3,082 28,185 304 1,622 444 1,209 2,842 1,260 2,303 1,176 1,605 369 484 434 697 62 27,167 322 1,649 444 1,209 2,999 1,311 2,303 1,176(3) 1,605(3) 369 484 434 697 3,144 55,351 1.8 0.5 1.7 2.2 1.2 2.1 3.2 0.0 0.4 0.4 0.4 2.5 80 0.5 0.9 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 6.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.0 1.0 0.5 1.8 0.5 1.7 2.3 1.0 1.5 2.1 3.2 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.5 2.5 88 17 87 25 68 161 72 129 66 90 21 27 25 40 4 1,601 2.0 4.7 15 16 2.7 4.1 7.9 2.7 6.7 37 263 1.4 4.1 11 4.4 3.2 0.6 351 3,070 1.5 0.3 30 513 24 106 129 26 128 116 250 59 74 24 9.1 21 35 278 4,533 7.4 0.7 0.4 20 0.5 10 0.3 396 0.4 1.5 0.4 1.5 1.8 0.7 1.2 1.7 1.3 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.3 1.7 49 0.0 0.2 1.5 0.4 33 65 877 161 167 284 956 106 198 174 15 39 1,013 60 980 19,054 8.8 221 70 35 7.3 417 11 18 13 0.5 1.2 570 3 N/A 3,110 10 380 78 34 34 841 47 14 19 2.5 2.1 22 4 76 2,899 3.2 76 N/A 12 29 46 3.3 1.1 1.3 0.9 1.9 2 2 N/A 360 0.4 11 1 1.4 3.0 8.5 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.3 N/A 73 2,004 14,880 2,588 2,102 2,863 19,900 26,548 98 200 160 41,212 186,727 3,233 3,265 2,489 19,517 37,819 4,765 7,280 18,057 19,953 10,783 3,291 5,516 8,977 42,874 355,114 16 25 1.0 21 27 133 89 18 8.7 9.0 23 17 16 1,194 (1): CHP is outsourced N/A: not available (2): net electricity export by CHP (3): part of heat exported Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 69 total column may not tally due to rounding differences. European Operations 2010 PAPER AND INTEGRATED OTHER OTHER TOTAL BOARD MILLS CORRUGATED PACKAGING OPERATIONS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION ktonnes 5,633 4,312 608 1,567 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 1,861 22 1,883 Hydro electric power GWh 8.1 0.1 8.3 Grid supply GWh 1,200 476 81 3.1 1,761 Total electricity GWh 3,069 498 81 3.1 3,652 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 28,185 120 0.4 28,305 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 27,167 4,327 222 79 31,794 Total fuels TJ fuel 55,351 4,447 222 79 60,099 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 80 0.1 80 Ground Mm3 6.7 0.4 7.2 Grid Mm3 1.0 1.3 0.1 0.0 2.5 Total Mm3 88 1.8 0.1 0.0 90 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 1,601 256 13 6.1 1,876 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 263 157 26 1.4 447 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,070 13 0.0 3,082 Dust tonnes 513 14 0.4 0.0 528 NOX as NO2 tonnes 4,533 120 4.5 3.9 4,661 SOX as SO2 tonnes 396 169 5.4 3.6 575 To water Process water Mm3 49 0.6 0.1 49 Cooling water Mm3 33 0.1 0.0 33 COD tonnes 19,054 859 N/A N/A 19,912 BOD tonnes 3,110 211 N/A N/A 3,321 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 2,899 129 N/A N/A 3,028 Total N tonnes 360 11 N/A N/A 371 Total P tonnes 73 0.5 N/A N/A 74 Solid wastes Landfill tonnes 186,727 6,115 736 2,362 195,940 Recovery tonnes 355,114 22,355 5,709 8,213 391,392 Hazardous wastes tonnes 1,194 4,034 898 6.1 6,132 N/A: not available Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. 70 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Latin American Mills 2010 Environmental Data Coronel Suarez, Barranquilla, Cerro Gordo, Total mills Bernal, Cali, Barbosa, Los Reyes, Monterrey, Caracas, Valencia, San Felipe, Argentina Argentina Colombia Colombia Colombia Mexico Mexico Mexico Venezuela Venezuela Venezuela P&W, sack paper, fl, tl, cart, tl, tl, fl, sc fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl fl, wttl tl, fl fl, tl cart cart, bkl, wttl wttl fl tl, sc fl, wtkl, wttl PRODUCTION ktonnes 75 49 260 65 71 74 281 36 17 52 104 1,083 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 244 39 3.6 31 73 391 Hydro electric power GWh Grid supply GWh 37 19 84 1.1 35 49 159 20 8.7 19 69 501 Total electricity GWh 37 19 328 40 35 49 159 20 12 51 142 893 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 3,836 383 4,218 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 592 286 5,935 1,170 403 601 1,340 216 222 1,138 2,292 14,198 Total fuels TJ fuel 592 286 9,771 1,170 403 601 1,340 216 222 1,138 2,675 18,416 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm 3 0.98 25.8 1.0 0.7 0.6 29 Ground Mm3 0.4 0.2 0.3 1.5 0.1 0.9 3.7 7.2 Grid Mm3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.5 Total Mm3 0.98 0.4 26 1.0 0.7 0.3 1.5 0.2 0.8 1.1 3.7 37 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 34 16 461 66 34 34 76 12 13 65 132 945 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 13 6.7 11 0.1 4.5 27 87 11 1.8 4.0 14 180 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 401 36 437 Dust tonnes 150 74 3.1 3.1 2.5 8 241 NOX as NO2 tonnes 87 11 544 35 32 15 27 7.2 12 20 112 902 SOX as SO2 tonnes 1.3 2,727 55 86 0.4 5.6 2,876 To water Process water Mm3 0.9 0.4 24 0.9 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.8 0.9 3.2 32 Cooling water Mm3 COD tonnes 833 98 6,148 1,144 2,025 23 404 114 510 324 945 12,569 BOD tonnes 274 15 997 633 779 0.5 41 58 206 68 229 3,300 Total Suspended tonnes 349 8.5 2,463 191 105 2.8 70 39 1,438 108 196 4,971 Solids Total N tonnes N/A 0.7 175 6.3 6.7 0.4 9.4 N/A N/A 5.2 N/A 204 Total P tonnes 2.6 0.1 28 0.3 0.7 0.1 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.8 1.1 35 Solid wastes Landfill tonnes 6,309 2,533 102,423 2,675 1,726 81 17,223 5,954 745 12,999 8,831 161,498 Recovery tonnes 643 1,439 3,380 34 1,516 4,553 26,996 48 26 107 8,300 47,044 Hazardous wastes tonnes 10 4.7 198 9.3 10 5.2 18 6.6 2.3 22 5,796 6,082 bkl: brown kraftliner N/A: not available tl: testliner cart: carton board P&W: printing and writing grade wtkl: white top kraftliner fl: recycled flute sc fl: semi-chemical flute wttl: white top testliner Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 71 Latin American Operations 2010 PAPER AND OTHER TOTAL BOARD MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION ktonnes 1,083 2,257 ENERGY Electricity Co Generation GWh 391 391 Hydro electric power GWh Grid supply GWh 501 109 611 Total electricity GWh 893 109 1,002 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 4,218 4,218 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 14,198 930 15,128 Total fuels TJ fuel 18,416 930 19,346 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 29 0.1 29 Ground Mm3 7.2 0.4 7.6 Grid Mm3 0.5 0.2 0.7 Total Mm3 37 0.7 38 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 945 57 1,002 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 180 41 221 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 437 437 Dust tonnes 241 3.2 244 NOX as NO2 tonnes 902 24 926 SOX as SO2 tonnes 2,876 39 2,915 To water Process water Mm3 32 0.1 33 Cooling water Mm3 COD tonnes 12,569 238 12,807 BOD tonnes 3,300 48 3,349 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 4,971 34 5,004 Total N tonnes 204 2.9 207 Total P tonnes 35 0.4 35 Solid wastes Landfill tonnes 161,498 5,465 166,963 Recovery tonnes 47,044 1,061 48,105 Hazardous wastes tonnes 6,082 234 6,316 Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. 72 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Total Group Operations 2010 ENERGY All Electricity Co Generation GWh 2,274 Hydro electric power GWh 8.3 Grid supply GWh 2,372 Total electricity* GWh 4,654 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ fuel 32,524 Fossil fuels TJ fuel 46,921 Total fuels* TJ fuel 79,445 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 109 Ground Mm3 15 Grid Mm3 3.2 Total* Mm3 127 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct* ktonnes 2,878 CO2 fossil indirect* ktonnes 669 CO2 biogenic* ktonnes 3,520 Dust tonnes 772 NOX as NO2 tonnes 5,587 SOX as SO2 tonnes 3,489 To water Process water Mm3 82 Cooling water Mm3 33 COD* tonnes 32,719 BOD tonnes 6,670 Total Suspended Solids* tonnes 8,033 Total N tonnes 578 Total P tonnes 109 Solid wastes Landfill tonnes 362,903 Recovery tonnes 439,496 Hazardous wastes tonnes 12,448 * Within KPMG assurance scope. The assurance report can be found on pages 81 and 82. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 73 Relationship To GRI Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is framework for voluntary reporting on We declare that our 2010 reporting a large worldwide network of experts an organisation’s economic, applies to a GRI “A+” application level. whose mission is to provide the global environmental and social performance. An “A” application level requires standards for sustainability reporting. reporting on a specified range of The index below has been prepared criteria, on the management approach The GRI network has developed a using the current GRI Sustainability to disclosures for each indicator Sustainability Reporting Framework, Reporting Guidelines (version G3.1) category and a response on each the core of which is the Sustainability and it provides a list of the GRI core G3.1 indicator. We have sought Reporting Guidelines. The Guidelines indicators reported by SKG for assurance from an external party consist of principles for defining report 2010. All core Indicators have been which expands the application level content and ensuring the quality of addressed and are included in the to “A+”. reported information as well as table. The index refers to information standard disclosures comprising in our 2010 Sustainable Development performance indicators and other Report (SDR), our 2010 Annual disclosure items. These guidelines Report (AR), our website: provide an internationally recognised www.smurfitkappa.com and the Carbon Disclosure Project website. GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) Profile 1.1 CEO Statement on relevance of sustainability to the organisation SDR 5 and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities SDR 16-18 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation SDR Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services SDR Inside front cover AR Inside front cover 2-3 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Website 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters SDR 88 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates AR Inside front cover 2-3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 162, 165 2.7 Markets served Website 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation AR Inside front cover 2-3, 4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, structure AR 159-161 and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Website Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information provided SDR 5 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) SDR 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) SDR 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents SDR 88 3.5 Process for defining report content SDR 10 3.6 Boundary of the report SDR 10 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report SDR 10 74 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. SDR 10 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations SDR 10, 32 3.10 Explanation of effect of re-statements of information provided SDR 10 previously 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary, or measurement methods SDR 10, 32 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report SDR 74-78 3.13 Policy and current practice on seeking external assurance for the report SDR 5, 74 81-82 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation AR 36-45 4.2 Indicate if Chair of the Board is also an executive officer AR 39 4.3 The Board members that are independent and/or non-executive AR 37 members 4.4 Ways for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or SDR 46-47 direction to the Board AR 42 4.5 Link between compensation of Board and management with SDR AR 49 performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are Website avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Board AR 38-40 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, SDR 7-8 and principles AR 10-11, 36-41 Website 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing identification and management AR 40 of performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own SDR performance AR 40 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or AR 43, 44 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters SDR 7 & principles 4.13 Memberships in associations SDR 63 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation SDR 9 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to SDR 9, 46-47 engage 53, 58-60 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement SDR 9, 46-47, 53, 58-60 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement SDR 46-47, 53 Economic Disclosure on management approach SDR 10, 14 AR 10-11, 30-33, 70-90 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed AR 91-97 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the CDP 2011 Investor 5, 6 organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations AR 83, 125-132 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government AR 63, 82, 96 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers SDR 9 at significant locations of operation EC7 Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local SDR 43 community at significant locations of operation SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 75 Relationship To GRI Guidelines (continued) GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) EC8 Development and infrastructure provided primarily for public benefit SDR 55-57 Other than local community involvement, no engagement by SKG Environmental Disclosure on management approach SDR 5, 10, 21, 32 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume SDR 64-65 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials SDR 12, 26, 38 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source tables SDR 33, 34, 68-73 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source SDR 32, 68-73 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements SDR 31-33, 36-37 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy products and services SDR 31-34 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source SDR 41, 68-73 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused SDR 38-41, 68-73 EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of high SDR 30, 31 biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on SDR 29, 30 biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 34, 68-73 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight SDR 33-34 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved SDR 33-34, 36-37 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight website EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight SDR 68-73 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDR 68-73 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method SDR 68-73 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills website EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, SDR 20-21, 22-24 and extent of impact mitigation 26-41 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are SDR Inside front cover reclaimed by category 12, 26 EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with SDR 8 environmental law EN29 Significant environmental impact from transport SDR 33-34 Labour Practices Disclosure on management approach SDR 14-15, 21, 43-47 LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region SDR 43-44 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, SDR 43-44 and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees SDR 43-44 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SDR 46 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes SDR 47 LA6 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements SDR 46 76 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, SDR 50-51 and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control SDR 49 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category SDR 45 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning SDR 44-45 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development reviews SDR 45 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per AR 34-35, 40-42 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, SDR 43-44 and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category SDR 44 Same job, same pay Human Rights Disclosure on management approach SDR 14, 21 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements SDR 47 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have SDR 47 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken SDR 47 Website HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of SDR 46 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour, and SDR 44 measures taken to eliminate HR7 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory labour, SDR 44 and measures to eliminate HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies Not applicable or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and No significant 44 actions taken issues Social Disclosure on management approach SDR 14, 21, 53 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that SDR 53-55 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption SDR 8 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption SDR 8 policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption SDR 8 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development SDR 8 and lobbying SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 77 Relationship To GRI Guidelines (continued) GRI-G3 Description Source/comment Page(s) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SDR 8 politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust SDR 8 and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SDR 8 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on management approach SDR 10, 12, 42 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and SDR 57 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes on SDR 57 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and SDR 10, 26, 29 percentage of significant products and services subject to such 56, 64-73 information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR 57 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys SDR 59 measures customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes SDR 59 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and SDR 59 voluntary codes on marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of No substantiated customer privacy and losses of customer data complaints identified PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and No fines and/or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services substantiated claims for noncompliance with laws or regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were identified 78 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Business in the Community Ireland External Commentary – Smurfit Kappa Group Sustainable Development Report 2010 We welcome the publication of this fourth full-spectrum The public disclosure of these targets demonstrate the report issued by Smurfit Kappa Group on its sustainable company’s transparency and its commitment to report development activities in 2010. The report presents a on progress against these over the coming years and good balance between the various sections of activity we look forward to the presentation of further short reported, which shows an improvement on previous to medium term targets. reports where a significant proportion of the document was devoted to environmental activities and a much As noted by the Group CEO in his introduction, this report smaller section included social and employee data and has achieved the highest level of compliance with the practices. This improvement is clear evidence that the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Social Development and Business Development dimensions Reporting Guidelines, a notable improvement from last of the report have incorporated more data disclosure as year’s report. We also highlight the company’s involvement well as case studies and examples to convey the impact in the Water Footprint Network to improve its assessment of practices in place. Also worth noting and as stated in of best practice in the Group as well as benchmarking the scope of the report is the introduction of systems performance against industry leaders. We are also pleased to improve data gathering to allow for comparisons to see that this report continues the trend set last year of between individual Group companies on material areas seeking external assurance. We would have liked to see in of performance. In particular, we note the adoption this report more evidence as to how external endorsements of measurements on water discharges and of CO2 and assurance are helping to improve data gathering and fossil emissions per tonne of paper produced as clear disclosure to optimise practices and procedures. measurements linked to production output that can help drive improvement. Looking at further improvements in the reporting process, we recommend a review of the presentation of information Despite the current economic climate and the challenging in this report to reflect an appropriate balance between business conditions the company faces, it is important to the description of procedures and policies already referred highlight several of the improvements and achievements to in previous reports or in the company website and on the environmental performance of the Group including updates on progress against set targets. We would also the achievement of 100% FSC and/or PEFC certified paper be keen to see further evidence of how this report is used used in European mill operations; the reductions in water as a tool to promote the company and its best practices discharges and CO2 fossil emissions or the addition of an and how it promotes a process of two-way communication internal sustainability award to recognise best practice. with key stakeholders and how external and internal Probably the most important recognition of all those stakeholder feedback informs the development of practices featured in this report are the awards received by Smurfit and of future reports. Kappa from Unilever, on its global “Winning through Sustainability” supplier award and from Coca-Cola We commend the company and in particular their Enterprises as best Corporate Supplier in the category management and Sustainability Working Group for “Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability”. These advancing the responsible business agenda across the awards recognise the excellence and innovation in product organisation. development and in this sense Smurfit Kappa is raising its profile as a key partner in the delivery of company’s sustainability strategies. Another significant element in this report is the introduction of long term sustainable development commitments, in the areas of sustainable use of fibre, Tina Roche CO2 emissions, water and code of business conduct. Chief Executive Business in the Community Ireland SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 79 UN Global Compact SKG became a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, a worldwide corporate citizenship initiative, in May 2010. This is now a network of more than 8,700 businesses and other participants from over 130 countries who promote ten core principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. These principles are listed in the table below. As a part of this commitment, SKG will report on the Company’s corporate responsibility activi­ties and performance in an annual Communica­tion on Progress (COP), using this Sustainable Development Report as a starting point for this communication. The Sustainable Development Report provides a number of examples of ongoing activities, as well as relevant key performance indicators, which illustrate SKG’s support for the ten Global Compact principles in its everyday business. Measurements of performance related to the Global Compact principles are given using indicators provided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), wherever feasible. In particular, GRI performance indicators relating to human rights, labour and anti-corruption principles are presented in the Social Development section while environmental performance indicators reported in the Environment section. A complete GRI index can be found on pages 74 to 78 of the Report. The following table shows how our performance in relation to each UN Global Compact principle can be reported using a number of GRI performance indicators. This is based on guidance documents published by the UN Global Compact. UNGC principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human HR1-9, LA7-9, LA13-14, rights and PR8 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-9 Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the LA4-5 right to collective bargaining; 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and LA2, LA13-14, HR4 occupation. Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; EN18, 26 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; EN1-29, PR3-4 and 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, 5-7, 10, 18, 26-27 technologies Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO3-4 80 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Independent Assurance Report to Smurfit Kappa Group plc Introduction on page 10. It is important to view the performance data within the assurance scope in the context of this We were engaged by the management of Smurfit Kappa explanatory information. We believe that these criteria Group plc (SKG) to provide assurance on the 2010 data for are suitable in view of the purpose of our assurance selected environmental indicators in the SKG Sustainable engagement. Development Report 2010 (further referred to as the ‘Report’). The Report, including the identification of We conducted our engagement in accordance with the material issues, is the responsibility of the Company’s International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) management. Our responsibility is to issue an independent 3000: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or assurance report. Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance This standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance on whether the 2010 data for the following environmental team members possess the specific knowledge, skills and indicators are, in all material respects, presented in professional competencies needed to understand and accordance with SKG’s reporting criteria: review the information and that they comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements. n Energy consumption: total electricity and total fuels (page 73); Work undertaken n CO2 emissions: CO2 fossil direct, CO2 fossil indirect and We made inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for CO2 biogenic (page 73); the preparation of data for the selected environmental indicators, and we applied analytical and other evidence n Water withdrawal: Total water withdrawal (page 73); gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures n Water discharge: Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) included: and Total Suspended Solids (page 73); n Reviewing the systems and processes for collecting n Fibre certification (pages 28 and 66-67). and processing the information for the selected environmental indicators as well as internal controls The data for these indicators are shown by an asterisk (*) at corporate level relating to this information. on the pages mentioned above, together with the text ‘Within KPMG assurance scope’. n Interviewing relevant staff at corporate level responsible for the reported information on the selected indicators. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance n Reviewing the data submitted by all sites for central are aimed at determining the plausibility of information aggregation for the selected environmental indicators, and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level together with an assessment of the indicator of assurance. calculations and the quality of the data validation process at corporate level. Reporting criteria and assurance standard n Reviewing the reliability of the local data and the SKG applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of design and implementation of local validation processes the Global Reporting Initiative (G3) together with at five sites: Piteå (Sweden), Zülpich (Germany), Bad internal corporate guidelines, as detailed in approach to Nieuweschans (the Netherlands), Cerro Gordo (Mexico) sustainability reporting in the section Scope of the Report and Hoogeveen (the Netherlands). SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 81 Independent Assurance Report to Smurfit Kappa Group plc (continued) Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing came to our attention to indicate that the 2010 data for the selected indicators are not, in all material respects, presented in accordance with the reporting criteria, as described in the section Scope of the Report on page 10. Other observation Without affecting the conclusions presented above, we would like to draw the readers’ attention to the following: During 2010 Smurfit Kappa Group further implemented the reporting process against the GRI guidelines. We recommend Smurfit Kappa Group to further define the process of identifying the stakeholders of the company and to systematically assess their information needs as the basis for the Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments and the Sustainable Development Report of the company. Amstelveen, 30 June 2011 Wim Bartels Partner on behalf of KPMG Sustainability, part of KPMG Advisory N.V. 82 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP Glossary AOX Absorbable Organic Halogens: amount of organic compounds containing chlorine and other halogens. AOX can be produced during bleaching of pulp when using halogenated bleaching agents. BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. Biodiversity General term to describe the variety of life forms (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass (wood rejects, bark, black liquor produced during the production of virgin pulps, pitch oil, biomass part of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water). Black liquor Liquid residue from pulping that contains organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt in paper mills to produce energy. The energy recovered is classified as renewable as it is coming from biomass. CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent not-for-profit organization holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. Thousands of organizations from across the world’s major economies measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions, water use and climate change strategies through CDP. This information can then be used for financial and policy decision-making. CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation. The European Committee for Standardisation is major provider of European standards and technical specifications. CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries, is located in Brussels. It is a non profit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. CEPI’s mission is to promote the members’ business sector by taking specific actions and analysing activities in the areas of environment, energy, forestry, recycling and research. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for this mill is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near an SKG site for delivering electricity and steam to the SKG production facility. All fuels and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the SKG production facility. CITPA International Confederation of Paper and Board Converters in Europe. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. CoC Chain of Custody Certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing, and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. Co-generation Electricity generated by a CHP system. Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 83 Glossary (continued) Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one fluting to two flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner). CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel. CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated, externally to the site, to produce the electricity purchased from the grid by the company. Source: International Energy Agency Data Services. 2008: “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (2008 Edition)”. Carbon dioxide A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based upon their equivalent CO2-eq climate change potential (CCP). The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. For example, the CCP factor for methane is 21 and for nitrous oxide 310. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility: a concept whereby organisations consider the interests of society by taking responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities and the environment in all aspects of their operations. Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. EIA Energy Information Administration. The EIA is part of the US Department of Energy and collects, analyses, and disseminates independent and impartial energy information to promote policymaking, efficient markets, and public understanding of energy and its interaction with the economy and the environment. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the “European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment” that is a project of the European Commission, carried out by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES) in collaboration with DG Environment, Directorate for Sustainable Development and Integration. EMS Environmental Management Systems. A set of processes and practices that enable an organisation to reduce its environmental impact and increase its operating efficiency. ENGO Environmental NGO (Non-Governmental Organisation) ETS Emission Trading Scheme: a scheme calculated to allocate greenhouse gas allowances for a list of specific activities. The “allowance” means the entitlement to emit 1 tonne of carbon dioxide. This scheme was created to follow the guidelines of the Kyoto Protocol to promote reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. EuPIA European Printing Ink Association. EUwood The EUwood project, financed by the Intelligent Energy Europe programme, brings together data and analyses from a wide range of sources in order to provide a detailed and transparent estimate of future potential wood supply in Europe. FEICA Association of the European Adhesive and Sealant Industry. Fluting The ‘wavy’ middle layer in corrugated board. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from natural resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). 84 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP FSC Forestry Stewardship Council. The FSC is an independent, non-governmental, organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests. The FSC has developed internationallyrecognised forestry certification principles and a system of tracing, verifying and labelling timber and wood/fibre products which is based on FSC-certified forests. Gigajoule Unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. GRI The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting framework is the generally accepted framework for reporting on an organisation’s economic, environmental and social performance. The sustainability reporting guidelines give the reporting principles, and the list of performance indicators, for each of the three key areas that should be disclosed in a sustainability report. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 Million KWh (KiloWatt hour). Hazardous Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, old fuels, ink residues, etc.). All these wastes are treated by external authorised companies. Hectare A unit of area. One hectare (Ha) = 10,000 m2. One hectare = 2.471 acres. ILO International Labour Organisation. Inorganic raw Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, sodium materials hydroxide, sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. Innotools Innotools is a unique software suite for developing fit-for-purpose packing. It comprises: Innobook, an internal library with over 30,000 proven design solutions used extensively by designers in SKG; Pack Expert, an advanced statistical model used to determine the packaging performance in the customer’s supply chain; and Paper-to-Box, a sophisticated software tool used to predict box performance based on board design and composition. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 17025 This international standard lists the requirements to allow the accreditation by authorised third party of a testing laboratory and to verify its proficiency. ktonne One ktonne = 1,000 tonnes, where one tonne (metric tonne) = 1,000 kilograms. Kraftliner Paper made mainly from virgin wood fibres. Landfill The disposal of solid waste in either internal or external landfill in accordance with national legislation. Mm3 1 million cubic metres. MJ Megajoule, a unit of energy. 1 megajoule (MJ) = 1 million joules = 106 joules. MWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 MWh (MegaWatt hour) = 1,000 KWh (KiloWatt hour). Natura 2000 Natura 2000 is an ecological network of protected areas in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe. This legislation is called the Habitats Directive and complements the Birds Directive adopted in 1979. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 85 Glossary (continued) NCASI The National Council for Air and Stream Improvement is an independent, non-profit research institute that focuses on environmental topics of interest to the forest products industry. Established in 1943, NCASI is recognised as the leading source of reliable data on environmental issues affecting this industry and has more than 75 member companies throughout the US and Canada. NGO A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) is a legally constituted organisation created by private persons or organisations with no participation or representation of any government. In those cases where NGOs are funded totally or partially by governments, the NGO maintains its non-governmental status insofar as it excludes government representatives from membership of the organisation. NOX Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Other organic raw Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, starch or materials plastic raw materials which are reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colourant dyes. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. The PEFC is an independent, nongovernmental organisation which promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third party certification. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released to the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released directly for external treatment (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment. Purchased pulp Pulp produced by third party companies and purchased by our mills to produce paper or board (the pulps are mainly bleached). REACH REACH is the Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. It came into force on 1 June 2007 to streamline and improve the former legislative framework on the use of chemicals within the European Union (EU). REACH places greater responsibility on industry to manage the risks that chemicals may pose to the health and the environment. In principle, REACH applies to all chemicals: not only chemicals used in industrial processes but also in our day-to-day life, for example in cleaning products, paints as well as in articles such as clothes, paper, and packaging. Recovered paper Used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling. Mechanical treatment is used to remove unusable materials. Recovery Part of wastes that are recycled, used in agricultural uses or incinerated with recovery of energy. Renewable energy Energy coming from sources that are naturally renewable (e.g. biomass, hydro electricity). Sludge A solid waste that is produced during water treatment from biological activity (mainly aerobic stage). Sedex Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a membership organisation for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of their supply chains. Sedex is a not-for-profit organisation based in London, UK and seeks to be the leading knowledge management provider of choice for measuring and implementing ethical and responsible practices in the global supply chain. Sedex enables member companies to manage efficiently the ethical and responsible practices of their global supply chains, generating transparency through the provision of a secure, robust, and userfriendly data exchange. Sedex focuses on four pillars: Labour Standards, Health and Safety, Environment and Business Integrity. 86 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP SOX Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOX emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOX is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. SRI Socially Responsible Investment. SVHC Substances of Very High Concern are defined in Article 57 of REACH Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and include substances which are: • Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or toxic to Reproduction (CMR), meeting the criteria for classification in category 1 or 2 in accordance with Directive 67/548/EEC, • Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic (PBT) or very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative (vPvB) according to the criteria in Annex XIII of the REACH Regulation, and/or • Identified, on a case-by-case basis, from scientific evidence as causing probable serious effects to human health or the environment of an equivalent level of concern as those above (e.g. endocrine disrupters). Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. Total N (nitrogen) Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen or TKN is the sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia, NH3 and ammonium, NH4+ in biological water release. Total P Total phosphorous is the sum of phosphorous compounds in biological water release. (phosphorous) Total Suspended Total Suspended Solids refers to the level of small solid particles released with process water. Solids Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. Solid Wastes The wastes taken into account are all solid wastes and oil residues that are sent to external/internal landfill or collected for recovery. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. WBCSD The World Business Council for Sustainable Development is a CEO-led, global association of some 200 companies dealing exclusively with business and sustainable development. The Council provides a platform for companies to explore sustainable development, share knowledge, experiences and best practices, and to advocate business positions on these issues in a variety of forums, working with governments, non-governmental and intergovernmental organisations. WFN Water Footprint Network (WFN) is a non-profit international network. The mission of the WFN is to promote the sustainable, fair and efficient use of fresh water resources worldwide. It does this by advancing the concept of the ‘water footprint’, increasing the awareness of various public and private stakeholders, and encouraging forms of water governance that reduce the negative ecological and social impacts of the water footprints of communities, countries and businesses. WRI World Resources Institute. The WRI is an independent organisation that undertakes research and analysis addressed to global resource and environmental issues. WRI/WBCSD The WBCSD and the WRI have worked together to develop the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. GHG Protocol The GHG Protocol is the most widely used international accounting tool for government and business leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. WTP Water Treatment Plant: facility that treats process water by a combination of physical, chemical and biological processes before discharging the water to the environment. SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2010 87 Smurfit Kappa Group plc Beech Hill Clonskeagh Dublin 4 Ireland Tel: +353 (0)1 202 7000 Fax: +353 (0)1 269 4481 Email: sustainability@smurfitkappa.com 88 SMURFIT KAPPA GROUP 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1014 11 Top line left to right 1 Young forestry plantation in Colombia 2 Åsa Lindfors of the Technical Centre laboratory at the Smurfit Kappa Piteå paper mill, SE 3 Julie Robinson of Smurfit Kappa Group at Aldi Liverpool, UK 4 Anne Slabbers and Wim van der Borgh at the Smurfit Kappa paper mill at Roermond, NL 5 Philippe Hulot with a visitor beside PM6 at the Smurfit Kappa Cellulose du Pin paper mill at Facture, near Bordeaux, FR 6 Children participating in the Health Brigade Project in Venezuela 7 Hans Alatalo at the Smurfit Kappa Piteå paper mill, SE bottom line left to right 8 Cendrine Fundari and Ana-Paula Welsterbach at the Smurfit Kappa Bag-in-Box plant at Epernay, FR 9 Ronald Sterk and Bob van den Berg at the Smurfit Kappa Zedek print & display plant at Deventer, NL 10 Forestry workers, Colombia 11 Liam O’Mahony (Chairman) meeting Asunción Soto Rivera, SK Mexico
