Web-based Sustainable Development Report For the year ending 30 September 2011 Lonmin Plc Building for the Future Lonmin is the World’s third largest primary producer of Platinum This separate web-based Sustainable Development Report provides additional detail to the Annual Report and Accounts for those requiring more in-depth information. This report is of particular interest to a broader set of stakeholders, such as SRI analysts, sustainability professionals and civil society bodies. Our Company 01 Lonmin at a Glance Contents 03 Message from our Chief Executive Officer 04 Lonmin Charter 05 Safety and Sustainable Development Policy Overview of 2011 06 Overview of 2011 07 Integrated Sustainable Development Approach 09 Managing our Sustainable Development Risks 11 Our Approach to Sustainability Reporting 13 Performance against our Targets People 16 Employees and Stakeholders 17 Eliminating Fatalities, Serious Injuries and Unsafe Behaviour 21 Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce 26 Housing our Employees 28 Towards a Healthier Workforce 31 Partnering with Communities 36 Engaging our Stakeholders Planet 39 Investing in the Environment 42 Climate Change 45 Air Quality Management 47 Water Management and Efficiency 49 Responsible Biodiversity Conservation, Heritage and Land Management 51 Management of Waste Profit 54 Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth 61 Upholding Ethical Business Practices 63 Respecting and Valuing Fundamental Human Rights 66 Sustainable Development Governance 67 Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices 72 Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Lonmin Plc Appendix 75 Appendix 1: Scorecard 77 Appendix 2: Key Sustainability Performance Statistics 79 Web-based Appendices 79 Appendix 3: Key Community Development Projects 79 Appendix 4: Reporting Against Global Reporting Initiative Indicators 79 Appendix 5: Acronyms 79 Appendix 6: Definitions We welcome your response to this Web-Based Sustainable Development Report. Please either complete the online feedback form on www.lonmin.com or send feedback or requests for further information to: Tanya Chikanza Head of Investor Relations Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London, SW1X 7YL Tel: +44 207 201 6007 or tanya.chikanza@lonmin.com GRI 3.4 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 01 ] Lonmin at a Glance We are Lonmin – one of the world’s primary producers of Platinum Group Metals (PGMs), creating value through discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. Our business Scale of Lonmin 2011 • 27,796 Employees Lonmin Plc, the world’s third largest primary Platinum producer, is listed on the London Stock Exchange, with a secondary • 9,564 Contractors listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE). Our • 720,782 oz of Platinum sold operational head office is in Johannesburg, South Africa, and our United Kingdom offices are in London. Our main operating • 1,435,929 oz PGMs sold subsidiaries, in which Lonmin holds an 82% interest, are • Listed on the JSE SRI & FTSE4Good Western Platinum Limited (WPL) and Eastern Platinum Limited (EPL). Our position on the Bushveld Complex, the world’s • Two Board Committees focusing on Transformation largest deposit of PGMs means we have significant resources and Sustainable Development to sustain our current operations. We maintain a modest international exploration budget operating largely in areas of • A+ GRI application level known prospectivity for PGMs. GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 Lonmin’s mining operations are located in the North West and Limpopo Provinces and our Precious Metals Refinery is located in the Gauteng Province of South Africa. During 2011 we sold 720,782 oz Pt, 1,435,929 oz of PGMs and gold, 4,188 tonnes of Nickel as Nickel Sulphate, 2,452 tonnes of Copper and 730,278 tonnes of Chrome concentrate as well as modest amounts of silver. Our current production comes from our Marikana Mining operations, which are owned by Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited and include Western Platinum Mine, Karee Mine and Eastern Platinum Mine. We also manage two joint ventures; the operating Pandora Joint Venture in which Eastern Platinum Limited has a 42.5% shareholding, located east and contiguous with our Marikana operations; and the project phase Dwaalkop Joint Venture adjacent to Limpopo Mine in Limpopo Province in which Western Platinum Limited has a 50% shareholding. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 02 ] Lonmin at a Glance (continued) Our Mining Division The mining activities of Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited are based at Marikana in the North West Province (Marikana mining operations). Western Platinum Limited owns 100% of Messina Platinum Mines (Pty) Limited which owns operations based in the Limpopo Province (Limpopo Mine). These operations were placed on care and maintenance in 2009. Our Marikana Mining operations and Limpopo Mine make up our Mining Division. At both operations we mine the UG2 and Merensky PGM-bearing reefs. Our Process Division Our Process Division consists of the Concentrators, Smelter and Base Metal Refinery (BMR) at our Marikana operations and our Precious Metals Refinery (PMR) in Brakpan near Johannesburg. Other operations We have recently entered into an agreement with Shanduka Group (Proprietary) Limited offering them the opportunity to carry out a feasibility review to assess the viability of it operating and developing the Limpopo Mine. Assuming a successful outcome of the Feasibility Review, Shanduka will take steps to raise the necessary funds to acquire control and operational management of the Limpopo Mine. Exploration activities Our exploration portfolio includes: International • Canada: Joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge Mining Company in the Sudbury Basin; • Northern Ireland: Greenfields exploration project managed by Lonmin. South Africa • The Vlakfontein project is owned by Vlakfontein Nickel (Pty) Ltd a wholly-owned subsidiary of Western Platinum Limited. The Loskop project is a Joint Venture 50% held by Western Platinum Limited and 50% with Boynton Investments (Pty) Ltd. • Akanani is held 74% Lonmin and 26% Incwala Resources and remains in an exploration phase. • We are enhancing our mining and processing studies on this Project and will make a decision in 2012 on further development. GRI 2.3 and 2.6 During 2011 the Process Division demonstrated The Merensky opencast operation at Marikana is continued growth. on track. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 03 ] Message from our Chief Executive Officer We made important progress this year in embedding the transformation Safety remains imperative within Lonmin and we significantly improved our safety performance in the second half of the financial year. However, during the first half of the year, we sadly lost six of our colleagues in fatal incidents. our priority. Safety remains our priority and the passing of six colleagues during the year is completely unacceptable. Our sincere sympathies and support are extended to the families, co-workers and friends of these employees. We initiated a Ian Farmer, Chief Executive Officer number of safety stoppages to give the business a serious message that these events must be eliminated. I believe that these stoppages contributed to making the business more determined to improve and this has been borne out in the excellent safety performance and fatality-free second half of the year, for which I would like to acknowledge our team. By the end of the financial year our lost time injury rate had dropped by nearly 20% compared to 2010 and this was achieved during a period of increased production. We remain committed to being the safest Platinum Mine to work at. As part of our journey of continuous improvement a number of our managers, including myself, spent time with DuPont, who are world renowned for being at the leading edge of sustainability good practice. We gained an understanding of how DuPont has inculcated safety into the core values of its management team. At the heart of achieving a better safety performance is modifying behaviour, led by our Executive Committee through visible felt leadership. Transformation is a strategic priority for the Company. We have set a target to increase our representation of Historically Disadvantaged South Africans within each of our management bands. Our commitment to this target is demonstrated by the inclusion of it as a Balanced Scorecard metric and our policy of considering HDSAs first for management positions. As a company, we are 18% HDSA empowered and we have plans in place to make further inroads with the introduction of communities and employees via Ian Farmer broad based initiatives. This will move our HDSA empowerment to the Mining Chief Executive Officer Charter target. We continued to address the housing shortage by converting 26 Hostel blocks during the year, but affordability of housing remains a challenge. Overall, two of the biggest challenges to the sustainability of our business include skills shortages and our relationships with communities and employees. We have accelerated our investment to address skills shortages including the training of community members in mining related skills and investing in education of the Greater Lonmin Community. We believe in the investment of human resource development starting from early childhood development throughout the value chain of talent management to foster successful careers. “Transformation is a The recent community unrest and industrial action experienced highlighted the importance of pro-active stakeholder engagement. I plan to devote a strategic priority for the substantial portion of my time during the next twelve months to stakeholder engagement and in particular to engaging with the communities in which we operate. Company. We have We remain committed to the values of our Charter. We are devoted to the set a target to increase business case for sustainable development, which sees the integration of sustainability in the areas of people, planet and profit. our representation of We will continue to address environmental challenges to ensure the supply of energy and water resources as well as the impacts of occupational and Historically Disadvantaged chronic diseases such as HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis. As a member of the International Council for Mining and Metals (ICMM) we South Africans within each support the ICMM Principles. We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and support its ten principles relating to human rights, of our management bands.” labour practices, environmental management and anti-corruption. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 04 ] Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Our employees live and work Zero Harm portfolio of high quality assets. safely and experience the We are committed to zero personal satisfaction that harm to people and the To deliver the requirements comes with high performance environment. of the South African broadand recognition. based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the Our shareholders are realising We are committed ethical opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business. investment and support our we will do. corporate sustainability values. To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous operate value our relationships. and free sharing of information. improvement, common We are meeting our Respect For Each Other standards and procedures, commitments to all business Embracing our diversity community involvement and partners and our suppliers, enriched by openness, one that rewards employees contractors, partners and sharing, trust, teamwork for high performance. customers support our and involvement. Charter. High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes. Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem. Roger Phillimore Ian Farmer Chairman Chief Executive May 2009 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 05 ] Safety and Sustainable Development Policy We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. To honour our Charter, to fulfil our Vision and to create sustainable value for our stakeholders, Lonmin is committed to improving the quality of life of current and future generations through the integration of economic prosperity, social development and environmental protection by: Honouring our health and safety Implementing the principle of Promoting integrated land use values and sustaining an equal opportunity and equity management and biodiversity environment that promotes the while maintaining an appropriately conservation by applying a safety, health and wellbeing of skilled and diverse workforce. precautionary approach during our employees and their families, all phases of our operations, Empowering our host contractors and the communities including mine closure. communities and improving their where we operate. quality of life by contributing to Maintaining transparent and Providing adequate and their long term social, economic ongoing consultative relationships appropriate resources to and institutional development with all stakeholders and implement effective management and promoting the beneficiation incorporating this engagement systems and risk management, of our minerals. into the decision making process. based on valid data and sound Implementing effective material Fostering the commitment of all science, during all phases of our stewardship to manage the employees and contractors to operations to ensure the lifecycle of our products in a this policy through training and reduction of risks and the socially and environmentally awareness programmes. adoption of best practices. responsible manner. Seeking continual improvement Respecting and valuing the Promoting the sustainable use to achieve a high level of fundamental human rights, of natural resources and the performance through a cultural heritage and indigenous reduction, re-use and recycling framework of setting and traditions of our employees, of waste. reviewing our policy, objectives communities and other and targets. stakeholders where we operate. Preventing pollution and environmental degradation in Reporting publicly our Integrating safety and sustainable order to reduce our impact on sustainable development development into the decision the environment and the performance in accordance making process during all communities where we operate. with the ICMM Sustainable phases of our operations. Development Framework and Responding to climate change Upholding ethical business utilising the guidance of the Global and driving the reduction of practices, sound corporate Reporting Initiative Sustainability greenhouse gases by adopting governance and transparency, Reporting Guidelines. best practice technology, while meeting or exceeding alternative energy sources, applicable legislation, standards improved control systems and and other requirements. management practices. Ian Farmer Chief Executive October 2008 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 06 ] Overview of 2011 Highlights People • 19.8% reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) to 4.71 • 46.5% managers from designated groups an increase of 7.4% from 2010 • 64% of hostels converted to family units • ART defaulters decreasing by 39.5% from 944 to 571 defaulting patients • A physical and functional capacity building programme for women • Our education programme contributed to all the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC)1 High Schools achieving a pass rate higher than the national average • Industrial action at Karee Mine which was peacefully resolved Planet • Rolling out of Integrated Environmental Management Strategy • Development of Lonmin Climate Change Response Strategy • 33% reduction of fresh water intake from our 2007 baseline • Development of an Integrated Water Balance for our Marikana operations • We were granted an Atmospheric Emissions Licence for our operations Profit • Cost savings on energy optimisation projects at our Concentrators • Invested in a supplier system to continuously verify vendors’ BEE status; enhancing the accuracy of our preferential procurement data Future Focus People • To create and maintain a culture of safe behaviour • Develop and retain a skilled productive workforce • Strengthen the comprehensive HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis management programme • Continually communicate with communities to strengthen the trust relationship and understanding with ourselves • Re-establish relations with all of our employees Planet • Manage energy and water responsibly to fulfil the Life of Business Plan • Embed consideration of climate change in the fabric of the business • Manage emissions impacting on the environment and communities • Value and protect heritage resources • Minimise waste Profit • Leveraging our spend to maximize value to our stakeholders • Develop scenario planning to be able to predict the future PGM markets more accurately Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 07 ] Integrated Sustainable Development Approach We realise that our sustainability performance is of interest to a diverse range of stakeholders and are therefore committed to reporting publicly and regularly on how we are performing with respect to sustainable development. Sustainability is commonly defined as “development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the Recognition for sustainability ability of future generations to meet their needs”1. We believe • Gold achieved in the South African carbon disclosure that our business can make an important contribution to the project on-going, global transition to sustainable development. • Excellent ranking by Ernst and Young for 2010 Sustainable development supports the delivery of our Sustainable Development Report corporate objectives through the fostering of a safe production • C+ ranking by Oekom research agency1 culture, operational excellence and building growth to supply a • Retained inclusion on FTSE4Good and JSE SRI indices robust market demand for PGMs. Through transformation and • Ranked 3rd by Sustainability Services2 for GRI sound sustainable development practices, we capitalise on performance diversity and quality of our workforce. • GRI application level A+ Our Sustainable Development Approach 1 Oekom Research is a leading rating agency in the segment of sustainability investments. Lonmin’s Integrated Sustainable Development approach focuses on three main pillars: 2 Sustainability Services is a consultancy firm specialising in sustainability assurance and advisory services. • People: Caring for the social well being through Underpinning these three pillars is the foundation of good transformation of employees, contractors and governance. This system enables sustainable development communities. considerations to form an integral part of how we do business • Planet: Fostering environmental stewardship through by adopting sustainable development as a core value. We are resource management, efficiency and impact fully committed to the highest standards of corporate management. governance practice, which we believe is necessary to achieve the business integrity required to deliver robust and • Profit: Enhancing equitable prosperity through resource sustainable business results. Focus areas have been optimisation, financial performance, product stewardship identified, based on our principal sustainable development and procurement processes. risks, as part of an on going improvement process that will ensure integration of sustainable development within Lonmin’s planning and decision making systems. 1 Brundtland Commission 1983. Our approach to these sustainable development pillars are supported by our specific strategies and management plans to achieve the corporate objectives. Integrated Approach for Sustainable Development Safety and Sustainable Development Policy People Planet Profit • Safety Strategy • Climate Change Response Strategy • Preferential Procurement Strategy • Health Strategy • Integrated Environmental • Market Development Strategy • Human Settlement Strategy Management Strategy: • Life of Business Plan • Human Capital Strategy • Air Quality Management • Exploration Strategy • Stakeholder Engagement • Energy Management Protocol • Water Management • Waste Management • Land Management • Closure Planning Governance Board Committees: Safety & Sustainable Committee, Transformation Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee Lonmin’s Code of Business Conduct and relevant Sustainable Development related policies GRI 2.10 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 08 ] Integrated Sustainable Development Approach (continued) Managing sustainable development Audit findings are updated monthly and progress on corrective The Company’s overall governance practices are underpinned management plans reviewed monthly by the Executive by the values set out in the Lonmin Charter and supported Committee and twice a year by the Audit & Risk Committee of by the newly refined Lonmin Code of Business Conduct, the Board. In addition to the Company wide assurance which will be released in the near future. Our commitments in processes conducted for our annual Sustainable Development the governance of sustainable development are defined in Report (SDR), we also conduct an internal audit on selected the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Development Policy and key sustainability indicators. External assurance is provided on guided by our Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards selected parameters in the SDR, the alignment of our policies aligned with the Ten Principles of the International Council on and business practices with the ICMM Principles and our Mining and Metals (ICMM). reporting in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting principles. In 2011 we achieved our target of Our CEO, Ian Farmer, is ultimately responsible for advocating receiving no prosecutions or fines relating to safety, health and sustainable development within Lonmin. The Executive environmental management. Committee assists him and is responsible for reviewing the Company’s progress and performance on safety and Membership of external organisation and initiatives sustainability issues. The EVP, Processing, Natascha Viljoen, Lonmin has been a member of the ICMM since 2004 and we has line responsibility for our Sustainable Development are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Programme. The ICMM Sustainable Development Framework comprises Transformation Committee three elements: a set of ten Principles (which include a set The primary purpose of the Transformation Committee of the of supporting position statements), public reporting and Board is to ensure that the Company meets or exceeds its independent assurance. These have been developed commitments and obligations in relation to transformation and systematically over the past ten years. More details on the that the interests of all stakeholders, including shareholders, ICMM can be found on their website (www.icmm.com). are properly enhanced in the areas of transformation and Through our participation in the ICMM, we support the empowerment. For more details visit page 69. Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), a coalition of governments, companies, civil society groups, investors Safety & Sustainability Committee and international organisations, that aims to strengthen The Safety & Sustainability Committee of the Board has governance by improving transparency and accountability oversight of the safety, health and environment matters. The in the extractive sector. EITI standards are implemented in 35 Committee reviews significant safety and environmental incidents countries with twelve of them becoming compliant. The new and considers causative factors, consequences and actions. rules of the EITI emphasise regular and timely reporting. The Committee also reports to the Board on developments, Through the ICMM and specifically in support of the ICMM’s trends and forthcoming significant legislation on safety and Transparency of Mineral Resources position statement we sustainability matters. For more details visit page 68-69. support the EITI. We do not participate directly or indirectly in party politics, nor do we make any financial contributions to Reporting on our principal sustainable development risks any political parties or individuals. The global environment remains turbulent and we are, of course, affected by the risks associated with this turbulence. Public policy positions Our operations are all in South Africa, which faces significant A Company representative also belongs to two groupings development challenges such as poverty, inequality, of company secretaries / general counsel that undertake unemployment, poor health and inadequate education. significant lobbying in the United Kingdom and Europe on We prioritise the identification and management of all risks corporate legal and governance matters on a cross industry that could impact our business and allocate suitable resources basis. In South Africa we have been engaging with the to manage our sustainable development risks. This report Department of Mineral Resources, both directly and via the addresses our ten principal sustainable development risks. Chamber of Mines on the Mining Industry Growth, (Page 09) Development and Employment Task Team. Our focus has been on issues related to the Mineral and Petroleum Performance against our targets Resources Development Act 28 of 2001 (MPRDA) and our Governed by our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy SLP requirements in particular. Our CEO participates as an we have targets in place that direct adequate resources to the Executive Council member of the South African Chamber effective management of those risks. Table 1 provides an of Mines. overview of the targets we set for 2011, our performance against those targets and the targets we have identified for GRI SO5 and SO6 future years. Establishing integrity through auditing and assurance Engaging our stakeholders We commission regular auditing and assurance processes We believe that establishing sound relationships with our with the aim of improving the integrity of our measurement stakeholders allows us to create and maintain resilient, stable and data management systems and the quality of our external operations, which in turn allows us to deliver long term value reporting activities. The Audit & Risk Committee approves to our stakeholders. For further details please visit page 31. the annual Company-wide internal and external audit plans. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 09 ] Managing our Sustainable Development Risks We are committed to directing adequate and appropriate resources for implementing effective risk management across our entire operations that is based on valid data and sound science to enhance the opportunities and the mitigation of impacts. Lonmin is committed to ensuring that sound and effective Each Business Unit has processes in place for monitoring systems of internal control and enterprise risk management and reporting progress on tasks related to risks and regular are developed, embedded, effectively implemented and high level risk reviews are carried out by our Internal Audit consistently reviewed at all levels of the Company. Department. The Risk Management Department holds ad-hoc risk management training sessions at least twice a year. Our risk management process A significant portion of Lonmin’s risk register relates to safety, Our implementation of a structured and comprehensive risk the environment and social development. These risks are management system across Lonmin establishes a common rated taking into consideration the potential effect or impact understanding and methodology for identifying, assessing, the risk has on people including transformation, planet, profit monitoring and reporting risks. It provides management and and strategic objectives. Consideration is also given to the the Board with the assurance that our principal and key risks probability and frequency of the risk occurring. We define are identified, managed and controlled. Annually Top-down principal risks as those risks which have the highest potential and bottom-up reviews are carried out. We recently impact on people, planet profit or strategic objectives and the introduced a process for our management to self-assess the highest probability of occurring. controls, with results updated in the Business Unit and Group Risk Registers. Risks specifically relating to safety, health, climate change and environmental are presented by management to the Safety & Our Risk Management Policy, which is reviewed biennially, Sustainability Committee. Risks associated with social matters requires each business and corporate function to undertake are reviewed by the Transformational Committee of the Board. a comprehensive annual risk review as part of an on-going These committees report back to the Board. process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks, including Sustainable Development risks. The results of this review are fully integrated into our annual business GRI 4.11 strategies and plans, which are presented to the Board and supporting committees for approval. We annually review and publicly report the principal risks and uncertainties that may affect our ability to deliver our business strategy effectively, the potential impact on our business and the controls in place to mitigate these risks. Principal and key Sustainable Development risks are addressed as an integral part of this process. We manage a comprehensive risk management system. Each Business Unit has processes in place for monitoring and reporting progress on tasks related to risks. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 10 ] Managing our Sustainable Development Risks (continued) Actions are taken by the Company to mitigate risks include Health: the following: • Negative impact of occupational and chronic diseases such as NIHL, HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis (page 28). • Building intelligence through exposure to companies deemed to be world leaders in Sustainable Development Environment: and in particular safety. • Inability to secure an adequate electricity supply for the • The transformation of Historically Disadvantaged South planned expansions in line with the Lonmin’s Life of Africans (HDSA) through investment in skills development, Business Plan (LOBP) (page 42); community development and in black owned business. • Inability to secure an adequate supply of water to sustain • An increase in demand for low carbon technologies in and expand our operations in line with the Lonmin’s other sectors that rely on platinum. These include fuel (LOBP) (page 47); cells and catalytic converters. • Impact of climate change on the business (page 42); and • Resource efficiency has the potential for significant • SO2 emission levels impacting on environment and reduction in consumption of water and electricity. communities (page 45). This year we undertook a comprehensive assessment of what sustainable development means for the Company and GRI 1.2 incorporated inputs from stakeholders at various phases to establish our principal sustainable development risks. Governed by our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy we have targets in place in order to direct adequate resources to the effective management of those risks. Below we list the principal risks we have identified in 2011. Performance against these risks are provided on page 13. Principal risks Safety: • Disruption of our operations resulting from a catastrophic safety event, failure of safety routines as a result of a poor safety culture and work stoppages (page 17). Transformation and stakeholder engagement: • Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver on transformation commitments made in our SLP regarding training and empowerment of our employees and communities (page 21); • Poor employee relations due to internal and external factors that could result in strike action (page 64); • Poor community relations due to internal and external factors could result in civil unrest (page 36); and • Difficulties in land management particularly due to the encroachment of proposed formal and informal settlements on the Lonmin mining right areas (page 14; 31). Employee relations are critical to our success. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 11 ] Our Approach To Sustainability Reporting Our sustainability performance is of interest to a diverse range of stakeholders and we are therefore committed to reporting publicly and regularly. Our Approach to Sustainability Reporting This report has been prepared using the Global Reporting We have published a Sustainable Development Report every Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, its Mining and Metals sector year since 1998. We also include key elements of our supplement, the International Council on Mining and Metals sustainability performance as a separate section in our Annual (ICMM) Sustainable Development Principles and the United Report and Accounts (www.lonmin.com). Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC). The Company’s primary listing is on the London Stock Our previous report reflected performance for the twelveExchange and it is therefore subject to the United Kingdom’s month period 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010. Governance Code published in 2010. There has been no significant change in our size, structure, ownership or products since then that would materially Our 2011 Annual Sustainable Development Report influence the scope or boundary of this report. Although This report is a candid account of our approach to sustainable we have entered into an agreement with Shanduka Group development, the management approach and performance (Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka) to assess the viability of them for all the operations over which we exercised management operating and developing the Limpopo Mine, this was only a control for the reporting period from 1 October 2010 to recent change and has no impact on the information 30 September 2011. The scope of the report includes all presented for this year. We are confident that the report Lonmin-owned entities: Western Platinum Limited (WPL), provides a complete and balanced view of our performance Eastern Platinum Limited (EPL) and Messina Platinum Mines for the twelve-month reporting period and does not omit Limited (MPML) and those joint ventures or partnerships over significant information that could influence a stakeholder’s which we exercised management control during the twelveassessment of our operations. month period. In the report reference to Marikana includes the operational activities of WPL and EPL based in the North GRI 2.9, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8 and 3.11 West Province. Specific reference will be made to the Precious Metal Refinery (PMR) with its operations based in Gauteng Province. Messina Platinum Mines Limited (MPML) Reliability and accuracy will be referred to in the report as our Limpopo Mine Independent external assurance of our publicly reported operations. We use these terms instead of the names of the sustainable development performance is a key element of our legal entities because our data is provided in terms of these sustainable development framework. In 2011, KPMG provided operations and geographical areas. We have excluded certain assurance over selected sustainability performance indicators, operations that are deemed insignificant to our reporting marked with either an ‘RA’ for Reasonable Assurance or an process, due to their relative size, extent and sustainability ‘LA’ for Limited Assurance on the relevant pages of this impacts. These include: report, as detailed in the assurance opinion on page 72. In preparing this report as well as the Sustainable Development • Johannesburg and London head offices – the quantitative Review in the annual report we have considered our information reported relates solely to safety statistics, principal sustainable development risks and associated, key operational costs and the number of employees and performance indicators, the GRI’s reporting principles and the contractors; requirements of the 2008 International Council on Mining and • Akanani – quantitative information reported relates solely Metals (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework: to safety statistics, the number of employees and Assurance Procedure. contractors and associated costs; In order to meet the requirements of ICMM Subject Matter 4, • Vlakfontein Nickel (Pty) Ltd – quantitative information we have reported our performance in managing our principal reported solely relates to environmental rehabilitation and sustainable development risks through our sustainability associated costs as well as safety statistics; and indicators. • All exploration operations – the quantitative information GRI 3.13 reported relates solely to the number of employees operational costs and safety statistics. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 12 ] Our Approach To Sustainability Reporting (continued) Report content The content of this report has been largely defined by: • Identification and grouping of sustainable development risks; • Considering the interests and expectations of a range of stakeholders on risks that would substantively influence them, their perceptions, and their decisions; • Presenting a balanced view of our performance against people, planet and profit; • Considering opportunities to contribute to broader sustainability objectives; and • Responding to requirements of the ICMM. The interests and expectations of a range of stakeholders were considered for the report content. The Sustainable Development Review in the Annual Report and Accounts in turn provides information relating to our principal and key sustainable development risks, as identified by the Company and informed by our stakeholders. This report, compiled with the objective of being relevant to a broad range of stakeholders, includes details on sustainable development issues raised by stakeholders as identified in the section “Engaging with our Stakeholders”. We are presenting information and data in a consistent manner to enable comparative analysis. Information is presented for key sustainable development performance indicators from 2007 to 2011. Where changes in data measurement or collection methodologies have occurred, we stated the basis, calculation and assumptions in the text with footnotes. A summary of this information can be viewed in the Appendices, page 77. Definitions of indicators are provided at a separate Uniform Resource Locator (URL) document (page 79). All monetary amounts reflected in the report are expressed in United States dollars (US$), using a Kamogelo Legane, Lesego Matlala and Rand/US$ exchange rate of R6.95/US$. A total production Tshepo Keganedicwe. of 1,446,662 oz PGMs constitutes the basis of efficiency or intensity calculations. Based on our own assessment of this report contents against the criteria provided in the GRI 3.1 application levels, we declare this web-based Sustainable Development Report fulfills the requirements of an A+ application level. The GRI 3.1 table can be downloaded. GRI 3.5, 3.9, 3.10 Laura Strand 2011 winning design. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 13 ] Performance against our Targets This year we undertook a comprehensive assessment of what sustainable development means for the Company and incorporated inputs from stakeholders at various phases to establish our principal sustainable development risks. Governed by our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy we have targets in place in order to direct adequate resources to the effective management of those risks. Table 1 provides an overview of the targets we set for 2011, our performance against those targets and the targets we have identified going forward. Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011 SAFETY Disruption of our operations resulting from a catastrophic safety event, failure of safety routines as a result of a poor safety culture and work stoppages We continue to maintain a target of We regret to report sixRA fatal zero fatal injuries across all of injuries across our operations. 7 We continue to maintain a target of zero fatal injuries across all of our operations. our operations. We will improve our LTIFR by a further 5% by 30 September 2011 We have improved our LTIFR from 5.87 to 4.71RA (19.8% 4 We aim to improve our LTIFR by a further 5% by 30 September 2012. to a total reduction of 10% from the reduction year on year). 2009 baseline. Compared to the 2009 baseline we improved our LTIFR by 24%. TRANSFORMATION Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver on transformation commitments made in our Social Labour Plan (SLP) regarding training and empowerment of our employees and communities. We will increase female participation 7.45%RA of our workforce are On Track We aim to increase female participation at at the mine to 11.6% by women compared to the the mine to 10% by 30 September 2014. 30 September 2014.2 7.04% reported in 2010. 4.33%RA of employees in core operations are women. We will increase the participation We have 46.5%RA employees On Track We aim to increase the participation of of employees from designated from designated groups employees from designated groups within groups3 in each level of participating within each level of management to 40% by management to 40% by management. 52.8% 30 September 2014. 30 September 2014. designated groups in junior management, 34.4% in middle management and 20% in senior management. 2 This target has been restated to align to the Charter. 3 Designated Groups include employees who are disabled, women, or employees classified as African, Asian or Coloured and who have South African citizenship. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 14 ] Performance against our Targets (continued) Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011 TRANSFORMATION (continued) We will have 65% of our total In 2011 we have procured On Track We aim to have 40% procurement discretionary spend with HDSA 28.37%LA of our Capital Goods, spent from BEE entities on Capital suppliers by 30 September 2012, 47.95%LA Services and 40.96%LA Goods;70% for Services and 50% to align with the Scorecard for the Consumable Goods from Consumable Goods of our total Broad Based Socio-Economic BEE entities. discretionary spend with HDSA entities Empowerment Charter4 by 2014. We will convert an additional 26 hostel complexes into bachelor We have converted 26 hostel complexes into single 4 Percentage conversion of hostels in family units towards the 2014 target of the and/or family accommodation and/or family units. Mining Scorecard. by 30 September 2011. We will upgrade a further 252 houses at our Marikana operations We upgraded only 63 houses at Marikana. It became 7 We aim to have converted the remainder of our hostels into single and/or family by 30 September 2011. necessary to use the remaining accommodation by 31 December 2014 in houses designated for upgrade line with the Mining Scorecard. to house the new recruits following the Karee strike. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Poor employee relations due to internal and external factors that could result in strike action No targets were in place for 2011 An engagement strategy with We aim to develop and implement a as the risk was identified as a the unions and employees – strategy to move from Industrial relations principal risk during 2011. governed through a clearly defined to employee relations. industrial relations structure and recognition agreements is in place. Poor community relations due to internal and external factors that could result in civil unrest No targets were in place for 2011 We have refreshed our We aim to introduce regular community as the risk was identified as a stakeholder engagement – stakeholder forum meetings, facilitated by principal risk during 2011. programme and approved a a third party, to track issues and concerns fit for a purpose communication by 30 September 2012. plan to improve stability of our community investment. We aim to re-engineer recruitment processes to increase employee representation from the GLC by 30 September 2014. Difficulties in land management particularly due to the encroachment of proposed formal or informal settlements on the Lonmin mining rights areas No targets were in place for 2011 We have introduced monthly In addition to the monthly engagements with as the risk was identified as a engagements with ward – ward councillors, we aim to have bi-monthly principal risk during 2011. councilors. meetings with municipality leadership and to continue our engagement with the Bapo Ba Mogale tribal authority to find a resolution to the encroachment of proposed formal and informal settlements on the Lonmin mining rights areas. HEALTH Negative impact of occupational and chronic diseases such as Noise Induced Hearing Loss (NIHL), HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis (TB) We will increase participation of patients in our wellness programme 526 patients have been enrolled in the wellness 4 We aim to increase participation of patients in our wellness programme by a further 5% by a further 5% by 30 September programme. This is a 5.6% by 30 September 2012 (2011 baseline year). 2011 (2010 baseline year). increase from the 2010 baseline. 4 We have restated this target to align with the scorecard for Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 15 ] Performance against our Targets (continued) Target 2011 Our 2011 performance Targets beyond 2011 HEALTH (continued) We aim to maintain one active workplace peer educator for In September 2011 there was one workplace peer educator 7 We aim to have one active workplace peer educator for every 75 employees every 75 employees by for every 143 employees. through to September 2012. 30 September 2011. We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases by a further 5% by In 2011 35RA new cases of NIHL represented a 12.5% 4 We attempt to reduce the number of new NIHL cases by a further 10% by 30 September 2011 reduction in new NIHL cases 30 September 2012. (2010 baseline year). from 2010 baseline. ENVIRONMENT Inability to secure adequate electricity supply for the planned expansions in line with the Lonmin Life of Business Plan (LOBP) We will reduce our aggregate energy consumption per unit of In 2011 the total energy intensity was 6,532.63RA 4 We aim to maintain and to improve energy efficiency by 5% by September 2015 and production by 10% by Terajoules (TJ), a year-on-year secure sufficient energy supply required to 30 September 2012, thereby increase of 5.1%. Our energy allow delivery of Lonmin’s Life of Business reducing greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production has Plan (LOBP). 2011 will be the baseline year. by 5% (2007 baseline year).5 decreased by 11.1% from the 2007 baseline. Our GHG efficiency this year of 1.14 tonnes CO2-e per PGM ounce equals our 2007 baseline. Inability to secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and expand our operations in line with the Lonmin LOBP We will reduce our aggregate fresh 33% reduction of fresh water water intake by 15% per unit of intake per unit of production 4 We aim to maintain our aggregate fresh water intake per unit of production (2007 production (2007 baseline year) by from the 2007 baseline. baseline year) until 30 September 2012. 30 September 2012. Development of the integrated We aim to prevent any discharges from water balance which will assist Marikana return water dams and Waste in addressing discharges and Water Treatment Plants into the improve our overall water environment by 30 September 2014. efficiency. Impact of Climate Change on the business No targets were in place for 2011 We developed a Lonmin We aim to respond to the impacts of as the risk was identified as a Response Strategy to – Climate Change as per the performance principal risk during 2011. Climate Change. indicators identified in the Lonmin Response Strategy to Climate Change. SO2 emissions levels impacting on environment and communities We will reduce the amount of ground level fugitive SO2 emissions We have commenced with the implementation of our SO2 4 We aim to execute our commitments as per the Atmospheric Emissions Licence and by 40% (2010 baseline year) by Emission Impact and Reduction comply with the new promulgated SO2 30 September 2014. Management Plan. The SO2 emission standards by 30 September 2020. emissions for 2011 were calculated at 10.58 tonnes We aim to reduce the amount of ground per day, a 3.51 tonnes per day level fugitive SO2 emissions by 40% (2010 (24.9%) decrease from 2010 baseline. baseline year) by 30 September 2014. 5 We have restated this target to align to our Life of Business Plan. GRI 1.2 and 4.11 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 16 ] People Employees and Stakeholders Caring for the social well-being through transformation of employees, contractors and communities is important to the success of our business. We believe that direct investments in the health, safety and training of our employees and contractors will empower them to foster a culture of safe behaviour, be motivated and be more productive. We strive to nurture our investment in people starting with development of early childhood through to the transformation of individuals to excel and become contributing members of society. As at 30 September 2011 we employed 27,796 employees and 9,564 contractors. Through our safety, human capital and health programmes we aim to promote the social well-being of these employees and contractors. The nature of our business not only impacts directly on the well-being of employees and contractors, but has an impact on the surrounding communities. Direct investments in community skills development, education, infrastructure and local economic development contributes to the enhancement of our communities. The illustration below demonstrates the human capital value chain from creating the pool of skills through to the appointment and management of these employees. ENSURE AVAILABILITY OF SKILLS TO MEET CURRENT AND FUTURE (LOBP AND SLP) REQUIREMENTS Learnerships Community Bursary Graduate Education Á Programme Á Programme Á and Skills Á Sponsorships Development Á TALENT MANAGEMENT (POOL OF SKILLED AND CAPABLE PEOPLE NOW) AND INTO THE FUTURE Development: Mentorship and Individual Á Succession Planning Á Remuneration Á Retention Development Plans Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 17 ] Eliminating Fatalities, Serious Injuries and Unsafe Behaviour We are committed to honouring our safety values, improving and sustaining an environment that enables our employees and contractors to behave safely. A Summary Of Our Safety Performance Management approach Safety continues to be identified as one of our principal risks. We extend our deepest sympathies to the families and We are successful when our employees and contractors live colleagues for the tragic loss of the six men who were and work safely. We are committed to our value of zero harm fatally injured while at work during the year at our operations. to people. Our greatest challenge is to keep our people safe. Highlights Our hierarchy of safety management includes our: • 19.8% reduction in Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate • Charter, which outlines the vision and values of the (LTIFR) to 4.71RA. Compared to the 2009 baseline we Company and governs safety management at a high level; have improved our LTIFR by 24%. • Training of Line Management on core principles and • A 30% improvement of LTIFR at our process division development of their safety knowledge. due to various pro-active measures. • Company wide Integrated Safety Strategy with three • Rowland shaft reached a remarkable milestone in Pillars: fatality prevention, injury prevention and safety achieving twelve million fall-of-ground fatality free shifts. production culture, with four enablers: leadership, simple • Our 2011 Lonmin’s Safety Summit was commended systems, enabling environment and a culture of safety; by the Department of Mineral Resources. • Safety and Sustainable Development Policy, which outlines • Implementation of the new Integrated Safety Strategy. our policy commitments to our health and safety values; • We had 60 White Flag6 Days and 142 Green Flag7 • Fifteen Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards Days. supported by protocols and Fatal Risk Control Protocols, which provide a risk based management framework for • Single Point of Contact System implemented by our Company wide safety management, continual Concentrators for Contractor management. improvement and alignment with best practice; Focus Areas • Auditing of the implementation of Safety Strategy by the • To achieve our goal of zero fatalities. Group Safety Department; • To further improvement of our LTIFR. • Safety structures and staffing to conduct legal compliance inspections an audits; and • Reduction in severity rate of incidents. • Implementation of the industry tripartite action plan on • Implementation of learnings from the visits to DuPont health and safety, including the roll out of the National operational sites Safety’s Summit commitments. • Strengthen Visible Felt Leadership. • Outcome of the National Safety Summit and the learnings from the summit that we can bring into our business. • Integration of our Safety Strategy and one set of objectives and targets throughout the business. • Improvement of contractor management. DMA LA 6 White flag days are defined as injury free days. 7 Green flag days are defined as Lost Time Injury free days. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 18 ] Eliminating Fatalities, Serious Injuries and Unsafe Behaviour (continued) Fatality Prevention Work related fatalities in 2011 The deceased Incident details Mr Jonas Thomage Kgwatlha Fall-of-ground accident at Newman Shaft on 8 October 2010 Mr Modisaotsile Edward Setlhare employed by Underground trackbound mobile equipment incident at Murray & Roberts Cementation K4 Shaft on 9 February 2011 Mr Hermanus Potgieter employed by Murray & Roberts Caught in a mud rush at Eastern Two Shaft on 28 February Cementation 2011 Mr Afiado Mazive employed by Triple ‘M’ Mining Injured by a scraper rope 10 February 2011 at Saffy Shaft and died in hospital on the 14 March 2011 Mr Rafael Macamo employed by Shaft Sinkers Engulfment incident after falling down an ore pass at K3 Shaft on 5 April 2011 Mr Alpheus Mogane Moerane Fall-of-ground incident at Eastern One Shaft on 12 April 2011 The six fatalitiesRA in the year represent double the number of A. Leadership incidents compared with each of the prior four years. This Our safety training includes simulator training for drivers is unacceptable and we will not continue to operate in this and our toolbox topics are translated into appropriate manner. After the third loss of life our CEO closed all of our languages. Details of training hours are provided on page operations for a one day stoppage to review the safety 25 of this report. The skills that we identified as those conditions of our operations and behaviour of all our employees. necessary for development of safety leadership include Management collectively reviewed and reaffirmed their transparency, integrity, communication, management style commitment to safety and zero harm. and beliefs. The first step we took towards building leadership safety competence in Lonmin was to send our Production was again stopped at the Mining Division in April, entire executive team and many senior managers, including after the sixth fatality, to undertake an underground workplace our CEO, on DuPont safety management training course. safety audit conducted by senior leadership of our Company. Our focus areas for development of leadership are to During the year we held a Lonmin Safety Summit leading improve the knowledge of safety, embed the principles of up to our participation in the National Safety Summit in July care and integrate safety in the business. Our emphasis 2011. The National Safety Summit was supported by the will be on the personal commitment to safety. Department of Mineral Resources as well as many trade unions. At the summit our CEO recommitted Lonmin to zero B. Simplify Systems tolerance towards fatalities and our value of zero harm to our The implementation of our systems used to manage the employees. safety risks and opportunities was internally and externally A recommendation that came out of the summit was to audited in relation to ICMM Subject Matter 3. establish representative task teams. The primary focus of the We have identified the need to simplify our systems and task teams will be to address different safety issues and to provide each level of employee with only the information enhance the effective implementation of the strategy. The task they need to carry out their core responsibilities safely. teams will sit regularly to address issues arising from the summit and report back to the Summit Controlling Committee. Most of the fatal injuries in our operations this year were of contractors. In an effort to address safe behaviour among As part of our information gathering process, we conducted our contractors we have developed a contractor a culture survey in 2011 and also conducted a progress management framework, the main focus of which is audit on compliance and maturity which, viewed against the safety. In future our vendor application process will include baseline we established in 2010, indicates that we are making a safety, health and environment assessment of potential progress against some of our safety objectives such as injury contractors with whom we would like to partner. prevention. We have introduced cross site peer reviews within mining Through the safety summit and the culture survey we and processing. This has encouraged the adoption of best identified the key focus areas affecting safety in our operations practice. are: A. Leadership B. Simplify Systems C. Enabling Environment D. Create a safe culture Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 19 ] Eliminating Fatalities, Serious Injuries and Unsafe Behaviour (continued) C. Enabling Environment for employees and contractors Injury prevention While safety remains the responsibility of each employee Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)8 is the principal and contractor, our line management is accountable to measure of safety performance as it illustrates the number of continuously create and maintain an “enabling occurrences of injuries per man hours worked; providing us environment” for all workers and our CEO is ultimately with the tool to identify when our controls failed. accountable for the safety of all our employees and The year-on-year LTIFR improved by 19.8% from 5.87 in 2010 contractors whilst they are on site. to 4.71RA in 2011. This was above our target reduction. We To make the workplace safe we implemented the safety improved our LTIFR by 24% compared to our 2009 baseline. standards and fatal risk protocols. Going forward we will Our LTIFR figure includes employees and contractors. The implement the relevant metrics for procedures to ensure number of Lost Time Injuries (LTIs) was 419, a year-on-year documents are made relevant and understandable to all decrease of 11%; despite increased production for 2011 we employees and contractors at all levels of the organisation. injured less people. The severity rate9 was 274, a year on year increase of 2.6%. We had 36 “Level Three” safety incidents We have embarked on a number of initiatives this year to compared to 31 “Level Three” incidents in 2010. enhance the performance of our contractors, with a particular focus on their safety performance. This includes: Our employees are recognised and rewarded for good safety performance. We are reviewing the range of reward and • Issuing a “Lonmin licence to operate” to contractors; recognition programmes in place that rewards our employees • Pre-qualification assessments of new vendors; and for good safety performances, focusing on forward energy • Audits in conjunction with our supply chain to ensure and preventive efforts. By means of the Lonmin Corporate our contractors adhere to our safety standards. Balanced Scorecard good LTIFR performances are rewarded financially. However due to our poor safety performance, in In December 2010 we embarked on a Contractor as much that six employees lost their lives, this year no Management Pilot project at our Process Division to compensation for corporate LTIFR will be paid to employees investigate the pre-qualification of contractors; the first for 2011. step in the overall Contractor Safety Management Framework. This project has seen BMR, PMR and Smelter The graph below illustrates the LTIFR and LTIs for a five year loading 61 on-site-contractors on the system, verifying period. their legal compliance and grading them though verification audits. Benefits of this pilot project are the LTIFR and LTIs possibility of integrating the contractor induction and medical information to the system. The pilot project will 800 12 end 30 September 2012. 700 10 D. Create a safe culture 600 We need to create a culture of safety, a set of shared 8 beliefs about safety, within our organisation. We identified 500 that the stressful, unsafe living conditions of many of our 419 LTIs LTIFR employees contributes to unsafe behaviour in the mining 400 6 environment. Lack of sleep, poor diet, abuse of alcohol or 4.71 drugs, or not respecting the inherent high risk environment 300 4 of mining all contribute to accidents and fatalities. We 200 need to find ways to improve the environment for our employees, both at work and in the broader environment, 2 100 so that they are encouraged to foster a culture of safe behaviour. 0 0 07 08 09 10 11 A number of hazards have been identified at our Mining Financial year and Processing operations and it is well understood that someone who is under the influence of alcohol is at LTIs increased risk to those hazards. To address this risk and LTIFR per million man hours worked the associated unsafe behaviour, we have introduced alcohol testing for all Smelter and BMR employees as well 8 The total number of LTI’s per million man hours worked. An LTI is a as random tests on other sections of our operations. work related injury resulting in the injured being unable to attend or return to work to perform the full or similar duties of his / her regular work, as per advice of a suitable qualified medical professional, on the next calendar day after the injury. 9 The total days lost for the total lost time injuries per million hours worked. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 20 ] Eliminating Fatalities, Serious Injuries and Unsafe Behaviour (continued) A culture of safety One million fatality free shifts Rowland; K3 Shaft, Safety at Lonmin, is considered as part of how we do Western Platinum mine, business and not a separate initiative, campaign, or Karee Mine, 1B Shaft subsection of thought before work starts. We are aiming to Two million fatality free shifts Marikana Mining produce safely, constantly measuring our forward energy, Operations; K3 Shaft, focussed on proactive, sustainable work practices and Western Platinum Mine, growth. We are working towards a safe culture on and off the Karee Platinum mine job, with honest intent for what and how we do it, as well as who we interact and work with. Three million fatality free shifts Saffy Shaft, Marikana Mining Operations Safety Stoppages Three million fall-of-ground Saffy Shaft A Section 54 notification is issued when an Inspector from the Fatality free shifts Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) has reason to believe that any incident, exercise, or situation at a mine endangers, Twelve million fall-of-ground Rowland Shaft or has the potential to endanger the health or safety of any Fatality free shifts person at the mine. The Inspector may halt or suspend any act or practice at the mine until such time that he believes the We have also received a Certificate of Merit from the Mine safety or health concerns relating to the act or practice have Metallurgical Managers Association (MMMA) for our safety been rectified. performance at our Karee Concentrators. The government has renewed its commitment to enforcing GRI SO8 and 2.10 mine safety legislation, which the Company fully supports. During 2011 we were issued with 27 notifications in relation to the Mine Health and Safety Act 29 of 1996, an increase from Emergency and Disaster Management the seventeen notifications issued in 2010. All of these were at Lonmin’s Emergency and Disaster Management service is a the Marikana operations. world-class centrally-based one-stop operation based in Internally we perform our own safety stoppages if we believe Middelkraal, North West Province, which serves all of Lonmin, any incident or situation endangers any person at the mine. be it the exploration team in Ireland or a mining operation in The operation will be halted until investigation confirms the Limpopo. Its team of specialists are skilled in handling every situation was resolved. aspect of a crisis or emergency and they have immediate access to every emergency service they may need to call on Safety Achievements for assistance. We have received a number of safety awards this year from The service, in line with Lonmin’s “We Care” philosophy, is the Association of Mine Managers South Africa (AMMSA) and available not only to our employees and their families but it also the Mine Health and Safety Council. assists the communities around our operations which in some instances do not have access to national or provincial emergency services. This service receives between 350 and 400 calls every month, which range from minor injuries to major disasters. Our approach to emergency and disaster management is set out in the Lonmin Mandatory Code of Practice for Emergency Preparedness and Response, which is in line with the DMR’s legal requirements. The Code sets out emergency and disaster management roles and responsibilities from the CEO, through Investor Relations to the operations. We encourage and foster a culture of safe behaviour. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 21 ] Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce It is imperative that we attract, develop and retain a skilled workforce and foster diversity, providing a work environment that enables our employees to reach their potential and add value to the Company. Our performance on attracting and retaining a skilled Our success depends on our ability to attract, develop workforce and retain the best talent at every level, which is becoming increasingly challenging in the context of intensifying national Highlights and international demand for skills in the mining industry. We • 46.5% managers from designated groups, an increase also need to address the legacy of inequality in South Africa of 7.4% from 2010; by providing our HDSA employees with empowerment and • Training of 210 community members in mine related developmental opportunities. skills to feed the labour pool; Our management approach • Baseline competency analysis of internal pool of skills The business case for attracting and retaining a skilled completed; and workforce is clear: • Industrial action at Karee Mine which was peacefully • In order to retain our Mining Licence we need to comply resolved. with regulatory requirements and our SLP commitments; and Focus Areas • Assisting unemployed youth from the community to • We need to develop and retain a skilled, productive qualify for employment at Lonmin; workforce in order to maintain a profitable and sustainable business. • Providing support to women from the GLC to qualify for employment; Our Executive Vice President: Human Capital and External Affairs, Barnard Mokwena, reports directly to our Chief • Increasing standards of education in the surrounding Executive Officer. He is responsible for the development and communities to ensure the availability of suitably implementation of our Human Capital Strategy; that has five educated and qualified employees into the future; integral components: • Increasing the number of artisans available to Lonmin; • Performance culture: Building a culture that is values and based, transformational, performance focused and through which teams and individuals are highly motivated; • Preparing aging members of our workforce for retirement. • Effective attraction: Recruit in line with our Mining Charter targets; • Employee development: To create a skills, talent and leadership employee pool; • Employee engagement: Lonmin is a Company where leadership is developed, skills are trained, performance is managed and the wellness of employees is attended to; and • Talent retention: Talented employees are retained through competitive rewards and recognition with development opportunities and promotion potential. Our recruitment, remuneration and promotion policies and procedures aim to ensure that equal opportunities are afforded to all. As much as our focus is on production and profit, of equal importance is the achievement of our transformation objectives. In this section we will provide an update on transformation in management, women in the Lonmin is a company where leadership is developed workforce, talent management and human resource and skills are trained. development. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 22 ] Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce (continued) Our Employees Number of employees and contractors The graph to the right is the actual employee numbers as at 27,796 30 September of each year. 30 In 2011 we have 73 employees who are disabled, representing Number of employees and contractors 0.27% of the workforce. 25 We have drafted a Disability Policy to provide practical guidance and to prevent discrimination against disabled people in the workplace. 20 Transformation in management 15 9,564 To address the legacy of inequality in South Africa we provide (’000) designated groups, which include employees who are disabled, 10 women, or employees classified as African, Asian or Coloured and these who have South African citizenship, with empowerment opportunities. To date our representation of 5 designated groups among our permanent employees in management positions is 46.5%RA compared to last year’s 0 43.3%. 07 08 09 10 11 Financial year The overall numbers of designated groups in management roles are on track to meet the 2014 target of Full time employees the employment equity scorecard for the Broad-Based Contractors Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter. In order to meet our targets per management level we have included a bonus Recruitment of HDSAs metric in the Lonmin Corporate Scorecard to accelerate the We make every effort to employ people from the local employment of Historically Disadvantaged South Africans communities. However, because of a lack of available skills (HDSAs) in management positions. Our Recruitment Policy is locally, management vacancies are mostly filled with candidates to give preference to HDSA candidates to further implement drawn from all over the country. We face a challenge when transformation in management. it comes to defining what percentage of our workforce is originally from the local community as employees who have The table below provides a breakdown of employees as per a local address may have originally lived elsewhere. The the Paterson Bands. The Paterson Bands D, E and F initiatives we employ include: represent the different management levels, with F being senior management level. • Recruitment programmes to attract people from our local communities, particularly women; Designated Groups • Testing to ensure candidates for employment are fit to be Paterson Bands10 Number % employed, including psychometric and competency testing; and D-Band (Junior Management) 216 52.8% E-Band (Middle Management) 63 34.4% • Market-related remuneration, competitive benefits and F-Band (Senior Management) 3 20.0% top-tier career development prospects. Total 282 46.5%RA During 2011 we recruited 6,544 employees. We report on the proportion of HDSAs and women in our operations as 10 An analytical method of job evaluation. indicators of the diversity of our workforce, but do not report the number of employees from minority groups or different age groups, as we do not consider this to be material to our operations. 79% of all our recruits were HDSAs. We are accelerating local recruitment through a mining related skills programme, learnership and bursary programme. A feasibility study was completed to establish an artisan college (page 35 community section provides more detail). Johannah Chauke one of the trainees at our Mining Training Centre. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 23 ] Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce (continued) Women in our operations Women employed at Lonmin In 2011 we recruited 473 women, twenty of whom joined our management team. Out of 2,072 (7.45%RA) women employed 8 7.45 at Lonmin, 1,071 (4.33%RA) are working in core operations. We believe it to be beneficial for transformation to set a target 7 to increase female participation at the mine to 10% by 6 Percentage of women 30 September 2014. To introduce more women into core mining positions we are 5 4.33 targeting women for our mining related skills programme. 4 This year 109 women participated on our mining-related skills programme, 40 of whom have now been employed as miners in 3 Lonmin. Because women sometimes lack upper body strength, which prevents them passing the fitness test, they are also 2 provided with a fitness programme. 1 In addition to female recruitment programmes, we also ensure Women in core operations the creation of an appropriate physical environment to 0 Women at the mine facilitate an increase in the number of women, including 07 08 09 10 11 relevant policies to accommodate women. To further attract Financial year women to our Company we provide learnerships to them, 35 women received learnerships in 2011. To fast-track and increase the number of learnership intake More details on remuneration for women in Lonmin and the specifically from the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC) we turnover of women employed this year is shown in the table embarked on a programme to assist and develop students on the right. from the Community. This programme includes supplementary classes on Saturdays in Mathematics, Physical Science and English and a one year university preparedness programme. Attracting skilled employees We also coach them in interview techniques and provide them The sustainability of our workforce is a key concern for Lonmin. with study material based on their interested field of study. Nine We aim to attract highly skilled and motivated employees, students from the community were awarded learnerships for while at the same time seeking to develop a diverse workforce 2011; these students were all linked to existing mentorship and empowering the local community by providing groups in the Company and were provided subject support employment and training opportunities. during university holidays. We employ a number of initiatives to attract new talent to the Remuneration Company. This includes career opportunities for graduates, To remain competitive we compare the wages we agree with partnering with academic institutions to offer students Organised Labour with the industry standard by means of a bursaries and internships and offering learnerships to people market-related survey. Competitive benefits are offered to fullentering the mining industry. In 2011 the Company provided time employees, including healthcare, life insurance, disability 44 bursaries (39 active, five terminated) and enrolled 29 insurance, retirement provisions, a share incentive programme graduates in training. We have set a target to allocate 100 for management level employees and an education protection bursaries in 2012. plan which is built into employees’ life insurance. The education protection plan ensures that the children of employees who Total die as a result of work-related accidents have the funds Type of number of HDSA Female Male Learnership Learnership Learnerships Learnerships Learnerships available to complete their education. No retention rates are offered after parental leave. Lonmin does not offer flexitime Engineering to its employees. Learnerships 92 87 10 82 Mining On average, calculated on the basic salaries of our employee Learnerships 70 53 25 45 categories, we have calculated that the most significant Process category in which women earn more than men is in the Learnerships 22 17 0 22 semi-skilled category and indicates an average of 11.4%. In the category of technical skills men earn 13.7% more Total Learnerships 184 157 35 149 than women. Other than these categories, there are no material differences between the salaries of women and men. The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for its employees and does not offer defined benefit/final salary pension programmes. It is mandatory for our employees to participate in either an industry-based or Company defined contribution provident fund. Lonmin contributes between 13.95% and 20.52% of the employees’ contribution to the fund. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 24 ] Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce (continued) Employee turnover In 2011, our net turnover of employees was 10.6%, including the dismissed employees from Karee. There are no significant differences in employee turnover trends in the different regions in which we operate. For more detail on the Karee industrial action visit page 64). Group Labour Turnover (permanent employees) 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Male Female Total Total Total Total Total New recruits 6,071 473 6,544 3,553 1,136 3,815 2,831 Resignations (266) (48) (314) (295) (322) (506) (471) Death (not work related) (209) (7) (216) (197) (208) (223) (237) Death (work related employees) (2) (0) (2) (3) (3) (3) (3) Dismissals (1,998) (52) (2,050) (719) (942) (780) (956) Retirements (46) (0) (46) (257) (52) (126) (147) Retrenchments (24) (0) (24) (33) (3,733) (2) (15) Net gain/loss 3,526 366 3,892 2,049 (4,124) 2,175 1,002 The turnover profile per age grouping and gender is illustrated Discharges by age grouping and gender in the graph to the right. 16 Absenteeism 14 We are challenged by high rates of absenteeism which have a negative impact on our productivity levels. In 2011 our 12 absenteeism rate was 8.36%, which was an increase on the 7.9% absenteeism rate for 2010. The absenteeism rate for 10 Percentage women was 9.3% compared to the absenteeism rate for men of 8.3%. 8 Reasons for absenteeism include sickness or injury, fatigue, 6 alcohol abuse and family responsibility. The Karee industrial action also contributed to the higher absenteeism rate 4 compared to 2010. 2 The employees most likely to be absent were identified as males between the ages of 26 and 35 years working in deep 0 shafts. To reduce absenteeism we took disciplinary action Younger 30-50 50 Female against those employees abusing sick leave and we increased than years years+ our communication efforts to demonstrate the impact 30 years absenteeism has on the team and the particular individual. We have 1,611 Individual Development Plans (IDPs) in place. Retaining skills and developing current and future During 2011 Lonmin had 201 active mentoring relationships in employees place of whom over 75% were designated groups employees. We reward outstanding performance and incentivise employee Monthly audits are carried out to ensure that all documentation development through our reward and retention programmes. in relation to these mentoring relationships is in place. We have a Talent Management Policy in place that outlines Training Interventions the performance management process in Lonmin. All Through the Lonmin Training Academy we implement a range supervisors, management and professionally qualified of targeted training initiatives, including induction courses and employees are subject to an annual performance review annual refresher training specific technical available to all our process. Performance management includes the on-going employees. In addition we provide a Front Line Supervisory management, measurement, monitoring and development of Development Programme and managerial skills training employees to drive performance at the individual level to programmes. We have a Study Assistance Policy for ensure that the organisation meets its goals and objectives. employees, which sets out the financial assistance we will In 2011, this accounted for 1,534 or 5.52% of employees of provide to our employees who wish to study and the terms of whom 37.9% were employees from designated groups. sabbaticals for employees studying independently. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 25 ] Attracting and Retaining a Skilled Workforce (continued) Human Resource Development through Transformation We undertook a baseline competency analysis which Average hours of training per employee per annum Categories Male Female Total assessed our internal pool of skills and informed the development of our training plan for 2012. Given that a Contractors 51.6 1.6 59.8 significant percentage of our workforce will be retiring in the Unskilled and defined next ten to fifteen years, our Training Academy is focusing on decision making 122.8 125.4 248.2 developing sufficient employees with the right skills to continue implementing our business strategy. Semi-skilled and discretionary decision making 152.9 52.3 205.2 In 2011 we spent the equivalent of 3.81%LA or Technicians and associate US$28 million of our payroll on training. professions, clerks, service and sales workers 60.1 42.8 102.9 Finding people, particularly from our local communities, who Professionally qualified, have the appropriate level of education or skills is a challenge senior officials and which we are addressing in a number of ways: experienced specialists and management 33.5 29.4 62.9 • Investing in the education of the young people in the GLC from early childhood through to tertiary education; Legislators, senior officials and senior management 41.4 29.2 70.6 • Providing Adult Basic Education Training (ABET) for our employees to close the gap in education levels; Overall average 119.9 88.7 208.6 • Training of female community members in mining related skills; and All our employees and contractors receive training in business ethics and the key principles of human rights as part of our • Adult education in the GLC so we can close the gap in induction and annual refresher training. the education levels of job seekers and equip them to qualify for employment with Lonmin. GRI EC3, EC5, HR3, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA10, LA11, When our employees have to retire they need to continue LA12, LA13, LA14, LA15 and 2.8 earning. We have assessed what training they require in order to continue earning and have determined that in some cases they need to be taught a range of portable skills. In 2011, we trained 57 employees on portable skills. In addition they are trained in life skills, including financial management. Our enterprise development programme is also available to assist them in setting up businesses, should they wish to do so. We have also set a target for 2012 to train 570 employees, including contractors and community members on ABET. ABET remains an integral part of employee development. Sylvia Molefe training officer at K3 and K4 Concentrator; with the concentrator training model. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 26 ] Housing our Employees To enhance employee wellbeing we have undertaken to provide affordable housing to our employees. Highlights Our management approach • Our hostel conversion programme delivered 26 Lonmin believes that the living conditions of our employees affect converted hostel blocks; and their ability to add value in the workplace. To provide our employees with affordable accommodation that enhances their • 179 houses have been sold to our employees through wellbeing, security and self-esteem enable them to add value is the Marikana Housing Development Company. an integral part of our SLP. Failure to meet our SLP targets would put our mining licences at risk. In 2011 we have delivered 26 Focus Areas hostel blocks and upgraded 63 houses. • Aiming to meet our Mining Charter commitments; If we are to succeed we need to: • Converting an additional 24 hostel blocks during 2012 to yield 620 family and bachelor homes; • Deliver on our set targets; • Finding sufficient, appropriately situated, land for our • Ensure the housing options we provide are affordable and the employee housing projects; and infrastructure and living conditions secure; • Commence the feasibility and delivery of additional • Design homes that are aligned with our commitment to homes on appropriate serviced land for our environmental sustainability; employees. • Build homes that are close to our employees’ workplaces and amenities; One of South Africa’s major challenges, at both a regional and • Communicate with our employees regarding the progress we national level, is the critical shortage of affordable housing; the are making with the provision of housing; and resolution of this challenge requires the cooperation of both • Advise our employees on the financial implications of home government and the private sector. ownership. We estimate that approximately 50% of the people living in a fifteen kilometre radius of our operations are housed in informal dwellings with little or no access to basic services. We need to ensure the housing options we provide are affordable and the infrastructure and living conditions secure. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 27 ] Housing our Employees (continued) Addressing legacy issues To date we have built 1,728 houses. We have revised our Historically, the mining industry established single sex hostelhousing strategy, following the experience we have gained, of style accommodation for its employees, a policy which has the latest government policies, and information gathered from been linked to a number of social problems. a “Human settlement” survey of our employees. Our new Integrated Human Settlement Strategy will focus on a series of In terms of the revised Mining Charter we are committed to sustainable integrated initiatives of which densification is a converting and upgrading hostels to achieve the occupancy central theme. To deliver on this strategy we will examine the rate of one person per room as well as converting and feasibility of developing strategic partnerships between the upgrading hostels into family units. Company, property developers, investors and financiers, to develop higher density more affordable homes. Additional Hostel conversions challenges that hampered our provision of homes were: Lonmin has four hostels – Karee, Wonderkop, Middelkraal and Eastern hostels, of which Middelkraal is currently unoccupied • A shortage of appropriate land in the vicinity of our as it is in the process of being converted into 312 single units. operations The revised Mining Charter required us to establish a baseline • Inadequate water and electricity resources; and as at 31 December 2010; and thereafter to double the conversion of our hostels to single and family units by • Financial constraints as a result of current economic 31 December 2014. conditions. Our baseline showed that we had already converted our Building these homes allows us to add value to the hostel accommodation into community through contracts awarded to GLC companies who, by forming joint ventures with more established • 494 units (412 family units and 82 single units). construction companies, were able to meet the necessary By 2014 we aim to have converted the remainder of our criteria. We set a target last year to upgraded 252 houses at hostel space into family units and single units. out Marikana operations. This project was slowed down to as urgent accommodation was required to house recruits to get In 2011, we converted 26 hostel blocks into bachelor and Karee Mine back to production after the industrial action. Only family units. 26.04%LA progress was achieved in the 63 houses were upgraded. conversion and upgrading of hostels to have one person per room. 64.08%LA of hostels converted into family units. In addition to this and in an effort to promote home ownership 179 employees are now owners of homes which were sold Housing through the Marikana Housing Development Company and The indirect benefits to the Company of providing affordable have they have been presented with their title deeds. housing for our employees include: • Establishing a more sustainable environment for our Birthday Radio Programme operations; Local radio station “Radio 702” Birthday Wish Programme • An increased ability to attract and retain skilled employees; provides the opportunity for people to nominate via email somebody to be granted a wish. In a response to this • Improved living conditions resulting in increased employee programme Margaret, and her grandchildren who have wellbeing, a more stable workforce, reduced absenteeism been struggling to find a house, was nominated. We and increased productivity; and responded and sponsored a house to be built for • Contributing to socio-economic development. Margaret. http://www.702.co.za/podcast/podcast_birthdaywish.asp 20110628JR2.mp3 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 28 ] Towards a Healthier Workforce We are committed to our health and safety values and sustaining an environment that promotes the safety, health and wellbeing of our employees and their families, our contractors and the communities in which we operate. Highlights OUR HEALTH PERFORMANCE • ART defaulters decreasing by 39.5% from 944 A healthy workforce is an advantage to our business, as defaulting patients to 571 defaulting patients; it means that our employees are fit to work at their full potential with fewer absences due to sickness or ill-health • Increased the number of patients on ART from 1,349 occurring. Our health programmes address occupational to 2,022, a 49.9% increase; illnesses, public health issues and overall wellbeing. • Met target of 5% increase in participation in our Our health strategy sets the following objectives: wellness programme; • Workplace programmes aligned to zero harm; • Exceeded the target of 5% reduction in new diagnosed NIHL cases; • Comprehensive disease management; • Extended pharmacy hours for dispensing drugs; • Compliance monitoring; and • Involved employees, unions and other stakeholders in • Promotion of health and safety of employees’ integrated selection of new rock drills with significantly reduced with our communities. noise levels; and There are Health and Safety Committees across our Mining • Employee health information management system has and Process Divisions. The committees include representatives been piloted. from our trade unions and represent the entire workforce in those Divisions. In addition, during regular safety breaks, health Focus Areas and safety topics such as safe behaviour, HIV/AIDS, diabetes • Strategy to integrate our safety, health and and TB are addressed. environmental processes; We have an HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis Steering Committee, • Run wellness campaigns for workers and contractors which finalised a comprehensive HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis that includes HIV, blood pressure, glucose and Strategy in 2010, that meets quarterly to monitor the cholesterol testing and a Tuberculosis symptom screen; implementation of the strategy. • Continue focus on eliminating noise-induced hearing DMA LA6 and LA9 loss; and • Strengthening the comprehensive HIV/Aids and Tuberculosis management programme. Organisational responsibility Our Health Department is responsible for healthcare delivery, occupational health and hygiene policies, standards, DMA LA monitoring and auditing. Line management is responsible for maintaining occupational health and hygiene standards. Our CEO is ultimately accountable for the health and wellbeing of all our employees and contractors when they are on site. Best practice Our participation in the ICMM Health and Safety working groups, and the South African Chamber of Mines’ Health Policy Committee initiatives allow us to monitor and benchmark against industry best practice. We also partner with government, our peers and the communities in which we operate to improve the health and wellbeing of our employees and the community. Our drive for continual improvement in our health performance towards leading industry practices is set out in the Sustainable We have donated an obstetric ambulance to serve the Development Standards. These standards also stipulate our Greater Lonmin Communities. alignment to the ICMM Principles that include Principle 5: to seek continual improvement of our health and safety performance. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 29 ] Towards a Healthier Workforce (continued) Assessing employee health and fitness We have also provided social workers to counsel employees Our employees are medically examined every year to ensure regarding the importance of continuing with their ART. We early detection of occupational disease and to establish if supply ART to our employees for life, but we do not supply employees are physically compatible with working conditions. our contractors with ART. Contractors are encouraged to supply ART to their employees. We screen contractors for To evaluate their capacity for physically demanding Tuberculosis (TB) and provide TB treatment to those occupations on surface and underground work, the fitness contractors diagnosed with TB. In 2011 we diagnosed and levels of all new recruits are assessed. We have found that treated 545LA cases of TB. This year we noted an increase in women wishing to work in core mining positions frequently cases of extreme drug resistant TB and an increase in multido not have the required physical or functional capability and drug resistant TB compared to 2010. upper body strength. If they fail the physical fitness test we put them through a physical and functional capacity building During the year our Health Department participated in the programme, this also helps them understand what will be redesign of our induction programme which includes expected of them in the mining environment. information on occupational diseases, health risks and wellness advice. Healthcare delivery The choice of subject matter in the formal monthly health talk All our employees and contractors have access to topics provided to our employees is driven by our disease occupational and primary healthcare services through an profile and employee needs. on site hospital, two clinics in Marikana, an on site clinic in Limpopo, an onsite clinic at the Precious Metals Refinery and ART defaulters a 24-hour Emergency Team. All our employees are covered by a medical aid scheme subsidised by the Company and they 1,000 944 have the option of taking up additional family medical cover. Any Lonmin employee or contractor injured at work is treated 800 at our health facilities and, if necessary, is referred for Number of defaulters specialist care. In addition contractors have access to all the medical services available on site and treatment is provided on 571 600 a requisition basis. Contractors are also obliged to undergo annual medical check-ups. 400 Training and awareness Every two years Lonmin runs an innovative wellness campaign which includes testing for HIV, blood pressure, glucose, 200 cholesterol and a Tuberculosis symptom screen. Our wellness programme is designed to cater for the physical 0 and emotional needs of HIV positive employees. Once their 08 09 10 11 CD4 T-lymphocyte count is below the acceptable number Financial year they are offered ART. This year we had 526 employees participating in our wellness programme, a 5.6% increase No data was available for 2007. from our 2010 baseline. We train volunteers as peer educators to inform our employees and contractors in HIV and TB. This HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis programme results year we have been able to reduce the number of HIV positive employees who have defaulted from taking their ART by 2,500 2,022 39.5% and we have also been successful in increasing the uptake of ART. The peer educators have played a role in this success. 2,000 Number of patients Sadly, HIV/AIDS remains the main cause of in-service deaths with 139 AIDS related deaths in 2011. 1,500 We trained 35 new peer educators and we now have 178 active workplace peer educators representing one workplace 1,000 peer educator for every 156 employees; below our target of 526 one peer educator for every 75 employees. Concerted efforts 545 LA to ensure visibility and coaching of peer educators will be 500 continued in the next year. This year we have conducted 31,666 voluntary counselling and HIV tests with 10.8% tests being reactive. 0 07 08 09 10 11 Financial year ART Wellness Tuberculosis cases diagnosed and treated Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 30 ] Towards a Healthier Workforce (continued) Occupational hygiene Employee noise induced hearing loss During 2011 we extended the monitoring of occupational hygiene in Lonmin. The occupational hygiene department is 700 responsible to help reduce the risk of hazardous exposures, ensure regulatory compliance, and to improve workplace 600 conditions by implementing appropriate occupational hygiene programmes. 500 Number of NIHL Noise-induced Hearing Loss (NIHL) is one of the key 400 occupational health and hygiene risks faced by our employees and contractors. We are working towards achieving the Mine 300 Health and Safety Council Milestones for the elimination of noise induced hearing loss of no new cases of noise induced 200 hearing loss and reduction of noise emitted by all our equipment to below 110dB(A) by December 2013. To be able to achieve this target we have set the target for next year to 100 35RA RA further improve our new NIHL cases diagnosed by 5%. We 17 have a comprehensive hearing conservation programme in 0 07 08 09 10 11 place consisting of a number of elements intended to reduce Financial year the risk of noise induced hearing loss including engineering controls, administrative controls, personal protective NIHL diagnosed equipment and medical surveillance. NIHL compensated Chloroplatinates (Platinum Salts) are unavoidable in the refining processes of platinum. Research programmes were Gaining a better understanding of employee health impacts established through the International Precious Metals Lonmin wants to understand what impacts on employees’ Association’s (IPA) Scientific Task Force that will allow the attendance at work and as part of its investigation PGM sector to derive thresholds for Occupational Exposure commissioned research indicating that there are a wide range Limit (OEL) to platinum salts as well as to determine an of factors affecting absenteeism. This research will continue adequate Inhalation Reference Concentration (RfC). during 2012 and we will be taking action to improve the Programmes include retrospective epidemiology studies and quality of life of our employees as the research indicates that the development of an analytical method tailored to chemically this one of the key factors affecting work attendance. and mineralogically characterise the PGM forms that relate to sensitisation. DMA LA3, LA7 and LA8 NIHL and other occupational diseases during 2011 2011 (per 100,000 employees Rate of occupational disease and contractors) New NIHL cases diagnosed 94 NIHL cases compensated 46 Tuberculosis 1,459 Pulmonary tuberculosis 1,229 Extra pulmonary tuberculosis 230 Extreme drug resistant tuberculosis 11 Multi-drug resistant tuberculosis 40 Pneumoconiosis 5 Occupational asthma 0 Occupational dermatitis 3 Platinosis – Platinum Salt Sensitivity 3 Any employee or contractor injured at work is treated at our health care facilities. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 31 ] Partnering with Communities Empowering communities and contributing to their long term social, economic and infrastructural development is an investment in the Company’s future and it secures our licence to operate within the current regulatory environment. Our performance Our management approach Lonmin seeks to make a significant contribution towards the Highlights sustainable development of local and labour sending • All GLC11 schools achieved matric12 pass rates in communities by addressing the challenges facing South excess of the average National Pass rate; Africa, including poverty alleviation, job creation, education • 210 local community members trained in miningand healthcare. related skills; 48% employed to date; of the 86 Community consultation is a key element of our sustainability community members trained in 2010, 74 were approach. We aim to engage openly and honestly with the employed at Lonmin; communities that make up the Greater Lonmin Community • 157 households benefitted from the Rain Harvesting (GLC) and our major labour sending communities, which Project in the Eastern Cape Province; includes communities in the Eastern Cape Province from where a significant number of our employees originate. • Completed a review of SLP performance and prepared revised plans in line with the new Mining Our Charter links our performance to the success of our Charter; relationships with communities. The specific actionable commitments that build these relationships are outlined • Sixteen new classrooms and additional ablution in our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy. facilities constructed in GLC schools We identify the positive and negative impacts that we have on • Completed the extension of the GLC Modderspruit the GLC using social baseline studies. Our principal risks on Clinic; page 10 provides the identification of the possible impact we have on surrounding communities. The targets set against • Building of eight classrooms using environmentally these risks demonstrates our commitment to mitigate these friendly alternative building methods; and risks. We work closely with communities to maximise the • Established three Joint Ventures businesses involving positive impacts of our activities and to minimise or avoid any GLC Small Medium Macro Enterprises’s (SMMEs) and potential negative effects. We involve communities in developing established businesses. solutions that will benefit both the community and our business. Focus Areas Our Executive Vice President of Human Capital and External • Increased focus on community relations; Affairs, Barnard Mokwena, supports our CEO, Ian Farmer, • Skills development and job creation in the GLC; who is directly accountable for the Company’s performance in terms of its commitments to community development and • Accelerated implementation of labour intensive basic community relations. We support the ICMM’s Position service infrastructure projects; Statement on Mining and Indigenous People as well as the • Increased focus on the Saturday mathematics and Partnership for Development. Our Sustainable Development science programme called Ithuteng; Standards incorporates the six ICMM Principles on which these position statements are founded. • Complete the extension of Marikana Clinic; • Implement a refreshed stakeholder engagement The business case programme to improve and harmonise relations with Enhancing the socio-economic capacity, prosperity and local and labour sending communities; sustainability of the GLC is crucial to the Company’s operations. Our social and labour plans (SLPs), which are aligned with • Launch the Lonmin School Sports Tournament; local government’s development plans and are part of our • Introduction of GLC Arts and Culture Programme; and mining licence requirements in terms of the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002, enable • Facilitate joint ventures between GLC suppliers and socio-economic development in the GLC. older established businesses. During 2011 we spent US$5 million (R37,980,955)RA on SLP local economic development projects. 11 Greater Lonmin Community – Communities within a 15km radius from our operations. Our Preferential Procurement Strategy is aimed at BEE and 12 Matric is the final school year in South Africa. supplier development. We have aligned our targets for preferential procurement in our supply chain to that of the Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining Industry. Further details are provided on page 75. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 32 ] Partnering with Communities (continued) The business case (continued) Through our Procurement Department, which is actively assisting with the GLC supplier spend, we have investigated several new opportunities, one being the development of an industrial park. This will ensure Lonmin’s visibility in the local community. GRI SO1, SO9 and SO10 Local Economic Development We assess the needs of communities and consult with them before implementing any community investment to be able to manage the impacts of operations on communities. We match our investment in Local Economic Development (LED) projects to the needs identified by the integrated development plans of the municipalities in which the GLC communities and major labour sending areas are located, and the South African Government’s Departments of Health and Education. Baseline assessments are used to measure the impact and effectiveness of SLPs throughout the life cycle of the projects. We have twelve community approved projects weighing 15% on the scorecard for the Broad Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter for the South African mining industry. Breakdown of the projects provided below. Project Description Status Water and Sanitation in Infrastructure and yard connections for 400 In progress. North West Province households. Sanitation system for 200 households in Modderspruit Brick Making Project This project has been proved to not be feasible and has been terminated. Education Support and Upliftment Detailed breakdown provided in “Upliftment through In progress. education and skills development”. Page 34 Provision of access to Basic Water reticulation for 405 households. Sewer Completed. Services in Eastern Cape Province system servicing 320 households. Institutional Support and Capacity Trained 40 municipal employees in Completed. development in Eastern Cape project management. Province Multi-purpose community centre Both the centre and bridge were built. Completed. and Silindini Bridge in Eastern Cape Province Improve Health Care Services Detailed breakdown provided in “Addressing the In progress. health and wellness of the Greater Lonmin Community”. Page 33 Commercial Agri-Business Project could not sustain and has been terminated. Community Skills Development Detailed breakdown provided in “Upliftment In progress. through education and skills development” Sports and Recreation Rebranding sports and recreation. Launch annual In progress. sports tournament and focus on heritage education. Provision of Water and Sanitation Ablution facilities for schools in Eastern Cape Province. In progress. Eastern Cape Province Housing and Hostel Conversions Sections responding to this see In progress. “Housing our Employees”. Page 26 Addressing community land concerns The Company has established community resettlement policies which comply with the World Bank Operation Directives on Resettlement of Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Property. There were no resettlements of communities and no grievances lodged relating to resettlements. In terms of the Restitution of Land Rights Act 22 of 1994, the Company is in the process of addressing several land claims lodged against it before 2011. The resolution of these claims is being managed within the legislative framework of the regional Land Claims Commission and Land Claims Court. GRI MM6 and MM9 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 33 ] Partnering with Communities (continued) Addressing the health and wellness of the Greater Lonmin Community health initiatives have included supporting sixteen Community Days of Activism for No Violence Against Women and World Our community health programme addresses three main AIDS Day. We were approached by schools that are focus areas: school nutrition, development of the health experiencing a high rate of teenage pregnancies and we have infrastructure and HIV / AIDS education. run teenage pregnancy awareness programmes at Michael Modisakeng High School. In addition our peer educators visit School nutrition programme schools and give talks on health education. Our school nutrition programme has been operating since 2008. While we continue to provide schools with fresh fruit Case Study and vegetables we identified a need to provide nutrition for Initially, our Community HIV/Aids, which started in 2002, Orphans and Vulnerable Children (OVC) after school, over was a joint venture between ourselves and other weekends and during school holidays. We have extended our members of our industry. By 2003, 29 Community nutrition programme to provide meals through four caregivers had been trained, but it was not until 2007, community-based food centres in partnership with local when we partnered with the Rustenburg Hospice, a churches. Lonmin provides food supplies and pays stipends palliative care centre, that the programme started to have to food preparers. We are helping the food preparers develop a significant impact in the communities of Segwaelane income generating projects and have provided them with and Wonderkop. That year our Community caregivers basic skills and hygiene training. reached 288 patients and made 588 home visits. Our research further identified a need to address nutrition and In 2008 we extended the project in partnership with the health education amongst the youth of the GLC. Nutrition and International Finance Corporation (IFC)10 to include other health education activities included participation in youth clubs GLC communities while maintaining our partnership with and sponsoring a Youth Extravaganza. the Rustenburg Hospice for the communities of Wonderkop and Segwaelane. To support our efforts to Development of the health infrastructure enhance HIV/AIDS treatment in the GLC through homeA priority need of the area was to upgrade and increase clinic based care we embarked on an intensive 69-day training facilities. programme for home-based caregivers through the centre for Positive Care. This effort paid off when 58 This year: Previously: active home-based caregivers provided 1,859 patients Modderspruit Clinic Wonderkop clinic built with care in 2009. extension completed In 2010 we maintained our partnership with the Rustenburg Marikana clinic extension Two mobile clinics Hospice and Centre for Positive care to Care for 1,249 construction commenced donated patients and 775 Orphaned and Vulnerable Children and increased our number of trained caregivers to 108. New clinic planned in Obstetric ambulance Limpopo donated By the end of this year 1,257 patients were receiving regular visits from our home-based caregivers including 81 patients in the Eastern Cape Province. We have received approval of the environmental impact assessment for the construction of the new Hwelereng Clinic in Limpopo Province. Addressing HIV and its impact on the Greater Lonmin Community Our community HIV programme includes training community volunteers in home-based care and peer education. To date we have trained144 community peer educators. In addition to the training we provided to the GLC in the North West Province we have trained volunteers in the Silindini district of the Eastern Cape Province, in the community surrounding our Precious Metals Refinery in Gauteng Province and in the Limpopo Province. Formerly we paid these volunteers a stipend which the Department of Health is now taking over. Instead, we are investing in capacity building that will help the volunteers to become self-sustaining. Lonmin still provides these volunteers with uniforms, runs their bi-weekly meetings, coordinates their efforts, assists them with arranging HIV educational events and provides transport for them. We also helped the Rustenburg Hospice and provide home-based We have 108 trained caregivers. care in Wonderkop and Segwaelane. The support group in Segwaelane developed a food garden which they can use to feed the Orphans and Vulnerable Children they look after. 10 International Finance Corporation is a member of the World Bank Group. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 34 ] Partnering with Communities (continued) Upliftment through education and skills development Our investment in education and skills training not only directly addresses our skills shortage, but by providing people with the knowledge and skills they require to escape from poverty, it also addresses current and future poverty in the GLC. Our programme is holistic, covering the development of a child from pre-school through primary and high school, to tertiary education and employment opportunities. For the children in the poverty cycle the high school dropout rate is reduced by 60% if a child receives good quality pre-school education11. This year we held a Crèche Indaba with the Departments of Education, Social Welfare and Health and a number of nongovernmental and non-profit organisations. The aim of the Indaba was to gain an understanding of the requirements of the recently introduced Grade R12. The Indaba highlighted a critical issue, which is that the majority of our crèches do not employ qualified educators. We are investigating how best to address this issue and how to access the training offered by the Department of Education. The Indaba provided insight to the qualification criteria for crèche government funding. Through our Early Childhood Development programme we assist 43 crèches. Having consulted with the relevant government departments and the municipality on how best to upgrade these crèches we began by equipping them all with educational toys, maths kits and life skills kits and trained their staff to use the equipment. In 2012 we are targeting two of these crèches as part of a pilot project to upgrade them and will employ a community member to run the project. We also regularly provide additional training to the educators at the crèches. We support three of the 43 crèches by paying the salaries for eleven educators. Investing in schools We support 29 schools in the Marikana area and a further sixteen in the vicinity of our Limpopo operation. Our school programme includes: A. Learner Support; B. Educator Support; C. Parent Support; D. Development and maintenance of school infrastructure; and E. School Nutrition Programme (page 33). A. Learner Support B. Educator Support 21 science and computer laboratories Onsite capacity building programme for maths physical science and english 100 top learners in Saturday School programme Environmental workshops Examination Preparedness and Support programme School Governing Body and Management Team training Limpopo supplementary maths and science programme Coaching skills for sports co-ordinators at schools Ten unemployed youths trained as career councilors Provision of mathematics learning material to Grade 4-12 learners C. Parent Support D. School Infrastructure School governance Body Training provided Renovation and building of new classrooms at Thaba Marula High School and Segwaelane Primary School Inclusion of parent day’s in the Saturday School Programme Construction of new classrooms and ablution facilities at Teboga and Sonop Primary Schools We have assessed the infrastructure of all the schools and using a scoring system prioritise those most in need of attention. If required, we build additional classrooms, renovate existing buildings, upgrade the water and electricity supply, build ablution facilities or repair the existing facilities and install security in the form of burglar bars, security gates and perimeter lighting. 11 Stephen Jack, Philile Foundation (www.philile.org). 12 Year before child start school in South Africa. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 35 ] Partnering with Communities (continued) Measuring the impact We held an ABET Indaba with a number of government After five years of running our schools education programme departments. Our concern is that we are finding that even our schools all had a pass rate higher than the national learners who have passed Grade 12 struggle to pass ABET average. In 2010, 23 learners who attended the Saturday Level 4, which is supposed to be the equivalent of Grade 9. supplementary programme matriculated with a university Together we are looking at what interventions we can put in exemption. Learners from high schools with Matric place to correct this situation; this includes an accelerated Exemption13 increased from 16.5% to 31.1%. ABET programme targeting learners from the community. Through our mining related programme we have trained 86 Tertiary education and employment community members as Rock Drill Operators and fifteen men Once GLC learners leave school there are a number of and two women were found competent as Blaster Assistants. options available to them: Their training was concluded in August 2011 and twelve • Participate in the University preparedness programmes trainees have now been employed at Lonmin. (including training in engineering design, maths and science); GRI EC7 and EC9 • Apply for a Lonmin bursary or sponsorship; Key Community Development Projects in 2011 • Participate in the Lonmin learnership programme; or • Join the mining-related skills programme. We offer mining-related skills training to community members who have a matric certificate or a minimum of ABET Level 4 and we also offer portable skills training to community members. Lonmin is reviewing its approach to portable skills training which, in terms of the requirements of our SLP is aimed at older members of the population, with a view to providing training that will address the needs of unemployed youth and alleviate poverty. This year we trained 97 community members in accredited sewing, plumbing, masonry, carpentry and road construction skills. 13 Matriculation exemption is a legal requirement for first-degree study at a South African University. We regularly provide training to educators at the early This year we trained 97 community members in childhood development centres. accredited sewing, plumbing, masonry, carpentry and road construction. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 36 ] Engaging our Stakeholders We are committed to maintaining transparent and ongoing consultative relationships with all stakeholders and to incorporating the outcomes of these engagements into our decision-making processes. We identify stakeholders as those directly affected, both Our stakeholder engagement performance positively and negatively, by the activities of Lonmin interested parties who, while not directly affected by our activities, have Highlights an interest in, or influence over our activities. • Mapping of stakeholders that facilitates proactive management of our stakeholder engagement; and Our management approach • Our CEO, Chairman and Executive committee We believe that establishing sound relationships with our engaged directly with employees and stakeholders to stakeholders allows us to create and maintain resilient, stable gain an informed understanding of their concerns. operations, which in turn allows us to deliver long-term value to our stakeholders and our shareholders. Focus Areas Our business sustainability is to a large degree dependent on • A new framework developed that defines stakeholder our stakeholder relationships. Our stakeholders include the engagement; investment community, employees, contractors, unions, • Effectively engage with stakeholders to facilitate the governments (national, regional and local), intergovernmental successful outcome of our SLP; bodies, regulators, communities hosting our operations, business partners, non-governmental organisations, suppliers, • Managing community relationships and expectations; customers and the media. We identify and engage our • Communicating effectively with employees. external stakeholders at a number of different levels and engagement is undertaken in various ways, including, but not • Completing the mapping of the stakeholders for all limited to, shop floor briefings, roadshows, newsletters and areas in Lonmin; and multi-level meetings. • Continue to improve stakeholder engagement and To manage our stakeholder relationships we have developed relationships with the GLC, employees and with the Lonmin Stakeholder Engagement Protocol that is based government. on industry best practice. The table that follows illustrates the stakeholders we have identified, the frequency and type of engagements. GRI 4.15 and 4.16 Community members have also undertaken a site visit We held a women’s day event this year to engage to our tailings facilities. John Molabatsi, John Molubi specifically with our female employees. and Mandy Jubileus. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 37 ] Engaging our Stakeholders (continued) Quarterly/ Surveys As required Regular Monthly and focus Twice Written (telephonic, Ongoing Monthly Deep Dive forums Quarterly Annual groups per year Stakeholders communication face-to-face) dialogue meetings meetings13 meetings meetings meeting (Annual) meeting Investment Community X X X14 X X15 Board members X X X16 Employees X X X X X X X X Contractors X X X X X X X Unions X X X X X Government (national, regional and local) X X X X X X X Ward councilors X X X Industry associations X X X X X Traditional authorities X X X Business partners X X X Non-governmental organisations X X X Suppliers X X X Customers X X X X X Media X X 13 A deep dive meeting is a meeting between the CEO and the various operational teams. 14 We meet throughout the year with analysts. 15 We also meet with investors at various conferences; we attended five such conferences. 16 Ten Board meetings took place this year. Towards proactive stakeholder engagement The mechanisms we make available to our employees to During 2011, having identified a need to have a more structured provide feedback or recommendations to the Company approach to stakeholder engagement, we completed a include an annual corporate communication survey, a framework document that defines our stakeholder engagement stakeholders’ forum, CEO stakeholder feedback forums which and what it means to us. We also introduced a tool that tracks are held quarterly and annually, shop floor briefings, direct all our activities around stakeholder management and that will communication with line managers, formal grievance also identify stakeholder issues that are risks to the business. procedures and an independently managed ethics line which The system will assign each issue to the correct and relevant allows the employee to remain anonymous. person to address that issue; and will track whether or not the Our shareholders have the opportunity to communicate with issue has been addressed satisfactorily. If not, the system will the Board at the Company’s Annual General Meeting or to flag the issue as a risk to the business that needs further make use of shareholder resolutions. attention. We are mapping the stakeholders for each area associated with Lonmin and populating the tracking tool with this information. We expect completion during 2012. This new Stakeholder concerns approach allows Lonmin and its executives to be more We include stakeholder concerns raised by our stakeholders proactive in our management of our stakeholder engagement. in our process for identifying the Company’s sustainable development risks. The table on the next page provides a list We have introduced an Annual Stakeholder Forum to mitigate of the key issues raised by stakeholders which have been the risk of poor employee and community relations. The addressed in this report. We used the relative importance Annual Stakeholder Forum not only provides an engagement placed on these issues during our engagement with opportunity, but will also form part of our more structured stakeholders and the frequency with which they were raised, approach to stakeholder engagement. as a means of identifying these issues. The Karee industrial action and the unrest in the communities raised our focus on our employee and community relations. Two of our principal risks relate to this specifically and we have set out to implement a strategy to facilitate the journey from Industrial Relations to Employee Relations. We have also decided to implement monthly community stakeholder forum meetings to track issues and concerns. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 38 ] Engaging our Stakeholders (continued) Stakeholder concerns (continued) Bapo Ba Mogale Community Unrest Stakeholder concerns: We responded on page: Community unrest experienced at our Marikana Operations, which resulted in protest action, has Water supply and quality 47 highlighted the need to continually communicate with Climate change 42 communities to increase understanding between ourselves HIV/AIDS and Tuberculosis 28 and these communities. We agreed to the establishment Safety of employees and contractors 16 of a Bapo Ba Mogale Development Team which is being Employee relations 21; 63 be chaired by the Lonmin CEO, Ian Farmer. The objective Community relations 38; 21 of the development team is to identify community Local employment 38; 21 employment and job creation opportunities both at SLP commitments 75 Lonmin and via the community development programme. Transformation 21 Industrial action 63 Human rights 63 Stakeholder communication Our Environmental team engages with the communities in which we operate. Communication around non-routine GRI 4.17 activities at the Smelter is communicated through various forms of media; Air quality monitoring data is shared and Stakeholder concerns are raised in a number of different presented at the bi-annual environmental stakeholder forums. ways. They can be received as a formal concern or query Community members have also undertaken a site visit to our lodged in writing with the Company; or raised in stakeholder tailings facilities, which has empowered them to gain an forums. We either provide feedback informally in the forum or improved understanding of our successes and challenges in telephonically; where appropriate, we will respond in writing. this regard. We also consider the interests and expectations from stakeholder engagement initiatives that have taken place GRI EN20, EN26 and SO10 during the year when preparing the content of our annual Sustainable Development Report. The process followed to manage issues received from internal and external stakeholders is illustrated below: GRI 1.2, 4.4, 4.14, 4.16 and 4.17 Action Feedback Analyse issue Progress Issue Record taken or to stakeholder received Á issue Á (resolve Á update to Á follow-up Á formal or or refer) stakeholder action informal GRI 1.2, 4.14, 4.16, 4.17 and 4.4 Happy Moloisi, Mmabatho Mosimanqo, Sankie Peer Educators performing in the Segwaelane Mashamba, Mpho Ralery and Elizabeth Chabalala Community Hall. in front of the Mining Training Centre. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 39 ] Planet: Investing in the Environment We are committed to the value of zero harm to the environment, to minimise our pollution footprint and to continually improve on our performance. A summary of our environmental performance Highlights • Development and roll out of a Lonmin Integrated Environmental Strategy. • Participation in the South African Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), we ranked 14th on the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index of the JSE 100 companies. • Environmental authorisations and licensing to ensure activities / operations are legalised in terms of environmental legislation. • Completion of Group-wide external environmental legal audits. • Development of the Climate Change Response Strategy. • Approval of the Atmospheric Emission Licence (AEL) for the Smelter and BMR. • Environmental authorisation for Furnace Number Two. • Finalisation of an Integrated Water Balance for implementation at the Marikana operations. • Identified five activities requiring waste licences; three have been authorised, the other two are in process of authorisation. • All business units within the Company retained ISO 14001 certification. • Created visibility and awareness on our heritage resources and sites. Focus Areas • To implement the Lonmin Climate Change Response Strategy and manage the risks and opportunities. • To finalise an application for submission for conversion to an Atmospheric Emissions Licence (AEL) for our Marikana and PMR operations. • To implement the Integrated Water Balance at Marikana and develop a Water Management Plan to enhance water efficiency and secure access to water for Lonmin’s Life of Business Plan (LOBP). • To finalise an Integrated Industry Waste Management Plan to align with new requirements of the National Environmental Management Waste Act, 59 of 2008. • Preventing the contamination of ground and surface water resources in the regions where we operate. • To undertake Heritage Assessments on heritage sites at Lonmin Marikana. • To invest in additional compressor optimisation programmes. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 40 ] Planet: Investing in the Environment (continued) Management approach The Company is a member of the South African Chamber By their very nature, mining activities adversely impact the of Mine’s Environmental Policy Committee; specific working natural environment. At the core of Lonmin’s approach to groups and government committees focusing on the environmental management is a pro-active risk-based development of policy and legislation; the Steering Committee methodology to the rehabilitation and management of the for the Centre of Sustainability for Mining and Industry (CSMI) environment throughout the life cycle of our mining activities. at the University of the Witwatersrand, which is providing It is based on international best practice, legal compliance and regulators and industry with environmental training; and the maintaining our environmental and social licence to operate. International Council for Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) task forces on Climate Change, Socio-Economic Contribution, DMA EN; 2.10 Resource Endowment, Materials Stewardship, Environmental Stewardship and preparations for Rio+2017. Participation within these Task Forces enables the creation of dedicated The key strategic objectives and performance indicators of the linkages and development within the environmental portfolio Lonmin Integrated Environmental Strategy for 2011 – 2014 are: related to sustainable development. The Environmental Department also provides a supporting service to Lonmin • Maintaining the environmental and social licence to representatives participating in the Sustainable Development operate with no directives or fines being issued, alignment and Life Cycle Assessment Initiatives currently being with new environmental legislation and implementation of undertaken within the International Platinum Association. uniform systems to ensure continual improvement. We are a member of the Industry Task Team for Climate Change • Efficient resource use, consumption and alignment with (ITTCC) that was established by energy intensive companies specific projects energy, water and waste management operating in South Africa to facilitate advocacy with the South and efficiency, alignment with strategy, projects and African Government and other role players and to contribute corporate environmental targets; to the development of Climate Change Policy options. • Minimise the environmental health and social liability. We are also a member of the National Business Initiative (NBI) • To minimise and prevent environmental health impacts, to a non-governmental organisation providing a platform and integrate closure planning within operational plans and to facilitating co-operations partnerships, policy development and annually report on the Lonmin State of the Environment; projects between government and industry. Current focus areas are Climate Change and Energy Management. The NBI aims • Business and stakeholder standing to ensure continual to mobilise business and government towards formulation of improvement on business maturity and internal and a collective Climate Change Response Statement at COP17. external reporting. Lonmin’s Hierarchy of Environmental Management is Management systems demonstrated in the triangle below: All our operations have maintained their International Standards Organisation (ISO) 14001 certification. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) undertook external ISO 14001 Environmental Lonmin Charter Management System audits at our Concentrators and at Safety and Sustainability Policy Lonmin Services in March 2011. Currently, Lonmin business units are ISO certificated with either one of two certification Sustainability & Environmental Standards bodies namely PwC or Bureau Veritas. Lonmin Integrated Environmental Strategy Training and awareness Environmental Guidelines The annual induction training provided to all employees and contractors includes general environmental training. In Operational ISO14001 EMS & Procedures addition, each operation conducts site-specific environmental training and a DVD of Lonmin’s Value Chain is to be included Internal and External Auditing in our induction programme. This DVD will also be used to showcase the exceptional work Lonmin has done in environmental management. Accountability for environmental management resides with the Board of Directors and our Chief Executive Officer, assisted Monitoring systems by the Board’s Safety and Sustainability Committee. The Through our environmental management systems we monitor Sustainable Development Strategy provides strategic direction and report on environmental performance; they include: and an operating model. • legal compliance, The Environmental Department ensures there is alignment with Company policy, adherence to minimum standards, strategy, • water, air and waste management, guidelines, systems and procedures at operational level. • land biodiversity and heritage resource management, and Through partnerships we share learning experiences and contribute to policy development at both a national and an • performance in terms of our policy commitments as per international level. the objectives and targets set in our strategies and plans. 17 The United Nations conference on Sustainable Development (UNCSD) Rio+20 in Brazil. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 41 ] Planet: Investing in the Environment (continued) Monitoring systems (continued) Incident reporting and management An Environmental Audit Protocol has been finalised for It is mandatory for all our operations to investigate and report implementation to facilitate the standardisation and integration incidents and effectively mitigate the impacts of any incidents. of the Integrated Environmental Strategy, Environmental We rigorously investigate incidents employing the Incident Systems, compliance auditing, performance reporting and Cause Analysis Method (ICAM) and report on them to the Group-wide maturity assessment. relevant government departments. The Significant Incident Reporting Procedure and the Environmental Severity Table We endorse the ICMM position statement on Mercury risk were amended to align with new environmental requirements. management. As Lonmin does not produce Mercury as a None of the incidents we experience this year relates to primary product and we do not use Mercury or Mercury significant spills of oil, hydrocarbons or chemicals. compounds in any of our processes we believe that the risk of Mercury at our operations is negligible (also visit page 66 for more details). GRI EN1, EN2, EN23, EN28, EN29 and EN30 Legal compliance and auditing Level 3 Environmental Incidents Our extensive internal and external audit programmes monitor our legal compliance. Further to this we also audit those 25 contractors transporting our ore and workforce to monitor compliance to our environmental standards as well as to minimise the environmental impact. External environmental 20 legal audits were undertaken in 2011 throughout the business Number of incidents units. In 2011 we received no fines or prosecutions relating to our environmental management. 15 Materials use 10 In the production of PGMs, the most significant materials used at our operations are timber, coal and fuels. In 2011, we used 2007 1 million timber poles from a Forestry Stewardship Council 2008 5 (FSC) certified forest and 19.06 million litres fuel and 15 tonnes 2009 of coal. 2010 0 2011 The percentage of materials used that are recycled or classified as secondary input material are insignificant in the Wate ua Land To tal lity W r aste context of total PGM production. Air Q Environmental expenditure The Company spent approximately US$21 million on A Level Three Environmental Incident can be defined as an environmental management in 2011. The table below provides incident that results in a moderate impact on environment a breakdown of environmental expenditure by discipline where natural processes are notably altered but continued in including operational expenditure. The only exception is the a modified way with impacts being reversible within lifetime water management figure that excludes operational of operation. Impact confined to mine property. More detail expenditures. on the high number of “Level Three” water incidents are provided on page 47. Breakdown of environmental expenditure by discipline Expenditure in 2011 Environmental discipline US$ million Air quality management US$5.5 Water management US$2.8 Waste management US$12.0 Land management US$0.2 Total US$21.0 Remains of stone walls that were part of historical dwelling in the North West Province of South Africa. These types of sites are a direct continuation from the late Iron Age when stone were used to construct large settlements in which Sotho-Tswana farmers lived from the seventeenth century well into the mid-nineteenth century. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 42 ] Climate Change Lonmin recognises its role as a mining-to-market company in mitigating and adapting to climate change; we have confidence that our efforts, will jointly with greater society, hold significance on a local, national and global scale. South Africa is in the process of developing national legislation Risk Description Risk Driver on climate change, we continue to engage with policy makers Regulatory Risks through industry associations. We are working with members of our industry, as well as other stakeholders, to understand National regulatory Uncertainty surrounding the potential impacts of climate change and take action to measures to achieve national regulation minimise them in areas likely to be most affected and where GHG targets uncertain. we can to have the most impact. Enabling legislation has Air pollution limits been promulgated on the Our Strategy establishment of We have made significant progress in the development of our limits/standards on GHG Response to Climate Change Strategy since 2010. Mandatory reporting Emission reporting obligations It is intended that this strategy is integrated into our Corporate requirements. Business Strategy. To this end, the strategy builds on Lonmin’s existing values and policies and focuses on priority Increased fuel and energy Fuel/energy taxes and areas. The strategy outlines four key strategic objectives and costs as a consequence regulations key performance indicators developed against these. of potential carbon costing mechanisms. • Adaptation: Increasing resilience in the face of an uncertain future; Physical Risks • Governance: Embed consideration of climate change in Increased underground Increase in ambient the fabric of the business; cooling requirements. temperature • Resource Management and Efficiency: Minimise our Maintaining effectiveness Increased evaporation rates environmental footprint and continually improve of suppression methods performance; and at tailings facilities • Capacity Building: Foster the commitment of all Water security and Changes in precipitation employees and contractors. availability patterns, extremes and droughts. A key feature of the process adopted in the development of the strategy is the identification of risks and opportunities. Communities located In line with our risk process we conducted a top-down and within floodlines. bottom-up risk and opportunity identification exercise. The Inadequate water process also involved mapping out all climate change risks containment facilities (surface). and opportunities, building capacity within Lonmin and assessing the likely impact of climate change on our business. Infrastructure damage Wind, hail and lightning intensity. We identified numerous climate change related risks across our business at operational and corporate levels; and separated into various risk categories. The table to the right The production of PGMs provides an opportunity towards provides an overview of certain risks identified (list not to be addressing some aspects of climate change through their use viewed as exhaustive). Low, medium and high scenarios were in catalytic converters. They play a significant role in reducing developed for priority risks, based on available historical air pollution by substantially limiting the discharge of carbon weather data and scientific climate change models. We monoxide, hydrocarbons and nitrous oxides as well as developed a financial model to help us to understand the particulates in diesel engines. PGMs are also used in fuel cells potential implications of these risks and provide an initial to develop both portable and auxiliary energy units and as a indicative cost. Higher energy costs can have a negative source of power for vehicles. impact on our ability to contain operating costs and maintain production. We are currently assessing the impact of each risk GRI EC2 in order to correctly prioritise the risk and allocate to the appropriate resources. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 43 ] Climate Change (continued) In Lonmin responsibility for climate change at Board level Total Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) resides with the Safety and Sustainability Committee, which advises the Audit and Risk Committee and reports to the 2,000 1.50 Board on developments and trends and forthcoming 1,800 1.35 significant legislation. Risk management procedures with regard to climate change are integrated into our multi1,600 1.20 disciplinary Company-wide risk management register and 1,400 1.05 CO2-e (kt/PGM oz) processes. 1,200 0.90 CO2-e (kt) Understanding our carbon footprint 1,000 0.75 Our understanding of our carbon footprint continues to 800 0.60 improve. We developed an automated carbon calculator to determine our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Scope one, Two and 600 0.45 Three emissions. Whilst our Scope Three emissions profile 400 0.30 is currently limited we are implementing an action plan to expand this reporting boundary more comprehensively by 200 0.15 2014. We are considering implementing site specific carbon 0 0.00 and energy intensity targets that will allow us to measure our 07 08 09 10 11 performance more accurately and identify areas for Financial year improvement. Total greenhouse gas emissions Energy usage in our operations generates GHG emissions. Total GHG efficiency The use of diesel in our vehicles contributes directly to the creation of GHGs and the electricity supplied to us from Scope 1 Emissions reported for 2011: coal-fired power stations contributes indirectly to the creation of GHGs. We are committed to minimising GHG emissions • Transportation of ore, concentrate and product. and improving energy efficiency. • Diesel and petrol consumption for fleet vehicles Our GHG efficiency this year of 1.14 tonnes CO2-e per PGM oz (other than those listed above) is equal to our 2007 baseline. We were responsible for • Gas consumption 101,248 tonnes direct GHG emissions (Scope One emissions). 1,541,747 tonnes indirect emissions (Scope Two emissions) • Coal consumption and 5,348 tonnes of GHG emissions (Scope Three emissions) • Non-combustion product use (oils) in 2011. The total Scope One and Scope Two GHG emissions for 2011 was 1.64RA kilotonnes of CO2. • Explosives fuel mix Marikana operations generate the most significant portion of Scope 2 Emissions our GHG profile; accounting for 98% of our total footprint. Our most significant source of energy is our electricity consumption; • Electricity inherently linked to the increase in our absolute GHG emissions profile for 2011. Whilst our absolute emissions have increased Scope 3 Emissions reported for 2011: our efficiency in energy aggregate, electricity consumption and • Transportation of general waste to the Mooinooi landfill GHG emissions has improved and we are on track with our • Transportation of employees in and around the targets. Marikana operations. • Employee business related travel in terms of flights, car hire and accommodation. • Waste management services at the PMR. Mobile crusher at our opencast operations. Our Scope One emissions includes the consumption of diesel and petrol for vehicles utilised in our value chain. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 44 ] Climate Change (continued) ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy profile for 2011 The South African mining industry faces particular challenges in connection with the reliability of supply of electricity. 11.1% 0.4% Electricity prices that have more than doubled since 2007. Electricity (5,389TJ) 6.0% There is increasing pressure to reduce GHGs. Coal (389TJ) Gas (29TJ) Our approach Lonmin’s approach to energy is to find ways to make efficient Fuel (726TJ) use of electricity and reduce our direct and indirect GHG emissions has been applied throughout the business. 82.5% Our most significant energy consumption is of electricity and this contributes to our indirect GHG emissions, Scope Two. Our initiatives are therefore focused primarily on energy efficiency. Total energy use and efficiency Initiatives that are improving our energy efficiency include: 8,000 8 • Installing stand alone compressors at the concentrators 7,000 7 achieved a 2% reduction in energy consumption in 2011; • The re-designed compressed air system at Marikana 6,000 6 Mining has resulted in electricity savings by shutting down 5,000 5 GJ/PGM oz compressors over weekends; • Optimised Air Network projects at K3 and Rowland have TJ 4,000 4 shown a 2% reduction in energy consumption during the 3,000 3 course of 2011; • All industrial change houses and residential hostels are to 2,000 2 be converted from conventional electrical water heating to heat pump installations by mid year 2013; 1,000 1 • Shaft pumping enhancements will be made and savings 0 0 realised by November 2012; 07 08 09 10 11 Financial year • All motors in the Concentrators will be replaced with high Total energy (TJ) efficiency motors. An estimated cost savings over two Total energy efficiency years US$0.6 million; • We will be investigating compressor optimisation, heat Our total energy consumption in 2011 was 6,532.63 Terajoules pump replacements for water heating and main fan (TJ), a year-on-year increase of 5.1%. Our energy intensity per controls; unit of production has decreased by 11.1% from the 2007 • 90% of our perimeter lights were replaced with solarbaseline to 4.5 GJ/PGM oz. Electricity is the most significant powered lighting; indirect energy source and amounted to 1,496,842 MWh, a year on year increase of 8.4%. • Improving efficiency of the electro-winning process at the BMRs reduced energy consumption; and GRI EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN16, EN18, EN19, • Improved furnace availability of the smelter has resulted in EN29 and SO10 a significant increase in energy efficiency. Note: 1 Terajoules = 1,000 Gigajoules (GJ) 1 MWh = 3.6 GJ 1,000 MWh = 3.6 TJ Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 45 ] Air Quality Management Our operations affect ambient air quality concentrations. We acknowledge our responsibility to continually manage this and reduce our impact on the ambient environment. Our principal atmospheric emissions are sulphur dioxide The emissions inventory has quantified the emissions emissions (SO2), greenhouse gases as presented under our total suspended particulates for the following sources at Climate Change section and total suspended particulates18 our Marikana operations: (tsp), which includes dust. • Stacks and building; Our Approach • Wind blown dust from tailings facilities; Lonmin was granted an Atmospheric and Emission Licence • Drilling and blasting; (AEL) under the new National Environmental Management Air Quality Act 39 of 2004 (NEMAQA) in January 2011 within • Materials handling; which we have compliance commitments. We have developed an NEMAQA alignment strategy with the two main focus areas • Crushing and screening; being emissions and ambient management. Through the • Unpaved roads; and emissions management focus area we have updated our emissions inventory comprehensively. • Paved roads. We undertook the Hazemeter Campaign which provided us with evidence to inform local and regional air quality Average SO2 emissions management planning. This project has proved that both Lonmin sources and activities not owned by Lonmin influence 16 the ambient air quality within and outside our mining boundary. We will investigate the opportunity of mitigating activities within 14 our communities which affect the ambient environment. 12 10.58LA Our Performance Sulphur Dioxide Emissions 10 Conditional upon the issuing of the AEL is the inclusion of an t/day 8 impact and emissions reduction strategy. This strategy outlines our actions and fugitive management plan to: 6 i) meet the 2015 and 2020 emission commitments as 4 promulgated under NEMAQA. ii) reduce the amount of ground level fugitive SO2 emissions 2 by 40% (2010 baseline) by 2014. 0 Quarterly reports tracking our commitments are submitted to 07 08 09 10 11 the regulating authority. Our average SO2 emissions for 2011 Financial year were 10.58LA tonnes per day (t/d); a decrease of 3.51 t/d (24.9%) from 2010. Whilst our production increased the reduction in emissions is attributed to the improved efficiency and availability of our SO2 air pollution control equipment at the Smelter. 18 Total suspended particulate matter. This incorporates dust fallout, PM10, and PM2.5. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 46 ] Air Quality Management (continued) Total Suspended Particulates Dust fallout for Marikana operations – industrial monitoring sites This year we piloted the use of chemical suppression on the tailings dams at our Marikana operations. This method of 8% suppression has proved to be effective. We continue to 6% < 1,200mg/m2/day maintain and operate the suppression methods on our tailings Industrial Performance Indicator facilities; during 2011 we spent US$0.4 million on this activity. > 1,200mg/m2/day We have done extensive testing of the particulates from our > 2,400mg/m2/day Alert Level tailings dams and our results show that the chemical composition does not present a danger to people in the vicinity of our operations. 86% In addition to compliance monitoring, Lonmin undertakes dust fallout monitoring within communities surrounding our operations. Our target for dust fallout within industrial areas is set at 1,200mg/m2/day and residential areas at 600mg/m2/day. 92% of our residential monitoring sites and 86% of our industrial monitoring sites were within the set limit. Action plans are in place for those areas exceeding the industrial target. We operate a suppression system to mitigate the We continue to maintain and operate the suppression impacts of dust at our Merensky Concentrator. methods on our tailings facilities. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 47 ] Water Management and Efficiency Our mining operations are located in water scarce regions of South Africa. The increasing demand and supply for water presents a significant challenge for Lonmin and the communities in which we operate. Our Strategy Fresh water intake and efficiency Our management of water is based on: 14 8 • Securing access to sufficient water for our current and future mining operations; 12 7 Water efficiency (m3/PGM oz) • Reducing our fresh water consumption by improving water use efficiencies and water recycling; and 10 6 millions (m3) • Preventing the contamination of ground and surface water 8 5 resources in the regions where we operate. The target we have set regarding water is to reduce our 6 4 aggregate fresh water intensity by 15% per unit of production by 30 September 2012. 4 3 Our performance 2 2 The North West Province where our Marikana mining operations are located has experienced rapid growth and the 0 1 pressures from mining, industrial and urban developments in 07 08 09 10 11 the Rustenburg and surrounding areas have resulted in the Financial year regional bulk water utility provider, Rand Water, being unable Fresh water intake to guarantee the water supply to the areas. Therefore it is Water efficiency crucial for us to manage our water usage efficiently. In 2011, our total freshwater intake from the regional water utilities at the Marikana and PMR operations, as well as from the well fields in Limpopo, amounted to 7,912,595m3 RA, a year-on-year decrease of 1.15%. The total fresh water efficiency has improved by 33% compared to the 2007 baseline, this is a commendable achievement. Accurate integrated water balances is one of the most important and fundamental water management tools available to the mining industry. We started the development of an integrated water balance in 2009 with the main focus on water usage and pollution sources in our reticulation system. An Integrated Water Balance Simulation Model has been developed in 2011 that aims to achieve effective and efficient utilisation of our water resources based on reducing our potable water demand, reusing our process water and preventing discharges to the environment. The Integrated Water Balance Simulation Model also provides the necessary information that will assist in defining and driving water management strategies and aid in the decision making process by simulating and evaluating various water management strategies before implementation. This simulation model will equip us to report the percentage volume of water recycled and reused in our Marikana Operations. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 48 ] Water Management and Efficiency (continued) Our Limpopo operations have been issued with an integrated the volumes of the discharges but the integrated water water use licence and our Marikana operations’ integrated balance will be able to estimate the volumes discharged in the water use licence application has been submitted but has not future. We are not authorised to discharge any water and yet been approved by the Department of Water Affairs. The therefore need to contain our process water in a closed first short term step in the implementation of our integrated system. We aim to prevent any discharges from our Marikana water balance for Marikana is to identify where we can return water dams and waste water treatment plants into the substitute Rand Water usage with process water from within environment by September 2014. To achieve this we are our operations in order to use water more efficiently and investigating various options going into 2012 to reuse our effectively. process water more efficiently through the implementation of our Integrated Water Balance. A central balancing dam with Recent water management challenges have included pumping facilities to where water is required in the operations unusually high rainfall in summer, resulting in seasonal was a possible solution, but proved to be too costly. A more discharges at our return water dams. To ensure that the cost effective solution we are investigating involves the direct ground and surface water resources in the regions where we use of dirty water by using a sand filter and flocculation water operate are not contaminated, we monitor boreholes quarterly treatment system. to check for potential ground water pollution every quarter, for Marikana operations, and every six months for Limpopo and Future outlook PMR. We monitor surface water quality monthly at all our At Marikana, a long term solution is being investigated that will operations. In addition we perform bio monitoring bi-annually, allow the Company to secure access to water for our Life of during the wet and dry seasons, to assess the aquatic biota Business Plan. Formerly there have been significant opencast in the rivers that flow through our operations. Our Precious mining operations at Marikana. Recharge from adjacent Metals Refinery has some historic pollution in the vicinity of aquifers flows into the backfilled opencast pits creating its decommissioned effluent dams which we are addressing underground storage compartments. These are draining into using bioremediation options. our underground mining areas and need to be pumped out. In 2011, nineteen “Level Three” unplanned discharges to the It is possible that by intercepting this groundwater before it environment occurred. Six of these discharges occurred at flows into the underground workings, we can harvest this Western Platinum Limited and was discharged into the tributary “cleaner” water and re-use it in our processes as a substitute of the Maretlwane River, six discharges occurred at Eastern for Rand Water. Pilot studies will be run to investigate the use Platinum Limited and was discharged into the tributary of the of these artificial recharge sites and development of site specific Modderspruit River and seven discharges occurring at Karee strategies has begun and will be finalised during 2012. was into the tributaries of Brakspruit River and Hoedspruit River. We monitor the quality of discharges and check compliance GRI EN8, EN9, EN10, EN21 and EN25 with our effluent standards as stipulated in our General Authorisation issued by the Department of Water Affairs. None of these discharges are affecting protected or biodiversity sensitive water bodies. We are currently unable to quantify An integrated Water Balance Stimulation Model has been developed to achieve effective and efficient utilisation of our water resources. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 49 ] Responsible Biodiversity Conservation, Heritage and Land Management We are committed to promoting integrated land use management and biodiversity conservation by applying a precautionary approach during all phases of our operations including mine closure. We consider the impact of our operations on local landscapes Land managed in 2011 across the life span of a site, from initial exploration and (Total land managed 23,631 hectares) prospecting to decommissioning and closure. Careful 655 planning, management and investment of resources can 109 168 ensure that we rehabilitate and restore many of the mine areas 403 975 to an ecological status similar to the conditions that existed Other land managed before mining activities began. Total land covered by tailing facilities Strategy Total land covered by waste rock Our management of land and conservation of habitats, Net land disturbed by opencast heritage resources and biodiversity are aligned with the Total land disturbed and statements and commitments contained in the International not rehabilitated Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) position statement on 21,321 Total areas rehabilitated Mining and Protected Areas. Our Environmental and Closure Planning Strategy ensures that we comply with the South GRI EN11, MM1, MM2 and MM10 African National Environmental Management Biodiversity Act, 10 of 2004. We share best practice in biodiversity Our Biodiversity Action Plans (BAPs), which covers our Marikana, management through our membership of the South African Limpopo and PMR operations, are included in our Integrated Mining and Biodiversity Forum. Water and Waste Management Plan. They include flora and fauna studies and a survey of alien and invasive plants and GRI EN14 their impact on our water resources. The list of Red Data species and Protected Tree have been confirmed within the To minimise the environmental liability of closure we formulate BAPs. These have been undertaken in addition to the studies, and implement detailed closure plans while our sites are still in terms of the National Environmental Management Act operational. All our operations have dedicated closure plans (NEMA) and the Mineral Petroleum Resource Development and strategies. Our Closure Strategy is to identify significant Act (MPRDA) legal process, form part of all Environmental closure risks over the short, medium and long term which Impact Assessments and Environmental Management Plans allows us to take immediate action to reduce closure risks (EMPs). Our Marikana, PMR and Limpopo operations are not occurring in the future. We are considering replacing our situated in Biodiversity sensitive areas or protected areas. individual closure plans with a single integrated Company closure plan. We have calculated the unscheduled closure Lonmin worked with the Department of Water Affairs “Working cost to be US$203 million for Marikana and scheduled closure for Water Programme” to eliminate alien and invasive species cost to be US$94 million for Marikana. Limpopo operations within the riparian areas of a number of rivers and streams scheduled and unscheduled closure costs calculated to be located within Lonmin operations at Marikana. Successful US$7.05 million. elimination was monitored over three successive time periods. Having integrated future risks into our current operational The government approved EMPs for our international management we are confident that we successfully integrated exploration and national prospecting sites include mitigation our approach to closure planning across time scales and and rehabilitation measures which are applied at across all our operations. We have to address the risk of decommissioning and closure of these sites. historical soil contamination and we commit to address this risk by aligning with new legal requirements by 2014. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 50 ] Responsible Biodiversity Conservation and Land Management (continued) Performance In 2011 specific initiatives include a Phase 1 assessment of a In addition to the prospecting drilling that takes place at our heritage site which had been damaged at Jakkalskop, located existing mines we are currently undertaking prospecting adjacent to our Smelter near Wonderkop. The Phase 2 drilling at Vlakfontein in the North West province of South Assessment as required to obtain the Destruction Permit from Africa, and exploration drilling in Northern Ireland and in the South African Heritage Resources Agency (SARHA) Canada. The prospecting and exploration teams have to will commence in 2012. To ensure there is no further damage adhere to the legal EMP commitments as well as Lonmin to the excess of 150 heritage sites on our properties we have environmental requirements relating to the establishing of launched plans to undertake a heritage management plan for sites, road development, operational requirements and site the area, which will include the signposting of all sites and rehabilitation. A major concern about rehabilitation of drilling cordoning off specific sites of high significance as well as sites is the remediation of hydrocarbons in the soil. We are graveyards. We have mapped the sites on our Geographical successfully rehabilitating drilling sites using bioremediation. Information System, and on our autocad planning system, with Bioremediation forms part of our environmental requirements. communications being sent out informing Lonmin employees of these sites and systems in place, so as to pro-actively reduce We have developed a comprehensive rehabilitation plan for the destruction and mismanagement of these heritage sites. those opencast pits that have yet to be rehabilitated or are partially rehabilitated. We perform on-going monitoring, repair Our annual Arbour Day celebrations included the planting of and maintenance on rehabilitated pits. trees at our Marikana operations, surrounding Greater Lonmin Community (GLC) and the 29 schools in the GLC that Lonmin supports. A total of 211 local indigenous trees and 90 fruit trees were planted. GRI EN12, EN13, EN15 and MM10 List of threatened species with a high probability of occurring in the study area or confirmed sighting within the study area (includes Red Data Status (RD) = Data Deficient (DD), Near Threatened (NT), Vulnerable (VU)) after EkoInfo, 2008 and of Protected Tree species in terms of Regulation 30253. SPECIES DETAILS RESULT Scientific Name Common Name RD Probability INVERTEBRATES Metisella meninx Marsh Sylph VU High REPTILES Python natalensis Southern African Python VU High MAMMALS Atelerix frontalis South African Hedgehog NT High Miniopterus schreibersii Schreiber's Long-fingered Bat NT High Tatera leucogaster Bushveld Gerbil DD High BIRDS Falco naumanni Lesser Kestrel VU High Sagittarius serpentarius Secretary Bird NT High FLORA – Protected Species Eucomis autumnalis Pineapple flower/Pineapple lily VU High Combretum imberbe Leadwood tree Protected Species High Sclerocarya birrea Marula Protected Species High Future focus In 2011, Lonmin conducted a Phase 1 assessment of a significant heritage site namely the Marathodi Chiefdom on our Vlakfontein property. Depending on the conversion to Mining Right Status at Vlakfontein, Lonmin will continue with a Phase 2 Heritage assessment at the Vlakfontein and consider a heritage conservancy for the area. We intend to undertake a feasibility study to look at converting the area surrounding the Middelkraal Dam, in the middle of the Marikana operations, to a conservancy, where an education centre can be established with environmental and conservation practices implemented. We are planning for the extensive removal of alien and invasive species where business development opportunities within the GLC are being considered. The next phase of the Land use Planning Spatial Development Framework for the Marikana Operations will be undertaken where consultation with stakeholders is envisaged. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 51 ] Management of Waste We promote the sustainable use of natural resources and are committed to minimising waste to landfill at all our operations through the prevention, reduction, reuse and recycling of waste. Mining and metallurgical operations produce considerable Lonmin standards for requirements within Material Safety Data amounts of general and hazardous wastes, which unless Sheets (MSDS) for all chemical products we use in line with properly managed, as per the principle of “duty of care”, SANS 11014. We are assessing products to eliminate those can be a threat to the environment. In South Africa there are which are known human carcinogens and which are shown more than ten different Acts governing waste management. to have extreme impacts on the environment. Alternative products, which are less toxic, are being sourced. In addition, Strategy in 2012 all hazardous waste generated by Lonmin, will have In response to the National Environmental Management Waste an associated MSDS, which will adhere to the requirements Act 59 of 2008 (the Waste Act), we are developing an Industry of the standard. Integrated Waste Management Plan to further address the reduction of our waste, particularly hazardous waste, and Performance finding ways to expand on prevention, reduction, reuse and We disposed of 82,224 tonnes of general and hazardous recycling of our various waste streams The plan will be waste to landfill a 38% increase compared to 2010. It also finalised and will be rolled out in 2013. Certain aspects will be represents a 15% increase compared to the 2008 baseline. rolled out in parallel to finalisation as a result of enactment of In 2011, 72,052 tonnes of hazardous waste went to landfill or the new Regulations. incinerated representing an increase against the baseline for hazardous waste of 88%. General waste to landfill amounting This year we believe we have documented 95% of our waste to 10,172 tonnes, has increased by 12% compared to the streams and partnered with a number of entities to recycle 2008 baseline for general waste to landfill. general and hazardous wastes as well as considering innovative alternatives to disposal in the short, medium and The graph below indicates the common waste classification, long term. For certain waste streams we are looking at distribution between general and hazardous waste and alternative cleaner technology mechanisms which will allow us Lonmin’s primary waste streams (which are classified as to generate a product rather than a waste. For example, new hazardous). technology will allow us to convert the generation of our largest waste stream calcium sulphite (currently disposed of Hazardous to landfill/incinerated and general waste to landfill 2011 as waste) into gypsum, which could be sold to manufacture plaster boards and building material and input into cement. 12% 29% General waste We are investigating a number of waste minimisation alternatives with respect to our Platinum Metals Refinery Hazardous CaSO3 to landfill effluent waste. Hazardous Typical Industrial + Hazardous Health Care Waste GRI EN26 2% Hazardous PMR Effluent 57% Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 52 ] Management of Waste (continued) The table below summarises the various sources of waste that Projects investigated or initiated include recycling domestic are recycled, refurbished or re-used. waste at our Marikana operations, composting sludge with garden waste, optimising oil separation to take out more All of Lonmin’s general waste is disposed of at permitted landfill recyclable oils, recycling grease instead of disposing of it, sites. The Mooinooi Landfill operated by Lonmin at the Marikana and replacing fluorescent tubes with energy efficient CFLs operations, receive 94% of the total general waste sent to (compact florescent lamps) together with investigation into landfill and the municipal landfills in Springs and Polokwane recycling opportunities for the mercury, glass and metal receiving the remainder. Hazardous waste disposal is confirmed components of fluorescent lights. Lonmin reuses IT equipment by the waste contractors through the issuing and recording of and in 2011 donated nine laptops, eight monitors and nine waste manifest documentation, waybills and safe disposal computer boxes to schools and local community. certificates. Third party audits confirm safe disposal status. Our collaboration with the Rustenburg Local Municipality Waste type 2011 (tonnes) will assist in bringing a sanitary waste transfer facility to the Marikana area, together with job creation initiatives in the form Recycle of a recycling buy-back centre. Ferrous and nonferrous scrap 5,828 Metal liners with steel balls 387.6 We provided support to three local communities namely Concentrator scats and scrap 954.8 Majakaneng, Maditlhokwa, and Marikana in their clean-up Paper 12.6 campaigns and assisted in the provision of education material Rubber 2,062.5 to the volunteers involved in the projects. Eight tonnes of Plastics 201.3 waste were collected and disposed of from these areas. Tyres 186.8 The National Department of Environment praised the Refurbishment management and operation of our Mooinooi landfill site and Refurbished Steel 136.5 requested that they utilise the landfill to train municipal landfill site operators. We have a drop off area for recyclables at our Re-use landfill site which provides a suitable facility to the surrounding Food 28.6 community; encouraging them to participate in recycling of Wood reused 4,556 waste. The landfill management negotiated the best possible Plastic reused 0 prices for these reclaimers, who earned approximately Building rubble 120 US$97,338 for their efforts in 2011. In addition, by removing Hazardous Waste Recycled 422 tonnes of recyclables, their efforts assisted in reducing Oil 120.9 the environmental impact from waste as well as increasing the E-waste 1.64 life of the landfill site. Hazardous Waste Reused In 2011, we did not transport, import or export any waste Ash 1,640.5 categorised as hazardous under the Basel Convention. We also do not make use of external sources of waste material in the mining and processing of PGMs. The Waste Act requires us to appoint a waste management Mineral waste (residue stockpiles), comprising mostly waste control officer, which we have done. In terms of the Act, we rock and tailings, is disposed of on-site at waste rock dumps received the waste licences for our salvage yard (storage of and tailings facilities respectively. Our mineral wastes require hazardous and general waste and treatment of soil through codes of practice which we update every second year. As part bioremediation) and the upgrade of our EPL and Hossy of the waste reuse option, we supply waste rock for use in Sewage Treatment Facilities. We submitted an application for construction of roads and building foundations. a licence for the storage of effluent waste as well as for remediation of contaminated land at the Platinum Metals Due to the nature of the ore that we mine and the manner in Refinery (PMR) and expect to receive the licenses shortly. which we process it, we do not generate acid mine drainage from our residue waste stockpiles. This is because the sulphidic The temporary mitigation option, for the medium to long term, minerals from the ore are recovered with our concentrate at rehabilitation of existing Calcium Sulphite dams commenced, the Concentrators; these are then smelted and the sulphides and includes the stabilisation, which constitutes the extension are either oxidised and captured in the calcium sulphite waste of side slopes, capping and the dams with an approved lining or refined into our Nickel Sulphate product. system, grassing of the dam and introducing cut off trenches to capture any seepage. This process will be completed in 2012, but monitoring and management will be continuous until a long term option for the removal and reuse of this waste is found. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 53 ] Management of Waste (continued) We have five dormant and six operational tailings facilities, Future focus all of which are situated above ground. Operational tailings In 2012 our main focus will be completing the development of dams are grassed on the side walls, but once a tailings facility our Industry Integrated Waste Management Plan (IndIWMP). is classified as dormant, various dust suppression and reAnother focus will be improving the removal of waste from vegetation programmes are undertaken on the entire site. underground which we will be driving through our plan. We have thirteen waste rock dumps. Waste rock generated We will have implemented our pilot wastepaper recycling for 2011 was 1,772 kilotonnes (1,602 kilotonnes in 2010) and project in our main Marikana office block (LPD) and in 2012 resulted in the increase of the dumps volumes to 7,435 kilo we plan to set up an entrepreneurial development process to m3, with a footprint of 498,030 m2. These exclude temporary manage the removal of the entire domestic waste stream opencast overburden rock dumps. Overburden waste rock (paper, glass, metal and plastic) from our operations. stock piles have increased as a result of the mining of opencast pits with the footprint increasing to 594,645 m2 and Investigations and feasibility studies on alternatives to landfill increased volume of 8,571 m3. for our primary waste streams will have progressed substantially providing substantive information for decision Chrome extraction plants are erected at our operation to making. remove Chrome from tailings, extending the life of the tailings facilities and reducing Chrome released into the environment. Collaboration with the Madibeng and Rustenburg Local Three new plants have been in operation since May 2011 with Municipalities, in the development of potentially Public Private the combined tonnage of chromite extracted for sales from Partnerships, where GLC entrepreneurial development is the the tailings process being 730,278 tonnes for 2011. A tailings focal area is being considered for waste management services treatment plant that will re-treat tailings from chrome plants to within the entire GLC. recover additional PGMs is under construction and will commission in 2012. GRI EN22, EN24 and MM3 2011 General waste to landfill 10,172 tonnes Hazardous waste to landfill 72,027 tonnes General and Hazardous waste incinerated 25 tonnes General waste recycled, reused and refurbished 15,011 tonnes Hazardous waste recycled and reused (ash not previously documented) 1,747 tonnes Tailings 11, 820 kilotonnes Waste rock 1,772 kilotonnes Five year comparable data can be viewed in the back of this report page 77. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 54 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth We aim to create value through our direct operations – discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. We also create indirect economic benefit for stakeholders; the Greater Lonmin Community (GLC), our shareholders, business partners, employees and suppliers. Highlights Our operational performance • Infrastructure development spend of US$2.6 million; This year the Mining Division and Process Division demonstrated continued growth. Total tonnes mined were • Four joint ventures established as part of our Greater 11.7 million, a 0.4 million tonne increase from 2010. The Lonmin Community (GLC) Supplier Development Process Division achieved refined production of 731,273 ounces Programme; and of Platinum; an increase of 6.7% from 2010. Progress has • Cash distribution of US$28 million to employees from been made on a number of initiatives launched over the past Shanduka Resources buy out of Incwala investors. years to ensure improved delivery and increased productivity in the Mining and Process Division. These include: Focus Areas • Improving long and short term planning systems for our • Empowering people through ownership and GLC mining operations to enable the evaluation of different supplier development; production scenarios at short notice; • Transformation through preferential procurement; and • Improving recoveries at our Base Metals and Precious • Infrastructure development. Metal Refineries; • Commissioning of the new Xstrata and ChromTech GLC Greater Lonmin Community – Communities within a 15km radius chrome extraction plants; from our operations. • Improving concentrator recovery rates and plant running Our approach times; We align our management of our economic impacts to the • Redesigning of Number One Furnace; ICMM Resources and Economic Position Paper which recognises the potential of the mining industry to play a part • Finalising incentive programmes for our productive in broader economic development and poverty reduction. employees including supervision to increase the element Lonmin aims to maximise the positive direct and indirect of variable pay. impacts it has on society and the Greater Lonmin Community in particular and to minimise any negative impacts we may have. We invest in the sustainability of our operations, grow our portfolio of high quality assets and achieve a return on investments for our shareholders. Anna Loucah winner of the Design Innovation Awards Zoe Harding a winner in the “Established Designers” category. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 55 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) Our performance (continued) Major Shareholders in 2011 • Designing fit for purpose cost and management systems Percentage of which are scheduled to be rolled out to all operations Number of shares the Company’s during the course of 2012; and voting rights total shares • Improving relationships with the Unions and DMR; Xstrata Plc 49,826,225 24.59 • Tracking production on a daily basis through imbedding Prudential plc group companies 17,322,632 8.55 the “Line of Sight” management system in all our Legal & General Group Plc 7,706,524 3.80 operations; and Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 6,158,652 3.04 Vanguard Precious Metals • Progressing joint ventures with Vale and Wallbridge Mining and Mining Fund 6,041,666 2.98 in Canada. Value-added statement for Lonmin Plc as at 30 September 2011 2011 2010 Variance $m $m % Net Cash Generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products 2,226 1,442 54% Cash returns on investment 3 3 – Suppliers19 Cash payments for materials and services purchased (641) (473) 36% Cost of borrowings (39) (44) (11)% Net cash flows 1,549 928 67% Cash Distributed Human capital (salaries & benefits) 796 659 21% Social capital 8.8 8.7 1% Donations 1.1 0.2 100% Other community projects20 7.7 8.5 (9)% Government taxes 40 36 11% Directors remuneration 7 6 17% Shareholders’ distribution 30 – – Cash retained for sustainable growth 667 218 206% Net cash distributed 1,549 928 67% 19 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement. 20 Inclusive of salary and administrative costs. Our Platinum sales reported for 2011 were 720,782 oz, compared to 706,274 oz in 2010. Further details can be found in the Annual Report and Accounts. GRI EC1, SO6 and 2.8 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 56 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) Further details of our economic and financial performance can A. Empowering people through ownership and the GLC be found in our 2011 Annual Report and Accounts, available Supplier Development Programme on our website www.lonmin.com. Information about direct Our commitment to empowering HDSAs and people in the economic risks and opportunities and strategies to capitalise GLC in particular, is part of our overall commitment to on these opportunities is also to be found in the Annual transformation, and includes building economically independent Report and Accounts. and thriving communities which in turn will provide a functional environment for the Company’s operations. Lonmin remains committed to reporting any payments to government and maintaining the utmost transparency in this Our Supplier Development Programme includes the regard, in line with the Extractive Industries Transparency development of companies wholly owned by HDSAs and Initiative’s guidance and methodology. Neither of the members of the GLC as well as Joint Ventures between governments of South Africa or the United Kingdom were HDSA companies and established companies with particular Lonmin shareholders, nor did Lonmin receive any financial expertise that can be transferred. We favour the creation of assistance from government during the reporting period. Joint Ventures over the incubation of companies that are wholly HDSA-owned as it creates the opportunity for the transfer of GRI EC4 skills to newly-developed companies that they need in order to succeed. We also facilitate access to finance and provide mentorship through this process. Managing our indirect economic impacts Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited has a 100% holding Our indirect economic impacts include: in Incwala Platinum (Proprietary) Limited, which in turn has an 18% holding in the share capital of Western Platinum Limited The impact of our infrastructure development within the and Eastern Platinum Limited, the operational entities which GLC described on page 57 (Infrastructure development); hold the mining rights in Marikana and directly and indirectly and in certain of our Limpopo operations. Incwala Resources Our community programmes described on page 31 in (Proprietary) Limited holds a 26% stake in Akanani Mining Partnering with Communities. (Proprietary) Limited which holds the Akanani project. As previously stated, Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited We measure our impacts and progress with their management acquired 50.03% of the shares in Incwala (Proprietary) Limited in accordance with international standards, protocols and through the acquisition of these shares from HDSA shareholders benchmarks. In order to assess and understand our impacts in Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited. Arising from this we engage our stakeholders in surveys and carry out transaction which involved Shanduka Resources buying out our baselines assessments, needs analyses, as well as corner stone investors a cash distribution of circa US$29 million environmental and social impact assessments. was distributed to current and former Lonmin employees. Our Through procuring supplies from HDSA companies and other HDSA business partners include Mvelaphanda Resources specifically those located within the GLC we have the Limited, which holds 7.5% of the Pandora Joint Venture and opportunity to indirectly create further employment and to 50% of the Dwaalkop Joint Venture; and the Bapo Ba Mogale facilitate skills development. Mining Company (Proprietary) Limited which holds 7.5% of the Pandora Joint Venture. Our SLP also influences our management of our indirect economic impacts as our commitments within the SLP guide GRI 2.9 our training and empowerment initiatives. To meet our commitments and implement our management approach to adding value we have specific initiatives and projects in place which are closely monitored to measure their impact. They include: A. Empowering people through ownership and the GLC Supplier Development Programme; B. Transformation through preferential procurement; and C. Infrastructure Development GRI EC6 and EC9 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 57 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) B. Transformation through preferential procurement C. Infrastructure development Many local HDSA companies currently lack the experience or Our commitment to addressing the lack of basic infrastructure, resources to meet our business needs. Supplier development which is hindering socio-economic development in the GLC, is consequently an integral part of our Preferential Procurement is included in our SLP and aligned with the Integrated Strategy. As mentioned, we actively encourage partnerships Development Plans of government and the municipalities in between local HDSA companies and our existing suppliers which we operate. who build capacity in local HDSA companies. We further Our contribution to infrastructure development in the GLC ring-fence community infrastructure projects for local business includes capital investment in public and healthcare participation so as to assist in preparing local businesses for infrastructure as well as education infrastructure. Our opportunities beyond mining activities. integrated approach to social development includes The Broad Based Socio-Economic Charter for the South contracting local GLC suppliers and companies owned by African Mining Industry (Original Charter) was revised in HDSAs to work with us on our infrastructure development September 2010. This increased the empowerment projects. Our infrastructure projects include: requirements for qualification as a black owned entity. In March 2011 we started to measure compliance against the Infrastructure development expenditure in 2011 requirements of the Revised Charter and found that our measured spend reduced from 69.7% to 34.5%. Lonmin investment Project in million We set targets for preferential procurement in our Supply Extention of Community Clinics US$0.6 Chain as well. Our targets for 2011 are set out in the table Modderspruit Water Reticulation US$0.7 below. Initially, our target for HDSA procurement in 2011 was School Infrastructure US$1.4 16.6% of our total procurement and 65% of our total discretionary spend. These targets were revised so as to align Total US$2.7 them with the targets contained in the Revised Charter. Our revised targets are as follows: by 30 September 2014, of our Our integrated approach to social development includes total discretionary spend, we will achieve 40% HDSA spend contracting local GLC suppliers and companies owned by on Capital Goods, 70% HDSA spend on Services and 50% HDSAs to work with us on our infrastructure development HDSA spend on Consumable Goods. projects. We have invested in a system to continuously gather and analyse our supplier data and to verify the empowerment GRI EC8 credentials of vendors. This supplier data is presented below. Broad-based socio-economic empowerment charter for the South African Mining Industry Target 2011 2010 Capital Goods (40%) 28.37% LA 68.7% Services (70%) 47.95%LA 67.5% Consumable Goods (50%) 40.96%LA 71.5% Our potential suppliers are informed of our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy and our Sustainable Development Standards and we encourage our suppliers to adopt sustainable development practices. All strategic contracts are reviewed by the supply chain on a continuous basis. Supply Chain ensures the correct procedures are followed and Lonmin’s interests protected if new contracts or price changes are negotiated. We invest in the upgrading of the community schools infrastructure. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 58 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) Our product Platinum demand by industry South Africa is the world leader in Platinum and PGM production, having produced around 4.6 million ounces21 of 2.83% 0.61% Platinum and 7.8 million ounces of Platinum, Palladium and 3.91% Rhodium in 2010. 4.73% Automotive Glass 3.20% Lonmin, the world’s third largest primary Platinum producer, sold Jewellery Medical and 5.79% Biomedical 720,782 oz of Platinum (10% of the forecasted global supply) 3.05% Petroleum during 2011. Other Chemical Off-road In 2011, 16% of our total PGM production was allocated to Electrical 49.18% engines local customers, while 14% of our Platinum production and 26.70% 35% of our Palladium production was beneficiated in South Africa in the production of autocatalyst converters by the automotive industry. Source: SFA (Oxford) 2010 Demand by Region PGMs The six Platinum Group Metals – Platinum, Palladium, Platinum demand by country Rhodium, Ruthenium, Iridium and Osmium – occur in our ore bodies together with associated and by-product metals such 19% 14% United States as gold, silver, cobalt, copper, nickel and chrome. We refine and sell the first five of the above PGMs and some of the Western Europe by-products, for which we derive additional income. Japan Unique properties of PGMs make them indispensable to China 32% modern technology and industry and their uses are many and 24% Rest of World varied, from the automotive industry to the medical field. GRI 2.2 and 2.7 11% Source: SFA (Oxford) 2010 Demand by Region. Product uses Automotive Industrial The increasing need to manage engine emissions will remain Platinum, Palladium, Rhodium, Iridium and Ruthenium are the key driver of demand with more types of engines starting used in applications such as flat screen televisions, mobile to fall into the legislative net. Other areas of growth such as phones, hard drives and catalysts in petroleum refineries. fuel cells, both stationary and those used in vehicles, continue to gather momentum. Electric and hybrid power trains may Investment increase in market share over coming years but are likely to Growth in the investment market slowed this year. There were be transition or bridge technologies and remain unlikely to some redemptions in the platinum market in the middle of the become a significant market segment in terms of vehicle units year and in the last month of FY2011, but overall investors in the next decade. have been adding to their ETF holdings. Overall, platinum ETF holdings increased and are still close to record levels. Following Non road diesel remains a strong new market for platinum, a strong performance in Lonmin’s first half, the palladium with only Europe and the US covered by legislation at this market has seen consistent redemptions since March, resulting stage, accounting for approximately a fifth of the world’s in a net drawdown for this year. Our long term view for this non-road vehicle fleet. China and India are expected to follow demand category is that it will remain a modest net consumer in 2015/16 and other emerging countries after that. Estimates over time. of on-road heavy duty diesel vehicles have been upgraded, due to stronger-than-expected orders. This is driven by new Tier VI emission legislation coming in 2014 and some retro-fitting. Product responsibility We aim to be ethical in all our dealings. We build value chains Diesels in Europe are back above 50% market share. The US in our business that minimise the negative and enhance the also showed growth in diesel market share and is expected to positive impacts of our products over their life cycles. We increase from around 3% currently, to a slightly more than implement social and environmental impact analyses wherever double this figure by 2017. this is relevant or beneficial. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Jewellery concerning our products or with laws and regulations We have seen sales in China, the world’s largest jewellery governing the provision and use of our products and services. market, increase by more than 10% year on year (800koz up to September 2011) despite the dollar platinum price on average being 13% higher this year compared to 2010. Record high gold prices and the strong price increase in palladium, used in competing white gold, contributed to 21 Source SFA (Oxford). platinum appearing more affordable in relative terms. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 59 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) Beyond our core operations, we encourage product The percentage of the products we sell for which the responsibility by promoting the use, reuse and recycling and packaging is reclaimed is not significant, nor is the percentage responsible disposal of our products. We are also committed of materials we use that are recycled or classified as to the responsible marketing and selling of our products, secondary input material in the context of PGM production informed by the Company’s values and policies. and they are not a significant risk for Lonmin. Lonmin is a founder member of the PGM and Rhenium GRI EN17, EN26, EN27, MM11, PR1 and PR3 Consortium within the European Precious Metals Foundation (EPMF). This helped to ensure compliance with the requirements of both directives on Classification, Labelling and Packaging (CLP) as well as Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Customer satisfaction Restriction of Chemicals (REACH). We conduct an annual survey of customer satisfaction in which we assess our performance on delivery, product quality, GRI PR2, PR4 and PR9 responsiveness, communication, labelling and packaging. Lonmin protects the privacy of our customers by keeping specific feedback confidential. No violations of customer Materials stewardship privacy or data loss have occurred during 2011. No fines were PGMs have a long lifecycle because of their durability and incurred for non-compliance in the provision and use of our high recyclability, approximately 96%22 of PGMs can be product, nor were there any incidents of non-compliance with recovered through high efficiency recycling processes. voluntary codes regarding the health and safety impacts associated with the use of our products, or concerning Lonmin, as a member of the International Platinum Group product marketing practices. Metals Association (IPA), endorsed the decision by the IPA in May 2011 to embark on a life cycle assessment on behalf of GRI PR5, PR6, PR7, PR8 and PR9 the entire PGM industry that will assess the life-cycle of PGMs from mine through to market. We have two representatives on the IPA Sustainability Committee. Research and development We are always looking for opportunities to use non-hazardous Group companies continue to be actively involved in research alternative materials in our processes. Where hazardous and development in the areas of mineral extraction, substances cannot be replaced, our operating procedures processing and refining to unlock new technology outline responsible purchasing, appropriate handling and opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets. management, the prevention of waste generation, separation Numerous projects are in progress across the business, of waste, storage and disposal of waste. including: In terms of the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and • on-going work on the characterisation of ores, leading to restriction of Chemicals (REACH), a European Union (EU) improved specifications for processing equipment and regulation enforced since 2007, all the packaging of our reagents; products has been upgraded to meet EU requirements and the labelling also reflects the new layout and symbols • improving the stability and availability of the smelting established under the United Nations’ Globally Harmonised furnaces through new sensor technologies, better System (GHS). This is undertaken at operational level and in mineralogical understanding and design improvements; discussion with those who purchase, trade or toll refine our • development of a new process, for which a provisional products. None of our products and services requires product patent application has been filed, to significantly upgrade and service information. the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall Through the value chain of the production of PGMs we conduct waste reduction, reduction in residue tolling costs and a number of risk assessments based on health and safety. improved PMR efficiencies; and Page 30 provides detailed information on the assessments • developing pilot studies for a new process for the we conduct specifically regarding occupational hygiene. Our production of final metals at the PMR. safety section (page 17) and health section (page 28) provides more detail of the results of our assessments. Lonmin invests in research and development projects with its customers that investigate new and better ways of To better understand our use of hydrocarbons and to find beneficiating PGMs. We have and continue to play a role in ways to use them more efficiently, we have installed a fuel the ongoing discussions around beneficiation. management system that will allow us to track fuel consumption for each Company vehicle and will highlight when a vehicle is being driven inefficiently. We expect the system to help us improve our fuel efficiency by between 10% – 20%. 22 International Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA). Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 60 ] Profit: Adding Value Responsibly and Creating Wealth (continued) Promoting our products We are an anchor sponsor to the Platinum Guild International and a company representative holds a board position on the Platinum Jewellery Development Association. Founded in 1975, the Guild has over the years focused on providing sales information and support to the jewellery trade through its presence in five countries across the globe. Lonmin is the main sponsor of the Design Innovation Awards established nine years ago to recognise and reward outstanding design in platinum and to encourage innovation and high standards of jewellery design. Hosted in London, the competition has two categories. The “Emerging Designers” category recognises designers with less than five years’ commercial experience and the “Established Designers” category gives those designers who have been in the business over five years an opportunity to show off their skills. The 2011 winners in the “Emerging Designers” category were: Leyla Abdollahi, Alexander Davis, Sarah Ho, Anthony Roussel and Laura Strand; in the “Established Designers” category the winners were: Zoe Harding, Fei Liu and Anna Loucah. The prizes include an exclusive marketing and public relations campaign to promote the winning designers and their winning creations, a showcase on the Johnson Matthey stand at the International Jewellery London show and £300 contribution to the production of each winning design. For more information on the awards see www.designinnovationawards.co.uk. GRI EC1 and 4.9 The winning design of Fei Liu in the “Established Designers” category. Leyla Abdollahi winner in the “Emerging Designers’” Anthony Roussel’s design. category. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 61 ] Upholding Ethical Business Practices We are committed to upholding ethical conduct across all our operations, in business and in our social commitments, through responsible practices, sound corporate governance and transparency. Highlights The revised Lonmin Code of Business-Conduct, which will be • Our ethical business practices are guided by our published in the near future, embodies all of our values and Lonmin Charter and the Lonmin Code of Business replaces the Code of Business Ethics. To arrive at the Lonmin Conduct; and Code of Business Conduct we reviewed our existing Code of Business Ethics against other similar Codes, consulted the • No legal notices of anticompetitive, anti-trust or Institute of Business Ethics and developed a Code that monopoly practices were received in 2011. connects with our corporate values and provides a guide for our employees as to how to conduct themselves in terms of Focus Areas living our values. It also complies with the International Council • Screening our vendors for corruption before we enter of Mining and Metals (ICMM) Principles and United Nations into contracts with them; Global Compact (UNGC). Our Code of Business Conduct will • Publish our revised Lonmin code of Business Conduct; form part of the induction and refresher training and will be and provided in an e-learning format, this will allow us to build in competency testing. • Analysing all our business units for risks associated with corruption as part of our formal risk assessment and We have also reworded our terms of trade in our vendor management process. contracts to align them with our new Lonmin Code of Business Conduct. We provide an Ethics Hotline, a phone-in service available to Our management approach anyone involved in our business operations, including our Operating ethically and in a manner that fully respects human employees, contractors, customers and suppliers. The service rights is both the right thing to do and good business sense. is provided by an independent third party and is a secure It enhances our licence to operate, helps us attract and retain channel that can be used to report any conduct of concern in the best talent, creates an environment of trust among our the Company. The service is designed to maintain employees, maintains good relationships with all our confidentiality and, where appropriate, provide anonymity for stakeholders and allows us to move forward as a company. those who choose to report incidents and who may need Our business ethics are grounded in our central value of protection from recriminations. Incidents reported through the integrity, honesty and trust. Ethics Hotline are referred to the Company Secretary and the Head of Internal Audit, who are authorised to take appropriate action to investigate any allegations of a breach of the Lonmin Code of Business Ethics. Our commitment to sound ethical business conduct includes our membership of international bodies that uphold and monitor corporate ethical responsibility. Lonmin is one of the founding members of the Institute of Business Ethics, a nonprofit organisation based in the United Kingdom, whose sole purpose is to drive high standards of business conduct through research, advisory services, reporting and education. We also partner with the South African government and our industry peers in a number of decision-making forums with the aim of encouraging productive collaboration in setting standards for national business conduct. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 62 ] Upholding Ethical Business Practices (continued) Tracking key initiatives Categories and status of cases of unethical behaviour in 2011 The initiatives we employ to ensure ethical conduct include compliance initiatives, building ethical value chains, 14 implementing sound anti-corruption measures in our organisation and fostering pro-competitive decision-making. 12 Managing legislative compliance Number of incidents 10 Responsibility for implementing legislative compliance resides Awaiting Disciplinary Action with our line management. However, our CEO remains 8 Open Investigation accountable for the legal compliance of the Company. We monitor our performance on legal compliance which includes Awaiting Criminal 6 Action environmental management, health, safety, human capital, business ethics, human rights and community development. Awaiting Court 4 Hearing Finalise Disciplinary Building ethical value chains 2 Action Our Procurement Policy provides clear guidelines for the Finalise Criminal procurement of goods and services from third parties 0 Action including the assessment of our suppliers in terms of ethical Pr ud oc C business practices, human rights, safety and sustainable ed om ur p Fr Ve PG a Se llin e an nd M g development practices. Vi y ol Jo b or Re at In lat Co ions ve st ed These requirements are contained in clauses in our supplier rru pt ig at io io contracts and are enforced and monitored through our n ns systems which include a security clearance to be conducted Categories of cases before any formal engagement of a supplier. The information required for this clearance process includes the Company registration, credit and tax information, BEE status, financial Preventing anti-competitive behaviour judgements and a full conduct evaluation to be completed at While we do engage with our industry peers on a range of our discretion. issues, our meetings with competitors where sensitive matters could arise are supervised by qualified attorneys. We are GRI HR1 confident that we adhere to legislation and avoid anticompetitive behaviour at our operations. This is confirmed by the absence of any allegations of anticompetitive, antitrust or monopoly practice by the Competition Commission. Our CEO remains Enforcing anticorruption measures accountable for the competitive conduct of all our operations. In 2011, fifteen employees were dismissed; for two of these cases criminal prosecution has been instituted due to unethical Further details associated with our business ethics on how we behaviour. A total of 37 instances of unethical behaviour were determine independency of our directors, calculation of reported and investigated, two less than last year, of these director compensation and shareholder democracy can be 78% were reported directly to the Investigation Department by viewed in our Annual Report and Accounts. employees and other stakeholders and eight cases were reported using the Ethics Hotline. We analyse 100% of our GRI SO2, SO3, SO4, SO7 and SO8 business units for risks related to corruption and respond to any complaints laid made on risks related to corruption. Four suppliers were subject to investigation and the business relationship with one of these suppliers was terminated due to unethical business practices. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 63 ] Respecting and Valuing Fundamental Human Rights We are committed to protecting and upholding the fundamental human rights of all people across our operations and in the Company’s interactions with communities and other stakeholders. Our management approach As with our stance on unethical business in general, we have We believe that it is essential to follow internationally a zero tolerance approach to human rights abuses. recognised standards regarding human rights. The Our CEO is responsible for all human rights matters across international conventions that inform our policy are the our operations. He is supported in this role by our Executive Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Vice President Human Capital and External Affairs and by the framework for businesses formulated in the United Nations Company Secretary. Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the proceedings of both the We do not report specifically on total hours of employee International Labour Organisation (ILO) and the International training or the percentage of employees trained on policies Council of Mining and Metals (ICMM). and procedures concerning aspects of human rights and business ethics, as these elements are included in the UNGC Principles related to Human Rights: induction and annual refresher training that all employees • Businesses should support and respect the protection receive. of internationally proclaimed human rights (Page 63); Training materials are available in the languages predominantly • Business should make sure that they are not complicit in spoken by our employees (Afrikaans, English, Setswana, human rights abuses (Page 65); Sotho and Xhosa) spoken in the provinces where we operate. Illiterate employees are briefed verbally in the language of their • Businesses should uphold the freedom of association choice. During the induction process our employees are and the effective recognition of the right to collective briefed on our mechanisms for resolving grievances and bargaining (Page 65); reporting incidents. – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory All human rights related policies are available on the Company labour; (Page 63); intranet; revised or new policies are circulated via email and – the effective abolition of child labour (Page 63); discussed in management meetings and safety breaks. – the elimination of discrimination in respect of None of our operations have been subject to human rights employment and occupation. (Page 65); reviews. • Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, GRI HR1, HR3 and SO3 including extortion and bribery. (Page 62); Our Human Rights Policy was formulated to assist and guide Managing work conditions the Company in achieving its commitment to the fundamental Lonmin requires its employees to refrain from engaging in rights contained in the relevant international Human Rights practices or pursuing interests that are in conflict with the aims conventions of our Company Human Rights Policy or interests that may cause prejudice to the Company. Our Human Rights Policy Our commitment to fundamental human rights is embodied in and Employment Policy prohibit the employment of anyone the following principles: under the age of eighteen years. No incidents of forced or child • Equality, fair labour practices and the right to prosperity; labour were reported during 2011 nor are our operations at risk of such occurrences. All our employees enter into • Human dignity and the individual’s right to life, freedom employment with Lonmin voluntarily and, if they are required and security; to work overtime, this is restricted to the national permitted • Taking a stand against slavery and child labour; level in line with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act 75 of 1997. • Ensuring privacy, freedom of religion, belief and opinion and the right to language and culture; • Freedom of expression, association, trade, occupation and profession; and • An environment that is not harmful to health or wellbeing. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 64 ] Respecting and Valuing Fundamental Human Rights (continued) Managing work conditions (continued) Ensuring freedom of association and collective bargaining None of our significant suppliers have been identified as being Our Human Rights Policy and agreements are aligned to the at risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour. The South Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995. 55% of Lonmin’s employees African Constitution provides that children under eighteen are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The drop in have a right to be protected from work that is exploitative, the union membership can be ascribed to the Karee industrial hazardous or otherwise inappropriate for their age, detrimental action which resulted in a large number of affected employees to their schooling, or detrimental to their social, physical, leaving their unions. While the South African mining industry mental, spiritual or moral development. South African based does not have a minimum wage, we ensure that we comply suppliers are 73% of our total suppliers. with government’s set minimum wage for employees with basic skills across industries. GRI HR6 and HR7 Lonmin upholds the right of its employees to collective bargaining and freedom of association and potential employees are advised of this. We adhere to collective Aligning security services with human rights bargaining agreements with due regard to the relevant Our security services are aligned with relevant national legislation. Collective agreements are the product of legislation and with the United Nations Basic Principles on the negotiation between the parties and they specify the minimum Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials. notice period to be given regarding operational changes as While we do not currently report quantitatively on our human being from three days to twelve weeks. rights training for security personnel all our security personnel and contractors receive training on human rights. Security The trade unions negotiate terms and conditions of personnel undergo Private Security Industry Regulatory employment for their members. Lonmin settles wages with the Authority (PSIRA) training, a number of the modules of which unions associations annually. cover human rights related topics. We employ 145 permanent During 2011 there was an illegal strike action by members of Lonmin employees in security and 635 contractor security National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) at our Karee operations personnel. which disrupted production at Karee from 17 May until In addition to training security personnel we also aim to 10 June 2011 and resulted in the dismissal of approximately resolve security incidents with sensitivity and respect for 9,000 employees. We allowed those who wanted to work human rights. for Lonmin to re-apply for their positions. Approximately 8,200 of these employees were redeployed at Karee. The remaining Lonmin does not tolerate any abuse of human rights and in employees we recruited were from the Greater Lonmin particular it does not tolerate violence. We have developed a Community (GLC) and skilled employees from the nonSecurity Code of Business Conduct to be fully implemented operational Aurora mines. during 2012. We enjoy a good working relationship with NUM and the situation of Karee was unusual and arose as a result of a dispute between Rustenburg regional office and leadership of During September, allegations were made around the the local Karee branch of NUM and not with Lonmin. Our possible involvement of certain of our employees or relationships with other recognised trade unions are equally representatives in a campaign of intimidation and good. With an industrial action of this nature it is important to harassment against employees at the PMR. We re-establish relations with affected employees and we will be investigated this and found that some of our employees continuing with the work already undertaken in this regard have been harassed and assaulted allegedly by individuals during the coming year. posing as Lonmin employees or representatives. We give categoric assurance that these criminal acts were carried out without Lonmin’s knowledge or mandate. We assisted the affected employees by providing counselling services and further assisted them in laying criminal charges with South African Police Services. Lonmin does not tolerate any form of intimidation, dishonesty or criminal behaviour and we continue to work with law enforcement agencies to combat the activities of international crime syndicates. GRI HR8 and HR10 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 65 ] Respecting and Valuing Fundamental Human Rights (continued) Employee representation in trade unions and associations in 2011 Union/Association 2011 (Number) 2011 (%) 2010 (%) 2009 (%) 2008 (%) 2007 (%) National Unions of Mineworkers (NUM) 13,254 47.7 69.3 71.1 70.7 69.7 Solidarity 842 3.0 2.8 2.7 2.3 2.1 United Associations of South African (UASA) 868 3.1 3.7 3.8 3.7 3.7 Other Unions 471 0.2 2.3 2.7 2.8 4.2 Total unionised workers 15,435 55.5 78.1 80.3 79.4 79.7 GRI LA4, LA5 and MM4 Eliminating discrimination and resolving grievances with suppliers were terminated for noncompliance on human A range of programmes are implemented in the Company in rights issues. During 2011, we assessed 32 suppliers to order to foster an environment of non-discrimination and equal determine if they complied with our safety and environmental opportunities. We are opposed to all forms of discrimination, requirements, as well as to establish if they recognised trade including discrimination directly or indirectly against any unions. Of the 32 assessed 21 indicated that they recognised person on the grounds of race, gender, sex, pregnancy marital trade unions. status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture and language. GRI HR1, HR2 and HR5 We have specific policies in place to manage the possibility of unequal and discriminatory actions. These include a Maternity Policy guaranteeing the rights of pregnant employees and a Respecting the rights of communities residing in areas Sexual Harassment Policy with clear guidelines that allow the adjacent to our operations creation of a safe and non-exploitative environment for all Our Marikana operations are adjacent to the Bapo Ba Mogale employees. Mapela, Mphahlele, Ledwaba, Kekana Ndlovu (Limpopo operations) and Silindini traditional authorities (an authority Unfortunately in 2011 we had two incidents of discrimination from the Eastern Cape Province from where many of our and three cases of sexual harassment that were reported employees originate). Our procedure for engaging with during the year. All these cases were investigated and three potentially affected indigenous people and local communities have been resolved. South Africa is still negotiating a difficult in the vicinity of our operations is outlined in Engaging our legacy of racial, cultural, gender and other forms of prejudice. Stakeholders (Page 36). No incidents involving the violation To eliminate all forms of discrimination as a company, we must of the rights of local communities or indigenous people were foster an environment in which employees are comfortable to reported and no formal allegations of non-compliance in terms come forward and report discrimination when it happens. We of Company policy or national convention on indigenous have also run campaigns against sexual harassment which people were reported. However, we are in the process of provided the necessary information to employees and resolving a number of land claims that were submitted against contractors. the Company before 2010 (see Partnering with Communities page 31). GRI HR4 and HR11 GRI HR9, MM5, MM6 and MM7 Investing in ethical value chains We aim to maintain respect for human rights and ethical conduct across our entire Company including all the Company’s business dealings, relationships, activities and conduct. This extends to employees, customers and suppliers of goods, services and consumables. We require all our contractors to conduct themselves in a manner that would not undermine our commitment or damage our reputation. The human rights requirements we impose on suppliers are contained in contract clauses and they are monitored with appropriate systems. The human rights and social impacts of all major or minor investment projects are considered during the prefeasibility stage of projects. All our significant suppliers are screened with regard to human rights issues. No contracts Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 66 ] Sustainable Development Governance We are fully committed to the highest standards of corporate governance practice, which we believe is necessary for the business integrity required to deliver robust and sustainable business results. Managing sustainable development at Lonmin Our Chief Executive Officer, Ian Farmer, is ultimately The Company’s overall governance practices are underpinned responsible for advocating sustainable development within by the values set out in the Lonmin Charter and supported by Lonmin. He is assisted by the Executive Committee which is the newly-developed Lonmin Code of Business Conduct. responsible for reviewing the Company’s progress and Our commitments in terms of the governance of sustainable performance on safety and sustainability issues. Natascha development are defined in the Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Viljoen, Executive Vice President: Processing has line Development Policy. Our implementation of these commitments responsibility for our sustainable development programme. is guided by our Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards Focus areas requiring attention were identified as part of an which are aligned with the ten Principles of the International on-going improvement process that will ensure integration of Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). No gaps were identified sustainable development within Lonmin’s planning and between the ICMM Principles and our Sustainable Development decision-making systems. Standards or Safety and Sustainable Development Policy. In the previous reporting cycle we identified certain gaps GRI 4.8 between our Company’s position statements and that of the ICMM. In response to these gaps we have updated our Lonmin Sustainable Development Standards to specifically include a Standard on Product Stewardship particularly aligning our commitment with the Mining and Protected Areas Position Statement of the ICMM. We will update our Community Development Position Statement stating that we support the ICMM Sustainable Development Framework and in particular Principle 3, 6 and 9 related to indigenous people. In accordance with these Principles, ICMM has developed the position statement “Mining and Indigenous People” which we support. The guidance provided by the ICMM Good Practice Guide on Indigenous People is supported and the research report of the ILO and the African Commission on Human and Peoples Rights provides us with further guidance on the constitutional and legislative protection of the rights of indigenous people in the context of South Africa. We are continuing to investigate our exposure risks associated with Mercury at our operations. We have not updated our Atmospheric Management position statement, but have commenced with the relevant studies on quantifying Mercury Emissions. We aim to finalise the Atmospheric Management position statement within 2012. Zimasile Gwetyelo, Tebogo Mokgosi and Godfrey Mokgwatlheng. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 67 ] Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices Good governance is essentially about effective leadership. Our leaders define our strategy, provide direction and establish the values and ethics that influence and guide practices and behaviour with regard to sustainability performance. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer The diverse membership of the Board includes a female NonThe roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) are executive Director and three Historically Disadvantaged South clearly separated and set out in writing. The independent African (HDSA) Non-executive Directors. Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board. He We believe that the diverse experience and skills of the ensures its effectiveness and sets its agenda, facilitates the members of the Board is beneficial in addressing the complex effective contribution of all the Directors and ensures that nature of sustainability. Each Board member has an equal there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and voice in decision-making. The Board keeps the membership Non-executive Directors. The Chairman also has primary of its Committees under review to ensure gradual refreshing of responsibility for providing strategic guidance to the executive skills and experience. The Board supports diversity of board team, for monitoring the performance of the business and representation, but is gender neutral when appointing board ensuring that there is effective communication with all the members. Skills, experience and personal attributes, including shareholders. independence of mind are considered when making The role of the CEO is to provide leadership to the executive appointments to the Board. All Directors have sufficient time team in running the business, to develop proposals for the to devote to their roles and that undue reliance is not placed consideration of the Board in all areas reserved for its judgement on key individuals. All of the Non-executive Directors are and to oversee the efficient and effective implementation of regarded as independent by the Board, as was the Chairman Board-approved actions. Executive management, led by the on his appointment. CEO, are responsible for developing strategy for consideration Biographical information on the Directors can be found in the by the Board, the implementation of the strategy once it is Annual Report and Accounts. approved and for furnishing the Board with all information its members may require to monitor the efficient and effective GRI 4.2, 4.3 and 4.7 conduct of the business. GRI 4.2 Board meetings during 2011 During the year ten Board meetings were held, two of which were in South Africa and the remaining meetings in London. The Board During their time in South Africa the Board visited the The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors. operations and were briefed on safety by the management The Board provides the entrepreneurial leadership, direction team. They had open and honest discussions with shift and control of the Company, is the custodian of the bosses about safety which the Board found helpful in Company’s strategic aims, vision and values and assesses understanding the challenges and what progress had been whether the necessary financial and human resources are, made with improving safety in the operations. and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives. Key safety, sustainability and transformation risks are discussed at meetings of the Safety & Sustainability The Board currently has eleven members, comprising a NonCommittee and Transformation Committee. The Board also executive Chairman, eight Non-executive Directors and two reviews risks. The CEO’s report to the Board includes Executive Directors. An independent Director is a person who comprehensive discussions on safety performance. is independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that could affect their judgment. Cyril Ramaphosa was nominated to the Board by Shanduka, the Company’s principle BEE partner, and the parent company of Incwala Resources. The Board does not judge that Mr Ramaphosa is independent. In addition, Mahomed Seedat was formerly the Company’s Chief Operating Officer and is therefore not regarded as independent. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 68 ] Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices (continued) The Committees The Board has established five Committees and provides sufficient resources to enable them to perform their duties effectively. Detailed information on the Board Committees’ terms of reference and governance policies can be found in our 2011 Annual Report and Accounts. Committees of the Board Composition as on 30 September 2011 Mandate Audit & Risk Four Non-executive Directors The primary purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee, is as follows: of whom one is the Chairman • Monitor the integrity of the Company’s financial statements and of the Committee announcements relating to its financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments; • Keep under review the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls and risk management systems; • Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and review its key findings; and • Oversee the relationship with the external auditors including the agreement on their remuneration and terms of engagement, monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide non-audit services appropriately applied. Nomination Seven Non-executive Directors • Ensure that a regular, rigorous and objective evaluation of the of whom one is the Chairman structure, size, composition, balance of skills, knowledge and of the Committee experience of the Board is undertaken; • To recommend any proposed changes to the composition of the Board and to instigate and manage the recruitment process; • Ensure the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements in relation to the above; and • Oversee compliance with the Combined Code and other applicable governance regulation. Safety & Four Non-executive Directors • Have oversight of and provide advice to the Board and, as Sustainability of whom one is the Chairman necessary to the Audit & Risk Committee, on safety and of the Committee sustainability including health, environment and community One Executive Director matters and particularly as they pertain to the risk and management of these issues within the Group. • Have oversight of and provide advice to the Board on the Group’s compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements associated with safety and sustainability; • Assess the effectiveness of the Group’s policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainabilityrelated risk; • Review significant safety and environmental incidents and consider causative factors, consequences and actions including the impact on employees and third parties and reputational risk; • To review the Group’s performance indicators in connection with safety and sustainability matters; • Review the Group’s public disclosures on safety and sustainability matters and approve these as necessary; and • Report to the Board on developments, trends and/or forthcoming significant legislation on safety and sustainability matters which may be relevant to the Group/s operations, its assets or employees. • Assess periodically the effectiveness of the Group’s policies, standards and systems for identifying and managing safety and sustainability related risk. Remuneration Four Non-executive Directors The primary purpose of the remuneration Committee is as follows: of whom one is the Chairman • Make recommendations to the Board on the Company’s of the Committee executive remuneration policy; • Determine individual remuneration packages within that policy for the Executive Directors and certain senior executives; • Oversee the operation of the Company’s incentive schemes; • Review Directors; expenses; and • Oversee the Company’s executive pension arrangements. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 69 ] Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices (continued) Committees of the Board Composition as on 30 September 2011 Mandate Transformation Five Non-executive Directors of • The development of strategies, policies and processes and the whom one is the Chairman of the setting of goals and targets for transformation and Board. One Executive Director empowerment, and assessing the means by which such strategies are proposed to be implemented and goals achieved, with the goal of ensuring there is a disciplined, co-ordinated and sustainable approach to transformation; • Monitoring, reviewing and evaluating progress made by management in meeting the Company’s obligations in respect of transformation and empowerment, including the Company’s adherence to applicable legal and regulatory requirements and external commitments made in relation to the same; • Ensuring effective communication on transformation issues between management, the Board and various stakeholders; and • Guiding and otherwise providing encouragement and counsel to management in relation to transformation and empowerment. GRI 4.1 and 4.9 The Safety & Sustainability Committee This year the Directors were asked to complete questionnaires, Jonathan Leslie is the Chairman of the Safety & Sustainability the collective results of which were used to set the agenda for Committee. He is joined by David Munro, Karen de Segundo, one to one meetings between the Chairman and each Mahomed Seedat and Ian Farmer. We are confident that the Director. This process confirmed that the Board believed that Committee will continue to embed sustainable development it remained effective, revealed no issues and identified three throughout the Company. priorities for the next twelve months. The Transformation Committee Under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, Cyril Ramaphosa is the Chairman of the Transformation Michael Hartnall, the Board met in November 2011 without Committee of the Board. He is joined by Len Konar, David the Chairman present to discuss the findings of the review in Munro, Jim Sutcliffe and Mahomed Seedat and Ian Farmer. relation to his effectiveness as Chairman. There were no areas of concern or any actions arising from this session. Executive Committee The Board formally reviews the succession plans for all the The members of the Executive Committee are the two Executive key management roles in the Company, including executive Directors and other key senior executives. They include one directorships, on an annual basis. All Directors will retire from nominee of Shanduka Resources (Pty) Limited (Shanduka), the Board at the Company’s AGM in January 2012, and, other the Company’s principal Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) than Michael Hartnall who intends to retire after almost nine investor who has no executive responsibilities, but who years’ service, each wishes to seek re-election. Sufficient participates fully in the Committee’s activities. Biographical biographic and other information is provided to enable details are included in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts. shareholders to make an informed decision. The Nomination The CEO is Chairman of the Committee. The Committee Committee has carried out formal performance evaluations of meets once every month and its responsibilities include, but each of the Non-executive Directors seeking re-election and are not limited to development of the strategy, implementation has concluded that each is effective and demonstrates and monitoring of operational plans, review of financial commitment to their respective roles. performance and the prioritisation of initiatives. Directors have a statutory duty to avoid actual or potential Board evaluation conflict of interest. As permitted in law, the Board is There are three key mechanisms by which we attempt to empowered to authorise such conflicts and has a ensure that the Directors continue to provide suitable documented procedure in place. leadership and direction to the Company. These are: Currently 15% of the bonus opportunity for Executive Directors performance evaluation, succession planning and periodic relates to safety performance, while another 10% relates to re-election by shareholders. An external facilitator was engaged progress on SLP targets. to assess the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in 2010. The facilitator conducted a structured interview with GRI 4.5, 4.6, 4.7 and 4.10 every Board member and attended some Board and Committee meetings. Last year’s evaluation confirmed that the Board was effective and identified two focus areas, which are discussed in the Annual Report and Accounts. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 70 ] Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices (continued) Engaging with stakeholders Certified management systems The Executive Directors have regular discussions with Operation OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 institutional shareholders. Detailed feedback from these meetings is shared with the Board. In addition, the Chairman Marikana Mining 4 routinely offers key shareholders the opportunity of meeting Limpopo Mining 4 with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to Concentrators 4 discuss governance, strategy or any other matters Smelter 4 4 shareholders wish to raise. Base Metal Refinery 4 4 The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with a Precious Metals Refinery 4 4 4 mechanism for engaging directly with the Board. At the Analytical Laboratory 4 4 meeting the CEO makes a business presentation; all Directors Training Academy 4 4 are available to answer questions both during and after the Service departments 4 meetings. Shareholders are offered the opportunity to vote on every substantially different issue by proposing separate resolutions. External organisations and public policy position We have been members of the International Council of Mining GRI 4.4 and Metals (ICMM) since 2004 and are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Both these memberships are voluntary. Auditing and assurance We also endorse the Extractive Industries Transparency The Board’s Audit & Risk Committee approves the annual Initiative (EITI). (http://eiti.org/) Company-wide internal and external audit plans. Audit We are members of, and participate in the International findings are updated monthly and progress on corrective Platinum Group Metals Association (IPA), (http for IPA) the management plans is reviewed by the Executive Committee International Chamber of Commerce, South African Chamber and twice a year by the Audit & Risk Committee. of Mines and a number of forums in a local context, which are External auditing of the International Standards Organisation applicable to our individual operations. In 2011, we continued (ISO) 14001, ISO 9001 and Occupational Health and Safety to voluntarily participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and Standard (OHSAS) 18001 management systems is designed provided climate change-related information to our to support continuous improvement at an operational level. In shareholders. We remain included in the FTSE4Good Index 2011 all our operations retained ISO 14001 certification. We and the JSE’s Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Index. are aligning our management systems to enable us to be audited for full OHSAS 18001 certification. GRI 4.12 and 4.13 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 71 ] Integrating Sustainability in our Governance Practices (continued) Substantive Membership Participation Funding Strategic Organisation Status level Provided Membership Association of Mine Managers South Africa (2008) Voluntary Governance No Yes (endorsed through Body the Chamber of Mines) Association of Mine Resident Engineers Voluntary Governance No Yes (endorsed through Body the Chamber of Mines) Carbon Disclosure Project (2008) Voluntary Project No Yes European Precious Metals Foundation (2008) EU regulated Committees No Required and Projects Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI) (2003) Voluntary Alignment No Yes (endorse through ICMM) Global Business Coalition on HIV/AIDS, Voluntary Ad hoc No No Tuberculosis and Malaria (2010) Global Reporting initiative (2002) Voluntary Alignment No Yes International Council of Mining and Metals (2005) Voluntary Committees No Yes and Projects International Labour Organisation’s Code (2003) Regulated Alignment No Yes International Platinum Group Metals Association (2006) Voluntary Committees No Yes International Standards Organisation (ISO) (1998) Voluntary Alignment No Yes Industry Task Team for Climate Change (ITTCC) (2011) Voluntary Governance No Yes and technical committees Minerals Education Trust Fund Voluntary Governance Yes Yes Mine Metallurgical Managers Association Voluntary Projects No Yes (endorsed through the Chamber of Mines) National Business Initiative Voluntary Committees No Yes and Projects Platinum Guild Initiative (May 2004) Voluntary Governance Yes Yes South African Business Coalition on HIV and AIDS Voluntary Projects No Yes South African Chamber of Mines Voluntary Committees No Yes United Nations Universal declaration of Human Rights (2003) Voluntary Alignment No Yes United Nations Global Compact (2008) Voluntary Alignment No Yes Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 72 ] Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Lonmin Plc Report on Selected Sustainability Information (e) Limited assurance on selected Mining Charter elements, We have undertaken an assurance engagement on selected marked with a LA on the relevant pages of the Report, sustainability information, as described below and presented prepared in compliance with the Amendment to the in the Web-based 2011 Sustainable Development Report of BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010): Lonmin Plc (Lonmin) for the year ended 30 September 2011 HDSA ownership: Meaningful economic participation (the Report). and full shareholder rights in line with the Mining Charter definitions and measurement (pg 75); Housing Subject matter and related assurance and living conditions: Percentage reduction of The subject matter of our engagement and related assurance occupancy rate towards 2014 target (pg 27, 75); is as follows: Percentage conversion of hostels into family units (pg 1) In compliance with the International Council of Mining and 27, 75); Procurement and Enterprise Development: Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework: Procurement spend from BEE entities, in line with the Assurance Procedure (ICMM Assurance Procedure), Mining Charter categories of capital goods (pg 13, 57, Subject Matters 4 (selected performance data) and 5 75), services (pg 13, 57, 75) & consumable goods (pg (self-declared application level in accordance with the 13, 57, 75); Human Resources Development: Human Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines as Resource Development expenditure as a percentage described below: of total annual payroll (excluding mandatory skills development levy) (pg 25, 75). (a) Reasonable assurance on Subject Matter 4, marked with a RA on the relevant pages of the Report: Directors’ Responsibilities Local Economic Development – Community The Directors are responsible for the preparation and Development: Rand Value Spend on approved SLP presentation of the Report as well as the information and projects (pg 78); Contractor and Employee Fatalities assessments contained within it, and for determining the (pg 13,18, 77); Employee and contractor lost time company’s objectives in respect of sustainable development injury frequency rate (LTIFR) (pg 13, 17, 19, 77); performance, including the identification of stakeholders and Employee Noise induced hearing loss (NIHL) new stakeholder reporting requirements, the identification of cases diagnosed (pg15, 30,77) and compensated material issues, for commitments with respect to sustainability (pg30, 77); Scope 1 and Scope 2 direct and indirect performance, for establishing and maintaining appropriate Green House Gas (GHG) Emissions (pg 43,78); Direct performance management and internal control systems from and indirect total energy use (pg 15, 78); Fresh water which the reported information has been derived, and the consumption (pg 47,78). selection of the sustainability performance indicators which forms the subject matter of our assurance engagement. (b) Limited assurance on Subject Matter 4, marked with an LA on the relevant pages of the Report: Management are also responsible for the selection and application of the following reporting criteria used in the Contractor and Employee New cases of TB diagnosed evaluation of the subject matter: and treated (pg 29, 77); SO2 Emissions (pg 45, 78); • (a) and (b), Lonmin’s reported performance during the (c) Limited assurance on Lonmin’s self-declaration of the given reporting period for the identified material SD risks GRI A+ application level (pg. 12) – Subject Matter 5, and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter 4): the GRI G3.1 marked with an LA on the relevant page of the Report. Guidelines. 2) In compliance with the Broad-Based Socio-Economic • (c), Lonmin’s self declared A+ application level of the GRI Empowerment Charter for the South African Mining and G3.1 Guidelines in relation to subject matter 5 of the Minerals Industry (BBSEEC) and related Scorecard: ICMM Assurance Procedure: the GRI G3.1 Guidelines for (d) Reasonable assurance on selected mining charter the A+ application level. elements, marked with a RA on the relevant pages of • (d), selected mining charter elements: the BBSEEC (2002) the Report, prepared in compliance with the BBSEEC and related Scorecard (2004). (2002) and related Scorecard (2004): • (e), selected mining charter elements: the Amendment to Percentage Women in Mining (WIM) (pg 13, 23, 77); the BBSEEC (2010) and related Scorecard (2010). Historically Disadvantaged South African’s (HDSA’s) in Management: Percentage of employees who are classified as designated groups and who are employed at management levels (pg 13, 22, 77); Percentage Women at the Mine (WAM) (pg 13, 23, 77). Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 73 ] Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Lonmin Plc (continued) Our Responsibility Conclusions Our responsibility is to express assurance conclusions on the In relation to the Report for the year ended 30 September subject matter in (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) based on our work 2011, we report performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance (a) On the selected performance data on which we are with the International Standard on Assurance Information required to express reasonable assurance (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than the Audits In our opinion, the selected performance data identified or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the in (a) above is fairly stated, in all material respects, in International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. That accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Standard requires that we plan and perform our engagement to obtain assurance about whether the selected information is (b) On the selected performance data on which we are free from material misstatement. required to express limited assurance Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our A reasonable assurance engagement involves performing attention that causes us to believe that the selected procedures to obtain evidence about the identified subject performance data identified in (b) above is not fairly stated, matter. Our procedures selected depend on our judgment in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G3.1 including the risks of material misstatement of the selected Guidelines. sustainability information in the Report, whether due to fraud or error. In making our risk assessments, we considered (c) On Lonmin’s self-declaration on the GRI A+ application internal controls relevant to Lonmin’s preparation of the level on which we are required to express limited assurance Report. We believe the evidence we have obtained is sufficient Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance attention that causes us to believe that Lonmin’s selfconclusions. Where limited assurance is expressed, the declaration of an A+ application level is not fairly stated, evidence gathering procedures are less than where in all material respects, on the basis of the GRI G3.1 reasonable assurance is expressed. Guidelines. (d) On the selected mining charter elements on which we are Summary of work performed required to express reasonable assurance Our work included the following evidence-gathering procedures: In our opinion, the selected mining charter elements • Interviewing management and senior executives at group identified in (d) above have been prepared, in all material level to evaluate the application of the GRI G3.1 respects, in compliance with the BBSEEC (2002) and Guidelines and to obtain an understanding of the internal related Scorecard (2004). control environment relative to the reported sustainability (e) On the selected mining charter elements on which we are information. required to express limited assurance • Inspecting documentation at corporate level to Based on our work performed, nothing has come to our corroborate the statements of management and senior attention that causes us to believe that the selected executives in our interviews. mining charter elements identified in (e) above, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in compliance with • Understanding the risk assessment process and the the Amendment to the BBSEEC (2010) and related information systems which inform the related sustainability Scorecard (2010). reporting processes. • Testing the processes and systems at group level and site Report on the ICMM Assurance Procedure level which generate, collate, aggregate, monitor and We are required to report our findings on the International report the selected sustainability information. Council of Mining and Metals’ (ICMM) Sustainable Development Framework: Assurance Procedure (ICMM • Performing site work at Lonmin’s Marikana operations Assurance Procedure) in respect of: (which represents the most material contribution to the selected sustainability performance information – ICMM 1 The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies to the Subject Matter 4) and also performing site work at the ICMM 10 Sustainable Development (SD) Principles and Precious Metals Refinery (PMR). any mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements (ICMM Subject Matter 1). • Conducting an application level check on the Report to evaluate whether all disclosure requirements of the GRI A+ 2 The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable development application level have been adhered to. risks and opportunities based on a review of its business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders • Evaluating whether the information presented in the (ICMM Subject Matter 2). Report is consistent with our findings, overall knowledge and experience of sustainability management and 3 The implementation of systems and approaches that performance at Lonmin. Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks and opportunities (ICMM Subject Matter 3). Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 74 ] Independent Assurance Report to the Directors of Lonmin Plc (continued) Directors’ Responsibilities Independence, Expertise and Limitation of Liability The Directors are responsible for: We have complied with the International Federation of Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, • The alignment of Lonmin’s sustainability policies to the which includes comprehensive independence and other ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory requirements requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, set out in ICMM Position Statements. objectivity, professional competence and due care, • The reporting of Lonmin’s material sustainable development confidentiality and professional behaviour. risks and opportunities based on a review of its business Our engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. of health, safety, social, environmental and assurance • The implementation of systems and approaches that specialists with extensive experience in sustainability reporting. Lonmin is using to manage its material safety risks and Our work has been undertaken to enable us to express the opportunities. assurance conclusions on the subject matters in (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) in our Report on Selected Sustainability Information Our Responsibility together with findings on 1, 2 and 3 in our Report on the Our engagement included reporting on the ICMM Assurance ICMM Assurance Procedure to the Directors of Lonmin in Procedure in respect of 1, 2 and 3 based on the knowledge accordance with the terms of our engagement, and for no obtained in our evidence gathering procedures in our other purpose. We do not accept or assume liability to any assurance engagement on the subject matters in (a), (b) and party other than Lonmin, for our work, for this report, or for (c) set out in our Report on Selected Sustainability Information. the conclusions we have reached. Findings KPMG Services (Pty) Limited Based on our evidence gathering procedures in our assurance engagement for the year ended 30 September 2011 on the subject matter in (a), (b) and (c) set out in our Report on Selected Sustainability Information, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that: Per PD Naidoo Per J Erasmus 1. Lonmin’s sustainability policies are not aligned with the Director Director ICMM 10 SD Principles and any mandatory requirements Johannesburg Johannesburg set out in ICMM Position Statements. 15 November 2011 2. Lonmin has not reported material sustainable development risks and opportunities based on a review of its business and the views and expectations of its stakeholders. 3. Lonmin has not implemented systems and approaches to manage its material safety risks and opportunities. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 75 ] Appendix 1: Scorecard SCORECARD FOR THE BROAD-BASED SOCIO-ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT CHARTER FOR THE SOUTH AFRICAN MINING INDUSTRY The Minister of Department of Mineral Resources published the revised Mining Charter in September 2010, and along with it the amended Charter Scorecard. The Scorecard is a scoring sheet on which companies monitor and record compliance with the Charter. The Scorecard has nine elements of which three are absolute elements (see elements one, two and three) that companies have to achieve; on the remaining six elements companies are required to achieve a minimum score of 50% per element. Compliance Progress achieved: Target Element Description Measure by 2014 2010 2011 1 Reporting Has the company Documentary proof of receipt Annually Progress report reported the level from the department submitted March 2011 of compliance with the Charter for the Calendar year 2 Ownership Minimum target for Meaningful economic 26% effective HDSA participation 18.00% 18%LA ownership Full shareholder rights 26% 3 Housing Conversion and Percentage reduction of Occupancy 3.66% 26.04%LA and living upgrading of hostels occupancy rate towards rate of one conditions to attain the occupancy 2014 target. person per rate of one person room per room. Conversion and Percentage conversion of Family units 52.48% 64.08%LA upgrading of hostels hostels into family units established into family units 4 Procurement Procurement spent Capital goods 40% 68.50% 28.37%LA & Enterprise from BEE entity Services 70% 68.10% 47.95%LA Development Consumable goods 50% 67.30% 40.96%LA Multinational suppliers Annual spend on 0.5% of DMR clarity on definitions contribution to the procurement from procurement social fund multinational suppliers value 0.0% 0.0% 5 Employment Diversification of the Top Management 40% 50.8% 50.0% Equity workplace to reflect (Board) level the country’s Senior Management* 40% 41.7% 23.1% demographics to attain competitiveness. Middle Management 40% 29.8% 34.4% Junior Management 40% 49.7% 52.8% Core Skills 40% 87.8% 95.0% 6 Human Development of HRD expenditure as 5% 3.7% 3.8%RA Resource requisite skills, incl. percentage of total annual Development support for South payroll (excl. mandatory African based research skills development levy) and development initiatives intended to develop solutions in exploration, mining, processing, technology efficiency (energy and water use in mining), beneficiation as well as environmental conservation and rehabilitation * In comparison to page 22 the senior management figure presented here excludes one member which is allocated and counted as a Board member of EPL and WPL Board, which is presented under Top Management. Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 76 ] Appendix 1: Scorecard (continued) Compliance Progress achieved: Target Element Description Measure by 2014 2010 2011 7 Mine Conduct ethnographic Implement approved Up-to-date WPL 1: Provision of Water WPL 1: Provision of Water community community consultative community projects project and Sanitation NWLA and Sanitation NW development and collaborative implementation WPL 2: Brick Making FactoryLA WPL 2: Brick Making Factory processes to delineate community needs WPL 3: Education Support WPL 3: Education Support analysis & UpliftmentLA & Upliftment WPL 4: Housing & Hostel WPL 4: Housing & Hostel ConversionLA Conversion WPL 5: Provision of Access WPL 5: Provision of Access to Basic Services ECLA to Basic Services EC WPL 6: Institutional Support & WPL 6: Institutional Support & Capacity Development ECLA Capacity Development EC WPL 7: Multi-Purpose Community WPL 7: Multi-Purpose Community Centre EC & Silindini BridgeLA Centre EC & Silindini BridgeLA EPL 1: Improving Health EPL 1: Improving Health Care ServicesLA Care ServicesLA EPL 2: Commercial Agri-BusinessLA EPL 2: Commercial Agri-BusinessLA EPL 3: Community Skills EPL 3: Community Skills DevelopmentLA DevelopmentLA EPL 4: Sports and RecreationLA EPL 4: Sports and RecreationLA EPL 5: Provision of Water EPL 5: Provision of Water and Sanitation ECLA and Sanitation ECLA 8 Sustainable Improvement of Implementation of 100% EMP Performance EMP Performance development the industry’s approved EMPs. Assessment Report Assessment Report & growth environmental submitted to DMR. submitted to DMR. management Improvement of the Implementation of the 100% The current The current improvement industry's mine health tripatite action plan on improvement requirement on fatalities and safety performance health and safety requirement on is 0.05%. fatalities is 0.05% and Lonmin is standing at 0.038%. Utilisation of South Percentage of samples in 100% African based research South African facilities facilities for analysis of samples across the mining value chain 0.21% 0.22% 9 Beneficiation Contribution of a Additional production Section 26 The Beneficiation Strategy and its modalities of mining company volume contributory to local of the implementation outline the beneficiation requirements towards beneficiation value addition beyond the MPRDA per commodity extracted in South Africa. base-line (percentage effective from 2012) baseline) TOTAL SCORE Y/N applies to pillars that are ringfenced and where compliance is non negotiable. Legend 0-25% (Gross non-compliance) 25-50% (Non-compliance) 50-75% (Marginal to acceptable performance) 75-100% (Excellent performance) Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 77 ] Appendix 2: Key Sustainability Performance Statistics Group Group Group Group Group Measurement 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Production PGMs produced oz 1,464,235 1,331,493 1,244,709 1,314,772 1,446,662 Economic Net cash generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products US$ million 2,016 2,270 1,138 1,442 2,226 Cash return on investment US$ million 16 13 3 3 3 Suppliers23 Cash payments for materials and services purchased US$ million (395) (445) (486) (473) (641) Cost of borrowings US$ million (41) (23) (34) (44) (39) Net cash flows US$ million 1,596 1,815 621 928 1,549 Cash distributed Human capital (salaries and benefits) US$ million 492 557 501 659 796 Social capital US$ million 3.9 7.3 6.2 8.7 8.8 Government taxes US$ million 267 245 56 36 40 Directors remuneration US$ million 7 9 7 6 7 Shareholder distribution US$ million 124 171 186 – 30 Cash retained for growth US$ million 655 811 51 218 667 Net cash distributed US$ million 1,596 1,815 621 928 1,549 Employees Employees Number 24,122 25,967 21,623 23,915 27,796 Contractors Number 8,580 7,758 10,497 9,131 9,564 Designated groups employed in management on a permanent basis Percentage 37.9 42.3 41.3 43.3 46.5RA Women employed in mining24 Percentage 1.4 1.8 2.9 3.22 4.33RA Women employed at mining25 Percentage 4.9 6.1 6.8 7.04 7.45RA Employee turnover rate Percentage 4.1 6.6 23.3 6.6 10.57 Employees and contractors trained in ABET Number 1,389 2,866 1,139 793 601 Occupational Health and Safety: Employees and Contractors Fatalities Number 3 3 3 3 6RA Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Rate26 10.80 6.27 6.21 5.8727 4.71RA New NIHL cases diagnosed – Employees Number 624 236 45 40 35RA NIHL cases compensated – Employees Number 490 229 45 28 17RA Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases28 Number 504 533 472 528 545LA HIV/AIDS related deaths Number 112 95 110 88 139 Voluntary Counselling and Testing Conducted (VCT) Number 13,761 18,692 4,680 39,00629 31,66629 Patients on ART30 Number 836 989 962 1,349 2,022 Patients on the wellness programme Number N.D.A 1,150 518 498 526 Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 78 ] Key Sustainability Performance Statistics (continued) Group Group Group Group Group Measurement 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Environment Total freshwater intake m3 11,795,482 9,256,244 8,885,360 8,005,092 7,912,595RA Total freshwater intake efficiency m3/PGM oz 8.06 6.95 7.14 6.09 5.47 Electricity MWh 1,619,922 1,575,917 1,481,744 1,380,218 1,496,841 Electricity efficiency MWh/PGM oz 1.11 1.18 1.19 1.05 1.03 Energy Terajoules 7,434 6,555 6,613 6,215 6,533RA Energy efficiency GJ/PGM oz 5.08 4.92 5.31 4.73 4.52 Greenhouse gas emissions Kilotonnes CO2 equivalent 1,673 1,659 1,595 1,534 1,648RA* Greenhouse gas efficiency Kilotonnes CO2-e/PGM oz 1.14 1.25 1.28 1.17 1.14 Tailings disposed to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 14,487 12,649 11,47831 11,038 11,820 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,203 1,128 1,343 1,602 1,772 Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill and by incineration m3 7,038 N.A N.A N.A N.A Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill and incineration Tonnes N.A 42,857 55,906 50,562 72,052 General waste to landfill Tonnes 10,62232 8,279 7,199 9,595 9,744 Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 11.3 9.1 11.1 14.1 10.58LA Communities Rand Value spent on Approved SLP Projects Rand N.D.A 42,120,000 28,768,000 28,175,000 37,980,955RA N.D.A No data available. Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an absence of measurement of the data. N.A. Not applicable. LA Limited Assurance provided by KPMG. RA Reasonable Assurance provided by KPMG. RA* Reasonable Assurance by KPMG was only provided on Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions which equals 1,643 CO2 equivalent Kilotonnes. 23 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement. 24 Women employed in mining represents those employed in core mining operations. 25 Women employed at the mine represents all women employed at our operations. 26 Incidents per million hours worked. 27 In 2010, we have improved the capturing of man hours worked at our operations, the denominator used for calculating LTIFR. As a result the LTIFR in prior years may have been overstated, but we believe the difference to not be material. It is not possible to restate the previous data. 28 This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 – the data represents total TB cases and not only pulmonary TB cases. 29 This figure includes VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2000 tests a month), the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees tested twice. 30 PMR patients access ART through their membership of the private medical aid schemes. 31 This figure was incorrectly reported in 2009 as 17,068 kilotonnes. 32 Figure was reported in 2010 as 53,110 m3; we have converted it to tonnes (53,110 m3 x 0.2 = 10,622). Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix 2011 Web-based Sustainable Development Report / Lonmin Plc [ 79 ] Web-based Appendices Appendix 3: Key Community Development Projects Please click here Appendix 4: Reporting against global reporting initiative indicators Please click here Appendix 5: Acronyms Please click here Appendix 6: Definitions Please click here Our Company Overview of 2011 People Planet Profit Appendix
