UNGC index As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), PepsiCo is committed to supporting the Compact's 10 principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations. For more details on our activities please see our Corporate Sustainability Report Executive Summary and our website. Message from PepsiCo’s Chairman & Chief Executive Officer PepsiCo is a strong supporter of the UN Global Compact and all of its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We recognize our duty to make positive, responsible contributions that will have a sustainable impact on the world. We have clear values and principles that guide our actions in our businesses and in the local communities we serve. We believe in being a “good company” and exemplify this through Performance with Purpose, which we define as delivering sustainable growth for our company and the world by investing in a healthier future for people and the planet. We encourage people to live healthier by offering a portfolio of enjoyable foods and beverages. We’re committed to protecting the Earth’s natural resources through innovation and more efficient use of land, energy, water and packaging in our operations. We’re committed to supporting our associates, their families and the communities where they live and we operate through local job creation, wellness initiatives and matching charitable contributions. Our annual Communication on Progress demonstrates our continued support of the Compact. Thank you for the opportunity to participate. Indra Nooyi UNGC Principles Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Overview PepsiCo is a charter endorser of the Sullivan Principles, whose goals are to support economic, social and political justice by companies where they do business, to support human rights and to encourage equal opportunity at all levels of employment. In 2006, PepsiCo certified to requesting entities that its policies reflect the fair employment standards embodied in the MacBride Principles of fair employment. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Human Rights Corporate Policies Code of Conduct Values, Philosophy and Guiding Principles Responsible Sourcing Labor standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Overview PepsiCo deals fairly and honestly with our associates regarding wages, benefits and other conditions of employment, and recognize our associates right to freedom of association. We do not use compulsory or child labor. We do not tolerate discrimination, and we work to ensure equal opportunity for all associates. We are committed to compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and other employment standards, wherever we operate or work. We encourage our partners, suppliers, contractors and vendors to support these policies, and we place substantial value on working with others who share our commitment to human rights. To learn more about key areas please see our website: PepsiCo Policies Talent Sustainability Diversity and Inclusion Talent Sustainability Health and Safety Talent Sustainability – Development and Learning Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Overview At PepsiCo we rely on the earth's natural resources every day. And as we grow our businesses in developed countries and expand in developing and emerging countries, we strive to use only methods and tools that are scientifically proven, socially responsible and economically sound. Our environmental sustainability efforts are primarily focused on water, climate change, agriculture and packaging areas that are critical to our business and where we can make the biggest impact. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Environmental Sustainability Water Packaging and Waste Minimizing Waste Climate Change Agriculture Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Overview PepsiCo has strict corporate standards that govern our operations and ensure accountability for our actions. We believe that operating ethically and with integrity means compliance with the laws and regulations that impact our business worldwide. It also means adhering closely to our Values, Code of Conduct and the corporate and division policies that support the principles embodied in the Code. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Corporate Policies Corporate Governance, Human Sustainability, Environmental Sustainability and Talent Sustainability Policies PepsiCo Human Rights Policies (including Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) Anti-Bribery, Commercial Bribery and Business Gifts) Speak Up Hotline
