Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Combined Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag Quick facts and figures Financial year: 1 January 2010 – 31 December 2010 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Founded in 2008 in Vienna The official development bank Wholly-owned subsidiary of the Austrian government of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Member of European Development Share capital: EUR 5,000,000 Finance Institutions (EDFI) 18 employees Projects implemented in 2010 Number of projects 36 Investment Finance EUR 94.3 million (7 projects) Advisory Programmes EUR 25.2 million (25 projects) Foreign Trade Programme EUR 3.5 million (4 projects) Contribution to development The projects of OeEB contribute to progress towards the achievement of Millennium Development Goal 1 (halving poverty and extreme hunger), MDG 3 (promoting gender equality and empowering women), MDG 7 (ensuring environmental sustainability) and MDG 8 (developing a global partnership for development). They also help small and medium-sized businesses. Jobs created 7,320 Jobs protected 195 The projects of OeEB protect and create jobs. The basis for calculating these benefits is described on page 26 in section B.I.ii, Development. Key financials (rounded) Total assets EUR 147.4 million Profit for the year EUR 782,000 Unallocated profit for the year EUR 280,000 Standard & Poor’s long-term issuer rating: AA+; S&P short-term issuer rating: A-1+ Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, the official development bank of the Austrian government, has been operating since March 2008. Combining business and development, OeEB strengthens Austria’s ties to countries that want to achieve sustainable improvement in prosperity through private sector development. Our services complement and support the work done by Austrian policy, investors, banks and civil society for development in the world’s poorer countries. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Combined Annual Report and Sustainability Report Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 In the interest of readability, this report may in some cases use wording that is gender-specific. However, all references to positions, titles and people should be construed as gender-neutral. OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Contents Letter from the Executive Board 7 A. OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria 9 I. Background, aims and principles 9 II. General information 14 B. Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures 25 I. Business segments 25 II. Stakeholder inclusion 35 C. Management report 37 I. Business and financial review 37 i. Business activities and terms of reference 37 ii. Business performance 37 iii. Office locations 43 iv. Financial and non-financial performance indicators 43 II. Outlook and risks for the bank 55 III. Research & development 60 D. Independent verifier’s report and certificate 61 E. Financial statements 2010 64 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2010 64 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 66 3. Notes to the financial statements 68 3.1 Accounting policies 68 3.2 Notes to the balance sheet and income statement 70 3.3 Additional information 79 Annex: Movement in non-current assets 80 F. Auditor’s report 82 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Letter from the Executive Board GRI 1.1, GRI 1.2 > Based on our mandate of providing sustainable support to the private sector in developing and newly industrialised countries, and on our experience in OeEB’s first years of operation, we refined the bank’s strategy in our third financial year, in coordination with the Supervisory Board, the Austrian Ministry of Finance and the Austrian Ministry for European and International Affairs. In revising the strategy, we wanted to express clearly that OeEB takes into consideration Austrian interests in general, and especially the goals of development cooperation and foreign trade. The strategy therefore defines clear areas of emphasis in terms of business sectors and regions, while also maintaining the necessary balance in the portfolio for risk management purposes. Our role is to strengthen the regions of particular interest to Austria, such as the Western Balkans, the South Caucasus, the Black Sea region, as well as Africa, and to support projects especially in the sectors relevant to the development of the target countries. Among these sectors are infrastructure and smalland medium-scale manufacturing, as well as the financial sector as an engine of and service provider for the real economy. The economic environment will remain challenging: International and national banks continue to be cautious in their lending for projects in emerging markets. Although there are growing signs of a recovery in these economies, much remains to be done before the crisis can be considered past. And progress in the global fight against poverty is still far too slow. This means that the years ahead will remain challenging for all members of the development community. Given this international environment, and also the situation in Austria, where bilateral development cooperation is labouring under drastic budget reductions, we intend to do everything in our power to meet our responsibilities to the fullest. Alongside the traditional development cooperation and the activities of the multilateral development banks, the operations of the fifteen bilateral European development banks are increasingly gaining in importance as a third pillar of development work. The annual new project business of these banks is about EUR 4 billion. Together with our partners, we will continue to support deals for which no financing alternatives exist, and prepare the way for the involvement of further financing collaborators in order to ensure the continuity of these investments for the long term. Sustainable and comprehensive support for projects in developing countries is typically achieved only when experienced partners with complementary strengths work together. One prominent example of such successful cooperation is our participation in the financing of the Black Sea Transmission Network project. Through the new construction and upgrading of transmission lines and transformer stations in Georgia, the country will soon be able to supply clean hydroelectric power to the neighbouring states. The project creates an “energy bridge” linking the countries on the Black Sea to the West – an important prerequisite for the further expansion of Georgia’s hydropower plants. 7 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Manufacturing and engineering firm Siemens Austria is supplying key components for this project. A consortium of international development banks, including OeEB, is providing the financing. GRI 2.10 > We are particularly pleased that two projects co-financed by OeEB were recognised with awards in connection with the G-20 summit in South Korea in the “G-20 SME Finance Challenge”, an ideas contest around the financing of small and medium businesses in developing countries. The European Fund for Southeast Europe (EFSE) with its innovative and crisis-resistant fund model placed first among 344 contestants. The Grassroots Business Fund (GBF) was also among the 14 prize winners. The purpose of this fund is to integrate poor and marginalised population groups in developing countries into the economic system, in collaboration with grassroots business organisations. We are also proud to have been honoured in the Austrian Sustainability Reporting Awards (ASRA) with the first-place finish in the “Integrated Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2009” category. This is further encouragement for us to continue our sustainability management at the same recognised level of quality. 2010 was an eventful year for OeEB. With enthusiasm and initiative, our staff met the challenges encountered and helped realise many successful projects in developing countries, which in their totality make up OeEB’s achievement. We sincerely thank our employees for their strong performance and look forward to an exciting 2011. We would also like to express our thanks to our stakeholders for their confidence and the many suggestions and positive reviews. In the year ahead, let us continue to work together to help alleviate poverty. Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann 8 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria A. OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria I. Background, aims and principles i. History and business model GRI 4.8 > Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank (OeEB) was To assess the development effects of every founded in February 2008. project, the Export Guarantees Act amendment stipulated the creation of a dedicated Business GRI 2.1, EC-8 > The legislative basis for its activities is an amendment & Development Committee. GRI 3.2 > to the Export Guarantees Act that took effect in January 2008. Every project supported by OeEB must be economically viable and meet development policy GRI 2.2 > OeEB’s mandate is defined in the Act: Its task is to criteria. contribute to the development mainly of the private sector – particularly in developing countries – using OeEB also has access to funds of the Ministry long-term financing instruments. In keeping with of Finance (see section C, Management Report, the legal requirements, OeEB applies to the Ministry I.ii. Business Performance) that can be used of Finance for a guarantee from the Austrian governfor purposes such as amplifying and improving ment for every financing transaction. Developing the net development benefits of OeEB financing. countries are defined as those countries appearing on the list published by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the OECD (www.oecd.org/dac). ii. Principles of conduct and corporate policy – Statement against corruption and money laundering SO-3, SO-5 > As Austria’s official development bank, OeEB OeEB’s success as a commercial enterprise is an serves a public mandate. We therefore bear special important part of ensuring that we live up to our responsibility to society, our partners and clients responsibilities and achieve our aims. as well as our own staff. When selecting projects in GRI 4.11 >> developing countries for long-term financing, the Given OeEB’s specific mandate, our client base most important things for OeEB to ensure are that: is predominantly concentrated in the private sector in developing countries. For this reason, OeEB ■ The long-term business performance of the attaches particular importance to the careful handling partner enterprises is positive of the issues of corruption and money laundering and to ensuring all employees’ awareness of potential ■ The development criteria are met related risks in day-to-day business activities. An exact verification of client identity is made, in line with ■ The environmental, social and working the Austrian Financial Market Authority’s circular on conditions are carefully examined in each and ascertaining and verifying identity. every case. 9 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria Risk management forms an integral tool of overall An important feature of the bank’s business policy bank management at OeEB, and ultimate responsibility is the conservative management of transaction-related for risk management rests with the full Executive risks and operational risks. Details on risk manageBoard. The person in charge of the operational imment can be found in section C., Management Report, plementation of risk management is Executive Board II.iii., Significant Risks and Uncertainties. member Michael Wancata. iii. Commitment to GRI, EMAS*, Global Compact and the OECD’s guidelines for multinational enterprises GRI 4.8, GRI 4.12 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is The sustainability report, which is required to be FS-1 > a values-based platform that enables companies published annually, also contains environment-related GRI 3.5 > and other stakeholders to network on the basis of information relevant under EMAS as part of the a shared commitment to human rights, labour overall environmental management system of OeKB. standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. In 2006 the UNGC and the As the validation by the independent verifier shows, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), whose guidelines OeEB’s integrated annual and sustainability report for the preparation of sustainability reports meets the standards of the UNGC and GRI (see have become the leading standard, entered into section D of this report). a strategic alliance. From time to time, OeEB joins investors from OECD As the UNGC and the mandate of OeEB support countries as a co-investor. In these cases we make similar goals, OeEB joined the Global Compact our project partners aware of the OECD Guidelines for in 2008 and submitted its Combined Annual Report Multinational Enterprises. OeEB’s involvement in such and Sustainability Report – which meets the shared projects means that the same standards to standards of the Communication on Progress – to which OeEB is committed apply to the investment the UN Global Compact (http://unglobalcompact. partner as well (to learn more about these standards, org/ COPs/detail/8874).). see section B.I.i., Project Evaluation and Approval Process in Investment Finance, and B.I.iii., Environmental and Social Matters). * EMAS is a voluntary environmental management system used in the European Union. The abbreviation stands for “eco-management and audit scheme”. 10 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria iv. Sustainability policy True to OeEB’s motto of “Funding tomorrow’s prosperity” and our mandate as Austria’s official development bank, we are committed to the following sustainability policy: ■ We act in accordance with all legal requirements and from a holistic mindset. In our projects this means that we respect and consider the people affected, their intercultural setting, and environmental and other social aspects.* ■ Good communication with all stakeholders is important to us. We see dialogue as an opportunity to improve OeEB and as helping to put sustainability into practice in our work. ■ We only carry out projects in which the risks seem calculable and manageable, in order to ensure an effective contribution to the sustainable economic success of our clients and OeEB. ■ Long-term business success involves the responsible use and management of natural resources that we believe will be vitally important to future generations. Such responsible stewardship also safeguards the basis for our entrepreneurial flexibility and strengthens our position as a development bank recognised for sustainable action. * Regarding EMAS, the sustainability policy of our parent company OeKB also applies. 11 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria v. Corporate governance GRI 4.1 > The Austrian Code of Corporate Governance was Executive Board originally presented to the public on 1 October 2002. It is reviewed and revised annually in the context The two-member Executive Board of OeEB has of national and international developments. The full responsibility for managing the bank. Its decisionwording of the Code is available at www.corporatemaking is based on observance of all relevant laws, governance.at. the Articles of Association and the Executive Board’s rules of procedure (i.e., its charter). The division The Code is meant primarily for companies listed on of responsibilities and the internal cooperation a stock exchange. While OeEB is not listed and in fact within the Executive Board are set out in its rules of has only one owner, the Austrian Code of Corporate procedure. Details under “comply-or-explain rule” Governance is nonetheless a recognised set of guide(C-rule) 16 of the Code of Corporate Governance are GRI 4.5 >> lines for achieving responsible business management provided in section II.iii., Organisational Structure and oversight. The provisions of the Code are thus and Management System, of this report. a key benchmark for us in the continuous improvement process. Moreover, many of the provisions represent The Executive Board’s compensation includes both legal requirements, which we comply with as a matter fixed components and variable components based of course. on medium-term performance measures. Performance is assessed through regular performance appraisal interviews (see section C.I.iv., Financial and NonCooperation between the Supervisory Board Financial Performance Indicators). The disclosure and Executive Board under C-rule 31 of the Austrian Code of Corporate GRI 4.10 >> Governance concerning executive compensation The Executive Board provides the Supervisory Board is omitted in reliance on section 266 (7) Austrian with regular, prompt and comprehensive reports Commercial Code. on all relevant business matters and developments, including the risk situation and risk management of OeEB. The goal of good corporate governance in managing the bank’s business is pursued in open discussion and communication between and within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. The Executive Board sets OeEB’s strategic direction together with, and subject to the approval of, the Supervisory Board and regularly discusses the status of strategy implementation with the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board meets at least four times per financial year. 12 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria GRI 4.10 > Supervisory Board Transparency and auditing The Supervisory Board has responsibility for superAs a result of the ownership structure of OeEB, vising the Executive Board and supporting it in the communication with the sole shareholder is direct management of the company, particularly in reaching and detailed. In the communication with our other decisions of fundamental importance. In the year stakeholders as well, openness and transparency under review, the Supervisory Board included four are particularly important to us. The Executive shareholder representatives. The composition of the Board continued to honour this priority in 2010. Supervisory Board is presented on page 19. None Up-to-date information on the bank and its business of the Supervisory Board members had board seats segments is always available on the OeEB website or other positions in listed companies. at www.oe-eb.at. The Supervisory Board’s compensation (consisting The company financial statements and company of fees and profit-based emoluments) is determined management report were audited by KPMG Austria by the Annual General Meeting. The Supervisory GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund SteuerberatungsBoard compensation is disclosed in the notes to the gesellschaft, the auditor appointed by the Annual financial statements. General Meeting. The independent auditor’s report is found in section F, Auditor’s Report. In accordance with the Supervisory Board rules of procedure, the Supervisory Board has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee that deals with the relations between the company and the members of the Executive Board. OeEB does not have an audit committee, in reliance on section 63a Banking Act and section 92 Stock Corporation Act, and in view of the size of the Supervisory Board and the fact that the bank’s sole shareholder has an audit committee. 13 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria II. General information i. Shareholder and share capital GRI 2.6, GRI 4.2 The sole owner of OeEB is Oesterreichische GRI 4.3, GRI 4.4 Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB). OeEB has a share capital of EUR 5 million. ii. Supervisory body GRI 4.7 > The Supervisory Board of OeEB had the following members: Rudolf Scholten Chairman of the Supervisory Board Ferdinand Schipfer Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board Christine Dangl Member of the Supervisory Board Holger Rothenbusch Member of the Supervisory Board KPMG Austria Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungs GmbH has been appointed as the independent auditor. 14 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria iii. Organisational structure and management system Executive Board GRI 2.3, GRI 4.6, Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann LA 13, GRI 4.1 Advisory Programmes Investment Finance Foreign Trade Programme Information Technology Credit Risk Management Country Analysis Legal Loan Processing Accounting, incl. Investments Risk Management* Joint responsibilities GRI 4.9 > Organisation, Lobbying/Public Relations, International Peer Contacts Human Resources Internal Audit * Responsibility for the operational implementation of risk management rests with Executive Board member Michael Wancata. 15 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria Internal division of responsibilities GRI 2.3, LA-6 > With effect from January 2010, the internal The role of operational risk manager is performed organisational structure of OeEB was adjusted to by an OeEB employee; the financial risk manager reflect and support the company’s growth. The function currently still resides with the Executive following departments were established: Advisory Board. Programmes, Investment Finance, Credit Risk Management, and Legal. For the responsibilities named, OeEB is to work closely with OeKB. The preventive service capabilities OeEB has on its staff a designated first-aid officer available at OeKB (health and safety specialist and a designated fire safety officer, who have and occupational physician) are also used by OeEB. been trained for their responsibilities. The position of compliance officer for securities In addition, there is a data privacy officer and transactions is outsourced to OeKB by written a sustainability coordinator. agreement; in addition, OeEB has its own in-house initial contact for compliance matters. The function Under section 39 Austrian Banking Act, of the anti-money laundering/anti-terrorist finanthe Executive Board is required to inform itself cing officer resides in the Legal department within of the relevant risks of banking transactions OeEB, as closeness to the business operations is and banking operations and to manage, monitor critically important in making the related judgments. and mitigate these risks through appropriate strategies and procedures. Management system Sustainability management: Cycle of continuous improvement Business policy 쩪 Strategic and 쩪 Staff performance 쩪 Budget approval direction activity planning reviews 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 Update status report 쩪 Management on environmental review 쩪 쩪 Sustainability & social matters programme 쩪 쩪 쩪 쩪 Internal audit/ Group audit 쩪 Implementation 쩪 16 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria OeEB’s goals under the sustainability programme Environmental management at OeEB forms part of are described in the environment section of the the environmental management system of the management report (section C.I.iv., Financial and OeKB Group. As such, OeEB’s internal processes are Non-Financial Performance Indicators/Environdirectly integrated into OeKB’s system. This includes, mental Responsibility). for example, procurement, public relations (partially), energy and facility management, and internal audit. FS-9 > As part of project monitoring and assessment, the The internal audit of the environmental management projects are evaluated every two years by means system is conducted annually in accordance with of the Corporate Policy Project Rating tool (GPR©). OeKB’s audit plan. The EMAS registration number is For a description of this tool, see section B.I.ii, therefore that of OeKB. Development Impact. GRI 4.4 >> OeEB does not have a staff council. At team meetings, As well, compliance with EMAS is annually employees are able to discuss current issues with verified. the Executive Board. These also include sustainability topics and related potential conflicts in goals. As part of these meetings, in-house training is increasingly offered, including sessions on sustainability, such as on the Millennium Development Goals. iv. New investments FS 11 > In 2010 OeEB bought shares in Regional MSME B shares in the US dollar amount equivalent to Investment Fund for Sub-Saharan Africa S.A. EUR 3 million, and C shares in the same amount. (“REGMIFA”), a SICAV-SIF under Luxembourg law. Under its development mandate, the fund OeEB invested a total of EUR 6 million in two provides long-term funding to micro, small and different share classes: medium businesses in Sub-Saharan Africa. 17 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria v. Supervisory Board report In the financial year under review, OeEB’s Supervisory The audit by the independent auditor, KPMG Board convened for four scheduled meetings and Austria Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungs attended in detail to the institution’s business perforGmbH, found that the accounting records, the 2010 mance. The Supervisory Board received prompt and annual financial statements and the management comprehensive oral and written reports from the report fulfil the legal requirements. An unqualified Executive Board. The Supervisory Board was involved audit opinion was issued. The Supervisory Board is in all decisions of fundamental significance and in agreement with the result of the audit. in all decisions where required by law, by the Articles of Association or the Supervisory Boards’ rules of The Supervisory Board approves the annual financial procedure. statements prepared by the Executive Board, which are thereby adopted. For the excellent work done The members of the Supervisory Board deliberain the year completed, the Supervisory Board would ted on fundamental questions of business strategy, like to express its gratitude and appreciation to the the bank’s development as an organisation, its Executive Board and every employee of OeEB. planning systems, management systems and control systems, and its financial position, results of operations and cash flows. For the Supervisory Board Any urgently required decisions by the Supervisory Board were reached by communicating in writing between board meetings. In connection with the Executive Board’s risk management concept, the Supervisory Board Rudolf Scholten advised on the business strategy and risk Chairman of the Supervisory Board strategy. Vienna, March 2011 The Supervisory Board has reviewed the financial statements (including the notes to the financial statements) for the year ended 31 December 2010 and the management report, including the Executive Board’s proposal for the appropriation of earnings. The final result of this review did not give rise to reservations. 18 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria OeEB Strategy 2010 – 2015 Executive Summary GRI 4.8, FS-1 In 2010, in an integrative process that also involved the Supervisory Board and the Federal Ministry of Finance and Ministry for European and International Affairs, OeEB developed a detailed strategy for the next five years. As prescribed by law, the strategy was also presented for approval to the Business & Development Committee and the Advisory Board. The aims of the strategy are based on OeEB’s mandate from the Republic of Austria. OeEB complements the activities of Austrian development institutions by providing financial services. OeEB seeks to: ■ Strengthen the financial infrastructure of developing and transition countries. ■ Provide impetus for sustainable economic growth in the private sector of developing and transition countries. This is done by supporting private investment in preferably new and environmentally friendly technologies. ■ Help create Austrian links to developing and transition countries. This is achieved through the creation of new economic and trade relations (thus promoting early entry into promising markets). ■ Catalyse involvement of Austrian companies, by combining business and development in projects in developing and transition economies. Austrian interests can be advanced at the strategic level or through specific projects: Strategically, through geographic or sectoral focal areas and through the selection, design and communication/ marketing of suitable financial and non-financial facilities and products. At the project level, by analysing whether, where and how specific value-added can be generated from the Austrian perspective. 19 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria Sectors, regions/countries, portfolio The following portfolio composition by committed project volume is planned for 2015: 30% Asia 15% South Caucasus and Central Asia 15% Rest 25% Europe 15% Western Balkans/Eastern Europe* 10% Russia** 15% Latin America 8% Central America 7% South America and Caribbean 20% Africa 18% Sub-Saharan Africa (incl. South Africa) 2% North Africa 10% Supraregional * Does not include EU countries ** All projects in Russia meet development criteria and have a bearing on Austrian economic interests. The development exposure in Russia is growing in step with a corresponding increase in the LDC portion of the portfolio and is capped at the medium-term target LDC share of the total portfolio. The central thrust of OeEB’s activities is to support the financial sector as a prime mover of the real economy. In projects in the real economy, the emphasis is on the infrastructure sector (especially renewable energy, energy efficiency, and environment-/climate-related endeavours). Support is also provided for projects in the manufacturing and other sectors (e.g., services and agriculture). The business of OeEB is demand-driven in principle and the business mix is therefore flexible. The medium-term target for the share of least developed countries (LDC) in the portfolio is 20%. The support for Austrian companies (consulting, project identification, and needs analyses) continues to be stepped up. This fosters trade relations and creates lasting ties between the Austrian economy and developing and transition countries. 20 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria The development instruments of OeEB ■ Long-term financing on commercial terms, and project preparation and support through Advisory Programmes (AP). ■ Financing of public private partnership projects. ■ The Ministry of Finance and OeEB are currently also studying ways of expanding OeEB’s range of finance vehicles to include private equity investment. Standards As Austria’s official development bank, OeEB supports only those projects which are expected to have positive development impacts. OeEB is also committed to complying with international environmental, social and labour standards. Risk assessment and demonstrable effectiveness OeEB uses appropriate and internationally proven best-practice tools for the assessment of project risks and net development benefits (Corporate Policy Project Rating tool, or GPR©). A results framework is also being developed with the Ministry of Finance that allows the success of OeEB to be measured by means of indicators. Risk policy Through broad diversification across regions, sectors and development vehicles, the overall risk is reduced as much as possible. Networking As OeEB operates in risk-prone markets, it relies on risk mitigation through cooperation with other international financial institutions (IFIs) and development finance institutions (DFIs) and seeks to work with the Austrian network of consular trade offices (“trade commissions” of the Austrian chamber of commerce) and the coordination offices of the Austrian Development Agency (ADA). OeEB is also engaged in ongoing dialogue with the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of European and International Affairs, and ADA. 21 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 OeEB, the official Development Bank of Austria Pursuit of development and trade objectives ■ The choice of priority regions and sectors ■ The funding disbursed by OeEB is reported supports Austria’s economic and political interannually to the OECD DAC as commercial (nonests. The selection of the sectoral priorities ODA) development finance. By 31 December takes into consideration the strengths of Austrian 2010, this important figure was approximately companies and investors, particularly in infraEUR 110.0 million (on a cumulative basis over structure development. Environmental interests the three financial years since the establishment are also considered in the process. of OeEB in 2008). OeEB thus strongly furthers the policy aim of making more money available ■ By promoting the involvement of Austrian for development finance outside the realm of companies (which is planned to be expanded), official development assistance. OeEB helps to support Austrian business. ■ In the Advisory Programmes, OeEB, unlike some ■ Through the financing of projects in countries other bilateral European development banks, where Austrian firms are currently not yet active possesses a valuable tool for the preparation in view of high political and commercial risk, but and support of projects. These AP resources are which are potential future markets for Austrian used selectively for OeEB projects in the core companies, OeEB assists in making these markets regions (including also a high proportion of LDCs) more stable and attractive and builds market and sectors. knowledge that is helpful to Austrian enterprises. ■ Through the close collaboration with the ■ With its financings, OeEB as the development bank Ministry of Finance and Austrian Development of a rich economy contributes to the reduction of Cooperation, synergies are realised in existing poverty, a principal goal of development. facilities. 22 23 24 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures B. Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures I. Business segments EC-8, EC-9 > OeEB’s core business, representing its twin mandate, are of central importance.OeEB provides expertise is the promotion of both development and foreign to implement the foreign trade programmes of the trade. In the business segments of Investment Finance Austrian Ministry of Finance. and Advisory Programmes, the development objectives i. Project evaluation & decision process in investment finance Screening 쩪 Decision 쩪 Due diligence 쩪 Approvals 쩪 Contract 쩪 Project monitoring in principle signing and management ■ Quick check ■ Preliminary Yes ■ Based on: ■ From: ■ By OeEB ■ By three OeEB based on assessment of: detailed and departments: questionnaire available feasibility Supervisory project Investment reports study Board partner(s) Finance, & studies site visit Advisory audited term sheet Business Programmes financial & Development and Credit Risk statements Committee* Management development impact Advisory Board* information * At the Federal Ministry of Finance FS-13-16, PR-1 For all projects proposed to OeEB, the client is The results of the evaluation in terms of development expected to complete a questionnaire that permits criteria and of all risks are presented to the external a first informal check of whether the project is suitable decision-making bodies (the Business & Development for support by OeEB (country and sector exclusion Committee and the Advisory Board). lists are found on the OeEB website at www.oe-eb.at). The appropriate contracts are then concluded with In this preliminary screening a mutual understanding the client and project implementation begins. is quickly reached with the client on the potential for implementing the project. OeEB’s policy is to monitor and manage projects continually for their full duration. If the project is pursued further, the next step is a close scrutiny of the commercial viability and an This process is optimised on an ongoing basis betanalysis of the intended development effects. ween the departments involved (Investment Finance, Among other ways, OeEB does this by means of Credit Risk Management, Advisory Programmes, the Corporate Policy Project Rating tool (GPR©; and Legal). All projects are monitored. for details, see section B.I.ii). 25 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures ii. Development impact SO-1 > As already mentioned, to assess the development The GPR© is continually improved and refined. quality of the projects supported, OeEB employs the so-called Corporate Policy Project Rating Tool (GPR©) The GPR© evaluation of the projects implemented developed by Deutsche Investitionsund Entwickin 2010 demonstrates that they also contribute lungsgesellschaft mbH (DEG), the German developto the achievement of the Millennium Development ment finance institution. Goals (MDG): With GPR©, which is used by more than half of all By their nature, OeEB’s successful projects help EDFI members and by other international developreduce poverty. The creation of jobs and expansion ment banks, projects are scored in a standardised of small and medium-sized enterprises give rise to and transparent way on four criteria: new sources of income in developing and transition economies. ■ Development impacts For example, OeEB’s participation in investment funds ■ The particular strategic role of OeEB that support micro, small and medium businesses in the project via microfinance institutions in Africa is instrumental in making progress towards MDG 1 – to halve poverty ■ The project’s long-term profitability and extreme hunger – in that the clients of microfinance institutions frequently come from the poorer ■ Its contribution to OeEB’s return on equity. parts of society and a default by microfinance institutions could bring the financed economic activity to a halt, which would threaten the livelihoods of Following the GPR© process, users capture a project’s micro-borrowers. estimated or observed effects on outputs such as the number of jobs, foreign-currency revenue and tax Such projects in microfinance also facilitate the revenue in the host country. achievement of MDG 3 – promoting gender equality and empowering women – as some banks now GPR© can be used both ex ante (based on values recognise women as a distinct customer segment expected at the time of project approval) and ex and design financial products specifically for them. post (based on the actual data collected during the operating stages of the investment projects). Through lending specifically for energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy undertakings, Analysis of the ex ante quantitative effects of the the projects supported by OeEB also contribute to projects approved in 2010 (some of them co-financed environmental sustainability and thus help to with partner institutions) shows that these projects achieve MDG 7. For detailed information on the contribute to protecting approximately 195 jobs. MDGs, see www.un.org/millenniumgoals/. Additionally, about 7,320 jobs are indirectly created at up-stream suppliers in the manufacturing industry OeEB does its part to achieve the international and at end-borrowers in financial sector projects. goals of the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness through the projects of the European Financing These totals are based on certain assumptions by Partners and of the Interact Climate Change OeEB and empirical values from DEG, which estimates Facility (ICCF). For the projects, see section C.I.ii., that in the financial sector, for instance, every Business Performance. EUR 10,000 of credit indirectly creates one-half of a new job. 26 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures iii. Environmental and social matters* HR-1, HR-3, The projects of OeEB are located in countries where In OeEB’s Investment Finance segment, the categoriEN-26, FS 8, the national environmental and social standards often sation is performed according to the share of risky FS 5 > lag far behind international norms. When financing projects in the portfolio and to the size of OeEB. Most projects, OeEB is thus bound not only by local of OeEB’s new projects in 2010 fell into categories benchmarks but also strives for the alignment of its B and B+. clients’ business practices with international environmental, social and human rights standards. OeEB This classification by risk is the first step in the therefore backs only those projects where the environmental and social assessment. Based on the project partner too is prepared to meet these criteria. risk category, the lenders in a project, under the Through the use of resources from the Advisory coordination of the lead arranger, perform the detailed Programmes, OeEB is able to support clients’ efforts assessment, identify appropriate measures to reduce in this regard. (A statement of responsible finance potential negative impacts, negotiate these measures principles is provided at www.oe-eb.at/de/ as loan conditions with the counterparty, and design osn/DownloadCenter/richtlinien/EDFI-Principlesthe monitoring of the project. Responsible-Financing.pdf ). In critical sectors, the categorisation is used even FS-2 > As the general benchmark for the assessment of envibefore the start of the project to develop an action ronmental and social standards, OeEB observes the plan to raise environmental and social standards, Performance Standards on Social and Environmental with which the clients must comply fully. Sustainability developed by World Bank subsidiary IFC (details are available online at www.oe-eb.at under Concerning the adherence to environmental and the heading “International Guidelines”). These have social standards, clients are required to supply become the established market benchmark. detailed information on a regular basis in their reporting, including qualitative and quantitative data. In 2010, to be able to rate the bank’s projects Client relationship management also calls for on-site objectively in terms of environmental and social risks, visits to verify the information received. the new projects were classified into risk categories. The tool used for this was the Environmental and In all projects, the classification by environmental Social Risk Indicator (EaSI) from DEG. and social risks helps make it possible to identify the ecological risks, take corresponding countermeasures The following categories are distinguished, according and thus enhance the net environmental benefits to the risk of possible negative impacts on the during the life of the projects. environment and population, balanced against the ability to cushion these impacts through specific Should a project partner not adhere to the agreed measures: principles, a joint process is cooperatively devised to implement the standards in the execution of Category C: Low risk the project. OeEB is fully confident that practicable solutions can be found with all partners. Category B: Medium risk Category B+**: Elevated medium risk Category A: High risk * In the projects of OeEB, the indirect environmental aspects have much greater relevance than direct ones, as OeEB’s physical operations are purely office-based (also see environmental impacts in the sustainability report of the parent, OeKB). ** It was decided at EDFI level to add Category B+ for project finance in the real economy. 27 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Development relevance of projects FS-7 > All projects of OeEB generate social benefit, as the Sixty per cent of OeEB’s newly launched finance bank’s mandate requires. This is reflected in the GPR© projects in 2010 rated by means of the GPR© reach development score. the development score of EPOL 1. Forty per cent are rated EPOL 2. When scoring development impacts/sustainability (EPOL) with GPR©, quality classes are assigned EPOL 1 represents a “very good” project and using a scale of 1 to 6. The score takes into account EPOL 2 a “good” project in terms of relevance to aspects such as job creation and thus the contridevelopment. bution to poverty reduction, gender equality, training, social effects and sustainability of impacts on the development of economic sectors. Analysis of new project commitments by GPR© group* 100% 14% 20% GPR 6 80% GPR 5 GPR 4 60% 80% 57% 60% GPR 3 40% GPR 2 20% 20% 29% 20% GPR 1 0% 2008 2009 2010 Share of total as a percentage Total vol.: EUR 71.5 million Total vol.: EUR 72 million Total vol.: EUR 71.5 million of projects rated ex-ante (5 projects, (7 projects, (5 projects, avg. GPR© rating: 1.8) avg. GPR© rating: 1.9) avg. GPR© rating: 2.0) Analysis of new project commitments by EPOL group* 100% EPOL 6 80% 40% EPOL 5 60% 71% EPOL 4 60% EPOL 3 40% 60% EPOL 2 20% 40% 29% EPOL 1 0% 2008 2009 2010 Share of total as a percentage Total vol.: EUR 71.5 million Total vol.: EUR 72 million Total vol.: EUR 71.5 million of projects rated ex-ante (5 projects, (7 projects, (5 projects, avg. EPOL rating: 1.6) avg. EPOL rating: 1.7) avg. EPOL rating: 1.4) * Percentage share based on the number of projects newly committed in the respective year that were rated using GPR©. 28 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures iv. Examples of projects in 2010 Building microfinance capacity in East Africa – Support for Yehu Microfinance Trust Adet N. Kachi is a successful manager: As CEO of Yehu, a microfinance institution (MFI) in Mombasa, Kenya, he looks back on a year with very positive developments. Yehu was originally founded in 2007 with the mission of enabling women in Kenya’s Kwale coastal region to make savings deposits and take out loans. Inspired by the model of the Grameen Bank, Yehu’s main target group is that of female entrepreneurs in rural areas. Yehu offers products such as loans for school fees. The training for dependable customer service For many, school fees would be far too high when representatives was intensified and incentive programpayable in a single lump sum. But when the amount mes were started. This contributed to slow but steady can be paid off in weekly instalments as with Yehu, growth in the organisation. Within the space of a many children gain the opportunity to attend school. year, the quality of the portfolio was also significantly improved. One of the challenges with which Yehu Since May 2009, Yehu actively participates in the MFI continues to struggle is building up a middle managecapacity building programme of OeEB. Adet Kachi’s ment cadre. ambitious goals: To place Yehu on a sound footing and to double client reach by 2011. The attainment of As part of the OeEB initiative, Yehu’s employees these objectives is closely tied to the introduction of attended a series of seminars or took part in individual a new corporate culture aimed above all at developing trainings: The subjects of the courses ranged from a stronger sense of responsibility within the team. preparing business plans, to setting interest rates, to Adet Kachi remarks that “an organisation’s achieveworkshops on measuring social effects and on finanments are closely related to the commitment and cial management. The knowledge and practical ideas attitude of its staff.“ When he discovered wrongdoing communicated there are intended to help Yehu on the part of his employees towards customers, he master the great challenges encountered and serve took immediate action and launched a radical process more customers even better. of transformation. The CEO himself conducted surprise inspections and gave clients his own telephone Through the project under OeEB’s Advisory Programnumber, among various ways of improving the mes, a total of 18 similar microfinance institutions organisation’s reputation. are supported with training activities. Upon the conclusion of the project in 2012, twelve MFIs are to receive a rating from rating agencies specialising in microfinance organisations. The rating will represent both the financial and social evaluation of the MFIs and is to facilitate their access to capital. 29 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Food Safety Improvement programme (Ukraine and Belarus) Wheat fields as far as the eye can see, sun-drenched This problem is addressed by a project of the Austrian steppe criss-crossed by rivers and greenbelts – Poltava Ministry of Finance supported by OeEB under the province in Ukraine appears idyllic. But life here has Ministry’s Foreign Trade Programme and delivered not always been pleasant: After the collapse of the by the International Finance Corporation (IFC): Soviet Union, the economy foundered and times were The Ukraine Food Safety Project supports the impledifficult for the region’s agribusinesses, which had mentation of a food safety system. made largely high-quality products. “We are taking a three-pronged approach,” explains The small village of Globino was not spared by the Sarah Ockman, the Ukraine project manager. decline. But Oleksandr Kuzminskiy did not let this stop “First, we inform the public about modern food safety him. “Bad sausage not only tastes awful, it also feels management. Second, we advise and support food awful to produce it,” was his creed. In his meatsector companies in implementing the systems. processing business, he made quality a key ingredient And lastly and importantly, we work with the public and success factor. “Customers realised that only administration to improve inspection and control of good-quality foods are good for your health.” food production. The most crucial element, though, is for Ukrainian companies to see that producing food Today, his company controls 8% of Ukraine’s meat of high quality is not only necessary but profitable.” market and employees 2,500 people. But Kuzminskiy’s company needed more funds, both for further Oleksandr Kuzminskiy too is now establishing expansion and to set up a product safety and quality new quality management processes and structures. system. Yet during the financial crisis, it was im“OeEB and the IFC have become reliable partners possible to obtain financing in as difficult a market as to me.” Ukraine. Few of the country’s 20,000 food manufacturers produce to European food safety standards. That, however, not only hinders exports but also poses a real health threat to the Ukrainian public. 30 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Regional Microand Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Fund (REGMIFA) Rhoda Tarus came with low expectations: She did not KWFT was founded as long ago as 1981. The microown land, so who would lend her money? How was she finance organisation provides its financial services to build a life and make her business ideas a reality? exclusively to women. With the largest geographic She was barely making ends meet by selling homerange and third largest portfolio, KWFT is one of the brewed changaa and busaa, traditional Kenyan drinks, leading microfinance institutions in Kenya. The when she heard of Kenya Women Finance Trust (KWFT) institution offers not only group loans, but also strives from friends. “They told me about how loans were for innovative, customer-specific solutions. REGMIFA available from KWFT. I had no collateral to put up, but has funded KWFT as a way of supporting economic I received a loan anyway.“ activity by clients like Rhoda Tarus. For Rhoda Tarus, KWFT was the key to taking charge of REGMIFA is an investment fund under Luxembourg law her own future: With her small loan of 30,000 Kenyan that makes loans available to microfinance institutions shillings (about 240 euros), she opened a butcher in Africa in local currencies. This local-currency lending shop at Moi University in Eldoret in Western Kenya, is a distinguishing feature of the fund that reduces a big improvement from her humble brewing business. the risks for the MFIs and thus also for the end-clients. “My life changed very much for the better, she says, REGMIFA’s goal is also to finance smaller MFIs that and I was able to pay back the loan within six previously had little access to capital. In the first phase months.” With a second loan, she bought land for her of the fund, about EUR 20 million will be available. family. After taking business training through KWFT, she is now busy expanding her products and services. OeEB has both made a financial investment in Rhoda Tarus recently won a contract to supply meat REGMIFA, and provided funding under its Advisory and charcoal to Moi University for two years (charcoal Programmes to support technical assistance in is still a very common cooking fuel in Kenya). connection with the financing of MFIs. 31 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures Black Sea Transmission Network At project presentation: Andrea Hagmann, OeEB Executive Board member, and Gunter Kappacher, Siemens Vice-President, Energy. Georgia is a country rich in beautiful mountain landThe large infrastructure project with a total investment scapes, but with a volatile past and a great deficit of EUR 289 million is financed jointly by OeEB, the of economic development. Particularly in recent years, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development the population faced enormous difficulties: In 2008 (EBRD), the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the persistent tension with the neighbouring province German development bank KfW Entwicklungsbank. of South Ossetia led to armed conflict with Russia. The project originated from the pipeline of the NeighThe global economic crisis hit Georgia hard, and few bourhood Investment Facility, an EU initiative for foreign investors venture into this country on the infrastructure projects in countries near the European Caucasus. Union; Austria is an NIF member and OeEB forms part of NIF’s project finance group. A prerequisite of Georgia’s economic development is the creation of a stable electrical grid, as the present The project was tendered internationally. Siemens power distribution network is still of insufficient Austria competed successfully against numerous quality and capacity. other contenders and will now build part of the new infrastructure. OeEB is therefore participating with an investment of EUR 20 million in financing the new construction and A sound electrical grid for Georgia means a sustainable upgrading of transmission lines and transformer improvement in the national infrastructure and stations in Georgia in the Black Sea Transmission Netalso an important stimulus to the country’s economic work project. This undertaking is central to the efforts development. It is indispensable to the further by Georgia and other South Caucasus countries expansion of Georgian hydroelectricity: Georgia has to expand their national electricity grids and integrate enormous potential in this regard, only 22% of which them effectively across national borders. The addition is currently utilised. and improvement of transmission lines and electrical substations is essentially creating an “energy The “energy bridge” will create a regional energy bridge” that will make it possible for Georgia to deliver market in which the region’s resources can be power to the other Black Sea countries and Europe used more efficiently and in an environmentally (especially also to Turkey). friendlier manner. 32 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures San Jacinto Geothermal power plant in Nicaragua Beyond its positive global effect in terms of climate change, the project generates the local benefit of creating jobs for the people of San Jacinto and eight surrounding communities. In addition, OeEB and the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) plan to support a project in San Jacinto and area to improve the water supply, healthcare and disaster preparedness. Living conditions of the people in these communities’ are expected to become Two thousand meters below the Earth’s surface in significantly better as a result. To date, only about Nicaragua, an extraordinary treasure awaits three-quarters of the local population has had access harnessing: The heat from dormant volcanoes is an to clean water, and only for two hours per day. San energy source that is not only inexpensive but clean. Jacinto’s health centre, which also serves the wider Nicaragua – the poorest nation in Central America – area, is underequipped. What is more, with its steep has some of the most abundant geothermal resources slopes, the town frequently suffers landslides and of any country worldwide. Aside from their great flooding during heavy rains. economic importance, these resources have special significance against the backdrop of climate change. The construction of the power plant will usher in a new era for the population of San Jacinto. The resulting In an uninhabited area near the community of San sustainable, secure energy supply is essential to the Jacinto, a geothermal generating plant is being built region’s economic development. In the water and by an experienced project company, PENSA (Polaris healthcare project, the water supply network is to be Energy Nicaragua S.A.), with a total investment of expanded, thus making water available to all and approximately USD 157 million. OeEB is supporting also lowering its price. As many diseases are caused this project (which has the priority backing of by contaminated water, the availability of clean and the Nicaraguan government) with an investment of affordable water alone will contribute to better health. USD 15.1 million, together with the International A further step in this direction is the enlargement Finance Corporation (IFC) and eight other developand improvement of the local healthcare centre and ment institutions. its facilities. As well, an emergency shelter in San Jacinto’s school is to be expanded for use during the Although Nicaragua’s economy suffered drastically in recurrent floods. This way, when El Niño brings down the crisis of the past several years, its energy demand torrential rains on San Jacinto again, local people is rising. Thus far, the country has been heavily will have a safe place to take refuge in case of need. dependent on high-priced imports of oil. Its current reliance on thermal generation of electricity using oiland diesel-burning generators is not only expensive but also leads to high emissions of climate-harming carbon dioxide. Geothermal power, by contrast, is a clean and reliable form of renewable energy. 33 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures v. International cooperation Lars Thunell, IFC Vice President and CEO, and Michael Wancata, OeEB Executive Board member. GRI 4.13 > As a member of the Association of European DeveSeparately, OeEB has observer status with Black lopment Finance Institutions (EDFI), the umbrella Sea Trade and Development Bank (BSTDB), based in organisation of the 16 bilateral European development Thessaloniki. The first projects under the trust fund banks, OeEB redoubled its collaboration with other established by OeEB at BSTDB have been implemembers. OeEB was an active participant in various mented. working groups (Environment, Social Matters and Governance, Development Impacts, Communication In connection with the investment in the Microfinance and Legal). Many projects are carried out in coordiEnhancement Facility (MEF) jointly founded by the nation with other development banks. IFC and Germany’s KfW, OeEB has a seat on the MEF’s supervisory board and thus has ample opportunity In parallel with the relationships inside EDFI, OeEB for working closely with other partners. also strengthened its partnerships with international financial institutions such as the IFC, EBRD, ADB, In the work with the European Fund for South East AfDB and IADB. The first projects with these partners Europe (EFSE), OeEB is part of the steering committee were evaluated and implemented. In 2010 a master of the Development Facility. cooperation agreement was signed between OeEB and the IFC with the aim of standardising co-financings. Together with other EDFI members, OeEB finances projects through European Financing Partners (EFP), which invests solely in Africa. vi. Combating corruption SO-2, SO-3 > Corruption is encountered in OeEB’s target Specific regulations on anti-money laundering and countries and the bank’s staff has received training terrorism finance were developed for OeEB’s personnel and information to deal with this issue. to ensure that the appropriate anti-corruption measures are taken during the course of the institution’s projects – from checking client identities, to the loan disbursement stage, all the way to the time of loan repayment. 34 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures II. Stakeholder inclusion i. Guiding principles GRI 4.14, GRI 4.15, As a private sector entity with a public mandate, OeEB Respectful and intensive dialogue forms an important GRI 4.16, operates in a space characterised by the sometimes element of our relationship with stakeholders. GRI 4.17 > divergent interests of different stakeholder groups. Ministry for European Federal Ministry OeKB Federal Economic Chamber and International Affairs of Finance (BMF) (parent of OeEB) (WKO, the Austrian (BMeiA) chamber of commerce) Austrian Development Federal Ministry Agency (ADA) of Economy, Family and Youth (BMWFJ) Chamber of Labour European Development (AK) finance institutions (EDFI), International finance institutions (IFI) Non-governmental organisations (NGOs) Federal Chancellery (BKA – head of Media Austrian government) Parties/Politicians Partner Clients in Clients in organisations Europe developing countries Competitors GRI 3.5 > OeEB was involved in the events held on behalf of the OeEB’s active engagement with its stakeholders was Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs, Family and also reflected in its participation in the UN Global GRI 4.16, Youth by Informationsbüro Wirtschaft und Entwicklung Compact meeting held in the context of the Austrian GRI 4.17 > (IBWE), an information agency founded to promote UNGC network. Here, OeEB contributed to an expert awareness of the complementary opportunities of panel on the subject of transparency. business and development.Thus, the bank took part in every round table discussion on combining business As well, OeEB joined in a mission to the World Bank and development. The specific topics were coherence and its institutions with the Austrian Ministry of between the individual players, the improvement Finance and the Austrian Development Agency. of networking, and exploring opportunities for collaboration. 35 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Development project cycle and approval responsibilities & procedures The aim of this trip was the joint representation The cooperation with NGOs, in addition to an of Austrian agencies, interests and priorities; the effort ongoing dialogue, was reinforced as part of a multialso served to improve coordination within the indistakeholder meeting on the subject of enhancing the vidual projects. There is also regular communication effectiveness of development cooperation, hosted with the Ministry of Finance, the ADA and the Ministry by Globale Verantwortung (“Global Responsibility”, the for European and International Affairs. Austrian Platform for Development and Humanitarian Aid). The opportunities for economic cooperation were As part of the collaboration with the Austrian chamber proactively highlighted by OeEB in a working group, of commerce (WKO), OeEB fielded a booth at the with a focus particularly on the value chain and job WKO’s Export Day on 10 June 2010. In partnership creation. with the WKO, there were also several round table discussions with future trade delegates where The bank also brought its expertise to bear in a panel OeEB presented its business segments. At an event discussion on world hunger organised by Ökosoziales staged by OeEB and WKO on business opportunities Studierendenforum, an Austrian association of in the Black Sea region, information was provided students and graduates championing ecological and to Austrian companies. social reforms. Staff from OeEB attended events of affiliated The microfinance know-how of OeEB is increasingly banks and of the Austrian Development Agency and in demand within Austria. Thus, two OeEB staff the World Bank. Of particular note were OeEB’s members share their insights with the investment active contributions to the Austrian government’s committee of the ESPA VINIS Microfinance fund of initiatives for the Danube and Black Sea regions. Erste Sparinvest. At the annual customer event held by VBV Pensionskasse, a pension fund, OeEB gave In 2010, the Executive Board met with representaa presentation on “microfinance as an asset class”. tives of non-government organisations to illustrate the bank’s mandate, responsibilities and capabilities At the EFSE annual meeting, the bank moderated as exemplified by specific projects. On these a panel on addressing responsible finance for micro occasions OeEB also explained the processes and and small enterprises and households. instruments through which it carries out its development mission. As well, discussions were held with Next to the events on microfinance, OeEB also took representatives of all Austrian parliamentary parties an active part in the debates which arose in 2010 that deal with business and development issues. around this subject (particularly regarding the issue of excessive debt loads contracted by borrowers). In the process, the bank drew attention to the importance of responsible finance (www.oe-eb.at) in this aspect of financial sector development. 36 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report C. Management report I. Business and financial review i. Business activities and terms of reference FS-15, FS-16 > Acting on behalf of the Austrian federal government, Working with the client, OeEB develops solutions that OeEB supports the development and expansion are tailored precisely to the specific project, to the primarily of private sector projects in developing current financial and business situation and to the risk countries. profile of the country in question. The legislative basis for the activities of OeEB A key aspect of client selection is the application was created by an amendment to Austria’s Export of responsible-finance principles: In this regard, we Guarantees Act (in German: Ausfuhrförderungsbear in mind environmental and social criteria, and gesetz, or AusfFG). transparency and corporate governance standards. On this basis OeEB lends its support to projects Development transactions naturally entail high that require long-term financing and that have the project and country risks, which OeEB neutralises ability to repay such loans out of their own resources. through guarantees from the Austrian government. Every project must also have a positive sustainable For this cover, OeEB pays a risk-adjusted premium impact on local and regional economic development. to the Ministry of Finance. Project eligibility for OeEB support is not tied to Before individual deals are presented for approval Austrian goods and services. However, the use of to the Supervisory Board and the panels specified expertise and capacity available in Austria is intended for this purpose by law, the project risk and country and encouraged. In principle, any company from risk are carefully analysed. Some elements of this an industrialised or developing country can become assessment are outsourced to OeKB under a service a client of OeEB. OeEB provides solutions not offered agreement. by commercial banks in the various developing countries; its role is thus only supplementary to that of commercial banks. OeEB offers the full range of long-term financing options, from equity finance to loans. ii. Business performance Investment Finance segment GRI 2.7 > In 2010, OeEB was approached with many project Both the latter bodies are stipulated in the Export ideas. For the seven projects approved in the year, Guarantees Act. The Business & Development contracts totalling about EUR 95 million were Committee met nine times in 2010. signed. As risk-sharing forms a key component of the The required approvals for these projects were business strategy, OeEB collaborates with other obtained from the Supervisory Board, the Business bilateral or multilateral development banks on & Development Committee and the Advisory Board. most of the projects underwritten. 37 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report EC 2 > The projects signed in 2010 related to credit lines The financing model supports cooperation consistent for financial institutions in Africa, Turkey and Asia, with the donor harmonisation called for in the Paris an investment in a microfinance fund in Africa, loans Declaration on Aid Effectiveness. to an infrastructure fund in Africa, to projects in the Caucasus (in the energy sector) and in Latin America Liquidity in some of the markets in which OeEB (for project examples, see section B.I.iv). operates is still high. For this reason, loans under new commitments given in 2009/2010 were drawn only FS-8 > OeEB also signed the agreement for the Interact slowly. Some projects were also supported through Climate Change Facility (ICCF). This is a financing platOeEB’s funded or unfunded risk participation. form established by eleven European development banks together with the European Investment Bank (EIB) and Agence Française de Développement (AFD) to fund climate protection, energy efficiency and renewable energy projects in developing countries. By signed volume By signed volume Regional distribution of new commitments in 2010 Sectoral distribution of new commitments in 2010 Supraregional Asia Financial sector Infrastructure sector 5% 48% 51% 49% Africa 35% Latin America 12% 38 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Number in EUR million in EUR million Total of Off balance On balance project volume projects sheet sheet Movement in project volume in the Investment Finance segment Project volume at 1 January 2010 as per 2009 financial statements 14 150,68 Valuation effect of change in USD exchange rate, at 31 December 2010 4,20 Project volume at 1 January 2010 (at 2009 year-end exchange rate) 154.87 Of which: undrawn credit facilities 55.24 Of which: contingent liabilities 17.59 Disbursements under financing commitments from prior years -5.81 New contracts signed in 2010 Equity investments, loans, guarantees 7 94.30 Of which: undrawn credit facilities 48.91 Of which: contingent liabilities 20.00 Repayments received in 2010 -0.96 Limit adjustment on facilities from prior years -11.98 -11.98 Total project volume at 31 December 2010 236.23 Of which: off balance sheet 123.96 Carrying amount on balance sheet 21 112.27 EUR/USD rate at 31 December 2010: 1,3362 39 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Advisory Programmes segment FS 6 > Through technical assistance under OeEB’s Advisory In 2010, OeEB disbursed EUR 16.47 million to project Programmes (AP), projects can be prepared and partners. The disbursements are tied to progress improved to enhance their development effectiveness. in the respective projects and thus help ensure the Examples of measures that may be funded with AP achievement of development objectives. monies are studies, fees to hire specialists, projectrelated training and upgrading of qualifications, as well In terms of geographic composition, one-third of the as the introduction of international standards. projects reflect OeEB’s focus on Southeastern Europe, Central Asia and Africa. Supraregional projects are In the 2010 financial year, the Ministry of Finance defined as those that involve specified host countries approved AP funds of approximately EUR 14.6 million. on two or more continents. Particularly worthy of note is the cooperation with the IFC in the “Response In the year, OeEB concluded contracts for 25 to the Financial Crisis”, under which about 70% of the AP projects totalling about EUR 25 million. These projects are located in Southeastern Europe and contracts also include projects approved in the Central Asia, and 30% in various other areas worldwide. prior financial years, but signed in 2010. Some 50% of AP projects target the financial sector, In 2010, OeEB’s third year in business, the AP funding in keeping with OeEB’s overall focus. Microfinance continued to be used for the methodical development activities and training for banks’ staff and end-clients of a project pipeline. In particular, the collaboration are counted towards the projects in this sector. with the International Finance Corporation was expanded and that with the African Development Bank was begun. Projects designed to amplify the development effectiveness of financing were implemented. The AP projects vary greatly in size. The smallest, at around EUR 27,000, serves to support Standard Bank of South Africa in expanding the application of the Equator Principles. The largest, at EUR 2.8 million, is dedicated to capacity building measures in the financial sector with a focus on micro, small and medium enterprises. 40 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Regional distribution of new AP project commitments in 2010 Sectoral distribution of new AP project commitments in 2010 Total new signed volume: EUR 25.2 million (25 projects) Total new signed volume: EUR 25.2 million (25 projects) Regional distribution Sectoral distribution unallocated/ Africa unallocated/ Banking and Financial unspecified 25,95% unspecified Services 0,06% 0,57% 53,70% Europe Global 12,20% 11,89% Industry Business and Asia 3,98% other Services 3,98% Supraregional 7,95% Energy 41,94% Generation Other Latin America and Supply multisector 3,98% 4,25% 29,55% Foreign Trade Programme Some of the projects, and particularly the studies On the basis of OeEB’s expertise in development begun in 2008, were completed and are presented and foreign trade, the bank provides advice to on the OeEB website at www.oe-eb.at/en/projects/ the Ministry of Finance, especially in collaborations advisory-programmes-projects/pages/default.aspx. with international financial institutions (IFIs). These studies are of interest to the general public as well. The aim of the participation in IFI programmes is the resulting know-how transfer to Austrian businesses As the strategy specifies, the themes of microfinance and the greater support by IFIs to improve business and energy efficiency were pursued through projects conditions for companies in selected countries. in developing and transitional countries. Thus, for instance, projects were started to launch mobile The IFI programmes are selected by the Ministry savings products in Africa and transform microfinance of Finance. In 2010 further projects were identified, institutions in Central Asia, and a study was begun including the food safety programme in Ukraine, to identify prospective energy efficiency projects in Belarus and Georgia (see section B.I.iv., Examples Serbia. The strategic continuation of work on these of Projects in 2010). major trends is planned for 2011. 41 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Financial results As part of this project, OeEB worked with Austrian The 2010 financial year closed with profit for the year businesses, and specifically with the food industry of EUR 781,648.40 (prior year: EUR 585,613.35). association of the Austrian chamber of commerce, After transfers to reserves and before distribution launching a systematic information campaign or retention, the unallocated profit for the year was for the Austrian business community in this sector. EUR 280,483.95 (prior year: EUR 320,592.96). For administering the Advisory Programmes and Thanks to the higher project volume, operating income Foreign Trade Programme, OeEB receives a fee. rose significantly from the prior year’s EUR 3.0 million to EUR 4.3 million in the year under review. A major driver of this result – alongside combined net interest Other Activities segment income and securities income of about EUR 2.5 million (prior year: EUR 1.3 million) – was the net fee and In 2010 the cooperation with other development commission income of about EUR 1.7 million (prior banks was further expanded, particularly through the year: EUR 1.6 million). The fee and commission income Neighbourhood Investment Facility (NIF) of the included management fees from the financings, fees European Commission. Encouragingly, demand for NIF for OeEB’s management services rendered under the projects in this region grew so much that the Advisory Programmes (means are provided from the Commission called on donors for a further increase in Ministry of Finance), and for developmentand foreignfunding. OeEB added EUR 2 million to its contribution. trade-related consulting services to the Ministry. OeEB is a member of the NIF’s Financial Institutions Group and was able to generate two projects through The operating expenses of approximately EUR 2.7 the NIF: the expansion of the European Fund for million (prior year: EUR 2.2 million) reflected the South East Europe by adding the South Caucasus bank’s growth and consisted largely of staff costs of region, and financing of the Black Sea Transmission EUR 1.8 million (prior year: EUR 1.5 million) and Network (see section B.I.iv., Examples of Projects other administrative expenses of EUR 0.9 million in 2010). Besides the NIF, OeEB is active in two other (prior year: EUR 0.7 million). projects with the European Commission: In the Western Balkans Investment Framework (an initiative The resulting operating profit in the 2010 financial year for the countries of Southeastern Europe) and in was about EUR 1.6 million, up from EUR 0.8 million the EU-Africa Infrastructure Trust Fund (EUAITF), in the prior year. After valuation effects on financial which supports infrastructure projects in Africa. In instruments, and after taxes, profit for the year was both initiatives, monies were contributed from the approximately EUR 0.8 million (prior year: EUR 0.6 Advisory Programmes and OeEB is represented million). In view of the good result, EUR 0.5 million of in the respective Project Finance Groups. All three this profit was transferred to reserves (prior year: facilities are to generate financing projects with EUR 0.3 million) to further increase OeEB’s ability to co-financing from OeEB. generate future growth. At 31 December 2010, profit available for distribution was EUR 309,003.68 (prior year: EUR 335,019.73). 42 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report iii. Office locations GRI 2.4 > The registered office of OeEB is located at OeEB has no branch offices in Austria or Strauchgasse 3, 1010 Vienna, Austria. other countries. iv. Financial and non-financial performance indicators Regulatory capital requirement under section 22 2010 2009 Austrian Banking Act Financial performance indicators Risk-weighted assets under section 22 (2) Banking Act (credit risk) 322 277 Risk-weighted assets under section 22i Banking Act (operational risk) 3,103 2,349 Minimum regulatory capital requirement under section 22 (1) Banking Act 501 385 For credit risk (2010: 8% of 322) 26 22 For operational risk (2010: 15% of 3,103; 2009: 15% of 2,349) 465 352 For market risk (open foreign currency positions) 10 11 Total 501 385 Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 6,276 5,370 OeEB held sufficient regulatory capital throughout the financial year. Earnings per share As the share capital is divided into 50,000 no par-value bearer shares and profit for the year was EUR 781,648.40, earnings per share amounted to EUR 15.63. 43 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Analysis of expenses 2010 2009 EUR EUR EC-1 > Administrative expenses a) Staff costs 1,789,063.57 1,463,833.04 aa) Salaries 1,461,668.04 1,221,713.55 bb) Statutory social security contributions, pay-based levies, and pay-based other compulsory contributions 269,291.51 200,845.58 cc) Other social expenses 25,855.23 21,221.65 dd) Expenses for retirement and other post-employment benefits 17,325.27 8,897.60 ee) Contributions to termination benefit funds 14,923.52 11,154.66 b) Other administrative expenses 883,428.89 691,958.06 Total 2,672,492.46 2,155,791.10 Tax expense Income tax 372,740.81 220,745.55 Other taxes 0 0 Total 372,740.81 220,745.55 44 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report 45 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report from left to right, from top to bottom: Mr. Martin Auer, CIIA (Credit Risk Management) Ms. Susanne Boesch, B.A., M.A.I.S. (Advisory Programmes) Ms. Erika Bruckbauer (Credit Risk Management) Ms. Kristin Duchâteau, MA (Advisory Programmes, Head of Department) Ms. Katharine Eyre (Legal Department) Ms. Raffaela Fromwald (Investment Finance) Ms. Sabine Gaber (Investment Finance, Head of Department) Ms. Andrea Hagmann (Member of the Executive Board) Mr. Alexander Köck (Credit Risk Management, Head of Department) Ms. Christine Lex-Neuhold (Assistance) Ms. Judith Pauritsch, MA (Advisory Programmes) Mr. Klaus Peichl, LL.M. (Legal Department) Mr. Wolfgang Pöcheim (Investment Finance) Ms. Angelika Rädler (Marketing/Corporate Communications) Mr. Heinz Rindler, LL.M. (Legal Department, Head of Department) Mr. Marcel Spechtler (Investment Finance) Mr. Reinhard Wagner, M.E.S. (Advisory Programmes) Mr. Oliver Walter (Investment Finance) Mr. Michael Wancata (Member of the Executive Board) Ms. Eva Maria Wassermann (Assistance) 46 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Non-financial performance indicators Staff HR-3, LA-12 > OeEB’s staff sees to the implementation of OeEB emphasises practice-oriented further training the programmes described and also transacts the for its staff. In addition to in-house training events banking business per se. The main activities are offered together with OeKB, OeEB also made a point project acquisition and structuring; risk assessment; of providing opportunities to take part in external conclusion of new contracts; processing and monitseminars. oring of existing projects; evaluation of development relevance; formulation and implementation of ways Motivated staff providing service to high standards to improve development relevance; and developmentof quality and professionalism, and doing so in related communication and policy work. a costand risk-conscious manner, are critical to OeEB’s sustained success as Austria’s official OeEB has a service agreement with OeKB under development bank. LA-4, LA-14, which various services are procured from OeKB. GRI 4.5, EC-5 > This ensures access to proven know-how and raises Committed to being a responsible employer, OeEB additional synergies. uses appropriate staff development tools to help create the right conditions for employee satisfaction The service agreement is approved by the Financial and productivity. In the reporting period, the Market Authority and covers accounting and reporting, process for the performance appraisal interviews human resources management, information technowas revised. The employee interview discusses logy, internal audit and other services. As well, OeEB performance against productivity objectives set in is authorised to outsource the compliance officer the prior period, as well as work quality and team function for those business segments covered by the relations. Performance objectives and the conditions Standard Compliance Code (SCC) and the SCC’s required to achieve them are set anew each year. minimum standards. The bank’s compensation policy uses both perWith the exception of the Executive Board, which is formance criteria and market benchmarks. Care is provided by OeKB, all OeEB staff members are directly taken to ensure an appropriate proportion of fixed employed by OeEB. They bring considerable breadth to variable pay. The variable portion is based partly of experience to their positions from their previous on individual performance as discussed in the perwork. As personal and professional qualifications are formance appraisal interview, and partly on various the only criteria for employee evaluation at OeEB, corporate-level performance indicators. Appropriate employee pay is gender-independent. For graduates of controls ensure that variable compensation is vocational schools and higher educational institutions, paid only when the bank’s earnings allow it. These the salary scale starts above collective agreement rules are applied at all levels of the organisation, levels. All salaried employees of OeEB are covered including senior management. In response to new by the collective agreement for the commercial legal requirements, OeEB’s compensation model banking sector. is currently being revised. 47 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report EC-3, LA-8 > OeEB employees receive discounts on meals in the OeEB offers all employees flexible working hours. OeKB staff cafeteria. Other benefits are access to the No benefits or services are reserved for full-time staff. company doctor, vaccinations and the annual health week event. As part of the OeKB Group, the staff For employees with more than one year of service at also has the (fee-based) use of the company day-care OeEB, contributions were paid to an external pension centre and the sports centre. fund for the banking sector. LA-1 > Employee statistics 31 December 2010 31 December 2009 Number % Number % Total individuals 18 100 13 100 Of whom: part-time employees 1 5.5 0 0 In full-time equivalents 18 – 13 – LA-2 > Employee turnover 1 5.5 – – Average age 34.5 – 35.4 – OeEB has 18 employees. This does not include the Executive Board, which is provided by OeKB. Proportion of employees who are women – 44.44% – 62.5% Proportion of executive positions (with full commercial powers of attorney) occupied by women – 0 – 0 48 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report A total of EUR 20,639.82 was spent on training in 2010. The employees received 524 hours of training. 2010 2009 LA-10 > Training costs and hours Number % Number % Per employee (in EUR) Internal training 194.43 19 254.59 38.13 External training 837.56 81 413.17 61.87 Per employee (in hours) Internal training 9.15 35 8.27 54.87 External training 17.05 65 6.80 45.13 OeEB’s voluntary employee-benefit expenses were EUR 25,855.23. Environmental responsibility The environmental management system of OesterThe electricity used by OeEB, like that used by OeKB, reichische Kontrollbank, the parent of OeEB, provides is hydroelectric power sourced from Wienstrom. a wealth of environmental performance data for the Strauchgasse premises in Vienna. The carbon dioxide calculations are based on the following conversion factors: All the data related to energy use, heating, water and waste are based on the statistics for this location and are expressed on a per-person basis (based on all OeEB staff, including the Executive Board). This approach was approved by the Umweltbundesamt, the Austrian Federal Environment Agency. 49 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report CO2 in kg Source of information Conversion table for CO2 emissions 1 km By rail (electric) 0.00295 ÖBB 2004 (purely electrically operated; all hydroelectric in 2004) 1 km By air, per person 0.19500 GEMIS Austria 4.2 1 km By car, per vehicle 0.18900 Handbook of Emission Factors for Road Transport 1 kWh Electricity 0.22920 Data for Austrian electricity generation in 2002 1 kWh Hydroelectricity 0.02500 Data for hydroelectric power generation 1 kWh District heat 0.13100 CO2 emissions according to data from Fernwärme Wien The presentation of CO2 emissions conforms to the standards of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and ISO 14.063. EN-18, EN-29 > As a detailed analysis is available of OeEB’s travel Consistent with the sustainability goal for 2010, the activity (which consists almost entirely of air travel), CO2 emissions from business travel are offset: Through that analysis is used to calculate the CO2 equivalents MyClimate, the carbon offsetting service, OeEB for transport. The direct business of OeEB is outsupports a project in Ethiopia for solar energy use. side Europe. Since many administrative services are Based on the calculation method of MyClimate, provided by OeKB, the CO2 emissions are not 153 tonnes of CO2 emissions were offset; the methocomparable to the industry average. dology is described at www.myclimate.org. Input Output Input Output 2010 2010 2009 2009 Energy* CO2 emissions CO2 emissions Total electricity, water, waste and CO2 In kWh in kg In kWh in kg EN-4, EN-16 > Electricity 129,931 3,248.27 98,520 2,463 District heat 51,846 6,791.76 32,098 4,205 CO2 emissions Energy consumption 10,040.03 6,668 * The increase in energy consumption was caused by the top-floor expansion at the Strauchgasse address. 50 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report 2010 2009 2010 2009 (18 empl.) (15 empl.) (18 empl.) (15 empl.) EN-29 >> Heating energy (district heat) (kWh) Business travel (km) Total 51,846 32,098 Total 424,908.52 185,509 Per employee 2,592.30 2,140 Per employee 21,245.43 12,367 Per m2 (based on 375 m2) 138.25 86 Rail 206 1.13% Per work day Air 424,647.52 98.38% (250 days per year) 207.38 128 Car 55 0.49% EN-21 > Water/waste water (litres) CO2 emissions from travel (kg) Total 331,736 231,960 Total 82,817.26 35,766 Per employee 16,586.80 15,464 Per employee 4,140.86 2,384 EN-22 > Solid waste – Strauchgasse building (kg) Total 1,831 1,237 Per employee 91,55 82 In 2010, OeEB’s total emissions of CO2 were 92.85 tonnes. Using the MyClimate methodology, the carbon dioxide emissions from air travel were calculated at 153 tonnes and offset in this amount (also see www.myclimate.org/en.html ). 51 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Objectives of OeEB sustainability programme Achievement Objective Summary progress report status Achievement status of prior years’ objectives Ex-post evaluation To achieve this target, a dialogue on evaluation was held with Achieved of development KfW Entwicklungsbank, the German development bank of Kreditanstalt impact of at least für Wiederaufbau. one measure financed with As the subject is highly complex and has long-term relevance for OeEB’s Advisory Programmes work, OeEB held further discussions with the Federal Ministry of Finance (objective from 2008) and other EDFI members. OeEB will incorporate the results of the talks, and the insights from a World Bank seminar held in January 2010, into the evaluation design. Ex-post evaluation Inquiries about evaluation methodologies were made at other development Achieved of development banks, but yielded no specific examples applicable to OeEB. OeEB impact of measures therefore decided to carry out self-evaluations. Every project completed by financed with Advisory Programmes is evaluated by uniform criteria. An external evaluation Advisory Programmes is planned for the medium term. (objective from 2009) Evaluation is becoming an increasingly important topic for other EDFI members. OeEB is therefore able to share its existing experience through a working group on development effects. In 2011, OeEB’s expertise will also be useful in the Outreach Indicators sub-working group. Mitigative measures After reviewing the scope for mitigative actions, OeEB came to the Not achieved; to limit CO2 emissions conclusion that, by the very nature of its business activity in developing continued from staff travel and transition countries, the amount of air travel will continue to rise (objective from 2008) and there is little possibility of containing this quantity. A new objective was set for this area. Reduction Upon critical evaluation of OeEB’s projects, a partnership was created Achieved of CO2 footprint through MyClimate with a solar energy project in Ethiopia to offset of OeEB’s operations the CO2 emissions. (objective from 2009) Assessment Analysis by GPR© and EaSI criteria. Fulfilled of OeEB’s Investment Finance portfolio In 2010, the first step was taken by categorising the projects; also see using environmental C.I.ii., Investment Finance Segment. An additional objective for further work and social indicators in this area was set for 2011 (see sustainability objectives for 2011 (objective from 2009) in next box). 52 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Achievement Objective Summary progress report status Target group analysis A study was prepared by OeKB’s Bank and Business Information Achieved regarding FDI of department; the objective was thus met. Austrian companies See www.oe-eb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/projektinfos/ in developing countries Studie-oesterr-Direktinvestitionen-in-Transitionslaendern.pdf (available in German only). Objective Action Who By when EN-26, EN-18 > Objectives for 2011 Create a common Develop a vision and mission statement OeEB 06/2011 understanding of the vision with the involvement of staff and with and mission of OeEB follow-up measures Development of new Evaluate methods such as investment OeEB, OeKB, Ministry 12/2011 products with sustainability (direct and through funds) and reach of Finance, Ministry criteria agreement with owner and principals for European and International Affairs FS 9 > Formulate the process for Set out the detailed process to use OeEB, OeKB 06/2012 ensuring projects’ compliance after the classification of projects with with environmental and the EaSI tool (see B.I.iii, Environmental social standards and Social Matters) Raise stakeholders’ Develop an approach with OeKB Public OeEB, OeKB 2012 awareness of OeEB’s roles Relations that especially includes and activities interactive presentation methods using new media v. Significant events after the balance sheet date There were no significant events after the balance sheet date. 53 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report 54 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report II. Outlook and risks for the bank i. Business outlook Based on many conversations with clients and A short summary of the strategy is presented on development partners, OeEB’s business is expected to page 19 of this report. grow at a similarly strong pace in 2011 as last year. As the volume of business grows, continuing In the bank’s third financial year, attention was timely adjustment of staff capacity will be required. devoted to OeEB’s strategic direction. A strategy for The probable increase in business should lead the period from 2010 to 2015 was developed and to a corresponding rise in revenue. was discussed with the Supervisory Board and the Ministry of Finance and Ministry for European and International Affairs. ii. Significant risks and uncertainties The financial and economic crisis continues to have However, OeEB expects a large portion of the posteffects on OeEB’s business. Thus, especially in poned disbursements to occur in the first half of 2011. the financial sector, only part of the funding under the In the current environment, the business trend for project contracts signed in 2009 and 2010 has been the bank will remain positive, as was the case in the disbursed to borrowers. This is explained by the low first three financial years. OeEB, while duly considering demand from the financial institutions’ end customers, project risks, plans to further expand the volume of who have deferred some of their investments. its business in 2011. The project risks will continue to be covered by guarantees of the Republic of Austria. iii. Risk policy and strategy Strategic approach to risk management GRI 4.11 > To cover the very high project and country risks, In the next several years OeEB will therefore not OeEB receives a 100% guarantee from the Austrian undertake any projects on the basis of its equity government for every deal. without obtaining an Austrian government guarantee. Project risks are assessed conservatively, which also OeEB is a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB and has the effect of reducing reputation risk to OeEB. follows a risk policy and strategy consistent with that of the OeKB Group. In 2010, internal control systems In view of the backing by the Republic of Austria within the meaning of the Austrian Banking Act were through government guarantees, OeEB’s share developed together with OeKB for OeEB’s Investment capital of EUR 5.0 million represents and meets the Finance and Advisory Programmes departments and minimum requirement under the Austrian the Foreign Trade Programme segment. Banking Act. 55 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report The overarching goal of the OeKB Group’s enterpriseThere is also a designated staff member tasked with wide risk management (the Internal Capital Adequacy assuring that the internal control system complies Assessment Process, or ICAAP) is to assure the with legal requirements. This employee works closely entity’s continuing existence as a going concern. As with the operational risk manager of OeKB and the a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB, OeEB is covered organisation section of OeKB’s OBUS department by the Group ICAAP and thus does not require its (OBUS stands for Organisation, Construction, own formal ICAAP. In the interest of uniformity of Environment and Security). measurement methods across the Group, it is planned to assess OeEB’s risks on a quarterly basis consistent Like the bank’s risk management as a whole, the with the standards of OeKB. Risk statistics will thus internal control system is subject to ongoing scrutiny be produced in 2011 based on a risk analysis. by Internal Audit. Under an agreement with OeKB, the compliance Risk management organisation officer function is outsourced to OeKB. However, within OeEB there is a central contact person Under the Austrian Banking Act the full Executive for compliance matters. Board is responsible for managing OeEB’s risks relating to banking transactions and banking operations, for ensuring capital adequacy in respect of the risks taken, Risk types considered in bank-wide and for establishing the organisation that this requires. risk management In this context, regard must be had to the proportionality of the bank’s enterprise-wide risk management ■ Credit risk (i.e., of the methods, systems and processes of risk management) with the structure and size of the Credit risk is the risk of unexpected loss as a result bank’s risks. of the default or deterioration in credit quality of counterparties. To a degree consistent with the nature In the interest of this proportionality, given OeEB’s of its business activities and with the bank’s size, business sector and the nature and scale of its specific OeEB observes the “FMA Minimum Standards for business and risk structure, the Executive Board Lending and Other Transactions Subject to Default considers that a largely FMA-compliant risk manageRisks” issued by the Austrian Financial Market ment organisation is appropriate. From 2011, the Authority in 2005. In the light of its business structure, Risk Management Committee will have the authority OeEB distinguishes the following types of credit risk: and responsibility to decide on appropriate actions and processes to implement the risk policy and Counterparty risk/default risk: strategy set by the Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory Board. the risk of loss as a result of a borrower’s failure to honour its payment obligations or of the default of Operational risk management by OeEB involves a counterparty (such as a borrower) the monitoring and control of the operational risk profile, the development of strategies and processes Concentration risk for the control of operational risk, and business continuity management in collaboration with OeKB’s the risk of loss as a result of high credit exposure to operational risk manager. individual borrowers or to groups of related borrowers. No country limits or customer limits are in effect to For emergencies and various crisis scenarios, date. However, such limits could become necessary the operational risk management policy sets out in the intermediate future. emergency and crisis response teams, responsibilities and procedures. 56 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report ■ Market risk Market risk is the risk of loss as a result of changes For emergencies and various crisis scenarios, in market parameters. It can be subdivided into the operational risk management policy sets out interest rate risk, currency risk, equity risk and other emergency and crisis response teams, responprice risks. sibilities and procedures; an emergency response manual has also been produced. ■ Liquidity risk ■ Other risks Liquidity risks can be divided into term liquidity risk and withdrawal/call risk, as well as structural risk Other risks are: (funding liquidity risk). Strategic risk: Liquidity is currently managed and made available on a project basis in coordination between OeEB and the risk of negative effects on capital or earnings OeKB. Term liquidity risk is the risk of change in the as a result of strategic business decisions and/or length of time for which capital is committed to or of changes in the business environment. by OeEB. Withdrawal/call risk is the risk that deposits received are unexpectedly withdrawn or that loan Reputation risk: commitments to borrowers are unexpectedly utilised. Both term liquidity risks and withdrawal/call risks the risk of adverse consequences from the way in are low as a result of OeEB’s business structure which the organisation is perceived by stakeholders and contractual arrangements. Liquidity is monitored (shareholders, staff, clients, the government, and and controlled with the aid of weekly cash flow others). projections. Business risk: As OeEB’s funding is obtained largely through OeKB, the latter’s standing in the market facilitates the risk of deterioration in earnings as a result the availability of financing to OeEB at any time. of unexpected changes in business volume or in margins. ■ Operational risk Strategic risks and reputational risks to OeEB arise Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the from its special position. As a result of its mandate, inadequacy or failure of internal processes, people OeEB’s only principal is the Republic of Austria. or systems, or from external events. Operational risks A quantitative assessment of this risk would be include legal risk, business risk and reputation risk. difficult to perform and no such assessment is planned. OeEB continually monitors potential changes The central integration of operational risk managein its operating environment that have fundamental ment (including information security) in the bank-wide significance for its business activities and considers risk management, as well as the corporate culture, such developments in its business strategy. business continuity plans, insurance cover and similar centrally manageable measures, together form the Information on the use of derivative financial framework within which the individual staff members instruments in the year under review is given within are required to exercise personal responsibility for the notes to the financial statements, in section every-day risk management in their sphere of account3.2.2.14. ability. OeEB works closely in these areas with OeKB (and has its office space within OeKB’s premises). 57 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Key features of the internal control system in relation to the accounting process OeEB outsources all accounting activities to its parent ■ Control environment institution, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB). The specific requirements are The most fundamental aspect of the control environdefined in a service agreement. In terms of the ment is the corporate culture in which management accounting process, the internal control system thus and employees operate. OeEB continually works meets the same standard as that of OeKB. to improve communication and the transmission of its basic corporate values. Within the Executive Board of OeEB, Michael Wancata has responsibility for the accounting function and The manner of implementation of the internal control for the establishment and design of a system of intersystem in respect of the accounting process is set nal control and of risk management that meets the out in the written internal policies and procedures of bank’s needs, particularly in relation to the accounting the accounting function. The responsibilities in relation process. The implementation is effected jointly with to the internal control system have been adjusted or solely by OeKB, according to the specific requireto fit the company’s organisational structure, in order ments of OeEB. to ensure a satisfactory control environment that meets the requirements. The key features of the internal control system can be described based on the definition used by the ■ Risk assessment Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The COSO framework Risks relating to the accounting process are identified consists of five interrelated components: the control and monitored by OeKB Group management and environment, risk assessment, control activities, OeEB management, with a focus on material risks. information and communication, and monitoring. The preparation of the financial statements regularly The purpose of the internal control system is to requires the use of estimates, which involves the support management such that it is able to ensure inherent risk that future developments will differ from effective and continually improving internal controls these estimates. As all loans extended by OeEB are regarding accounting. It is intended to ensure comguaranteed by the Republic of Austria, this estimation pliance with policies and regulations and to create risk is particularly relevant to, e.g., assumptions reconditions conducive to the effectiveness of specific garding the value of interests in companies. control activities in the key accounting processes. The Group-level Internal Audit function independently and regularly verifies the adherence to internal rules, including also the accounting rules. The head of Internal Audit reports the findings directly to the Executive Board of OeEB. The internal audit activities are also outsourced to OeKB under a service agreement. 58 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report ■ Control activities ■ Information and communication In addition to the Supervisory Board and Executive Board, the general control environment also The financial reporting requirements are regularly encompasses middle management, such as the updated by management and communicated to the department heads. staff concerned. All control activities are applied “in-process” during As well, the Group accounting staff members the regular ongoing operation of the business involved receive frequent training regarding changes processes in order to ensure that potential errors in in international accounting practices in order financial reporting are detected and corrected. to be able to detect risks of inadvertent reporting deficiencies at an early stage. The Executive Board, working with OeKB, is responsible for ensuring that the levels of the reporting hierarchy ■ Monitoring are structured such that an activity and the controls on the activity are not performed by the same person Ultimate responsibility for the enterprise-wide (i.e., ensuring the strict separation of responsibilities). ongoing monitoring of business processes rests with management and the Supervisory Board. The Control activities regarding information technology respective department heads are responsible for the security represent a cornerstone of the internal monitoring of the relevant areas of activity; for control system. Thus, the separation of sensitive example, checks and validations are conducted at responsibilities is supported by the restrictive assignregular intervals. Group Internal Audit is also involved ment of IT privileges. SAP ERP Central Component in the monitoring process. The system of internal 6.0 software is used for accounting and financial control likewise performs a monitoring and oversight reporting. The functioning and effectiveness of this function. accounting system is assured, among other ways, by automated IT controls installed in the system. The findings of the monitoring activities are reported to OeEB’s IT function has been outsourced to OeKB; management and the Supervisory Board. The Executive as a result, the same high security standards are Board regularly receives summarised financial reports applied as at the parent institution. such as, for example, monthly financial statements as well as risk reports. Financial statements intended for publication undergo a final review by accounting management staff (Group and OeEB level) and by the OeEB Executive Board before being forwarded to the OeEB Supervisory Board. 59 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report III. Research & development As a result of its particular mandate, OeEB does not conduct R&D. Vienna, 31 January 2011 Andrea Hagmann Michael Wancata Member of the Executive Board Member of the Executive Board 60 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report D. Independent verifier’s report and certificate Verification organisation The independent verification organisation, ETA, ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH was commissioned to carry out the verification. A-1030 Vienna, Mohsgasse 32/40 Tel. +43 1 503 72 08-0 office@eta.at www.eta.at Registration number: AT-V-0001 ETA is an Organizational Stakeholder (OS) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and supports the mission of GRI. Independent verifier’s report and validation certificate ETA Umweltmanagement GmbH, Sustainability Auditors, was commissioned to: ■ evaluate this Combined Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 in respect of the underlying sustainability aspects, data, management systems and procedures, ■ critically assess the scope, fairness and interpretation of the information presented, ■ and review the compliance with the requirements of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3). We based our assurance work on the evolving standards for the verification of sustainability reports. These include the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Application Levels (www.globalreporting.org/GRIReports/ApplicationLevels/) and the guidelines published by the European Federation of Accountants (FEE), “Providing Assurance on Sustainability Reports”. Our assurance work encompassed: ■ interviewing the persons responsible for the contents of the Sustainability Report, ■ sample-based testing of the processes and procedures which led to the preparation of the Sustainability Report, ■ evaluating the accuracy, balance and consistency of the representation of the sustainability aspects and data, ■ the systems used for data collection and for analysis of the financial, social and environmental key performance indicators. 61 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Management report Based on the results of our verification, the representation of the data and information is comprehensive, balanced and appropriate as regards the environmental, social and economic aspects of sustainability, and does not conflict with other data, information or evidence provided by the company. Detailed recommendations for the further refinement of the Sustainability Report were submitted to the management in an internal report. This Sustainability Report fulfils the requirements of Application Level A+ of GRI version G3. Environmental information verified in accordance with EMAS The environmental information of OeEB (Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG) presented in this Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 represents an excerpt from the Sustainability Report 2010 of the OeKB Group. The environmental information is in full compliance with the requirements of Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 and has been verified and declared valid. The information presented is factually correct, representative of the environmental performance, and material in respect of the total environmental impact. Communication on progress under the UN Global Compact With this Combined Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 and the data and information contained therein, OeEB also fulfils its obligation to present a communication on progress in the implementation of the UN Global Compact at OeEB. Vienna, 24 January 2011 Dr. Christine Jasch Dipl.-Ing. Manfred Mühlberger Senior Verifier, Senior Verifier, Public Accountant Managing Director 62 63 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 E. Financial statements 2010 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2010 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR 1’000 Assets 01 Cash and balances at central banks 385.87 1 02 Loans and advances to banks 71,612,426.87 42,267 a) Repayable on demand 20,961,105.53 16,621 b) Other loans and advances 50,651,321.34 25,646 Of which to intra-group companies 20,960,666.08 16,621 03 Loans and advances to customers 511,933.14 335 04 Bonds and other fixed income securities 2,780,190.78 2,783 a) Of other issuers (i.e., non-public sector issuers) 2,780,190.78 2,783 05 Equity shares and other variable income securities 61,794,123.75 55,068 06 Interests in companies 25,100.00 25 07 Non-current intangible assets 12,754.09 18 08 Other assets 10,581,873.09 6,258 Fiduciary assets 10,156,550.13 6,000 09 Prepaid expenses 48,068.33 34 Total assets 147,366,855.92 106,789 Memo items 1. Foreign assets 124,892,358.14 88,332 64 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR 1’000 Liabilities 01 Deposits from banks 112,588,129.23 80,409 a) With agreed maturity or withdrawal notice 112,588,129.23 80,409 Of which from intra-group companies 107,583,120.46 80,409 02 Other financial liabilities 26,972,657.28 19,596 03 Accruals and deferred income 542,786.41 214 04 Provisions 1,064,742.87 847 a) Tax provisions 224,784.46 121 b) Other provisions 839,958.41 726 05 Share capital 5,000,000.00 5,000 06 Retained earnings 884,702.01 386 a) Statutory reserve 94,702.01 56 b) Other reserve 790,000.00 330 07 Liability reserve under section 23 (6) Banking Act 4,834.44 2 08 Profit available for distribution 309,003.68 335 Total liabilities and shareholders’ equity 147,366,855.92 106,789 Memo items 1. Contingent liabilities (guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security) 27,404,904.10 16,313 2. Off-balance sheet credit risks 96,563,747.16 54,283 3. Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 6,276,782.36 5,370 4. Minimum regulatory capital requirement under section 22 (1) Banking Act 501,333.76 385 5. Foreign liabilities 5,005,008.77 0 65 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2010 2010 2009 EUR EUR 1’000 1. Interest and similar income 1,486,414.60 1,011 Of which from fixed income securities 60,862.72 40 2. — Interest and similar expenses 1,423,452.95 1,608 I. Net interest income 62,961.65 -597 3. + Income from securities and share of profit of other companies 2,463,269.83 1,883 a) Income from equity shares, other ownership interests and variable income securities 2,463,269.83 1,883 4. + Fee and commission income 2,722,806.40 2,352 5. — Fee and commission expenses 1,013570.09 703 6. + Other operating income 26,728.64 42 II. Operating income 4,262,196.43 2,977 7. — Administrative expenses 2,672,492.46 2,154 a) Staff costs 1,789,063.57 1,464 aa) Salaries 1,461,668.04 1,222 bb) Statutory social security costs, pay-based levies, and pay-based other compulsory contributions 269,291.51 201 cc) Other social expenses 25,855.23 21 dd) Expenses for retirement and other post-employment benefits 17,325.27 9 ee) Contributions to termination benefit funds 14,923.52 11 b) Other administrative expenses 883,428.89 690 8. — Impairment of non-current intangible assets 6,904.46 6 9. — Other operating expenses 1,460.88 2 III. Operating expenses 2,680,857.80 2,162 IV. Operating profit 1,581,338.63 815 10. ± Net loss on disposal and valuation of loans and advances and securities 426,949.42 -8 66 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 2010 2009 EUR EUR 1’000 V. Profit before taxes 1,154,389.21 807 11. — Income tax 372,740.81 221 VI. Profit for the year 781,648.40 586 12. — Transfer to reserves 501,164.45 265 Of which transfer to liability reserve 2,082.03 2 VII. Unallocated profit for the year 280,483.95 321 13. + Profit brought forward from the prior year 28,519.73 14 VIII. Profit available for distribution 309,003.68 335 Items in the financial statements are shown only if a non-zero amount is associated with them. 67 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3. Notes to the financial statements 3.1 Accounting policies 3.1.1 Basis of presentation and general principles applied The annual financial statements of Oesterreichische In measuring the individual assets and liabilities, Entwicklungsbank AG (“OeEB”, “the bank”) were the principle of individual measurement was observed prepared by the Executive Board of OeEB in accorand the bank’s continuing operation was assumed. dance with the provisions of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) and the bank-specific portions of the The principle of prudence was observed by reporting Austrian Banking Act (BWG). only those profits realised at the balance sheet date. All identifiable risks and impending losses accrued The financial statements were drawn up in accorin the 2010 financial year were recognised. dance with accounting principles generally accepted in Austria and with the guiding principle of presenting The financial year under review was a full a true and fair view of the Bank’s financial position, calendar year. results of operations and cash flows. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the principle of completeness. 3.1.2 Securities Securities classified as current assets are measured In accordance with section 9 Export Guarantees Act using the strict lower-of-cost-or-market approach (the “Ausfuhrförderungsgesetz”), OeEB’s investment (i.e., measured at the lower of cost or the quoted financing transactions are covered by a federal market price at the balance sheet date). government guarantee from the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance in the amount of their cost. In view The bank does not hold securities for trading and of the full government guarantee, the expected therefore does not maintain a trading book. dividends and interest income for the year from these transactions are recognised in the balance sheet item Securities classified as non-current assets are “equity shares and other variable income securities” measured using the modified lower-of-cost-or-market on an accrual basis in the amount of the funding costs, approach (i.e., measured at cost or, if permanently which represent the maximum amount guaranteed. impaired, at a lower quoted market price at the balance sheet date). 3.1.3 Interests in companies Interests in companies are measured at cost, less any lasting material impairment losses. 68 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.1.4 Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over only if they have been purchased. They are measured a useful life of 5 years, i.e., at a rate of 20% per year. at cost less amortisation and impairment. Intangible assets generated internally, and low-value assets (with Impairment losses existing at the balance sheet date an individual acquisition cost of less than EUR 400), are recognised if the impairment is expected to be are expensed immediately. of a lasting nature. 3.1.5 Loans and advances and other assets Loans and advances to banks and customers, on demand), and the loans and advances to and other assets, are recognised at face amounts. customers, are covered by a federal guarantee under For identifiable credit risks in respect of borrowers, section 9 Export Guarantees Act in the amount of impairment losses are individually assessed. their cost. In view of the guarantee, the expected interest income is recognised on an accrual basis and The loans and advances to banks shown under is recorded in the respective balance sheet item. “other loans and advances” (i.e., those not repayable 3.1.6 Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities are recognised at repayable amounts. 3.1.7 Provisions Other provisions represents all risks, and all identified and measured as dictated by prudent liabilities of uncertain amount or nature, identifiable business judgment. at the time of preparation of the financial statements, 3.1.8 Foreign currency translation The reporting currency is the euro. Foreign currency amounts are ordinarily translated at middle rates of exchange. 69 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2 Notes to the balance sheet and income statement 3.2.1 General information The structure of the balance sheet and income statement is as specified in Annex 2 to section 43 Austrian Banking Act. 3.2.2 Supplementary disclosures 3.2.2.1 Loans and advances 3.2.2.1.1 Loans and advances to banks 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Loans and advances to banks repayable on demand Loans and advances denominated in EUR 20,835,211.56 16,484,704.87 Loans and advances denominated in USD 125,893.97 136,409.76 Total 20,961,105.53 16,621,114.63 Other loans and advances to banks Loans and advances denominated in EUR 40,006,797.13 15,000,000.00 Loans and advances denominated in USD 11,044,524.21 10,645,509.68 Total 51,051,321.34 25,645,509.68 The above table does not reflect an impairment loss of EUR 400,000.00 (prior year: EUR 0) recognised under section 57 Austrian Banking Act. 70 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2.2.1.2 Loans and advances to customers 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances denominated in USD 511,933.14 335,371.46 Total 511,933.14 335,371.46 3.2.2.2 Non-current assets The changes in individual non-current asset items current assets” at the end of the notes to the and the breakdown of amortisation and impairment financial statements. are presented in the table “Movements in non3.2.2.3 Securities The securities in the balance sheet item “bonds and The fund shares and trust preferred securities other fixed income securities” are classified as recorded in “equity shares and other variable income current assets; they are admitted to trading on a stock securities” are classified as non-current assets exchange and are listed securities. At 31 December and were purchased for the purpose of investment 2010 the difference between their market value and financing; they are not admitted to trading on an carrying amount was EUR 5,215.00. exchange. The amounts in the following table are shown net of accrued interest of EUR 961,538.81 Bonds and other fixed income securities in the in 2010 (prior year: EUR 730,604.43). amount of EUR 1,000,000.00 will be redeemed in the subsequent financial year. Interest in the amount of EUR 48,072.56 will also come due in the year. 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Securities denominated in EUR 45,000,000.00 40,000,000.00 Securities denominated in USD 15,832,584.94 14,336,908.23 Total 60,832,584.94 54,336,908.23 71 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2.2.4 Interests in companies At the end of the financial year, OeEB held a 7.63% a company based in Luxembourg. The investment equity interest in European Financing Partners S.A., is measured at cost (EUR 25,100). 3.2.2.5 Other assets EUR Remaining maturity Remaining maturity Carrying amount Up to 1 year More than 1 year 2010 Other assets outside Austria 142,895.31 125,731.83 268,692.52 Tax assets 69,416.45 – 69,416.45 Other 87,279.37 – 87,279.37 Total 299,591.13 125,731.83 425,322.96 2009 Other assets outside Austria 178,897.73 – 178,897.73 Other 79,475.62 – 79,475.62 Total 258,373.35 – 258,373.35 Other assets included accrued income of EUR 289,896.95 that will be received after the balance sheet date. 3.2.2.6 Fiduciary transactions The transactions overseen by OeEB as trustee, and The trusteeship holding was acquired under which represent neither financial nor legal exposure the Advisory Programmes of the Austrian Ministry for OeEB, are recognised in the balance sheet in of Finance. other assets and in other liabilities, in an amount of EUR 10,156,550.13 (prior year: EUR 6,000,000.00). 72 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2.2.7 Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities included accrued expenses of EUR 349,783.98 that will be paid after the balance sheet date. 3.2.2.8 Amounts due from and to Group entities The specific amounts of loans and advances to, companies at the balance sheet date were deposits from, and trade payables with Group as follows. 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Assets Intra-group loans and advances to banks 20,960,666.08 16,621,114.63 Liabilities Intra-group deposits from banks 107,583,120.46 80,408,759.32 Intra-group trade payables 180,651.87 25,729.46 The security for the deposits from banks consists EUR 112.3 million, as well as the assignment of of the assets recorded in loans and advances to banks any relevant claims under the Austrian government and to customers, and the shares recorded in “equity guarantee issued by the Ministry of Finance. shares and other variable income securities”, totalling 73 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2.2.9 Provisions Provisions had the following composition: EUR At At 1 Jan. 2010 Added Used Released 31 Dec. 2010 Provision for vacation pay 45,195.17 64,012.70 45,195.17 – 64,012.70 Provision for legal, audit and consulting fees 70,000.00 90,000.00 53,017.50 16,982.50 90,000.00 Guarantee premiums 352,130.00 446,288.00 352,130.00 – 446,288.00 Other provisions 259,103.14 239,657.71 171,565.41 87,537.73 239,657.71 Total 726,428.31 839,958.41 621,908.08 104,520.23 839,958.41 3.2.2.10 Equity The share capital of Oesterreichische EntwicklungsAs well, EUR 2,082.03 was transferred to the bank AG of EUR 5 million is divided into 50,000 liability reserve under section 23 (6) Austrian Banking no-par value bearer shares, each representing an Act, leaving EUR 309,003.68 of profit available for equal portion of the share capital. distribution (including profit of EUR 28,519.73 brought forward from the prior year). The proposed dividend Profit for the period was EUR 781,648.40. Of this, to be paid in the subsequent year for the 2010 finanEUR 39,082.42 was transferred to the statutory cial year is EUR 268,000.00, or EUR 5.36 per share. reserve and EUR 460,000.00 to uncommitted reserves. 3.2.2.11 Total amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies Foreign currency positions at the balance sheet The difference in amounts between these assets and date had the following values in euros: liabilities resulted in part from differences in interest rates between the project investments made and Assets: EUR 28,037,849.86 the related borrowing. These interest rate differences Liabilities: EUR 27,393,983.31 in turn are explained by the fact that the income guaranteed by the federal government was higher than the borrowing costs. There were also a USD bank account and USD-denominated receivables in connection with project investments. 74 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.2.2.12 Maturity analysis as per section 64 (1) (4) Austrian Banking Act Loans and advances to banks not repayable on demand had the following maturity profile: 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 50,290,375.70 15,000,000.00 More than 5 years 510,266.56 10,412,328.20 Total 50,800,642.26 25,412,328.20 The amounts in the table above are shown net They also do not reflect an impairment loss under of accrued interest of EUR 250,679.08 (prior year: § 57 Austrian Banking Act of EUR 400,000.00 EUR 233,181.48). (prior year: EUR 0). Loans and advances to customers not repayable on demand had the following maturity profile: 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years – – More than 5 years 504,269.07 333,795.21 Total 504,269.07 333,795.21 The amounts in the table above are shown net of accrued interest of EUR 7,664.07 (prior year: EUR 1,576.25). 75 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 Deposits from banks not repayable on demand had the following maturity profile: 31 Dec. 2010 31 Dec. 2009 EUR EUR Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 76,122,960.64 35,412,328.20 More than 5 years 36,014,535.62 44,670,703.44 Total 112,137,496.26 80,083,031.64 The amounts in the table above are shown net (prior year: EUR 325,727.68). of accrued interest of EUR 450,632.97 3.2.2.13 Obligations from the use of off-balance sheet property and equipment The future lease obligations from the use of offyear 2011 and about EUR 600,000.00 for the balance sheet property and equipment are currently five-year period from 2011 to 2015. forecast at approximately EUR 116,000.00 for the 3.2.2.14 Information on derivative financial instruments The derivatives had the following composition at the balance sheet date: 2010 Notional amount Positive Negative EUR fair values fair values Interest rate swaps 80,054,941.59 3,412,648.83 379,607.68 Currency swaps 14,947,594.00 – 680,882.91 76 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 2009 Notional amount Positive Negative EUR fair values fair values Interest rate swaps 80,452,015.91 2,809,929.98 489,777.38 Currency swaps 25,452,015.91 669,293.75 141,557.33 The fair values shown represent the clean prices Therefore no provision was raised for negative of the transactions. These transactions to hedge market values in this context. interest rate risk and exchange rate risk are managed entirely in conjunction with the funding operations The fair values (present values) of derivatives for investment financing and thus form an economic are calculated by generally accepted methods. unit with these debt instruments. They are recognised at the trade date. 3.2.2.15 Information on off-balance sheet transactions under sections 237 (8a) and 199 Austrian Commercial Code Contingent liabilities: Credit risk: This item represents guarantees in the amount For off-balance sheet credit risks, an amount of of EUR 27,404,904.10 issued by OeEB to KfW. EUR 96,563,747.16 (prior year: EUR 54,283,281.14) was recognised as a memo item below the balance sheet. It related to undrawn commitments to lend (limits on credit facilities, and securities purchase obligations). To secure the risks, OeEB receives a 100% guarantee of the Republic of Austria for every transaction. 3.2.3 Notes to the income statement 3.2.3.1 Interest income and interest expense 2010 2009 EUR EUR Interest and similar income from lendings and investments From loans and advances to customers 25,371.52 1,576.63 From loans and advances to banks 1,400,180.36 969,817.52 Other 60,862.72 40,065.19 Total 1,486,414.60 1,011,459.34 77 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 2010 2009 EUR EUR Interest and similar expense For deposits from banks 1,423,452.95 1,608,349.40 Other – – For deposits from customers – – Other – – Total 1,423,452.95 1,608,349.40 3.2.3.2 Fee and commission income and expense The fee and commission income was in relation The fee and commission expense consisted mainly principally to the reimbursement of expenses incurred of the accrued guarantee fees payable to the in the course of partly fiduciary services rendered Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance for the governby OeEB to the Federal Ministry of Finance, and to ment guarantee in accordance with section 9 management and monitoring fees received in conExport Guarantees Act. nection with credit commitments. 3.2.3.3 Other administrative expenses Other administrative expenses (i.e., non-staff costs) The auditor’s remuneration is included within other consisted largely of costs for leases, purchased administrative expenses and consisted of an expense services, and auditing and consulting. of EUR 49,500.00 for the audit of the 2010 company financial statements (prior year: EUR 45,000.00). 3.2.3.4 Staff count In the year under review, OeEB had an average of 14 employees (prior year: 11). 3.2.3.5 Contributions to termination benefit funds The 14,923.52 of contributions to termination In reliance on section 241 Austrian Commercial benefit funds consisted exclusively of contributions Code, no analysis of the amounts in terms of to the employer-funded termination benefit fund. salaried employees, managers and Executive Board is presented. 78 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 3.3 Additional information 3.3.1 Boards In the financial year, the following individuals In the financial year, the following individuals were members of the Executive Board: were members of the Supervisory Board: Andrea Hagmann Rudolf Scholten (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Michael Wancata Ferdinand Schipfer ( Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board) The two Executive Board members jointly represent Christine Dangl the bank. In reliance on section 241 Austrian Holger Rothenbusch Commercial Code, no analysis of the Executive Board’s compensation is presented. The total expense for compensation of the Supervisory Board for the year under review was EUR 15,353.34. 3.3.2 Related party transactions under section 237 (8b) Austrian Commercial Code Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, which has The only related party transactions in the year under its registered office in Vienna (OeEB, Companies review were with OeKB and were conducted at arm’s Register Number 304601v, Vienna Commercial Court) length. Under a service agreement between the is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oesterreichische two institutions, OeKB provides services to OeEB. The Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB, Companies service agreement is approved by the Financial Market Register Number 85749b, Vienna Commercial Court) Authority and covers accounting, human resources and is fully consolidated in the OeKB Group financial management, information technology, internal audit statements. and other services. Disclosures under sections 26 and 26a Austrian In order to ensure the availability of sufficient Banking Act are presented in the consolidated funding at all times, OeEB’s transactions are largely financial statements prepared by OeKB. financed by OeKB. Vienna, 31 January 2011 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG The Executive Board Andrea Hagmann Michael Wancata 79 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 Movements in non-current assets in 2010 EUR At cost at Additions Disposals ReAt cost at 1 January classifications 31 December 2010 2010 Intangible assets 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Software 28,135.24 0.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Financial assets 54,362,008.23 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,857,684.94 1. Interests in companies 25,100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 25,100.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 54,336,908.23 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,832,584.94 Total 54,390,143.47 6,495,676.71 0.00 0.00 60,885,820.18 EUR Accumulated Carrying amount Carrying amount Amortisation amortisation at 31 December at 1 January and impairment and impairment 2010 2010 for the year* Intangible assets 15,381.15 12,754.09 18,381.14 5,627.05 Software -15,381.15 12,754.09 18,381.14 5,627.05 Financial assets 0.00 60,857,684.94 40,025,100.00 0.00 1. Interests in companies 0.00 25,100.00 25,100.00 0.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 0.00 60,832,584.94 54,336,908.23 0.00 Total 15,381.15 60,870,439.03 54,380,389.37 5,627.05 * Excluding low-value assets of EUR 1,277.41 ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 961,538.81 80 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 Movements in non-current assets in 2009 EUR At cost at Additions Disposals ReAt cost at 1 January classifications 31 December 2009 2009 Intangible assets 20,635.24 7,500.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Software 20,635.24 7,500.00 0.00 0.00 28,135.24 Financial assets 40,025,100.00 14,336,908.23 0.00 0.00 54,362,008.23 1. Interests in companies 25,100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 25,100.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 40,000,000.00 14,336,908.23 0.00 0.00 54,336,908.23 Total 40,045,735.24 14,344,408.23 0.00 0.00 54,390,143.47 EUR Accumulated Carrying amount Carrying amount Amortisation amortisation at 31 December at 1 January and impairment and impairment 2009 2009 for the year* Intangible assets 9,754.10 18,381.14 16,508.19 5,627.05 Software 9,754.10 18,381.14 16,508.19 5,627.05 Financial assets 0.00 54,362,008.23 40,025,100.00 0.00 1. Interests in companies 0.00 25,100.00 25,100.00 0.00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets** 0.00 54,336,908.23 40,000,000.00 0.00 Total 9,754.10 54,380,389.37 40,041,608.19 5,627.05 * Excluding low-value assets of EUR 39.00 ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 730,604.43 81 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 F. Auditor’s report Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements, including the accounting system, of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Vienna, Austria for the fiscal year from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010. These financial statements comprise the balance sheet as of 31 December 2010, the income statement for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2010, and the notes. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements and for the Accounting System The Company’s management is responsible for the accounting system and for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditors’ Responsibility and Description of Type and Scope of the statutory audit Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws and regulations applicable in Austria and Austrian Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with professional guidelines and that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Company’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 82 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Financial statements 2010 We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion Our audit did not give rise to any objections. In our opinion, which is based on the results of our audit, the financial statements comply with legal requirements and give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as of 31 December 2010 and of its financial performance for the year from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Report on Other Legal Requirements (Management Report) Pursuant to statutory provisions, the management report is to be audited as to whether it is consistent with the financial statements and as to whether the other disclosures are not misleading with respect to the Company’s position. The auditor’s report also has to contain a statement as to whether the management report is consistent with the financial statements. In our opinion, the management report is consistent with the financial statements. Vienna, 31 January 2011 KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft signed by: DDr. Martin Wagner pp Mag. Renate Vala (Austrian Chartered Accountants) This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Publication of the financial statements together with our auditor’s opinion may only be made if the financial statements and the management report are identical with the audited version attached to this report. Section 281 paragraph 2 UGB (Austrian Commercial Code) applies. 83 OeEB – Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2010 Glossary About this report ADA Austrian Development Agency Owner and publisher: ADB Asian Development Bank Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG AFD Agence Française de Développement Strauchgasse 3, 1011 Vienna, Austria AfDB African Development Bank BSTDB Black Sea Trade and Development Bank office@oe-eb.at DAC Development Assistance Committee www.oe-eb.at DEG Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft Companies Register number: FN 304601v, EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction Vienna Commercial Court and Development Data Processing Register number: DVR 3003269 EDFI European Development Finance VAT number: ATU 63944539 Institutions EFSE European Fund for South East Europe Layout and graphic design: EIB European Investment Bank Gerald Schuba Corporate Communications+, EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme Barbara Jaumann FDI Foreign direct investment GPR© Corporate Policy Project Rating tool Photography: (“Geschäftspolitisches Projekt-Rating”) istockphotos (Cover) GRI Global Reporting Initiative EFSE (S. 2, 23, 63) IADB Inter-American Development Bank IFC (S. 2, 34, 63) IBWE Informationsbüro Wirtschaft und Globino (S. 2, 30) Entwicklung OeEB/Christina Häusler (S. 15, 46) ICCF Interact Climate Change Facility OeEB (S. 29, 31, 33, 63) IFC International Finance Corporation Siemens (S. 32) IFI International financial institution LDC Least Developed Country Translation: MDG Millennium Development Goals Martin Focken Translating & Editing NIF Neighbourhood Investment Facility ODA Official development assistance OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development OeEB Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG OeKB Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG (parent institution of OeEB) REGMIFA Regional MSME Investment Fund for Sub-Saharan Africa UNGC United Nations Global Compact WKO Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (the Austrian chamber of commerce) 84 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Strauchgasse 3 1011 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 533 12 00-0 office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag
