Alcor Participações S.A. Communication on Progress 2009-2010 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Joining the Global Compact in 2006 has been one of the most meaningful things Alcor has done in its 13-year history. The Global Compact membership has solidified our commitment to being an exemplary company and has helped us keep focused on our broader societal purpose, beyond serving our clients and providing meaningful employment. It has also made us a stronger company. The fact that our business continues to grow through the current economic crisis is in part due to our ethical orientation and our work with other GC member companies, helping them convert their value-based leadership into competitive advantage. I’m pleased to note that another major company in our survey research industry has joined the Global Compact in the last year in part, I’m sure, due to our example. We will continue to encourage others of our colleagues and competitors to consider membership as well. The requirement to produce a Communication of Progress gives us an annual opportunity to take stock of how we’re progressing toward our goal of more fully supporting the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour rights, the protection of the environment and anti-corruption. While dealing with the magnitude of our business growth has limited some of our achievements, we are very well positioned to move substantively forward in the coming year. It is my pleasure to present the Alcor’s second COP. FABIO Q. DA SILVA Chairman of the Board & Chief Executive Officer Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 01 UNGC Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 02 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our support for human rights has been an important focus of our commitment since the beginning of our operations in 1998. Alcor is committed to be an ethical and quality conscious company. It shall continually enhance the effectiveness of its quality, environmental, occupational health and safety management system. It shall do so while conforming to all applicable legal requirements, as well as fulfilling and exceeding the needs of its customers. We respect the personal dignity, privacy, and rights of every individual, regardless of their origin, nationality, culture, religion, sexual option or gender. Team work, continual improvement, prevention of pollution, waste reduction, protection of environments, care for health and safety of people and equipment, reduction of accidents, improvement in safety practices, a fair return to shareholders and fulfillment of social responsibilities shall be the hallmark of all activities undertaken by Alcor. The Alcor Code of Conduct (Good Governance and Ethical Practices) was approved by the Board of Directors on October, 2009 for implementation in Alcor and all subsidiaries companies and then was communicated to all employees to ensure that respect for human rights are fully integrated into their respective activities. Alcor also expects its business partners and suppliers to respect human rights and uphold other ethical principles. Recognition of international human rights standards is enshrined in our Supplier Conduct Principles and is a precondition for approval as a new supplier. Furthermore, all new suppliers must complete a Compliance Questionnaire for Alcor’s Business Partners as part of the qualification process. By completing the questionnaire, suppliers agree to familiarize their management team and all employees with the Alcor Code of Conduct. Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 03 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Alcor Code of Conduct contains fundamental, internationally recognized labor standards, including freedom of association, non-use of forced or child labor, and a discrimination-free workplace. All employees are assured the same career opportunities. The Code of Conduct also stipulates that unlawful discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated. At Alcor, every employee “has the right to be treated fairly, politely, and with respect by his or her superiors, subordinates, and coworkers.” Working conditions or ways of treating people that contravene international agreements will not be tolerated. Alcor and any and all Alcor’s subsidiaries does not tolerate any kind of child labour. In Brazil, we only may contract teenagers as an apprentice, respecting the Brazilian Federal Law 8.069/90. We keep including an No Child Labour in our supplies contracts, so, all of our vendors are committed with us in refuse any kind of child labour. Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 04 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Responsible use of resources and protecting our climate and the environment are core CSR elements and thus a key aspect of Alcor CSR policy. “Considering generations to come” is the guiding principle that embodies our commitment to putting ecological awareness into practice. In addition to complying with existing legal requirements, Alcor sets itself ambitious objectives with regard to a sustainable corporate and product policy. As we reported at the COP 2007-2008, we found a sustainable area to build our brazilian HQ inside the “Pedra Branca Sustainable Urbanism” that is one of 16 worldwide urbanism projects – the only in Latin America selected by the Clinton Climate Initiative from The William J. Clinton Foundation in the C40 Seoul Summit 2009. We start our operations in this HQ in May 2009. Alcor recognizes the importance of being a socially and environmentally conscious company and demonstrates this through a strong set of policies and objectives that shape the scope of its business and the way that it deals with clients and suppliers . Alcor and its employees continue to dedicate themselves to a variety of environmental initiatives through donations, in-kind research, memberships, and active participation. Outcomes Alcor has been focused in a building initiative to reduce waste and paper consumption with some little changes in our internal proccess. “Shred-it” boxes are stationed in the Alcor offices to ensure proper shredding and recycling of sensitive documents . Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 05 Alcor and its employees recognize the importance of living an environmentally conscious lifestyle and have incorporated it into every aspect of their office life by: • Use of recycled paper in most applications • Using a tap water filtration system rather than bottled water • Providing reusable dishes and cutlery • Using energy-efficient appliances and office equipment • Providing biodegradable soap and cleaning supplies Future Commitments To continuously decrease our ecological footprint: • By implementing systems that cut down on business travel, e.g., telephone and video conferences and webinars • By offsetting 100 percent of CO emissions from necessary air travel • By actively participating in and enhancing environmental awareness through Pollution Probe activities • By decreasing our paper consumption by 15% by 2015 In the end of 2010, the Alcor’s Board of Directors has decided to be envolved to the United Nations Enviroment Programme campaingns until the end of 2012, such Billion Tree Campaign, Climate Neutral Network and UNite to Combat Climate Change. Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 06 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Alcor is committed to fighting corruption, blackmail, and bribery, and to acting in accordance with all relevant laws. We pursue a policy of zero tolerance. Rule infringements are not tolerated and compliance violations are penalized accordingly. This policy is based on our defined guidelines and policies, which have been signed by all managing directors and apply to our activities around the globe: our Code of Conduct, the corporate “Gifts and Invitations” policy, and the Business Partner Questionnaire that our suppliers and business partners must complete before they can work with Alcor. These binding rules apply at every location, in every business unit, and in our day-to-day dealings with business partners and with each other. The Code of Conduct states that the rules “also expressly apply to instances in which obeying the law may even lead to a loss of business or influence.” The fact that a contract may go to a competitor is “no excuse.” Communication on Progress Report 2009-2010 07 ALCOR PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A. Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Rua dos Cisnes, 486 TecnoPark Pedra Branca 88137-300 Palhoça, SC BRAZIL www.alcor.com.br ©2011 Copyright Alcor All Rights Reserved
