2010 corporate sustainability report Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration for and production of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and in marketing refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. Our strategy is to build a company that will sustain profitable growth and create significant shareholder value. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment 2002 In Accordance C C+ B B+ A A+ and making a positive impact on the communities in which we do business. Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked Report Application Levels C C+ B B+ A A+ Mandatory Self Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured ✓ Declared This is our Communication on Progress Third in implementing the principles of the Party United Nations Global Compact. Checked Optional Report GRI WE SUPPORT We welcome feedback on its contents. Checked Note: Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is self-declaring a GRI Application level of A+ in conformance with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. On the cover: Children from a Hess sponsored school, Indonesia Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Million Tonnes CO2e) 2 4 8 12 26 2008 10.7 0.6 2009 8.5 0.6 2010 6.7 0.8 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 Message from the Chairman 4 Accomplishments, Challenges, and Opportunities; Our Approach to Reporting 8 Our Global Reach 12 How We Operate 26 Community and Social Performance 34 Safety and Health 42 Global Workforce 50 Climate Change and Energy 58 Environment 68 Products and Services 74 Performance Data 76 GRI Content Index 79 Assurance Statement 80 Awards and Recognition; Key Memberships & Associations 34 42 50 58 68 2 Message from the chairman John B. Hess Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer In 2010, we made further progress on our strategy to build the carbon footprint of coal. The challenge is to produce our a company that will sustain long term profitable growth while abundant resources of natural gas responsibly and prudently. making a positive impact on the communities where we do Hess supports regulation of greenhouse gas emissions business. Hess is committed to help meet the world’s demand that is fair and equitable with a balance between costs for energy in a way that protects the health and safety of our and benefits. Hess also believes that the U.S. must stakeholders and respects the environment. Our performance as work with the international community in a coordinated a socially responsible company is critical to our license to operate. effort to mitigate and adapt to climate change. Our company and our industry are challenged to overcome With five percent of the world’s population and 20 percent obstacles that make access to energy resources increasingly of its energy use, the U.S. has an obligation to lead globally difficult. Greater understanding of the energy realities we by setting the right example at home. A U.S. energy policy face is critical to the development of policies that secure should lower demand for oil, promote domestic energy our energy future and ensure economic prosperity. security, support natural gas as a foundation fuel for electricity Eighty-five percent of the world’s energy comes from generation, invest in research for new forms of energy and hydrocarbons. While renewable energy is needed and set realistic targets for reductions in carbon emissions. should be encouraged to meet future energy demand and Hess Corporation Performance reduce our carbon footprint, hydrocarbons will fuel the world economy for decades to come. Renewable energy does The Macondo tragedy in the Gulf of Mexico was a powerful not have the scale, timeframe or economics to materially reminder of the need to ensure that operating systems change this outcome as much as we would hope. and equipment are tested and maintained to the highest standards of reliability. In 2010 we performed a detailed The world must act now to avert an energy crisis that is likely to review of our deepwater operations and joined the Marine be triggered by oil. Demand is expected to grow on an annual Well Containment Group and the Helix Well Containment basis by at least 1 million barrels per day, driven by the developing Group to further strengthen our response capabilities economies of the world and by growth in transportation as in the Gulf of Mexico. We continue to evaluate and test we go from 1 billion cars today to 2 billion cars in 2050. While our safety management systems and are participating in we are not running out of oil, we are not investing enough to industry wide studies to better evaluate and control risks. expand production capacity to keep up with demand. Public policy regarding oil should encourage investment to decrease Last year our company adopted a long term vision aimed demand through improvements in energy efficiency, particularly at achieving top tier performance in key areas: operational in automotive transportation, and to increase supply. excellence, capital discipline, risk management, innovation, trusted partnerships and the professional development of The rapid growth of natural gas production from shale in the our people. A key part of this vision is our aspiration to be U.S. is a game-changer that has fundamentally transformed a trusted energy partner with our communities, employees, the economics of electricity generation. Natural gas is no customers and investors. In attaining our vision, we are guided longer a bridge fuel but a base load for power. It has half 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 3 by our Values, Code of Conduct, voluntary commitments energy technologies at Nuvera Fuel Cells, our wholly-owned and internal policies and management systems. subsidiary; Energy Marketing’s “Green Suite” of products and services, including a demand response program to reduce We strengthened our human rights program in 2010 by energy use in peak periods and provide customers with the developing both a Human Rights Policy and expanding option of renewable energy sources; and the sponsorship of our human rights risk assessment and training efforts. We studies on energy policy issues at the MIT Energy Institute. modified our Social Responsibility Policy to explicitly address our commitment to the International Labor Organization We are also committed to timely disclosure of information Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work to the public and to investors regarding sustainable and to incorporate current industry best practices. We also practices, including the financial impact of environmental continued our participation in key voluntary international initiatives and social risks and we are actively engaged with the Global with respect to human rights, environmental protection and Reporting Initiative and the Carbon Disclosure Project to financial transparency, including the United Nations Global develop and improve oil and gas sector reporting. Compact, the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human We are dedicated to attracting, energizing, developing Rights and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. and retaining a highly talented diversified workforce that is We continue to pursue a focused social responsibility strategy capable of delivering strong business results. In 2010 we centered on health and education through partnerships with host completed a benchmarking study of diversity and inclusiveness governments and leading non-governmental organizations. The practices at 30 companies inside and outside the energy company invested nearly $18.4 million in social programs in more industry to assess our performance and identify areas for than 20 countries, an increase of more than 40 percent from the improvement. While we have made important progress year before. In Equatorial Guinea we completed the fourth year of over the years, we have increased our commitment to a successful partnership with the government to help transform building a global workforce through a career development primary education through teacher training, the development program encompassing technical skills training, leadership of model schools and improving the education infrastructure. development, mentoring and challenging job assignments. In 2010 we improved our safety performance for the sixth Our Commitment consecutive year. We are especially pleased that for the We are proud of our achievements but aware that we face last two years we experienced no employee or contractor significant challenges including political instability, human fatalities. Our progress is the result of the commitment of rights and environmental concerns in certain areas where we our entire work force and the success of our management conduct operations; national and international climate change systems in building a culture of safety, an achievement that measures; demand for affordable, clean and renewable was recognized by the U.S. National Safety Council. energy; global competition for skilled and experienced workers; Hess has taken a number of voluntary measures to assess, the risk of technical obstacles in finding and developing monitor and reduce our carbon footprint. We are approximately hydrocarbon reserves and uncertainties in estimating proved two thirds of the way toward meeting a five-year target set in 2009 reserves and their resulting net revenues. With the support of to reduce the emissions intensity of our oil and gas operations our employees, customers, business partners, investors and by 20 percent. In 2010 we achieved an absolute greenhouse gas the communities where we do business, we are confident reduction of 1.8 million tons against the baseline and decreased that we are building a sustainable enterprise that will continue flaring from our operations in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 54 to make a positive impact on the world around us. percent, meeting our 50 percent reduction target three years early. Our clean energy strategy includes development of the natural gas powered Bayonne Energy Center in New Jersey, John B. Hess which will generate electricity for New York City beginning Chairman of the Board in 2012; continued research and development of hydrogen and Chief Executive Officer 4 Accomplishments, Challenges, and Opportunities Accomplishments, Challenges, and Opportunities Value Creation Accomplishments Metrics 1. R  einforced commitment to sustainable top 1. Leader briefings and town hall meetings quartile performance in key metrics 2. a. $2.1 billion net income 2. Delivered improved financial performance and b. 2.5 percent production growth increased production and reserves c. Increased reserve life to 9.9 years Challenges Opportunities 1. Manage implementation effectively 1. Build credibility through sustained performance 2. Position our business strategically for long term 2. Build a global position in unconventionals, profitable growth while maintaining access to high impact conventional resources Communities Accomplishments Metrics 1. PRODEGE Education Program in Equatorial 1. 992 teachers graduated from two-year Guinea achieving objectives training program 2. Improved alignment of social spending with 2. Accountabilities assigned for social spending and business strategy strategic alignment Challenges Opportunities 1. Sustain PRODEGE’s achievements and expand 1. Raised stakeholder expectations for them to secondary schools quality education 2. Sustain a proactive approach to social investment 2. Integrate social investment into social risk management across the value chain Human Rights Accomplishments Metrics 1. Human rights training and risk 1. a.  Conducted risk assessments in assessments conducted Algeria and Equatorial Guinea 2. Provided transparency training to civil b.  Conducted training in Algeria, Equatorial society members in an Extractive Industries Guinea, Indonesia and Malaysia Transparency Initiative (EITI) candidate country 2. Two training sessions organized and delivered Challenges Opportunities 1. Integrate policies into practice and 1. Integrate into long term vision reinforce training 2. Expanding EITI into other countries 2. Convince other countries to become EITI candidates 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 5 Safety & health Accomplishments Metrics 1. Reduced workplace injury rate for sixth 1. a.  Workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate consecutive year (TRIR) of 0.62 b. Employee TRIR of 0.80 2. Strengthened contractor selection and approval process 2. Implement standardized EHS contractor prequalification system Challenges Opportunities 1. Continue to mature a behavior based safety 1. Ensure our culture, work environment and policies culture within Hess fully integrate safety and health into strategic and day to day decisions 2. Enhance and sustain contractor safety performance and process safety 2. Implement contractor prequalification and management improvements tracking system across the company P e ople Accomplishments Metrics 1. Rolled out global human resources data 1. Baseline data being gathered management system 2. Established action oriented development plans 2. Increased participation of nationals in for 50 potential successors for leadership roles; Asia-Pacific leadership hired local Malaysian to three-person Asia Pacific leadership team Challenges Opportunities 1. Strengthen data completeness and reliability 1. Use data to extend workplace diversity and people programs 2. Continue development of identified local leaders 2. Enhance corporate diversity strategy Climate change and environment Accomplishments Metrics 1. Significant progress toward our 2013 green1. Achieved 15 percent GHG intensity reduction house gas (GHG) intensity reduction target against 20 percent target (2013) and achieved absolute GHG reduction of 1.8 million tonnes 2. Met five year flare reduction target three years early 2. Achieved 54 percent combined flare reduction in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea Challenges Opportunities 1. Evaluate additional GHG reduction opportunities 1. Additional emissions reductions from process operations 2. Identify cost effective flare reduction projects 2. Gas monetization 6 Our Approach to Reporting our approach to reporting This report provides information on our corporate Boundary Setting governance; Environment, Health, Safety and Social The principal facilities and assets operated by Hess Responsibility (EHS&SR) and Human Resources programs Corporation and its subsidiaries and joint ventures during and performance in 2010. Additional information is calendar year 2010 are included in this report. Data presented available at www.hess.com/investors, including the current in this report refer to gross figures from operated facilities, joint annual report, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ventures where we have significant influence, according to (SEC) Form10-K filing and proxy statement. the GRI framework, and third-party activities where Hess has overall responsibility as specified in contractual arrangements. Reporting Standards For Samara-Nafta Operations we include net equity, GHG data At Hess Corporation we report our sustainability and social investments spending. performance based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines, to an A+ reporting level. Our report To facilitate comparisons with prior annual corporate is also based on the International Petroleum Industry sustainability reports, joint venture data for SonaHess Environmental Conservation Association (IPIECA), (Algeria) and the Carigali Hess Malaysia/Thailand Joint American Petroleum Institute (API) Oil and Gas Industry Development Area Block A-18 (MTJDA) are included in Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, the 10 Hess operated totals. Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (Global Some quantitative environment, health and safety data Compact) and industry best practices. are reported on a normalized basis to facilitate year-onThe GRI Content Index included near the end of this report year comparisons. HOVENSA social investments, health summarizes the completeness of our reporting. Detail is and safety, and certain environmental data are provided provided according to GRI G3 indicators, which are crossseparately. referenced with IPIECA indicators and the Global Compact. We report greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions on an operated basis for Hess operated assets, SonaHess and Carigali Hess. Net equity emissions intensity data are provided on a net equity share basis for operated facilities, joint ventures including HOVENSA and non-operated facilities in which we hold an interest. Operational Control Significant Influence Joint Ventures Hess owned Consolidated and operated • MTJDA Block Reporting facilities A-18 • SONAHESS NonConsolidated HOVENSA Reporting Production Rig on Oil Field in Seminole, Texas 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 7 Internal Quality Assurance included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Application Level. We have documentation and information systems in place to ensure consistent and reliable data collection and Report Availability aggregation from all of our Hess operated and joint venture assets. We conduct corporate and business level Quality Print copies of our sustainability report are distributed to Assurance/Quality Control (QA/QC) reviews and validation our employees and external stakeholders and are available to evaluate the accuracy and reliability of facility specific upon request. The report is also posted on the Hess and aggregated data. Web site (www.hess.com), Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (www.globalreporting.org) and Corporate Register Restatements and Additions (www.corporateregister.com) Web sites, and is uploaded The 2009 fines and penalties in the performance data table to the United Nations Global Compact Web site have been restated to reflect payment of the Port Reading (www.unglobalcompact.org) as our annual Communication OSHA National Emphasis Program (NEP) fine of $97,500, on Progress. paid on October 20, 2009. Contact Us The units for several of our metrics have been changed For more information about our operations, or to obtain this year to reflect IPIECA’s Oil and Gas Industry Guidance copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting (2010) and industry Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and our Human sector best practices. Rights Policy, visit www.hess.com. Verification For questions, comments and suggestions about this ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) report, or to request a print copy, e-mail ehs@hess.com or conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data send direct inquiries to: and our internal data collection and aggregation system, and Vice President conducted interviews to ensure the reliability and accuracy Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility Hess Corporation of this report. An ERM CVS assurance statement has been 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 Materiality Determination 1 Climate change 16 54 21 2 Emergency preparedness and response The content of this report was 6 3 Transparency 7 3 8 15 4 Human rights selected based on our internal 9 12 10 5 Stakeholder engagement evaluation of risk and impact, level 11 6 Water of internal and external stakeholder 7 Communities 8 Safety interest, and relevance of GRI G3 9 Diversity and Inclusion and oil and gas sector guidelines and 10 Workforce training/development External Awareness 13 11 Contractors/suppliers best practice. Reliable and verifiable 12 Biodiversity quantitative data have been provided 17 14 13 Wellness for GRI core and additional indicators 14 Atmospheric emissions 15 Renewable energy to the extent possible given our 18 16 Low carbon products and services current corporate data collection and 17 Waste 18 Ozone-depleting substances aggregation systems. Company Impact Low Priority Medium Priority High Priority Non-Material Issues Our Global REACH South Arne Platform, Danish North Sea 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 9 Our company is committed to supplying energy to help meet global demand in a manner that safeguards our employees, preserves the environment and makes a positive impact on the communities where we operate. Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy partnership with Toreador Resources to explore the Paris company engaged in the exploration for and production Basin in France and engaged in joint study agreements of crude oil and natural gas, as well as in refining and in with PetroChina and Sinopec in China. marketing refined petroleum products, natural gas and We continued to strengthen our positions in the North electricity. Our strategy is to build a company that will sustain Sea and the Gulf of Mexico. In 2010 we completed profitable growth and create significant shareholder value. two transactions that brought our interests in a pair of We are committed to meeting the highest standards of Norwegian North Sea offshore fields, Valhall and Hod, corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of to 64.05 percent and 62.5 percent respectively. Later in our employees, safeguarding the environment and making a the year we doubled our working interest in the Tubular positive impact on the communities in which we do business. Bells field in the Gulf of Mexico to 40 percent and became the operator. Exploration and Production (E&P) Marketing and Refining (M&R) In 2010 Hess net oil and gas production averaged 418,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. We replaced 176 percent Hess is the leading independent gasoline convenience of production at a finding, development and acquisition cost store retailer on the U.S. East Coast with 1,362 of about $23 per barrel of oil equivalent. The company’s Hess branded locations. Hess Energy Marketing is a proved reserves rose to 1.54 billion barrels of oil major supplier of fuel oil, natural gas and electricity to equivalent and reserve life increased to 9.9 years. We have commercial, industrial and utility customers in the Eastern exploration and production activities in 21 countries. U.S. In 2010 natural gas and electricity volumes remained strong and margins improved. During the year we continued to strengthen our portfolio and build our position in unconventional resources. In 2010 construction began in New Jersey on the Bayonne In 2010 we acquired 85,000 net acres from American Energy Center, a 512-megawatt, natural gas fueled electric Oil & Gas and 167,000 net acres from TRZ Energy in power plant which is jointly owned by Hess Corporation North Dakota. We also acquired 90,000 net acres in the and ArcLight Capital Partners. Once operational in 2012, Eagle Ford shale oil formation in South Texas, formed a the facility will generate enough electricity to power approximately 500,000 homes in the New York City area. OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Production Developments Exploration united states Non-operated Assets marketing & refining area map detail Refinery colombia Terminal Retail and Energy Marketing peru brazil M&R Highlights business highlights (Amounts in Millions) Energy Marketing Sales and other operating revenue $ 33,862 Introduced Hess Small Business Services Net income $ 2,125 and Hess Energy Solutions to expand Capital and exploratory expenditures $ 5,855 customer base and service offerings. Total assets $ 35,396 Total debt $ 5,583 Retail Operations Stockholders’ equity $ 16,809 Convenience store revenues increased Debt to capitalization ratio 24.9 % 4 percent from 2009 to $1.2 billion* EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION HOVENSA A planned reconfiguration in 2011 will Total net hydrocarbons produced 418,000 BOE/D improve efficiency and increase the Proved reserves (total) 1,537 BOE (Amount in Millions) United States 23 % percentage of higher margin products Europe 38 % at the refinery (Hess 50%, Petroleos de Africa 18 % Venezuela S.A. 50%, working interest). Asia and others 21 % Bayonne Energy Center Reserve life 9.9 Years Commenced construction of Bayonne Replaced production 176 % Energy Center, LLC (Hess 50%/ArcLight MARKETING AND REFINING Capital Partners 50%), a 512-megawatt, Refined petroleum product sales 471,000 BOE/D natural gas-fueled, electric power plant Natural gas sales 2,016 MMCF/D in Bayonne, N.J. The facility will supply Electricity sales 4,140 MW-RTC electricity to the New York City market Convenience store sales* $ 1,213 (Amount in Millions) beginning in 2012. HOVENSA gross crude runs 390,000 BOE/D Port Reading feedstock runs 55,000 BOE/D *Excludes fuel sales *Excludes fuel sales norway United denmark kingdom russia FRANCE azerbaijan china Algeria libya egypt thailand malaysia Ghana brunei equatorial guinea indonesia australia E&P Highlights United States Paris Basin Asia & Australia Bakken Formation, North Dakota Formed partnership with Toreador Australia Drilled 44 wells. Acquired American Oil & Resources to explore unconventional Completed 16th and final commitment Gas and TRZ Energy acreage to expand potential of Paris Basin. well on WA-390-P Block, resulting in holdings. Sanctioned expansion of Tioga Russia 13 natural gas discoveries. Gas Plant, three compressor stations, Exploitation at Samara-Nafta licenses Indonesia and rail loading terminal to accommodate continued and included drilling of a Installed new wellhead platform at Ujung increased production. significant discovery at the Moretskoye Pangkah (Hess 75%). At Natuna A Field Eagle Ford Prospect, which was tied into existing field (Hess 23%), construction began on Acquired approximately 90,000 net acres infrastructure and brought into production. second wellhead platform and central in Eagle Ford shale formation in Texas. processing platform. Africa Exploration drilling commenced during Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area fourth quarter 2010. Equatorial Guinea Development continued in 2010 on Block In Block G (Hess 85%) which contains the Gulf of Mexico A-18 of JDA (Hess 50%) in Gulf of Thailand. Ceiba Field and Okume Complex, Hess Acquired additional 20 percent interest in China acquired 4D seismic data in preparation for the Tubular Bells field in Gulf of Mexico, Signed joint study agreements with China further development. raising stake to 40 percent interest, and National Petroleum Corporation and became the operator. Ghana Sinopec to evaluate unconventional oil and At the Deepwater Tano Cape Three Points gas resource opportunities in China. Europe & Russia License (Hess 90%, Ghana National Norway Petroleum Corporation 10%), the company Increased interest in Valhall and Hod acquired 3D seismic data and continued to offshore oil fields to 64 percent and drill exploration wells. 63 percent respectively. 12 How We Operate HOW WE OPERATE Samara-Nafta Operations, Russia 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 13 During 2010 leaders representing the organization’s businesses worldwide established a bold vision for the company’s future. Built on a foundation of the Hess Values – leaders redefined the company’s purpose, which is to become a trusted energy partner to our communities, employees, customers and investors. Management Approach and verifiable information to the company’s directors, shareholders and investors, regulators and other Our long term vision, six core values, the Code of Business interested parties. Conduct and Ethics and our Environment, Health, Safety, Corporate Social Responsibility and Human Rights policies Board of Directors guide the way we conduct business. Our Board currently consists of 13 members, 10 of whom As part of our commitment to good corporate citizenship, are independent under New York Stock Exchange rules. we participate in international voluntary initiatives that The Board is chaired by John B. Hess, who is also chief bring together business, government and civil society to executive officer of the company. There are currently eight promote universal human rights, protect the environment, regular meetings per year. The independent directors meet and encourage financial transparency. We endorse privately after each regularly scheduled Board meeting, with and support the United Nations Global Compact, the the chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the Committee presiding. The Board has adopted a set of Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the United Corporate Governance Guidelines to address issues Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and relating to the functions of the Board of Directors. the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The Board has three principal committees: the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Management Our corporate governance and Environment, Health, Development Committee, and the Corporate Governance Safety and Social Responsibility strategies and and Nominating Committee. Each committee has a written management systems are designed to identify, assess, charter that sets forth its purpose and responsibilities. prioritize and manage business risks and opportunities. Additional information on the Board, its charters, Internal reviews and audits, as well as third-party requirements for Related Party Transactions and contact assurance engagements, are conducted to ensure information is available at www.hess.com/investors. conformance with internal requirements, compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and disclosure of reliable 14 How We Operate Our Commitment to Transparency This is the 14th year Hess has distributed an The company also responds to numerous surveys annual report on its environment, health and safety and questionnaires from investment firms and performance. In 2004 we expanded our report to non-governmental organizations regarding include social responsibility and in 2006 we added our operations, commitments, challenges and additional information on company operations, performance. We document our commitments and challenges and governance. Since 2006 our annual performance on our Web site, www.hess.com. Corporate Sustainability Report has followed the We are committed to earning the trust of our reporting guidelines of both the Global Reporting partners, including our employees, customers, Initiative and the International Petroleum Industry investors, suppliers, business partners, governments Environmental Conservation Association. To assure and communities. We recognize that to earn that the veracity of our reporting and to continuously trust we must operate in an ethical and honest improve these reports, since 2002 we have engaged manner which includes a candid and open an accredited independent third party to verify the discussion of our sustainability challenges and information presented. performance. I invite your questions, comments The company has a rigorous Code of Business and suggestions. Conduct and Ethics, which in association with our Values and commitments serve to ensure that we operate to the highest standards of corporate citizenship. We believe that fair and honest competition, supported by a well functioning civil society will create shared value for the company and the communities where we operate. Gerald I. Bresnick Vice President — Environment, Health, Safety Hess has made voluntary commitments to and Social Responsibility international multi-stakeholder initiatives such as the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, the United Nations Global Compact, and the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and we report on our performance to each of these groups. We also make public our comprehensive annual Carbon Disclosure Project climate change and water risk disclosures. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 15 Audit Committee There are currently 12 team members, representing Exploration and Production; Marketing and Refining; The Audit Committee fulfills the Board’s oversight EHS&SR; Global Process Excellence and Information responsibility relating to the company’s financial statements, Technology. The OELT is chaired by the president of financial reporting practices, systems of internal accounting Worldwide Exploration and Production and meets and financial and disclosure controls, internal audit function, frequently to ensure that the principles of Operational the retention and oversight of independent auditors and Excellence become common practice and part of the oversight of the company’s ethical business conduct. It culture at Hess that will ensure we attain sustainable also oversees the company’s environment, health, safety top quartile results. and social responsibility programs. The Audit Committee currently consists of six members and meets six times Enterprise Risk Management per year. The company’s enterprise risk model uses a variety of tools Hess Leadership Team such as sensitivity analysis, stress testing, risk mapping and risk correlation to evaluate customized scenarios The Hess Leadership Team, with eight corporate executive for the aggregate portfolio of upstream and downstream officers, provides strategic business guidance and makes operations, as well as for each business segment. key operational decisions for the company. The Team establishes strategies to provide a clear focus on the The general risk categories are described in our 2010 promotion of ethical business conduct, environment, SEC Form 10-K, item 1A. These include price risk, credit health, safety and social responsibility, and management risk, reserves replacement, estimation of proved reserves systems that protect the company’s workforce, customers and discounted future net cash flow, changes in laws and and local communities. regulations and regulatory uncertainty, political instability, catastrophic events, capital costs and operating expenses, The Hess Leadership Team establishes performance market competition, and environmental and climate objectives and holds business units accountable for their change costs and liabilities. performance. The company’s business units and line management are responsible for incorporating environment, Specific examples of sustainability related business health, safety and social responsibility expectations into and operation level risk management and mitigation are business activities and providing adequate resources and discussed in this report and include event risk, corruption mechanisms to meet performance objectives. risk, human rights risk, safety risk and environmental risk. Executive compensation is linked, in part, to select Political Contributions environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS&SR) performance metrics. Hess corporate policy prohibits company contributions to political parties and candidates and the use of Hess Operational Excellence Leadership Team facilities or property for campaign activities. Management may not coerce political contributions from employees and The Operational Excellence Leadership Team (OELT) the company may not directly or indirectly reimburse an provides guidance in the five areas that comprise the employee for a political contribution or channel a contribution company’s Operational Excellence framework: EHS&SR, through an employee to disguise its origin. Employees who asset integrity, maintenance and reliability, production/ wish to engage in the political process through the support of business optimization and cost management and control. candidates and political parties may do so privately. 16 How We Operate Our Values Hess Values set the framework and establish the Value Creation. We are committed to creating ethical standards by which we conduct our business. shareholder value based on sustained financial performance and long term profitable growth. Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of Social Responsibility. We are committed to integrity in all our relationships meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship People. We are committed to attracting, retaining by protecting the health and safety of our employees, and energizing the best people by investing in their safeguarding the environment and creating a professional development and providing them with long-lasting, positive impact on the communities challenging and rewarding opportunities for where we do business. personal growth. Independent Spirit. We are committed to Performance. We are committed to a culture of preserving the special qualities and unique performance that demands and rewards outstanding personality that have made us a successful results throughout our business. independent enterprise. Integrity People Performance Value Social Creation Responsibility Independent Spirit 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 17 Ethical Business Conduct As specified in ED26 facilitation payments are prohibited. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews The Hess Values, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics matters related to compliance with the Code. (the Code), Executive Directive 26 (ED26) which addresses anti-bribery and corruption, internal anti-bribery and All senior executives, E&P vice presidents, country corruption audit and training programs, confidential hotline managers, foreign based managers and employees and commitments to global anti-corruption conventions and select M&R and corporate vice presidents must comprise the key elements of our ethical business conduct annually certify their compliance with ED26, which policies, programs and practices. incorporates the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and U.K. Bribery Act requirements. The Code describes the standards of behavior required of employees and business partners, including agents, New employees must document their understanding of consultants and intermediaries, with respect to business the Code. Salaried employees must complete Hess’ online ethics, citizenship, contracting and labor practices, training courses on the Code and, for certain positions, regulatory compliance, occupational safety and health, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) courses at a environmental protection and document retention. frequency determined by their job responsibilities and country of operation. In addition, the vice president of In 2010 there were no legal actions, significant fines Audit and Global Compliance has developed classroom or non-monetary sanctions relating to anti-competitive training materials for anti-bribery and corruption training. behavior, anti-trust or monopoly related laws or regulations. These materials are utilized by country managers at Certification, training and auditing operating locations considered at high risk. In 2010, 497 Our general counsel is responsible for maintaining and employees, primarily at E&P facilities, completed antiupdating the Code and, together with the vice president bribery and compliance training. Audit and Global Compliance, establishes the training and Confidential hotline auditing scope and schedule and provides guidance to the The Hess confidential hotline is managed by an company’s executives and international country managers. independent third party and includes telephone and Internet services through which our employees, business partners and customers can report allegations of Code Anti-Corruption and Bribery Audit and Training violations, workplace concerns and unsafe conditions. Frequency (Years) Customer complaints and allegations not related to the Code are sent to the appropriate department for Country cpi* audit training resolution. Allegations that are related to the Code are 5.0-10.0 3 3 thoroughly investigated and treated confidentially and 3.0-4.9 1-2 2 promptly. Employees who in good faith report known <3.0 1 1 or suspected violations of company policy or make a complaint are protected from reprisal. * Transparency International Corruption Perception Index Transparency International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) is one of the determining factors for country specific training and audit frequency. 18 How We Operate A review of six years of hotline data showing steadily of eight companies characterized as “Top Performers.” decreasing call volume and benchmarking against other We consider the information, detailed analyses and international companies led to enhancements of the hotline conclusions in the report to be valuable and are continuing reporting process, including improved communications to identify opportunities for improvement. and access. Between mid-October 2009 and November The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer 1, 2010, 103 reports were filed through the confidential Protection Act was signed into law during July 2010. hotline alleging violations of company policies, laws or Section 1504 of the Act requires oil and gas companies other matters, a 37 percent increase compared to 2009. registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Of these, 30 reports were substantiated and disciplinary Commission to publicly report payments to governments action was taken, including termination. on a country by country and project by project basis. Hess has been following the SEC’s rule proposals Revenue Transparency and shares concerns expressed by other oil and gas Hess is a Supporting Company of the Extractive Industries companies that the required disclosures will have Transparency Initiative (EITI), a voluntary multi-stakeholder negative impacts on our ability to compete. initiative that includes oil and mining companies, governments, civil society, international non-government Management Systems organizations and investors. The objectives of the EITI The company developed an integrated EHS&SR are improved governance and transparency of company management system that is based on the Hess payments and government revenues. Operational Excellence framework, our six core Hess Hess complies with the revenue reporting and disclosure Values, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and requirements in the countries where we do business. energy sector best practices. The main components of this As the operating company of record, we have also system include our EHS, Corporate Social Responsibility supported and participated in the EITI in Equatorial Guinea and Human Rights policies, our Principles for Operational (EG) and Indonesia. While EG was not successful in Excellence and our Global Standards. Together, these becoming a Candidate Country, we found the EITI process comprise our minimum expectations and threshold contributed to the understanding of financial transparency requirements for company-wide management of EHS&SR in that country. Indonesia is a Candidate Country and is risks, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, progressing toward achieving Compliant status. In EITI conformance with international standards where applicable Compliant or Candidate countries where we have equity and continuous performance improvement. interests but are not the operator, including Azerbaijan, The Principles for Operational Excellence support our Norway and Peru, we comply with the disclosure practices policies and frame our Global Standards, which define of the operating company, in addition to complying with roles and responsibilities and over general and topic country laws and regulations. specific EHS&SR management practices in areas such Transparency International (TI) and Revenue Watch as process safety, occupational health and safety, energy recently published Promoting Revenue Transparency: efficiency and climate change, and natural resources 2011 Report on Oil and Gas Companies in which Hess conservation, among others. This framework provides for participated by completing TI’s survey and providing business and asset level customization and flexibility. supplementary information at the organizations’ The structure of our management system conforms with request. We appreciate our inclusion among a group broadly recognized management system frameworks 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 19 such as the international certification standards for environmental and occupational health and safety management systems (ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) and the American Chemical Council’s Responsible Care® management system. Applicable components are also consistent with U.S. federal process safety and risk management standards and programs. Decisions about ISO certification are made within the business units. The company’s North Sea and South Arne operations, and our St. Lucia Terminal are ISO 14001 certified and account for approximately 11 percent of gross operated oil production and throughput. Denmark Production operations are OHSAS 18001 certified. Stakeholder Engagement Our stakeholders, including communities, employees, suppliers, customers and consumers, shareholders and investors, governmental and non-governmental Fishermen’s Cooperative, Indonesia organizations and industry colleagues, shape our business environment and contribute to our success. The Hess Values, Code, EHS&SR policies and programs focus on the company’s long term strategic vision and provide a Stakeholder Engagement Communication framework for stakeholder engagement. Communities Consultations, town halls, community We strive to be transparent and engage with our stakeholders advisory panels on their issues of concern in a manner that is positive and Employees Town halls, surveys, intranet, safety constructive. A majority of our stakeholder engagements committees include small scale meetings, discussions and working Suppliers Local content and mentoring programs, groups. We also participate in larger scale, multi-stakeholder business to business relationships and industry association meetings and conferences. Customers Customer service organizations, surveys Governments Consultation, negotiation, legislative and In addition to our publicly available annual sustainability and MLIs* regulatory advocacy, voluntary initiatives report, we provide comprehensive disclosures on climate NGOs Partnerships, voluntary initiatives, funding change and water to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). These are available to the public on the CDP Web site Shareholders Dialogue and consultation, annual meeting, and investors surveys, workshops and conferences (www.cdproject.net). Industry sector Trade and professional associations, benchmarking * Multi-lateral institutions 20 How We Operate Building Trusted Partnerships Our engagements include multi-stakeholder identify this project, whose goals include increased initiatives, spanning local communities to global food security and affordability, a lower cost structure voluntary initiatives and activities focused within our for selling and buying food crops and better access industry sector as described below. Other examples to local and district agricultural markets for rice, of stakeholder engagement with employees, cassava, sugarcane and eucalyptus. suppliers, communities, host governments, nonThe International Petroleum Industry Environmental governmental organizations and educational Conservation Association provides us opportunities institutions are included throughout this report. to work extensively with and to learn from industry The Community Rice Mill in Thailand’s Kud Nam colleagues. We help develop guidance and best Sai municipality is a long term project our local practices for the oil and gas sector through our social responsibility staff has undertaken with participation in the Executive Committee and climate representatives from the community, the municipal change, water, social responsibility, safety and government and a local paper mill. In 2010 supplier working groups. stakeholder meetings and consultations were held to Rice Fields Near Sinphuhorm, Thailand 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 21 We also respond throughout the year to direct requests Suppliers from environment, social and governance research and Hess is committed to a strong and diverse supplier rating agencies, institutional and individual shareholders, network which supports our goal of making a positive non-governmental organizations, academic institutions and contribution to the communities where we do business. individual students regarding the company’s environment, In the U.S., through our supplier diversity policy and health and safety and social responsibility policies, program, we focus on providing increased opportunities programs and performance. to certified small and diverse businesses. The company’s U.S. operations contract with more than 12,500 vendors; Economic Contributions 35 percent are small and diverse businesses, of which In 2010 our direct economic contributions exceeded 12 percent are women and minority owned. $12 billion. These included employee wages and The majority of the company’s vendors provide products benefits, shareholder dividends, capital and operational and services to our Marketing & Refining organization. expenditures, interest paid on debt, supplier spend, Retail operations rely extensively on local small business payments to governments in countries in which we vendors. Overall, 38 percent of our Marketing & Refining operate and social investments. suppliers were small and diverse businesses and We include only U.S. recordable supplier spend as defined accounted for 44 percent of supplier spend. by the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) and In our Exploration & Production organization, small and are working toward providing similar data for non-U.S. diverse businesses comprised 36 percent of vendors and suppliers in future reports. Our social investments of 18 percent of monies spent. The amount spent by U.S. $18 million are discussed in the Community and Social small businesses declined 3 percent in 2010, from $695 Performance section of this report. No significant financial million to $674 million. assistance was received from governments. Economic Contributions ($ Million) U.S. Small Business Supplier Spend 29% less than 1% Capital and Exploration 30 28% 28% 1% 8% Expenditures $5,855 3% 25 Recordable Supplier Percent of Spend 9% Spend (U.S.) $2,407 20 Royalties and Other 47% 15 Payments $1,542 11% 13% 10% Income Tax 10 Expense $1,173 5% 5 8% 6% 19% Wages and Benefits 5% (U.S.) $992 0 Interest Expense $361 2008 2009 2010 Dividends $131 Small Businesses Minority Women Social Investments $18 Women and minority data shown above represent percentages of total small business spend. 22 How We Operate Building Business Partnerships with Minority and Women Owned Businesses Hess U.S. operations contract with more than 3,600 Both business owners characterize Hess as small and disadvantaged businesses. We build and “demanding, but fair” and credit Retail’s highly strengthen our business relationships with interactive supplier engagement process for these suppliers. providing opportunities to grow and improve their businesses. Our key strategic small business partners make important contributions to our company, helping us In turn, we rely on their services because they listen achieve sustained financial performance and long to our needs, act openly and honestly on our behalf, term profitable growth. For example, we rely on two consider our interests their own and consistently women owned firms, D-MAR General Contractors, deliver high quality work on time. for construction services at our Retail stores, and the John W. Kennedy Company, which supplies gas station equipment. HESS EXPRESS in Clearwater, Florida 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 23 Hess: Protecting People and Property in North Dakota Hess relies on technology, management systems and practical solutions to maximize the safety and efficiency of its growing operations in North Dakota, where large deposits of oil and gas lie beneath the durum wheat fields in the western part of the state. Hess traces its roots in North Dakota to the state’s first oil strikes. The company drilled its first successful well in April 1951 and drilled a second successful well just a few months later on property owned by Henry O. Bakken, after whom the Bakken formation was named. Extending west across the North Dakota-Montana border A Drilling Rig in the North Dakota Blue Buttes Field and northward into Canada, the Bakken formation may hold the equivalent of as much as 413 billion barrels of oil, along liquids and solids, minimizing the amount of waste mud with trillions of cubic feet of associated natural gas. The that requires disposal and maximizing recycling and reuse Bakken crude is trapped two miles underground in a layer of drilling fluids. To minimize gas flaring, Hess installs of dense dolomite. The challenge is getting the energy out gathering systems at wells where possible to capture the while protecting people, property and the environment. energy, which it then transports through pipelines to its Tioga gas processing plant. To extract the hydrocarbons from the rock, the company employs the latest drilling technologies, such as extended In addition, the company is expanding its infrastructure to reach directional drilling, which make it possible for support this additional development by extending the Red us to reach more oil and natural gas from fewer, more Sky Pipeline, a 50-mile production pipeline that runs from compact well pads. These tools and technologies enable Tioga to Stanley, N.D. and expanding the Tioga Gas Plant. the company to minimize surface footprint and reach These activities provide a safe, effective way to capture resources significantly beyond the drill site. gas produced by the wells. The company is constructing a rail spur west of Tioga that will enable it to move up to In our North Dakota operations, application of the E&P 60,000 barrels of oil daily expandable to 120,000 barrels EHS&SR Management System (MS) is helping to improve of oil per day. the safety performance of the nearly 2,000 employees and contractors working for Hess in North Dakota. Elements To further reduce land transportation risks, we have of the management system which have had a significant instituted a Land Transportation Program in North Dakota impact on our overall performance include Leadership consisting of driver training and competency assurance, Commitment, Risk Management, Contractor Engagement, Journey Management Plans and vehicle monitors that help and Training and Competency. From an environmental monitor driver performance and that can also locate a driver standpoint, Hess utilizes closed-loop drilling fluid systems in case of an accident. We are also reducing vehicle usage in 67 percent of its North Dakota drilling rig fleet and by instituting commuter programs for our employees and will be at 100 percent by the third quarter of 2011. In a contractors, and working with our service companies to closed-loop system, a series of storage tanks separate better manage truck and heavy equipment transportation. 24 How We Operate Worldwide Exploration and Production Risk Management Across the Business At Hess, risk management is a key component of our Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and by other independent long term vision. Our goal is to strategically position entities, we have instituted additional Operational our business for long term profitable growth. We have Safeguards and have updated our internal Drilling and sought to reduce enterprise risk by rebalancing our Completion Standards. We are also in the process portfolio to build a global position in unconventional of addressing the Interim Final Rule provisions and resources, while maintaining access to high impact developing a Safety and Environmental Management conventional resources. Effectively managing EHS&SR System (SEMs) for the Gulf of Mexico as required by and operational integrity risks is an essential component the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation of our license to operate. and Enforcement (BOEMRE) regulations. The SEMs will integrate elements of our E&P EHS&SR Management The EHS&SR Risk Management Key Process is System and will apply to all of our operations in the mandatory in our company’s planned and existing Gulf of Mexico. E&P operations to ensure consistent and effective management of EHS&SR risks. Requirements In the unlikely event of a well control issue, Hess, as a include qualitative and quantitative risk and impact member of both the Helix Well Containment Group and assessments, risk management plans, risk mitigation the Marine Well Containment Company, has access strategies and controls, and risk assurance processes to containment response systems that can be rapidly including risk registers and cross-functional reviews. deployed in the Gulf of Mexico. These systems consist of a capping stack, subsea dispersant application In 2010 external events beyond our control, most systems, flowback equipment, and a “top hat” designed notably the Macondo tragedy, resulted in the need to recover discharged oil. These systems are being to manage increased regulatory requirements and expanded to increase response capabilities. reputational risks for our industry and our company. Hess is managing operational and subsurface risks In addition to the above, we participated, as members through a combination of measures including internal or contributors, in four joint industry task forces Drilling and Completion Standards, Well/Activity evaluating current capacities and future needs in Risk Assessments and Well Design Peer Reviews, offshore equipment, offshore operating procedures, Safety and Environmental Management Systems and subsea well control and oil spill response. contractor bridging documents, Rig We also worked with the Society of Petroleum and Blow Out Preventer technical inspections, Engineers on worst case discharge methodology, the detailed Operation Action Plans, and well control American Petroleum Institute’s Offshore Operators training requirements. Committee on BOEMRE regulatory changes, and the Additionally we have detailed Emergency Response International Association of Oil and Gas Producers on Plans, including Well Control Procedures and Oil Spill the proposed International Standards Organization Response Plans. Based on our understanding of the ISO/TC67 well integrity standard. causes of the Deepwater Horizon/Macondo incident, as identified by the National Commission on the 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 25 HYDRAULIC FRACTURING In our unconventionals business, we focused our The rapid development of shale gas drilling has been activities on the Bakken oil formation in North Dakota. met with increasing public, governmental and regulatory We increased our lease holdings in the Bakken Shale concern regarding the practice of hydraulic fracturing, and Three Forks-Sanish formations to 900,000 net including the chemicals used in frac fluid additives, acres in 2010. We also built our position in the Eagle water supply availability and potential impairment and Ford Shale in South Texas to 90,000 net acres, public health and safety risks. entered into a joint venture in the Paris Basin in France Recognizing the growing public concern, we have held and drilled three vertical exploration wells in the discussions with vendors regarding disclosure of the Marcellus Shale formation in Pennsylvania. All of our chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, our preferences unconventional acquisitions involve several levels of for more environmentally friendly additives and our risk management, including identification of baseline desire to advance the recycling of produced water. environmental conditions and potential oil and gas In April 2011 the Ground Water Protection Council development constraints. and the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission The presence of large amounts of oil and natural gas launched the FracFocus Web site which allows oil and in low-permeability formations has been known for gas companies to post well-specific information on the decades. These hydrocarbons have recently become chemical composition of frac fluids. Hess endorses recoverable due to a combination of sophisticated this initiative and is actively working with our hydraulic horizontal drilling and well stimulation techniques. fracturing vendors in support of their efforts to develop To extract the oil and gas, companies use hydraulic the infrastructure to post information on this Web site. fracturing, a well stimulation method in which a mixture We also realize that water sourcing has potential of water, a propping agent such as sand and special environmental impacts which must be appropriately purpose additives are pumped under high pressure into assessed and mitigated. In August 2010 we hydrocarbon-bearing underground rock formations. commissioned a pilot reverse osmosis (RO) water The fractures that are created are propped open, treatment plant in North Dakota. This plant takes allowing oil or natural gas to flow into the well. These brackish (non-potable) water from an underground hydrocarbon bearing formations are most often found aquifer and removes the dissolved solids so that it can thousands of feet below the water table. Wells are be used for hydraulic fracturing in place of municipal lined with multiple layers of steel pipe and encased in water sources. In 2010 we produced approximately cement to depths well below the deepest fresh water 540,000 barrels of fracturing water through RO. The aquifers, thereby preventing fluids or gas from seeping successful application of this technology has led us into the ground water. Special purpose fluid additives to commission a full scale RO facility, subject to state specifically designed to enhance hydraulic fracturing permitting, designed to provide 41,000 barrels of water performance typically account for less than 1 percent of per day. This is sufficient to meet the majority of our the frac fluid. We believe that well planned and properly water requirements for hydraulic fracturing operations in executed hydraulic fracturing stimulation of production North Dakota. wells are safe for the environment and the public and are necessary to foster energy production. Community and Social Performance Teacher and students at Hess-sponsored school, Equatorial Guinea 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 27 We are committed to making a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. We believe long term sustainable progress can only be made by a healthy, well educated community; therefore we focus our community and social responsibility efforts largely on health and education. Management Approach The new Human Rights Policy and revised Social Responsibility Policy were developed in response to Social Responsibility is one of the six core Hess Values. It our changing geographic footprint and evolving defines our commitment to meeting the highest standards stakeholder expectations. of corporate citizenship and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business. The volunteer efforts of our workforce are an important part of our social responsibility activities. Hess employees provide Hess is commited to building trusted partnerships with ideas, start grass-roots campaigns, and provide their time, communities, employees, customers and investors. energy, enthusiasm and expertise to many worthy community Before making a major new investment, we conduct based organizations. an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment to Social Investments understand the potential effects of our operations. We partner with host governments, community groups and In 2010 we invested more than $18 million in social programs other stakeholders to develop programs that can make a around the world, an increase of more than 40 percent from measurable and sustainable difference. 2009. The majority of our social investments were focused on making lasting improvements in education and health Guided by our active participation in several multicare. Those are areas that are vital to the vibrancy of local stakeholder initiatives, including the United Nations Global communities and of lasting importance to our business and Compact and the Voluntary Principles on Security and our stakeholders. A smaller portion of our social spend is in Human Rights, we continued to strengthen our human the form of in-kind programs, such as our donation of Hess rights program by issuing a Human Rights policy, adding Toy Trucks during the holiday season to Toys for Tots® and a dedicated staff and expanding our human rights risk number of social service agencies in host communities. assessments and training efforts. We also updated our Social Responsibility Policy to reflect current industry best More than half of these funds were spent in the U.S. practice and to more explicitly address our commitment to supporting education and cultural initiatives and the International Labor Organization (ILO) Declaration on approximately 25 percent of the remaining budget was Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. in Equatorial Guinea in support of the PRODEGE education project (Programa de Desarrollo Educatino de Guinea Ecuatorial.) 28 Community and Social Performance In addition, HOVENSA spent $2.5 million on social Hess’ support of UNICEF and IRC helped those programs, of which $1.9 million was dedicated to organizations and their local partners immunize children education and $0.4 million to community projects. The and provide water, sanitation and basic supplies to International Craft Training Program, established in 2007, quake victims. was the primary recipient of these educational funds. Hurricane Tomas, St. Lucia In late October, Hurricane Tomas struck the island nation Hess Funds Emergency of St. Lucia where Hess has operated a terminal since Relief in Haiti and St. Lucia 1982. The slow-moving storm claimed 14 lives in St.Lucia Haiti and caused $500 million in damage. Hess provided IMC Within days of the January 12, 2010 earthquake that with $500,000 to deliver medical supplies, hygiene kits devastated Haiti, Hess provided funding for three and water purification tablets to families in Soufriere, organizations active in immediate relief efforts: $500,000 to Vieux Fort and Dennery. IMC also provided water and the International Medical Corps (IMC) and $250,000 each medical supplies to St. Jude Hospital and installed rain to the International Rescue Committee (IRC) and UNICEF. water collection systems at 41 clinics. The Hess terminal In addition, the company matched nearly $100,000 in distributed 150,000 gallons of water to two hospitals and employee contributions to these organizations. residents of hurricane stricken communities. The early commitment from Hess to IMC enabled the Program Highlights organization to rapidly increase the number of nurses and doctors deployed on the ground, to airlift more than PRODEGE Marks Important Milestone in Equatorial Guinea $2.5 million in critical supplies and to establish seven In April 2010, 992 primary teachers from across Equatorial mobile clinics. In the first few months after the disaster, Guinea graduated from a two year training program designed IMC operated 22 sites and reached nearly 75,000 to improve their classroom knowledge and skills. The event people, treating an average of 100 patients per day. marked a major milestone in the West African country’s The organization also created the first fully functioning broad efforts to transform its primary education system. permanent intensive care unit in Haiti. That process began nearly five years ago with the formation 2010 Social Investment by Country ($18.4 Million) U.S. 52% Libya 6% Indonesia 1% Malaysia 1% Equatorial Guinea 24% Russia 4% Norway 1% All Others 1% Haiti 6% St. Lucia 3% Thailand 1% 2010 Type of Investment ($ Thousand) Education $6,266 In Kind $3,386 Disaster Relief $1,588 Environment $191 Community $3,526 Health $2,178 Arts & Culture $1,274 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 29 Much progress has been made in achieving PRODEGE’s objectives. The partnership has come close to achieving the original goals set forth for PRODEGE. Forty schools have been renovated and equipped to serve as models of active learning. Students and teachers across the country have new textbooks and learning materials. A new curriculum has been developed to help build skills in reading, writing, math and science. Parents and communities across the country are actively participating in the education of their children. The PRODEGE team is focusing on sustaining the program’s achievements and planning a second five year follow-on program. Engaging Surabaya Stakeholders to Address Community Needs Hess operates an onshore processing facility in Pangkah, Indonesia. In 2007 leaders from surrounding communities expressed concern that few employment opportunities were available to community members, either at the Hess facility or at neighboring companies. This was due to a mismatch between local skill sets and employer needs. As a result of this stakeholder engagement, Hess PRODEGE Teacher Graduation, Equatorial Guinea partnered with the Surabaya Vocational Training Centre (BLK) to provide life skills and vocational training to young of PRODEGE, a five year $50 million partnership between residents of Pangkah. The training program began in Hess and the government of Equatorial Guinea to improve January 2008 and has reached 150 young people from the academic achievement in primary schools and enhance the villages near the Hess facility. Program participants receive overall quality of teaching and learning nationwide. training in electronics, welding, automotive maintenance, dressmaking and office administration. Most of the PRODEGE’s teacher training represents a significant graduates have found employment; many were offered departure from the traditional approach to primary positions before they graduated. A few graduates found education in Equatorial Guinea. In the past, the country’s jobs overseas. For example, welding graduate Alil Machrus primary school teachers were drawn heavily from volunteers is now in Japan on a three year assignment. who had little classroom experience. More than half of the primary level teachers did not have a teaching degree. The program’s success led the Ministry of Manpower PRODEGE also seeks to improve educational opportunities and Transmigration to recognize Hess’ contributions to for girls and draw more women into the teaching profession. addressing unemployment in the region. Nearly 40 percent of the 992 graduates were women. 30 Community and Social Performance Social responsibility Activities united states united states Hess $2 Million Donation Supports Employees Help Make Strides in North Dakota Heritage Center. The Quest for Breast Cancer Cure. Hess donated $2 million to fund Hess employees in Woodbridge, N.J., the Northern Lights Atrium at the New York and Houston participated North Dakota Heritage Center, in the American Cancer Society’s where the state’s history comes annual team events aimed at raising alive for visitors. The building will be money for breast cancer research completed in 2014, in time for the and programs. Hess employees and state’s 125th anniversary. families raised more than $40,000. united states united states Hess Energy Marketing Helps Team Hess Joins 13,000 Riders Customers Celebrate Earth Day. Pedaling to Cure Multiple Sclerosis. Hess Energy Marketing celebrated Each year for the last five, a Hess the 40th anniversary of Earth Day by team of cyclists spends two days donating $25,000 in carbon offsets fundraising with thousands of other to more than 20 of its industrial and cyclists in a 180-mile ride that takes commercial customers including them between Houston and Austin, Columbia University in New York City. Texas. In 2010 Hess riders raised The donation offset more than 4,000 $113,000 to help the fight against MS. tons of carbon dioxide. united states equatorial guinea Hess Employees Volunteer to Hess Provides Safe Blood Supply Support New York Cares. In Equatorial Guinea. A group of 25 Hess employee In Equatorial Guinea, Hess established volunteers participating in two Winter a blood donor program that provides Wishes events this past holiday a safe blood supply for employees season helped New York Cares and contractors. The blood supply is distribute gifts to 32,000 low income also providing a life saving resource children and adults. for the local community, whose blood supply is lacking. norway egypt Hess Norway Directs Efforts Hess Completes Stadium To Support Projects for Children. Renovation For Youth Sports Companies doing business in Norway In Safaga, Egypt. Hess recently completed a $50,000 are encouraged to support local renovation in Safaga, Egypt, rebuilding community projects, particularly the youth center’s soccer field and those that improve the quality of installing stadium lights to make the life for children. Hess sponsors 60 playing field available at night. youth sports teams in the Stavanger, On December 17, 2010, the youth Norway community. center held a football tournament to honor Hess. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 31 norway russia united states egypt thailand equatorial guinea indonesia AUSTRALIA RUSSIA thailand Hess Supports Kinel, Russia’s Supporting Forest Fire Prevention Pre-school Facility Improvements. Across Two Thailand Provinces. Hess donated $161,500 to support Hess is working with Thai province major classroom renovations, the representatives in Udon Thani and purchase of equipment and upgraded Khon Kaen where forest fires have the medical office at the Municipality become an increasingly serious of Kinel’s preschool. The renovations problem. With local agencies, Hess ensured that the school would be offers a comprehensive forest fire available to more children. prevention plan that is slated to run through 2022. indonesia AUSTRALIA Employee Volunteers Reach Out, Perth Employees Pitch In Creating Employment for Disabled. On Community Projects Employees in Kuala Lumpur worked Employee volunteers improved with United Voice, the first society outdoor spaces and gardens at in Malaysia led by people with several Perth area non-profits, learning disabilities. The project including a respite care center. provides employment for disabled artists and also built them a professional kitchen that supports a small baking business. 32 Community and Social Performance Program Highlights Guinea, began development of a computer based human Hess Partners with New York Public Library rights training course and continued to actively engage Hess has committed $5 million over five years to the with government, stakeholders, and peer companies on New York Public Library (NYPL) to strengthen services at business and human rights issues. neighborhood libraries and research centers. The NYPL Voluntary Initiatives is a critical institution in our headquarters community. It We subscribe to the following international voluntary multiprovides a unique suite of services through its 90 locations stakeholder initiatives: the Voluntary Principles on Security such as employment assistance, after school programs, and Human Rights (Voluntary Principles), the Extractive language classes for recent immigrants and tutoring Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), the United Nations services for students. Due to the economic downturn and Global Compact and the International Labor Organization cutbacks from state and municipal funding sources, these Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. services were in jeopardy. During 2010 and early 2011 we participated in the The library is using the first $1 million installment of the Voluntary Principles Plenary and the fifth EITI Global gift to expand programs and outfit a new Teen Center in Conference. We also attended the annual United Nations Harlem’s Hamilton Grange branch with state of the art Global Compact U.S. Network Forum and a Global technology. NYPL research shows that designated spaces Compact Management Model Workshop and were for young people provide a safe atmosphere for learning involved with the initial launch of the Voluntary Principles and interacting with peers. Twenty-eight percent of area Indonesia Working Group, which we continue to support. residents are between the ages of 13 and 18; the new Policies and Protocols space is designed to engage youth from the neighborhood Our Social Responsibility Values, Code, Social and beyond and draw in community partners such as the Responsibility Policy and Human Rights Policy, which are Children’s Art Carnival and the Dance Theatre of Harlem. available to the public on our Web site Human Rights (www.hess.com), uphold the principles in the voluntary initiatives that we endorse and support. The policies also Hess has a longstanding commitment to human rights as state our commitments to meeting the highest standards reflected in our Social Responsibility Values, Code, Social of corporate citizenship and to making positive and lasting Responsibility Policy and Human Rights Policy. We support contributions in the areas of governance, transparency, international voluntary initiatives designed to promote respect for the rule of law, and social and economic universal human rights, combat corruption and uphold the development. Hess requires employees to comply with the rule of law. Code and social responsibility policies and related directives. In June of 2010 the company issued a new human rights Human Rights Risk Assessments policy and a revised corporate social responsibility policy We use several methods to predict and identify human that more explicitly addresses human rights. During the rights impacts, including third-party field visits to Hess year we hired additional experienced staff to increase operations in countries identified as higher risk for alleged our organizational capacity in the areas of human rights, violations of human rights. community engagement and socioeconomic development. Building on the HRRAs performed on our operations in We also expanded our third-party human rights risk Thailand, Indonesia, and Malaysia, as reported in our 2009 assessments (HRRAs) to include Algeria and Equatorial Corporate Sustainability Report, in 2010 we contracted 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 33 with independent monitors to conduct HRRAs in Algeria the limits of their responsibilities, which include simple and Equatorial Guinea. surveillance tasks for our offices. Training and Awareness Any security incident with human rights implications We are committed to increasing internal awareness of is reported to the head of global security, including the Voluntary Principles and human rights more generally. occurrences that highlight potential future risks such as We are also taking steps to ensure that our contractors peaceful community protests. While such incidents are are aware and respect the Voluntary Principles. During reported to the global security manager, as well as regional the year we continued to roll out Voluntary Principles and managers, we believe they are generally best addressed at human rights training at our global operations. the local level. Accordingly, our community development and security teams seek to engage with the community In 2010 we employed consultants to provide human rights to address the root causes of all incidents or protests. In training to employees in our Equatorial Guinea and Algeria addition, we engage governments regarding security and operations. Corporate staff also began development of a human rights issues at the national level, as appropriate. computer based training course to raise awareness of our Human Rights Policy and our Voluntary Commitments. Labor Practices The course will be finalized in 2011 and will be mandatory We do not permit the employment of underage children for all U.S. and international employees. or the use of forced or compulsory labor in our global workforce. We recognize and respect our employees’ Security right to join associations and choose representative While our goal is to prevent adverse human rights impacts organizations for the purpose of engaging in collective from occurring, we recognize that it may not be possible bargaining in a manner that is consistent with applicable to eliminate all human rights risks that arise, including laws, rules, regulations and local customs. Within this those related to the presence of public and private security framework, the company has not identified significant providers. In keeping with our Code of Conduct, we risk in our global workforce for child labor, forced or avoid engaging public security forces where possible. In compulsory labor or freedom of association or collective practice, this means that we almost exclusively contract bargaining violations. with private security companies over which Hess assumes greater influence, and we have sought to limit the use of Hess is committed to diversity and equal employment public security forces unless required by law. opportunities for all employees and job candidates regardless of race, color, gender, age, sexual orientation, In order to mitigate the risk of unreasonable use of force, creed, national origin or disability. We do not tolerate security guards are unarmed whenever the local security any form of workplace harassment, including sexual situation permits this option. We have also developed harassment. standardized contract language regarding security contractor conformance with the Voluntary Principles. Communities Hess respects the rights and cultures of the local and In Equatorial Guinea, private security guards are Hess indigenous communities where we operate. We also seek employees and the company selects them, provides to collaborate with host governments, local communities, training and maintains oversight of security operations. civil society, businesses and other stakeholders to make Security guards are hired primarily from communities lasting contributions to social development, especially in near our camp in Bata. They are tasked to act solely in the areas of education and health. a defensive capacity, are unarmed and are trained on Safety and health Aboard the Platform at Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 35 In 2010 we improved our safety performance for the sixth consecutive year. Our progress is the result of the commitment of our entire workforce and the success of our management systems. We remain focused on continuing to improve our safety performance and protecting the health and safety of our employees, our partners and the community. Management Approach contractor safety performance data for Hess operated assets and joint ventures. We do not track absenteeism at Social Responsibility, Performance and Value Creation are the group level. among the Hess Values that underpin our commitment to protect the safety and health of our workforce and the Results are reported monthly to senior managers communities where we operate. The safety and health including the Hess Leadership Team. Safety performance management systems and processes we use and the is also reviewed with the Audit Committee of the Board outcomes we expect are key to our operational excellence. of Directors. The Operational Excellence Leadership Team, under We use risk assessments to identify occupational and the auspices of the Hess Leadership Team, helps drive process safety and contractor management risks to continuous improvement in Hess’ safety culture and determine appropriate risk mitigation measures. These performance. Safety performance results are factored into include business level and project specific risk assessments, executive compensation and employee bonus compensation. as well as activity focused job hazard analyses. Occupational safety and process safety metrics are Following the Macondo well disaster in the Gulf of Mexico, incorporated into the Hess key business performance our company initiated detailed analyses of corporate, indicators. The Hess Leadership Team establishes annual business and facility safety management systems. These targets for many of these metrics. Operations establish activities are ongoing. safety performance targets that align with the Corporate Management, employees and contractors are expected to targets. Additionally, targets for business or asset specific reinforce safety expectations and ensure competence in metrics are also developed. Progress against these targets safety matters inherent to their roles. The company provides is routinely monitored and reviewed by management. safety leadership training for executives, managers, We have information systems in place to track professionals and hourly employees that is tailored for their performance, including work related injuries, illnesses, respective responsibilities. We also ensure that safety and process safety incidents, fires, explosions, loss of primary health training and competencies are effective. containment and near misses. Year on year, we have Employees and contractors are encouraged to make improved the accuracy and reliability of employee and safety observations, both positive and negative, and to 36 Safety and Health suggest improvement opportunities. Any member of our workforce has the right and obligation to stop work activity within the scope of their responsibility if he or she deems it unsafe. We conduct regular emergency response and crisis management drills and exercises, often including public emergency responders and agencies, and use incident and near miss investigation and root cause analysis for learning and improvement. Our operations are regularly audited to ensure conformance with our management systems and voluntary commitments and compliance with national, regional and local health and safety regulations. Workforce Safety Performance Each year the Chairman’s Award for Safety Excellence is presented to the operation which has been most effective at improving its safety culture and performance. The E&P and M&R presidents also present awards for safety excellence within their respective lines of business. In 2010 our North Dakota operation earned the Chairman’s Award Okume Production Platform in Equatorial Guinea for Safety Excellence. Our Equatorial Guinea Drilling, The safety excellence reflected in these annual nominations Completions and Production operations and Terminal is indicative of the day to day leadership and operational Operations earned the E&P and M&R President’s Awards achievements that foster improved safety results and is for Safety Excellence respectively. reflected in the metrics we routinely track and review. 2010 Workforce Hours Workforce Safety Performance (47.7 Million Employee and Contractor Hours) 0.89 2008 0.56 3% U.S. Retail 1% 0.26 5% U.S. Remainder 2% Indonesia 0.64 9% 30% Algeria 2009 0.40 Malaysia/Thailand 0.22 9% Equatorial Guinea U.K. 0.62 Australia 2010 0.33 13% Remainder 0.17 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 28% Workforce TRIR Workforce LT/RD Workforce LTIR 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 37 Results for leading safety metrics, which are tailored to Retail Marketing accounted for 30 percent of total workforce address the challenges presented by our diverse lines of hours. Across our industry gas station and convenience business and the environments within which we operate, store operations typically have higher safety incident are tracked and reviewed by local management. As a rates than other types of oil and gas operations. Hess result of this work, local managers are able to proactively owns and operates the vast majority of our retail locations and effectively manage safety risks. Leading metrics whose performance is included in our company safety include: the percent of workforce that participates in fit data summary. Many other oil and gas sector companies for purpose safety leadership training seminars, safety either operate their retail sector principally through branded observations reported and addressed, percent of high dealer operations or do not include retail operations in their potential near misses with follow-up evaluations and statistics at all. As a result, our recordable incident rates sharing of lessons learned. may appear to be higher than the rates of our competitors. The TRIR for our upstream, Refining, Terminals and Energy The following key lagging occupational safety metrics, Marketing operations was 0.43, or about 30 percent lower as defined by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health than our total company TRIR. Administration, are tracked and reported to the corporate level by each of our operations: Total Recordable Incident We participate in ORC Network’s annual Marketing Rate (TRIR), Lost Time/Restricted Duty Incident Rate Advisory Safety and Health benchmarking for U.S. Retail (LT/RD) and fatalities. We also monitor Lost Time Incident (gas station and convenience store operations). When Rate (LTIR). analyzed as a standalone operation, 2010 retail safety results were among the best in the benchmark group. In 2010 workforce hours increased 7 percent compared with 2009 due, in part, to increased exploration, drilling We also use industry recognized process safety and and production activity and a major turnaround at the Port asset integrity assurance methodologies to reduce the Reading refining facility. There were no employee risks associated with catastrophic incidents. Process or contractor fatalities and the company’s TRIR, LT/RD safety fundamentals, including workforce information; and LTIR improved by 3 percent, 18 percent and 23 management of change; mechanical integrity assurance percent respectively. and follow up on incident investigation and Process Hazard Analysis recommendations are routinely practiced in our operations. We strictly adhere to operating procedures developed to minimize the likelihood of a catastrophic incident. 2010 Total Recordable Incident Rate (Cases Per 200,000 Hours) Employee Safety Performance M&R E&P In 2010 we achieved our best company wide employee Workforce Manhours (%) 38% 61% safety performance since we began reporting. Employees Employees 1.03 0.24 met the TRIR target of 0.80, driven by strong performance Contractors 0.56 0.45 in Retail Marketing and our Port Reading assets that resulted in a 4 percent and a 38 percent decrease in Workforce 0.98 0.40 recordable injury rates, respectively. Retail Marketing accounted for 58 percent of employee hours. 38 Safety and Health Contractor Safety Performance In 2010 contractors accounted for about 50 percent of total workforce hours. Contractor hours increased 17 percent due primarily to increased upstream activity and a maintenance turnaround at the Port Reading refining facility. The contractor TRIR was slightly higher than in 2009, a reflection of increased contractor exposure in higher risk aspects of our business. There were no contractor fatalities. In Exploration and Production Operations, contractors accounted for 77 percent of workforce hours and 86 percent of recordable injuries. The business has established “Hess Rules” to focus on high risk activities that account for the majority of occupational safety incidents and has set clear management expectations for conformance. During the year Hess enhanced its standardized contractor safety prequalification process. To ensure that contractor companies selected for work at Hess meet or exceed our requirements for safety performance and competency, Terminal Operations, St. Lucia the process evaluates contractor safety performance, management systems and programs, as well as fulfillment Strong employee safety performance in 2010 at our Port of insurance requirements. In those instances where a Reading (N.J.) refining facility earned Hess personnel contractor does not fully meet our criteria, management a Meritorious Safety Performance Award from the U.S. approval and risk mitigation plans must be in place before National Petroleum Refining Association. In 2010 Terminal work can proceed. Operations employees earned the International Liquid Terminal Association’s Safety Excellence Award for the second consecutive year. Employee Safety Performance Contractor Safety Performance 1.11 0.68 2008 0.79 2008 0.34 0.37 0.15 0.82 0.43 2009 0.55 2009 0.23 0.30 0.14 0.80 0.46 2010 0.49 2010 0.17 0.25 0.09 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 Employee TRIR Employee LT/RD Contractor TRIR Contractor LT/RD Employee LTIR TRIR Target (Employee) Contractor LTIR 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 39 Process Safety Used to Manage Risk At Hess, we focus on effectively managing process safety to help prevent catastrophic incidents and manage key risks in our business. Our management systems are designed to address the process safety issues inherent to the energy industry. We focus on continuously improving the systems and procedures that are the hallmark of sound process safety in our E&P, Terminals, and power generation operations, in addition to the regulated refining and gas plant process safety environments. Process safety coupled with occupational safety and health form the cornerstone of Operational Excellence. In addition to the prevention of catastrophic incidents, our focus on process safety is core to ensuring asset integrity, operational reliability and cost effectiveness, which help drive the company’s growth and economic stability in the communities where we operate. While we continue to maintain a healthy sense of vulnerability to our safety risks, our focus on process safety is critical to ensuring we effectively manage the types of risks that could threaten the company’s financial strength and reputation. HOVENSA Regulatory Compliance The HOVENSA joint venture refinery’s workforce TRIR for The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration 2010 was 0.61. Although the 2010 target of 0.50 was not (OSHA) established the Petroleum Refinery National met, the operation achieved an 18 percent improvement Emphasis Program (NEP) in 2007 to audit U.S. refineries’ over the 2009 rate of 0.74. OSHA regulatory compliance, with an emphasis on process safety management. In 2009 intensive NEP inspections were conducted at the Port Reading refining facility and the HOVENSA joint venture refinery as discussed in our 2009 Corporate Sustainability Report. HOVENSA Safety Performance (TRIR) Following an audit in 2009 Port Reading settled and paid 0.60 a $97,500 fine and completed all corrective actions by the 2008 0.69 third quarter of 2010. HOVENSA settled and paid a $150,000 0.65 NEP fine in 2010, in addition to a $10,000 OSHA Waste Heat 0.97 2009 0.54 Boiler penalty. The NEP related fines were consistent with 0.74 what OSHA has issued to other U.S. refineries inspected 0.65 under the program, relative to refinery capacity. Corrective 2010 0.57 0.50 0.61 measures at HOVENSA are complete. 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 Employee Contractor Total Workforce TRIR Target (Workforce) 40 Safety and Health Safety Committees Safety committes at Hess, whose members include management and non-management employees, including those represented by collective bargaining agreements, provide a lead role in ongoing site safety culture improvements at operating and office locations. The composition of site safety committees varies by location and type of operation, but typically includes managers, hourly and salaried employees, contractors and safety professionals. Committee responsibilities may include establishing site safety goals, identifying and prioritizing safety activities, reviewing safety issues, incidents, near misses, incident investigations and root cause analyses, overall safety performance and general safety concerns. Safety committees may also play a role in determining the safety performance component of site specific employee bonus compensation. Certain collective bargaining agreements include specific safety related provisions that address topics such as Offshore Drilling Operation safety training, individual and site safety goals and links to bonus compensation, as well as incident investigation, were complemented with routine communications that root cause analysis and reporting. Some represented included advice from health experts. employees are eligible to receive additional compensation for safety committee membership. In Equatorial Guinea employee disease prevention and education efforts are focused primarily on malaria. Promoting Wellness and Preventing Disease Equatorial Guinea operations also continued to build community focused disease prevention and education The Hess Health4Life employee wellness initiative initiatives on the mainland, including: was launched in 2009 in the U.S., where more than 90 percent of our employees are located. Health4Life –– Drilling and maintaining more than 50 water wells encourages employees and their families to be active in –– Refurbishing a health center in the town of Akonibe the management of their health and well being. Resources –– Distributing mosquito nets and malaria prevention and tools are provided to help employees meet health and materials to 22 communities wellness objectives for exercise, diet and nutrition, weight –– Establishing a blood donor program to provide a safe control, stress management, tobacco cessation and blood supply chronic disease management. The company’s business continuity plans include a globally In 2010 Hess launched the Health4Life wellness initiative in consistent pandemic preparedness and response plan, Asia Pacific. Local educational workshops and programs first initiated in 2006 in response to the threat from Asian Bird Flu (H5N1) and updated and exercised as needed. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 41 Emergency Preparedness and Response Hess strives for safe and incident free operations. As We routinely conduct major drills that exercise our a responsible partner in the communities in which emergency response, incident support and we operate, we frequently exercise and drill, applying crisis management plans and capabilities in our our site specific emergency response and continuity business units and joint ventures. The increased plans and corporate crisis management plan. We competency that results from successful execution enhance our ability to manage an incident and its of these drills and the incorporation of lessons consequences by incorporating into our plans what learned into our plans have prepared us to deal we have learned from Hess exercises and drills and effectively with emergencies. incidents in our industry. We share best practices across Hess using internal networks. Our emergency and crisis management system provides for support of local efforts with Incident Support Teams and a Corporate Crisis Management Team. In addition to our own experts, Hess has established strategic relationships with third-party specialists who are experienced in emergency response and crisis management. These specialists help us manage incidents related to security, spill containment and clean-up, fire suppression, medical aid and wildlife rescue and provide the necessary functional support for communications, humanitarian outreach, government relations, finance and legal counsel. Hess also has regional and worldwide mutual aid agreements and relationships with emergency response organizations that have strategically positioned equipment and personnel to supplement and support our response efforts. We participate in drills and work closely with government agencies and response organizations to ensure an integrated and systematic approach to emergency response management. Spill Containment Exercise in the Gulf of Mexico Global Workforce Plant Operations at Ujung Pangkah Facility, Indonesia 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 43 The employees and contractors that comprise the Hess team worldwide are working to ensure that we continue to be a trusted energy partner. Our values provide guidance on how we conduct our business and serve as the foundation of our operations. Management Approach in recruitment, hiring, compensation, promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation, and all other Hess is committed to attracting, energizing, developing aspects of employment. We benchmark against other and retaining a highly talented, diverse workforce. We companies in our industry and calibrate the performance value individuals with outstanding technical, professional of employees in similar positions to ensure we provide total and administrative skills who work well in a collaborative pay and benefits that are competitive and fair. environment, make an extra effort to ensure success, act with a social conscience and demonstrate an We do not tolerate harassment of employees or job entrepreneurial, independent spirit. applicants by anyone, including supervisors, coworkers, vendors, clients or customers. We offer preventive training We endorse and respect the International Labor Organization and encourage the immediate reporting of suspected Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. abuses. All cases, reported and suspected, are handled Our Social Responsibility, Human Rights and Human confidentially and are promptly and thoroughly investigated. Resources policies recognize and respect our employees’ Where harassment is determined to have occurred, we right of freedom of association and prohibit the employment take appropriate disciplinary action, including termination of under age children in our workforce or the use of forced or of employment or business relationship. compulsory labor in any of our global operations. We provide equal employment opportunity to all Workforce Demographics employees and applicants without regard to race, color, Hess employed 12,587 people worldwide in 2010, a religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, veteran’s 3 percent increase over 2009, and supported another status, sexual orientation or any other protected status 1,189 in our Russian and Trading operations. Ninety Global Employees (12,587 Employees)* U.S. Retail 64% Asia Pacific 4% Africa 2% U.S. Non-Retail 26% Europe 3% Other 1% * Excludes an additional 1,189 employees in our Russian and Trading operations. 44 Global Workforce percent of employees were based in the U.S.; of those, practices at 30 companies within and outside the energy 27 percent were part time and 63 percent were hourly industry was commissioned to assess our current state employees. Seventy-one percent of U.S. employees and identify areas for improvement. While we have made worked at retail locations, the vast majority in hourly jobs. important strides particularly over the last five years, the The number of employees in the Asia Pacific region grew assessment team concluded that there is more we can do. by 22 percent. The company’s general counsel was appointed to lead a new Diversity and Inclusion Council to provide greater focus The global voluntary turnover rate for employees other and guide our actions over time. than retail hourly was 5.4 percent. Voluntary turnover rates were slightly lower among women and minorities, Globally in 2010, the make up of our workforce was significantly lower for employees over 50 years old and similar to the prior year. The percentage of women higher for employees under 30 years old. Approximately (40 percent), U.S. minorities (36 percent) and employees 1 percent of employees were laid off because their under 30, between 30 and 50 and over 50 years old positions were eliminated. (31 percent, 48 percent and 21 percent respectively) remained steady. Of eight executives who left the Diversity and Equal Opportunity company, two were women who assumed executive Diversity was a major focus in 2010. An executive meeting positions at other companies. Half of new college and was held early in the year to discuss the challenges inherent university graduates hired into downstream operations in being a diverse and inclusive organization. A study of were women or minorities. Forty-one percent of all new hires were women or minorities. Women Representation (Global Employees) (Executive, Management and Professional Staff) 3 Executives and 82 (Total 85) Senior Officers Firstand Mid-Level 641 1,428 (Total 2,069) Managers Professionals 664 1,291 (Total 1,955) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Men Employees Women Employees Minority Representation (U.S. Only) (Executive, Management and Professional Staff) 5 Executives and 73 (Total 78) Senior Officers Firstand Mid-Level 426 1,375 (Total 1,801) Managers Professionals 351 983 (Total 1,334) 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Non-Minority Employees Minority Employees 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 45 In 2010 the company upgraded to a new Human Allegations of discrimination or workplace harassment Resources Information Systems (HRIS) platform. HRIS within Hess and Hess joint ventures that are reported allowed us to improve accuracy and global consistency in directly to supervisors, managers or human resources categorizing job positions, particularly for professionals and professionals or anonymously through the Hess hotline, first/mid-level managers. As a result, the number of people are handled confidentially and investigated promptly and reported in each of these groups is not directly comparable fairly. Confidential hotline allegations determined to be to pre-2010 data. violations of the company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are handled by the vice president, Global Audit Diversity and inclusiveness activities took place at and Compliance. Non-code of conduct allegations are corporate, business and facility levels. For example, focus investigated by Human Resources. In both instances, groups were held with a subset of U.S. based women substantiated incidents of harassment or discrimination representing a variety of positions and levels of seniority. are subject to disciplinary action up to, and including, The objective was to stimulate dialogue about the unique termination of employment. Seven substantiated allegations issues they face and solicit ideas for attracting and of workplace harassment or discrimination were reported in developing highly skilled women to assume more senior 2010; two resulted in terminations, three in written warnings roles. Planning is underway for a similar event in 2011. and two in advice or education and training of personnel. Hess developed a new comprehensive Fair Employment There were no major legal judgments, fines or penalties Practices training program for supervisors and managers related to discrimination or harrassment during 2010. to help the company achieve its U.S. equal opportunity Workforce Localization and affirmative action goals. The training was designed Workforce localization is an important issue, particularly to reinforce what discrimination in the workplace means, for non-Organization for Economic Cooperation and provide a foundation to help determine and prevent Development countries including Algeria, Equatorial discrimination in the workplace, and suggest actions to Guinea (EG), Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand. EG, provide a comfortable, harassment free environment. Indonesia and Malaysia operations employ significant staff, In addition Hess developed a new employee training which we define as more than 100 employees. In 2010, program, Respect in the Workplace, designed to ensure 72 percent of EG staff were locals, including 34 percent of that employees maintain a work environment free of managers and professionals. In Indonesia, 88 percent of all harassment toward other employees, applicants, vendors employees and 82 percent of managers and professionals and customers. National and Non-National Employees National Employees (% of Country Workforce) (% of Managers and Professionals) 2% Malaysia 65% 33% Malaysia 66% 55% 33% 12% Indonesia 82% Indonesia Equatorial Equatorial 34% 14% 58% 28% Guinea Guinea 0 20 40 60 80 100 Professional/Managerial Nationals Other Nationals Non-Nationals 46 Global Workforce Among the actions specified for locals were participation in the Hess Leadership Essentials Program, taking the team lead role on important projects, mentoring and international exposure. Ten to 15 employees were fast tracked, including five who were promoted, two named as team leads, and two given rotational assignments in the U.K. and the U.S. to broaden their experience. Learning and Development All professional, managerial and executive employees took part in objective setting at the beginning of the year and participated in performance management reviews with their supervisors at mid-year and year end. Employees also created formal individual development plans in consultation with their managers that set near term and medium term development objectives and actions. The company spent $12 million on formal training in the U.S., a 10 percent increase over 2009. We cannot provide an accurate global figure because our systems do not fully Local Staff Development, Kuala Lumpur capture all training hours. The verification scope of this sustainability report, as well as the 2009 report included were locals. In Malaysia, two-thirds of employees and independent third party reviews of business and facility managers/professionals were locals. level training hours as part of site visits to representative Indonesia and Malaysia, as well as Thailand, with 45 operations. Based on these reviews, we estimate that employees and Australia, with 27, comprise Hess Asia annual training hours for non-retail employees average Pacific operations. In 2010 a Malaysian national was 25 hours or more. In Retail Marketing, hourly associates hired to take on one of the three most senior leadership completed five to six hours of Web based training and positions for the region, where locals make up 80 percent another eight hours of on the job training. Training for of the workforce. An effort is underway to accelerate assistant store managers consisted of five to six online hours, local staff development so they can take on more senior 24 hours on the job and 16 hours of classroom instruction. roles currently held by expatriates. A National Leadership In addition to the training hours specified above, more Development Program was established to train internal than 81,000 hours of training were recorded worldwide talent, strengthen graduate recruitment and development, through the online Hess Learning Center. Learning and and hire selectively to fill gaps. Specific roles were development specialists added new, customized courses identified to be nationalized and a local talent readiness on LEAN Awareness, Energy Marketing, enterprise study helped line managers identify 50 individuals as management software, performance management and having leadership potential. development planning to the more than 500 existing Approximately 90 percent of the Asia Pacific employees desktop application and general business skills e-learning had structured, audited individual development plans. courses. A series of employee focus groups was held to 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 47 obtain feedback on the Learning Center’s content, usability and potential. A report of findings and recommendations was provided to senior leaders considering an upgrade of the Learning Center in 2011. Eight sessions of a Leadership Essentials Program were held for supervisors and managers for developing their leadership skills. These were held at E&P headquarters in Houston and at regional headquarters in Kuala Lumpur and London, as well as downstream headquarters in Woodbridge, N.J. Of the 173 participants, 29 percent were minorities or locals and 28 percent were women. Twentyeight more experienced middle managers participated in the Business Essentials Program to further develop their capabilities as leaders of groups and teams. Thirteen percent of professional, non-Retail employees rotated to new jobs as part of formal programs in several functional and technical areas, including the Business Leadership Program and the Foundation Program. Thirtysix percent were women and minorities. Exploration and Production Control Center Training Young Geoscientists and Engineers Finding, attracting and training the next generation of All Foundation members are assigned two types of geoscientists and engineers is a critical element of the Hess mentors: program mentors assigned for the duration of recruiting plan. Our company targets interns and full time the Foundation Program and rotation specific mentors. hires by recruiting through campus interviews, career fairs, Mentors typically have five to seven years experience. student organization meetings and as a result of relationship Currently there are 71 new hires participating in the building between students, professors and Hess staff. program including 40 engineers and 31 geoscientists; onethird are women. In 2010, 21 university graduates were The Hess Foundation Program, a comprehensive training hired and enrolled in the program; 38 percent are women. program for engineers and geoscientists, plays the dual role of developing new hires and ensuring that they become Our on-campus recruitment efforts, internship offerings an immediate asset to the company. The program allows and the Foundation Program have resulted in a substantial new hires to move through assignment rotations, exposing increase in the employment acceptance rate. Eightythem to many aspects of oil and gas exploration and three percent of engineers offered full time employment production. On the job training is supplemented by formal accepted positions, many of whom were previously in-house and outside technical classes. The program interns. The acceptance rate of entry level geoscientists has been very successful in allowing our geoscientists to has also remained steady at 80 percent. become more proficient in our business. 48 Global Workforce Employee Engagement During the year the presidents of the upstream and downstream businesses held quarterly town hall meetings The company developed an ambitious long term vision. at their respective headquarters. The town halls provided a The Hess Leadership Team sponsored 16 employee focus forum for quarterly updates on business performance and groups that included 240 representatives from different future plans and were broadcast live to employees unable to businesses, geographic locations and corporate functions. attend in person. Employees were asked to submit questions Focus group participants offered candid and constructive prior to and during these meetings. During each quarter, the feedback which influenced the development of the new presidents regularly sent e-mails to employees updating them vision and framework. on business activities and progress in achieving stated goals. Business and functional leaders met with employees in In response to employees’ needs, the company implemented person to present and discuss the new strategic vision an easily accessible global online system, called The and framework. A presentation made by the chairman Resource Center. Through The Resource Center employees and CEO introducing the vision to the company’s top are able to access training courses, benefits and pay 65 executives was videotaped and made available to all information and the company’s performance management employees via the Hess intranet. In addition, articles on system in one place from home or at the office. the Hess intranet explained the vision and framework. An employee poll conducted at year end showed a high The company developed a new internal Web site, Hess awareness of the new vision and framework, as well as Connect, which includes social media tools that facilitate confidence that Hess will achieve its vision. networking and collaboration. The system was tested in 2010 and went live in April 2011. Compensation and Benefits Hess is committed to paying employees fairly for the work they do and the contribution they make. The company recognizes differences in performance and provides greater rewards to employees who make a bigger contribution or perform at higher levels. For the year, Hess spent $992 million in pay and benefits for U.S. employees. Hess has a bonus plan for employees that is based equally on corporate performance, business performance and personal performance. Retail store employees were paid, on average, approximately 20 percent more than the local minimum wage. Non-retail entry level positions in our principal U.S. and international operations in Europe, West Africa and Southeast Asia were paid on average between two and four times the prevailing minimum wage. Leadership Development Meeting in Houston, Texas 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 49 Hess offers an array of benefits that varies by location for In 2010 a new Financial Planning and Counseling full time, non-retail salaried and hourly employees. These Program was introduced in the U.S. to all non-retail store typically include overtime pay, education assistance, employees and members of their families. The program savings, pension, medical plans, bereavement and jury offers a Web site with educational materials and online duty. In addition, employees who work at our New York planning tools, seminars tailored to needs at various City corporate headquarters and Exploration and Production stages of life, and an Answer Line for individual counseling headquarters in Houston may use pre-tax earnings to pay for with credentialed financial experts. mass transit and public parking near these offices. Details of retirement plans, including funding of pension Many of these benefits are offered to part time and benefits, can be found in our annual U.S. Securities and retail hourly employees. Benefits for union represented Exchange Commission Form 10-K. employees are outlined in collective bargaining agreements. Hess also offers benefits at our international Freedom of Association locations that are supplemental to government provided Hess employs unionized and non-represented workers in programs and services. These are country specific and hourly job classifications. To our knowledge, there are no may include paid maternity and paternity leave, lactation operations where the right to exercise freedom of association programs, compassionate leaves of absence, additional and collective bargaining may be at significant risk. paid holidays and vacation days, life insurance and short and long term disability insurance. There are represented workers at our operations in the United States and Denmark. In 2010 approximately 9 percent of U.S. employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements, all within the M&R business segment. During this period, 30 collective bargaining positions in terminal trucking operations were outsourced. Denmark operations also have represented workers, but Danish law prohibits data collection and public disclosure. For major operational changes, such as layoffs and facility closures, we comply with advance notification requirements specified in collective bargaining agreements and labor regulations. These are typically 60 to 90 days for locations with 50 or more employees and 14 to 28 days for locations with fewer than 50 employees. Financial Planning Seminar, Woodbridge, New Jersey Climate change and energy Gassi El Agreb Operations, Algeria 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 51 We recognize that to grow our business and help meet the increasing global demand for energy, we must do so in a manner that protects the world’s land, water and air resources. Management Approach Climate Change Reporting Structure Hess understands that climate change is a global Board of President of Hess environmental concern with potentially significant Directors Worldwide E&P Leadership Team consequences for society and the energy industry. Operational Excellence Leadership Team We have spoken openly about the need for U.S. and world leaders to work with industry to develop comprehensive Climate Change Network energy and climate solutions that will help meet future energy demand and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. CNN Work Groups To be effective, this approach must combine demand reduction measures, such as energy efficiency, with a full Climate Policy Carbon Markets range of energy sources, including clean burning natural gas and commercial scale carbon neutral technologies. Flaring/Venting/CCS Energy Efficiency Hess continues to monitor the evolving U.S. regulatory landscape. The current regulatory and legislative context creates considerable uncertainty, which discourages Hess has taken a number of voluntary measures to assess, investment in necessary energy and emissions measures. monitor, and reduce our carbon footprint at existing and We are committed to complying with all emissions future operations. In 2009 the Hess Leadership Team mandates, and believe the best approach to reducing approved a seven point strategy for addressing the emissions in the U.S. is through a carbon tax on challenges and opportunities climate change presents. transportation fuels and a market based mechanism The Hess Climate Change Network (CCN) was tasked for reducing stationary source emissions. However, we with executing that strategy. Reflecting the importance support any reasonable approach that is transparent, Hess senior leaders place on this issue, the CCN reports flexible, and equitable. Our European operations through the company’s Operational Excellence Leadership participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Team, which is chaired by the president of Worldwide Scheme and our Norway operations pay carbon taxes. Exploration and Production and includes executives 52 Climate Change and Energy and senior managers from upstream and downstream emissions trading strategies and carbon monetization business segments, as well as corporate Environment, opportunities. The Energy Efficiency and Flaring, Venting Health, Safety and Social Responsibility, Global Process and CCS Work Groups focus on the technical and Excellence and Information Technology. The president of operational aspects of carbon footprint reduction. Worldwide Exploration and Production sits on the Hess We aim to be top quartile for our emissions performance Leadership Team and the Board of Directors. and the quality of our climate change disclosures to The CCN consists of four work groups, aligned with the investors and stakeholders and have made considerable objectives of Hess’ climate change strategy: the Climate progress toward our strategic targets. After two years we Policy Work Group, the Energy Efficiency Work Group, the are approximately two thirds of the way toward meeting Flaring, Venting, and Carbon Capture and Sequestration the five-year target we set to reduce the emissions (CCS) Work Group, and the Carbon Markets Work Group. intensity of our oil and gas operations by 20 percent. The Climate Policy Work Group monitors international We have achieved an absolute greenhouse gas (GHG) and domestic climate change policy developments in the reduction of 1.8 million tonnes against the 2008 baseline. countries where Hess does business and assesses their We have decreased flaring from our operations in Algeria impact on our operations. The Carbon Markets Work and Equatorial Guinea (EG) by 54 percent, meeting our 50 Group monitors global carbon markets and provides percent reduction target three years early. guidance on forward pricing for project economics, CLIMATE CHANGE STRATEGY Strategy Progress Hess set a GHG intensity reduction target (equity basis) for 2013 that is 20 percent below the company’s 2008 Establish and publicly communicate a five-year GHG baseline. In 2010 we achieved a 15 percent GHG intensity emissions intensity reduction target reduction against the baseline and an absolute GHG reduction of 1.8 million tonnes. Account for the cost of carbon in all significant future Will be implemented in the 2012 planning cycle. investment decisions Evaluate industry best practices to minimize emissions In process of incorporating into production planning when designing production facilities process. In 2010 we met our five year flare reduction target by Reduce flaring in Algeria and Equatorial Guinea by 50 achieving a 54 percent reduction against our targeted percent over the next five years reduction of 50 percent. Made significant progress toward establishing a Implement a corporate-wide energy efficiency program corporate baseline, collecting business unit data for focused on major combustion sources and greater use of ongoing energy efficiency projects, evaluating additional renewable sources opportunities and establishing goals and targets. Purchased 11 percent of annual electricity for company Purchase at least 10 percent of annual electricity for operations from renewable sources in 2010. Also purchased company operations from renewable sources carbon credits to offset all employee business travel on commercial air carriers in 2010. Through our Green-e program, we offer Hess Energy Marketing customers a full suite of products to help Ongoing program minimize their carbon footprints. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 53 We made progress toward our other strategic goals. 7.5 million tonnes C02e in 2010. Of the 7.5 million tonnes The Energy Efficiency Work Group is taking the lead in of GHG emissions, 6.7 million tonnes were Scope 1 developing and subsequently implementing a company emissions primarily from flaring and process operations wide energy efficiency program. We continued to obtain and 0.8 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions related to certified renewable energy certificates equivalent to 10 purchased electricity usage. Emissions related to direct percent or more of our annual net purchased electricity transportation from corporate aviation and Hess domestic and are initiating a phased process toward integrating trucking operations were 7,000 tonnes of C02e. the cost of carbon into the project economics of all major The reduction in Scope 1 emissions was primarily capital investments. attributable to reduced emissions at the Malaysia/Thailand Greenhouse Gas Performance JDA (MTJDA) Block A-18 resulting from select high C02 content wells being temporarily shut-in during 2010 for gas The company tracks GHG emissions on both a Hessprocessing upgrades. Flaring accounted for 47 percent of operated and net-equity basis. Our major direct sources of emissions from operated assets in 2010, down 9 percent greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) are fuel combustion from 2009. In addition to our flare reduction projects in and flaring. We also generate indirect emissions (Scope Algeria and EG, we continue to explore opportunities to 2) associated with the electricity that we purchase and further reduce flaring from our operations. use. In addition to reporting Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions on an operated and a net equity basis, we Fuel combustion from process operations and indirect also provide other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) emissions from purchased electricity accounted for 40 associated with employee travel, third party transport and percent and 10 percent respectively of our GHG emissions the end use of petroleum products and natural gas that we from operated assets. The remaining 3 percent of process, refine and sell. emissions was from miscellaneous sources. Through our company wide Operational Excellence initiative and work Hess Operated Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) being undertaken by the Hess Climate Change Network, Our GHG emissions from operated assets decreased we continue to examine opportunities to improve the from 9.1 million tonnes CO2 equivalent (C02e) in 2009 to efficiency of our operations and reduce GHG emissions. Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions Operated GHG Emissions by Source (Million Tonnes CO2e) (7.5 Million Tonnes CO2e) 8,000,000 192,478 2008 10.7 0.6 781,521 6,000,000 Tonnes CO2e 2009 8.5 0.6 3,023,441 4,000,000 2010 6.7 0.8 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 2,000,000 3,533,572 Scope 1 Emissions Scope 2 Emissions 0 Flaring Indirect Fuel Combustion Other 54 Climate Change and Energy Hess Net Equity Emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) The majority of our net equity emissions is concentrated in a few locations where we have significant operations. These include the U.S., Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, EG, the U.K. and Algeria. In 2010 our net equity emissions were estimated to be 9.0 million tonnes C02e, a 0.5 million tonne reduction from 2009. This reduction was primarily attributable to reduced emissions at the MTJDA Block A-18 which have already been discussed. In 2007 we began tracking GHG emissions from our net equity interests. Estimating net equity emissions is a difficult process because we have equity interests in many projects around the world which are operated by other companies Production Platform at the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area and it is often difficult to obtain timely and accurate data. We believe, however, that net equity emissions are a more In 2008 our equity emissions per unit of production meaningful measure of our total carbon footprint. resulted in a GHG intensity of 44 tonnes per thousand barrels of oil equivalent (boe). By 2013 we intend to reduce Hess has a large pool of exploration projects that will result that number by 20 percent to 35 tonnes per thousand in significant production growth over time and which may boe. At the end of 2010 we achieved an emissions cause our absolute GHG emissions to grow. While we do intensity of 37 tonnes per thousand boe, an approximate not think that it is desirable to constrain our growth with 15 percent reduction from our baseline. an absolute target, we believe that it is our responsibility to operate more efficiently by reducing GHG emissions per unit of production as we continue to grow our business. Net Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions Net Equity Emissions by Country (Million Tonnes CO2e) (Million Tonnes CO2e) 16 50 10,000,000 Emissions Rate (Tonnes/1000 BOE) 283,055 14 9,000,000 45 430,148 GHG (Million Tonnes CO2e) 12 8,000,000 1,123,777 GHG (Tonnes CO2e) 44 7,000,000 1,122,567 10 40 6,000,000 8 1,251,218 Algeria 3% 39 37 5,000,000 U.K. 5% 35 6 35 4,000,000 2,093,419 Other countries* 12% 4 3,000,000 Equatorial Guinea 12% 30 2,000,000 MTJDA Block A-18 14% 2 2,729,353 1,000,000 U.S. 23% 0 25 U.S.V.I. 31% 2008 2009 2010 2013 0 *Other Countries: Hess M&R MTJDA Block A-18 HOVENSA JV Azerbaijan 1.1% Libya 1.4% Denmark 1.1% Russia 2.2% Hess E&P SonaHess JV Non-operated E&P Norway 2.4% Indonesia 1.7% Thailand 2.3% Samara-Nafta Normalized GHG 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 55 Product End Use Emissions (Scope 3) Other Scope 3 emissions For the third consecutive year, Hess is providing an While product end use emissions account for the major estimate of GHG emissions associated with the end share of our Scope 3 emissions, we have collected use of our fuel and other products, commonly referred logistics, supply and business travel data for several years to as “Scope 3” emissions. While the World Resources as our first step in determining non-product related Scope Institute is drafting a methodology to address Scope 3 3 emissions. In 2010 emissions associated with the ocean product emissions, at present no common methodology is transport of purchased feedstock to the Port Reading available within our industry to report these emissions. In refinery were 56,840 tonnes CO2e and those associated our calculation Hess includes the emissions related to the with third party trucking of refined petroleum products to products that we refine and sell, as well as the natural gas our retail stores and customers were 32,493 tonnes CO2e. that we produce and sell for end use consumption. We Our emissions from business travel on commercial aircraft have excluded emissions associated with products that were approximately 19,661 tonnes of C02e which we offset are manufactured by others and purchased for resale by through the purchase of 20,000 carbon credits certified to Hess. Based on this methodology, we estimate our Scope the Voluntary Carbon Standard. 3 emissions from products at 40.2 million tonnes of C02 in 2010, of which approximately 46 percent is related to Energy Utilization and Efficiency product use in mobile sources and 54 percent is related to product use in stationary sources. Compared to last year, Hess’ climate change strategy includes a commitment our Scope 3 product emissions have decreased by 5.5 to making energy management an integral part of the million tonnes due to sales declines of 10 percent and company’s business strategy and to strive for continuous 3 percent, respectively, of petroleum and natural gas improvement in energy efficiency. The CCN’s Energy related products. Efficiency Work Group (EEWG) was chartered to identify opportunities for developing a corporate wide energy management program to enable us to systematically operate existing facilities efficiently, minimize energy costs, consider the use of renewable energy where practical and design energy efficiency into all major new projects. Three Year Energy Use (Thousand Gigajoules) Product End-Use Emissions Sales GHG 2010 CO2 Product 2008 Volumes Factor* (MM Tonnes) 43,295 9,110 Gasoline 36,314,520 0.37 13.4 2009 46,126 10,584 (bbls) Diesel 2010 45,904 12,516 18,007,200 0.43 7.7 (bbls) 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 Residual 10,354,140 0.47 4.9 Direct Oil (bbls) Indirect (gross) Natural 250,777,995 0.0566 14.2 Gas (MMBtu) *GHG factors in CO2 Tonnes/bbl. for liquids and Tonnes/MM BTU for gas based on EPA rule for mandatory GHG reporting, except JDA gas factor which is adjusted for CO2 content in gas sales. 56 Climate Change and Energy The company is an active member of the International Hess U.S. operations accounted for 52 percent of direct Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation energy use. Overall, natural gas constituted 78 percent of Association (IPIECA) Climate Change Task Force and the company’s and 88 percent of E&P’s direct energy fuel. associated working groups focusing on energy efficiency M&R’s Port Reading Refinery’s direct energy supply was best practices, upstream energy efficiency benchmarking, 84 percent petroleum coke and 16 percent natural gas. flaring and venting reduction and the ISO 50000 The refinery also produced more than four billion standard international energy management system standard. cubic feet of refinery fuel gas for export to the local utility. We share the knowledge gained from working with our U.S. upstream and downstream operations consumed industry peers with the EEWG and other technical experts more than 99 percent of the electricity purchased by the within the company. company, primarily from regional and state power pools in Energy use the Eastern U.S., North Dakota and Texas. The average Our operations make and purchase energy primarily for renewable energy component for these power pools, based power, heating, cooling and processing. In 2010 direct and on the most current data available from the U.S. Energy gross indirect energy consumption was 58,420 thousand Information Service and independent system operators gigajoules (GJ), a 3 percent increase over 2009. Increases PJM, New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) and in energy use were attributable to flare reduction projects, Independent System Operator-New England (ISO-NE), is enhanced oil recovery operations, higher global drilling approximately 6 percent. activity and higher oil and gas production. Exploration and Production (E&P) accounted for 81 percent of total Hess is also committed to purchasing at least 10 percent company energy use and Marketing and Refining (M&R) of annual net electricity for company operations from for 19 percent. renewable sources. In 2010 we acquired 140,000 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (RECs), equivalent In 2010 the EEWG conducted an energy measurement to 140,000 megawatt hours or 11 percent of our net data sourcing and integrity review that identified and purchased electricity. Renewable energy accounted for a closed several data gaps. As a result, 2009 indirect total of approximately 17 percent of our indirect energy energy use has been restated to reflect an additional 696 use when the purchased RECs are combined with the thousand gigajoules. The corrected number is 4 percent power grid averages. higher than that provided in last year’s sustainability report. 2010 Energy Use by Country (Thousand Gigajoules) Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source (Thousand Gigajoules) 2% US (E&P) 25,020 3% 4% US (M&R) 11,392 2010 78% 11% 10% 1% 7% Malaysia/Thailand JDA* 7,166 2009 10% 78% 13% 8% 1% 43% Algeria 5,623 Equatorial Guinea 3,902 2008 12% 74% 13% 11% 2% U.K. 2,049 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 Denmark 1,915 19% Indonesia 1,353 Natural gas Petroleum Coke Diesel Fuel oil * MTJDA Block A-18 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 57 Energy Initiatives and identify appropriate energy use metrics so that we are able to effectively evaluate and communicate performance. The EEWG is working to determine current energy data availability, identify data gaps and make plans for the In downstream operations, the most recent refining sustainable capture of company wide energy data going industry benchmarking study, conducted in 2008, once forward on a monthly basis. Quality energy data will again ranked the Port Reading refining facility in the top serve as the key to measuring success of the energy quartile for energy efficiency among U.S. and Western management program. Hemisphere refineries. The study results provide us with information for improving our operating efficiency. In 2010 the EEWG gave its highest priority to identifying best in class energy management practices in project Building on energy efficiency initiatives begun in 2008, design. With support from highly experienced oil and gas retail store lighting upgrades continued. The Baltimore and energy efficiency consultants, we identified key energy Bronx terminals and M&R’s Woodbridge, N.J. headquarters efficiency concepts to incorporate into the various stages continued to participate in demand response programs, of project design, development, implementation and with Woodbridge increasing its participation to 500 kilowatt handover to operations. The EEWG conducted a pilot hours from 100 kilowatt hours, which provided us an energy review workshop to review these concepts with opportunity to reduce our electricity costs while easing the major new projects staff. One of the outcomes of the burden on the grid during peak days. workshop was the development of an energy review tool for use in future major projects. Implementation of the We began renovating our company owned Woodbridge tool will help ensure that major new project teams ask building with the goal of qualifying for Leadership in Energy and address applicable energy management questions at and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver status. As part of appropriate times in the project design, implementation this initiative we are investigating obtaining the necessary and execution process. permits and installing a 1.1 megawatt ground mounted photovoltaic system to self generate renewable energy for The EEWG is also developing an energy review program up to 25 percent of the facility’s power needs. for existing operations that will incorporate knowledge gained from best in class energy performers. In addition, E&P will be moving its Houston headquarters into a leased, this year Hess plans to start company wide monthly newly constructed LEED Silver building during the second energy use data collection, develop an energy baseline half of 2011. Net Indirect Energy Use by Fuel Source* (Thousand MWh) 12% 43% 37% 12% 6% 2% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Coal 521 Renewables 78 37% Natural gas 458 Petroleum and other gases 30 Nuclear 143 * Based on U.S. EIA state energy profiles and PJM, NY ISO and ISO-NE Power Pool data. Environment Farmland in the Bakken Region, North Dakota 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 59 Our company is committed to protecting the environment. Our management systems uphold or exceed international standards and promote internal consistency, while encouraging continuous improvement in environmental performance. Management Approach spill preparedness and response plans and conduct drills and exercises, often joining with regulatory agencies Environmental policies, procedures and programs are in and local emergency responders to test and improve place at the corporate, business unit and facility levels. these plans. Among the key performance metrics We dedicate significant staff and resources to ensure that at the corporate, business unit and facility levels is we operate in compliance with applicable environmental the measurement of hydrocarbon spills outside of laws, regulations and permits and in conformance with containment, which are a factor in our employee international standards and voluntary commitments. business unit bonus formula. Company and business segment policies, management Freshwater availability and quality are issues of increasing systems and standards set expectations and provide tools importance to our upstream and refining operations, the for managing water use and biodiversity, prevention and communities where we operate and other stakeholders. control of emissions, spills, discharges and waste, and Historically we have successfully managed water use for environmental site assessment and remediation. long standing and routine gas plant and refinery operations. In keeping with the precautionary principle, we screen We actively manage emerging water related and other our operations for environmental, safety, health and environmental issues associated with hydraulic fracturing for social risks and conduct environmental and social impact unconventional shale oil and gas development. assessments for major new projects. All of the assets we operate and joint ventures over which we have significant Freshwater Use influence are required to collect and maintain environmental We utilize a variety of tools to identify and track water performance data. The company aggregates these data supply and quality risks that have the potential to impact for operated assets and major joint ventures except for the our operations and the communities where we do HOVENSA joint venture refinery which is shown separately. business. These include the World Business Council for Performance data is then summarized, analyzed and Sustainable Development Global Water Tool, specialized publicly reported on an annual basis. risk mapping services and engagement with local and regional water authorities and planning districts. Employees receive environmental training appropriate to their duties and responsibilities. Our operations maintain 60 Environment In 2010 our operations used 10.35 million cubic meters of accounted for 1.31 million cubic meters, or 23 percent of fresh water, a decrease of 3 percent from 2009, primarily the gas plant’s total fresh water use and was reused for oil due to lower water use in gas processing and refining. Our reservoir management. U.S. operations accounted for more than 98 percent of The Seminole gas processing plant is located within the company wide fresh water use. Approximately 35 percent Llano Estacado regional water planning area and county of fresh water was purchased from local utilities; the groundwater conservation district, where agriculture remaining 65 percent was groundwater, sourced primarily accounts for more than 98 percent of water abstraction, from Hess owned and operated wells. Surface water exceeding available water supply. The region and county withdrawals comprised 0.2 percent. No water sources are therefore considered “water stressed” and drought were identified as being significantly affected by the planning is a way of life. Hess personnel regularly attend company’s water use. water planning meetings and meet with groundwater Hess E&P operations accounted for 67 percent of freshwater conservation district staff. The 2010 through 2060 Llano use, of which 91 percent was for U.S. gas processing plant Estacado regional water plan indicates that current and operations, 6 percent for U.S. production and 3 percent for estimated future oil and gas sector water demand and non-U.S. operations. The Seminole gas processing plant in supply are balanced. In 2010 Seminole’s groundwater West Texas accounted for slightly more than half withdrawal represented 0.1 percent of regional (5.8 million cubic meters) of the company’s fresh water groundwater demand from the Ogallala Aquifer. use, most of which was used for process cooling. The The Port Reading (N.J.) refining facility used 2.2 million facility’s fresh water is provided by our Permian Basin cubic meters of municipally supplied fresh water which production operations, where we own and operate a accounted for 63 percent of Marketing and Refining’s total groundwater well field. fresh water use. Approximately two-thirds of the water At the Seminole facility we recirculate cooling water up used by Port Reading was for the refinery’s water cooling to three times. Cooling system evaporative losses are system, which recirculates water between three to five high because the local climate is dry throughout the year cycles. Service and steam system water accounted for 37 and hot during the summer. Cooling tower blowdown percent of the refinery’s fresh water use, of which about 27 percent was reused in process units. Freshwater Use (Million Cubic Meters) Freshwater Use by Business and Facility (Thousand Cubic Meters) 12 0.04 0.04 1% E&P 10 9% Seminole Gas Plant 5,809 Millions of Cubic Meters 0.06 3.9 3.7 North Dakota 430 8 Groundwater 19% Sea Robin Gas Plant 302 2.6 Tioga Gas Plant 214 51% 6 Municipal Other 220 11% M&R 4 2% Port Reading 2,151 6.7 6.7 Surface Water 3% 6.0 Retail 1,100 4% 2 Terminals/Woodbridge 158 0 2008 2009 2010 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 61 Prior to drilling, we performed risk based screening to select well pad sites and determine engineering controls to minimize the potential for land disturbance, erosion and impact on neighbors, communities, potable water sources and sensitive ecosystems. We also consulted with property owners and local emergency responders on well pad and ancillary facilities sites, allowing us to minimize tree clearing within the permitted disturbance area and maximize site restoration. Once well pad locations were selected, we conducted a comprehensive pre-drilling baseline sampling program of potable water wells and some privately owned springs and ponds used for livestock, agriculture or recreational purposes. We extended our sampling radius to 5,000 feet, significantly exceeding the DRBC’s proposed minimum sampling radius of 1,000 to 2,000 feet, to establish ground water quality in a representative number of fresh water sources. We hired consultants to coordinate with property owners to collect water samples which were then analyzed Gas Plant, Sinphuhorm, Thailand for more than 70 water quality parameters by PADEP Additional information on our company’s water related certified laboratories. The analytical results were provided risks, opportunities and performance is available in our to the property owners along with state and federal Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water Disclosure report. guidance to assist in interpretation. We also performed baseline soil sampling prior to well pad construction Marcellus Shale to understand existing soil conditions and incorporate appropriate soil handling and erosion controls into the In 2009 Hess acquired leases for 80,000 net acres of construction process, although those steps were not privately held land in Wayne County, Pa. Development of regulatory requirements. the acreage is subject to regulation by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (PADEP), as well During 2010 we met with four service companies providing as the Delaware River Basin Commission (DRBC) and the hydraulic fracturing services in the Marcellus Shale to Susquehanna River Basin Commission, depending on well identify with each the most environmentally preferable location. In 2010 we drilled two vertical exploration wells frac fluid systems and to voice our support for disclosure in the Delaware River Basin and one in the Susquehanna of the frac fluid chemicals. We attended conferences River Basin. Well construction included an extra water and monitored the development of more environmentally protection casing. No hydraulic fracturing was conducted. favorable frac fluid addititives and technological We are monitoring the status of DRBC’s rulemaking related advancements for frac fluid flowback recycling and reuse. to standards and requirements concerning production in We are working with our vendors on public disclosure of the Basin. well-specific hydraulic frac fluid chemical composition and volume data. 62 Environment Upstream Operations Hess E&P conducts environmental and social/socioeconomic impact assessments (ESIAs) in accordance with best practices and country specific laws and regulations. In locations where an ESIA is not mandated, E&P’s EHS&SR management system framework and EHS&SR Risk Management Key Process require that risk screening and impact assessment be carried out for proposed exploration, drilling and development programs and at the conceptual design stage for major new projects. The EHS&SR Impact Assessment Recommended Practice provides guidance on fulfilling applicable Risk Management Key Process requirements. The practice describes recommended approaches, based on industry best practices and internationally accepted standards such as those developed by the International Finance Corporation to identify, assess and manage potential environmental and social/socioeconomic impacts. The findings are considered Jack Bates Drilling Platform, Australia in final site selection and project design and carried through into environmental and social management plans. Biodiversity ESIAs are performed for Hess by experienced third-party Some of our operations are located in sensitive consultants and include biodiversity baseline surveys and environments where the protection of migratory and screening of plants and animals against the International local animal and plant life is an important consideration. Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List, as well Hess Policy sets forth the commitment of the company as local and national threatened and endangered species and its subsidiaries to identify, assess and manage the lists. The best available guidelines and tools are utilized, environmental risk and impact of existing and planned such as those developed by the Energy and Biodiversity operations. Biodiversity is included in the scope of high Initiative, the Wildlife Conservation Society, the IUCN level risk assessments, environmental hazard identification and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental and impact assessments for major new projects and Conservation Association (IPIECA). acquisitions, as well as other stages of the business life cycle. For offshore activities, we follow Joint Nature Conservation Committee Guidelines (JNCC) for minimizing acoustic disturbances to marine mammals and we employ JNCC certified Marine Mammal Observers when conducting seismic surveys. We have also used electromagnetic surveys which have less of an impact on marine mammals than seismic surveys. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 63 No Hess asset is within an IUCN protected area with sensitive ecosystems was performed and results were the exception of the Sinphuhorm Natural Gas Field in incorporated into spill protection and response scenarios northeastern Thailand. Some of the operation’s wellheads and action plans. and gas gathering lines are within the northern boundary Some of these operations are involved in initiatives to of the Phu Kao-Phu Phan Kham National Park which is protect and restore local ecosystems and threatened classified as an IUCN Category V protected area. and endangered species. The Chesapeake Terminal and In 2010 Hess E&P conducted a biodiversity screening corporate site remediation staff are active members of the study prior to drilling an offshore exploration well in the multi-stakeholder Elizabeth River Project which is striving North Red Sea Block of Egypt. The IUCN Red List of the to restore that river’s ecosystem. Our HOVENSA joint Egyptian Red Sea includes 16 near-threatened and one venture refinery maintains wildlife rescue equipment and vulnerable fish species, the endangered fin whale and two assists federal and territorial natural resource agencies in species of hammerhead shark, two species of endangered monitoring, protecting, and rescuing wildlife. The refinery sea turtles and three species of critically endangered sea also preserves and protects Least Tern nesting grounds on turtles. The study included the entire Red Sea and Egypt’s plant property and supports local conservation efforts for offshore, coastal zone and coastal desert environments. Hawksbill, Leatherback and Green sea turtles. No impact to sensitive habitats was identified. IUCN Red List During the year Hess E&P also commissioned thirdCorporate EHS&SR maintains a list of IUCN Red List party environmental screening, including identification species compiled from environmental due diligence, of ecological and biodiversity issues, for newly acquired screening and impact assessment reports conducted on oil and gas lease holdings in North Dakota. As a result behalf of Hess. More than half of the critically endangered of the screening we learned that a small percentage and endangered species on this list are sea turtles of lease holdings are within state designated wildlife common to tropic and subtropic regions, including some action plan focus areas. These represent unique and offshore and coastal areas in the vicinity of Hess project rare natural community types or habitats considered of areas or operations. high importance to species identified as conservation IUCN Category Number of Species priorities. Less than 1 percent of lease areas were on state Critically Endangered 4 owned land containing or in proximity to sensitive habitats Endangered 5 included in greater sage-grouse management plans and Vulnerable 4 conservation strategies. In the event Hess moves ahead with oil and gas activities on these leases, measures to Near Threatened 22 minimize and mitigate adverse impacts will be determined Material Use in consultation with state agencies responsible for wildlife and habitat conservation and management. We look for opportunities to improve our operations and reduce costs through more efficient use of natural Downstream operations resources. For example, we have successfully used For existing refining and terminal operations in the Eastern recycled and regenerated materials to reduce our U.S. and the Caribbean, emergency and oil spill response dependence on raw materials, fresh water and chemicals, plans include lists of federal and state listed endangered, such as catalysts and sulfuric acid, in our daily operations. threatened and vulnerable species of plants and animals. Since the vast majority of our products are sold in bulk, Facility specific mapping of vulnerable receptors and there is very little use of packaging material. 64 Environment Spills Non-hydrocarbon spills Hydrocarbon spills In 2010 there were 44 non-hydrocarbon spills and nine In 2010 the total number of oil spills decreased 13 percent, oil/water mixture spills that were also tracked in the from 122 spills in 2009 to 106 in 2010. Half of these spills hydrocarbon spill category. All of the spills occurred in occurred in our retail operations. our upstream operations; 78 percent of the spills were produced water and 13 percent were aqueous drilling and While our 2010 spill volume of 403 barrels was low by cementing fluids. These totaled 1,574 barrels of nonindustry standards, it was 30 percent higher than the 2009 hydrocarbon fluid, which included one spill of 944 barrels spill volume of 306 barrels. Ninety percent of the volume of produced water that was related to a produced water spilled was in upstream operations. injection line leak at SonaHess (Algeria.) There were two oil spills greater than 50 barrels; these Fifty-one of the spills were to land, totaling 1,570 barrels spills occurred in the North Dakota operation due to line of fluid. These accounted for essentially all of the volume leaks. These two spills accounted for half of the company’s spilled. Three spills totaling four barrels entered surface 2010 spill volume. Interim oil recovery efforts were water. These amounted to 0.3 percent of spill volume. undertaken for the first spill pending a delineation report and remediation and a recovery system was installed to Waste recover oil from the second spill. Approximately 90,000 metric tons of solid waste Typical industry practice is to report oil spills to land that was generated in 2010, a 29 percent decrease from are in excess of one barrel (42 U.S. gallons). However, our 2009. Ninety-five percent of the waste generated by downstream operation records and reports spills to land our operations was classified as non-hazardous and of five gallons or more. As a result, the number of oil spills 47 percent was reused or recycled. Typical waste that occur in our operations may appear higher than other streams include construction waste, oily tank bottoms, companies in our sector because 56 of our 106 oil spills contaminated soil, spent acids and caustics, used (53%) were land spills of less than 1 barrel. catalyst and scrap metal and wood. Spent caustic was shipped to paper plants for process use; spent catalyst was reprocessed for reuse or was recycled in cement plants, and spent acid was regenerated for reuse. No Oil Spills Waste Generation (Metric Tons) 132 1,600 140 122 2008 100,370 2,522 Volume of Oil Spills (bbls) 1,400 1349 Number of Oil Spills (#) 106 120 1,200 100 2009 117,140 9,489 1,000 80 800 2010 84,939 4,403 60 600 403 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 306 40 400 200 20 Non-hazardous Hazardous 0 0 2008 2009 2010 Volume of spills (bbls) Number of oil spills 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 65 waste considered hazardous under the terms of the Basel Discharges Convention was exported from our operations. Discharges in our operations include stormwater runoff and wastewater effluent associated with our Air Emissions — Criteria Pollutants upstream and downstream operations. Discharges also Air emissions of nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides include produced water, drill cuttings and drilling fluids (SOx) result from fuel combustion, process operations generated during upstream operations. Discharges and flaring activities. Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) associated with offshore exploration and production are emitted during product loading and storage and fuel include drilling mud, drill cuttings and produced water. dispensing. Normalized NOx and SOx emissions increased Offshore Discharges 15 percent and 6 percent respectively between 2009 and In 2010 approximately 19,000 barrels of drill cuttings 2010. Normalized VOC emissions decreased 17 percent and 48,000 barrels of drilling mud were discharged from while absolute VOC emissions decreased more than 6 offshore facilities, a decrease of approximately 30 percent million tonnes, primarily as a result of the installation of from the year before, due mainly to the Gulf of Mexico vapor recovery units on oil storage tanks in our North drilling moratorium. The discharged mud and cuttings Dakota Production operations. contained approximately 83 metric tons of oil, a decrease Ozone Depleting Substances of more than 80 percent from the previous year. Within our operations ozone depleting substances Offshore produced water discharges more than doubled (ODSs) are primarily used in refrigeration and air over 2009, from 8.6 million cubic meters to 20.4 million conditioning equipment and for fire suppression and cubic meters. The increase was mainly attributed to higher explosion protection. Hess uses certified technicians volumes from Indonesia production due to inclusion of to service and maintain equipment containing Class wet gas scrubber water in that operation’s produced 1 and Class II refrigerants and to record refrigerant water discharges. The average oil content in total offshore consumption at all U.S. locations. We are not aware produced water discharges was 13 parts per million (ppm), of any material instances of ODS releases from our more than 50 percent below the accepted regulatory limit of operated assets in 2010. 30 to 40 ppm. The discharged produced water contained 228 metric tons of oil, 91 percent of which was from Equatorial Guinea, North Sea, and Indonesia operations. Criteria Pollutants Normalized Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea 70 250 228 25 59.5 60.3 Amount of Oil in Produced 20 Oil Concentration in 60 Emissions 19 49.8 200 20 50 175 40 150 13 15 141 Produced Water (ppmv) 25.7 Water (metric tons) 30 (Tonnes Per Million BOE) 23.7 22.3 100 10 20 6.45 6.36 6.73 50 5 10 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 NOX SOX VOCs Oil Concentration in Produced Water (ppmv) Oil in Produced Water (metric tons) 66 Environment Onshore Discharges Environmental Expenditures In the U.S., onshore discharges include stormwater and We remediate sites that have been impacted by our process wastewater permitted under the federal National activities, including former or current gas stations, terminals, Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). In refineries and onshore exploration and production facilities. downstream operations, the Port Reading refining facility discharged 611,591 cubic meters of treated wastewater; Hess accrues for environmental assessment and overall, 99.9 percent of terminal and refinery discharge remediation expenses when the future costs are probable samples were within permit specifications. In upstream and reasonably estimable. As described in Item 7 of the operations, 98.5 percent of gas plant stormwater company’s 2010 SEC Form10-K filing, at the end of discharge samples were within NPDES permit limits. 2010 Hess held a reserve of $55 million for estimated Upstream operations also generated approximately 20.2 environmental liabilities, which is expected to be more than million cubic meters of produced water, of which 55 percent sufficient to assess and remediate all known impacted sites was reinjected for reservoir management and 45 percent Environmental assessment and remediation expenditures in was reinjected for disposal. No produced water onshore 2010 were $13 million. In 2010 capital expenditures related was discharged to surface water. to compliance with federal, state and local environmental standards at Hess operated facilities were not material to Port Reading Wastewater Emissions (Metric Tons) the company. 2008 2009 2010 Biochemical oxygen 7.4 36.9 7.4 demand (BOD) Suspended solids 5.8 41.2 11.2 Hydrocarbons 4.6 4.8 4.6 Legal Proceedings Information regarding legal proceedings and legacy liabilities that pertain to the company’s wholly owned and joint venture operations is available in the company’s SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q. The status of these legal matters as of the end of 2010 is detailed in Item 3 of the SEC Form 10-K, which is available to the public on our Web site, Chesapeake River Remediation Project www.hess.com/investors. Regulatory Compliance We paid approximately $88,000, in environmental fines and penalties in 2010. Our retail operations accounted for 94 percent of these fines, primarily related to issues associated with underground storage tank systems. The remaining fines were paid by terminal operations for a release to water during a barge pan overfill incident and issues associated with aboveground storage tank inspections. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 67 HOVENSA Environmental Performance HOVENSA Waste Generation (Metric Tons) Freshwater 2008 10,118 6,194 HOVENSA meets most of its process and potable water 2009 11,155 7,093 needs through onsite desalination of sea water. HOVENSA 2010 used 5.6 million cubic meters of desalinated sea water, 15,006 4,959 0 5000 10000 15000 20000 25000 accounting for 93 percent of total freshwater usage. The Non-hazardous Hazardous refinery withdrew approximately 400,000 cubic meters of groundwater in 2010, a decrease of 7 percent from the Wastewater year before. The refinery discharged 3.5 million cubic meters of treated Freshwater Use (Cubic Meters) wastewater in 2010. Overall, 99.9 percent of the discharge samples were within permit specifications. Desalinated Water Groundwater 2008 6,400,401 505,418 Wastewater Discharges (Metric Tons) 2009 5,532,007 439,156 2008 2009 2010 2010 5,550,902 407,605 Biochemical oxygen 112.9 25.8 35.9 demand (BOD) Suspended solids 266.5 221.1 128.6 Spills Oil and grease 30.0 18.5 21.3 There were 46 hydrocarbon spills at HOVENSA in 2010, 38 of which were less than a barrel. Our downstream Petroleum Refinery Initiative Consent Decree operations, including HOVENSA, record and report on spills The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to land of five gallons or greater. As a result, the number National Petroleum Refinery Initiative, a federal effort to of oil spills that occur in our operations may appear higher reduce petroleum refinery air emissions, has resulted in than other companies in our sector, which often report spills 28 settlements with U.S. companies that account for in excess of one barrel. The total amount of oil spilled was more than 90 percent of domestic petroleum refining 29 barrels. Spills to water accounted for 11 percent of the capacity. The first settlements took place in 2001 and spills and 14 percent of the spill volume. In addition, there have resulted in investment in new and upgraded air were eight non-hydrocarbon spills totaling 38 barrels, seven emissions controls of more than $6 billion, civil penalties of which were to land and one spill of less than one barrel in excess of $80 million and supplemental environmental was to water. One spill resulting from a caustic line leak projects of more than $75 million. On January 26, 2011, totaled 36 barrels and accounted for 93 percent of the nonHOVENSA agreed to pay a $5.4 million civil penalty, hydrocarbon spill volume. The area was roped off, sewers spend more than $700 million over a period of eight years secured, and the line isolated until the leak was repaired. in air emissions reduction projects and an additional Waste $4.9 million for supplemental environmental projects in Approximately 20,000 metric tons of waste was generated the U.S. Virgin Islands. in 2010, of which 75 percent was non-hazardous. Although total waste generation increased by 9 percent compared to 2009, hazardous waste generation decreased 30 percent. More than half of the total waste stream was reused or recycled. Products and services Port Reading, New Jersey 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 69 As a global independent energy company we provide customers with refined petroleum products, natural gas and electricity. We are committed to providing our customers with a broad range of energy products that will meet their needs while transitioning to a lower carbon economy. Management Approach National Petrochemical and Refiners Association which track legislation and regulation and engage with state and Hess provides customers and consumers with energy federal policymakers. related products and services including natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity. We comply with applicable federal, state and local requirements for product quality and labeling and Domestic initiatives to transition to a lower carbon share information on the health, safety and environmental economy present us with business and regulatory risks impacts of our products with customers and consumers. and opportunities. We produce and sell reformulated We do not make unsubstantiated claims in our marketing gasoline and ultra-low sulfur diesel that meet federal materials, we respect our customers’ right to privacy standards and are cleaner than conventional fuels. We are and we have in place customer service and satisfaction also increasing our wholesale sales volumes of biodiesel programs that ensure rapid response to concerns and and bioethanol. complaints. Our retail gas stations and convenience Hess Energy Marketing provides services that can help stores comply with minimum age requirements for our energy customers reduce their carbon footprint and tobacco and alcohol sales and are prohibited from become more energy efficient. Nuvera Fuel Cells, a wholly selling pornography. No significant fines or penalties owned Hess subsidiary, conducts applied research and were received during the year. development to improve hydrogen fuel cell durability and Refined Petroleum Products efficiency while reducing cost. Our principal refined petroleum products are reformulated We have a dedicated staff that tracks legislative and and conventional gasoline, ultra-low sulfur diesel fuel and regulatory developments in each of our business lines. heating oil. The lifecycle impacts of petroleum products At Hess Energy Marketing, for example, regulatory affairs have been well documented by industry, government staff members engage with state utility commissions agencies and the scientific community. Through our and regional and independent electricity transmission membership in industry trade associations and our system operators. We also belong to industry trade involvement with the International Petroleum Industry associations, such as the Retail Energy Supply Environmental Conservation Association, we stay informed Association, the American Petroleum Institute and the 70 Products and Services Tanks for refined product storage at our terminals and refineries are labeled and placarded. Petroleum products sold at our retail stations are labeled at point-of-sale in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. Each of our products has a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) that provides information on chemical, physical and toxicological characteristics, safe handling and spill and emergency response measures. Each retail, terminal and refinery operating location maintains product MSDSs; these are also available through Hess Retail and Energy Marketing customer service departments and at www.hess.com/sustainability/msds. Transportation fuels The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) 1995 Reformulated Gasoline (RFG) program and 2007 Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) closely regulate gasoline formulations. The EPA also has an ultra low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) requirement to reduce emissions from dieselpowered vehicles. Compared with conventional gasoline and diesel, the EPA reports reduced tailpipe emissions of Hess Fuel Oil Delivery, New York City carbon dioxide and toxic and smog-forming compounds from RFG and ULSD (www.epa.gov/otaq). of lifecycle assessment results regarding conventional, reformulated and renewable fuels and fuel blends. The The Port Reading refining facility’s production of RFG main environmental emissions and health related impacts increased from 40 percent in 2006 to 90 percent of total associated with our products occur during product gasoline production in 2010. At our HOVENSA joint venture use. The vast majority of our products are handled in refinery, 42 percent of gasoline production was RFG with bulk throughout the product lifecycle and no packaging the remaining conventional gasoline shipped to the U.S. materials are needed. East and Gulf coasts and Puerto Rico. HOVENSA also makes 100 percent ULSD. Hess branded retail stations sold 164 million gallons of diesel fuel, all of which was ULSD. RFG sales volumes were approximately 1 billion gallons Refined Petroleum Product Sales (Million Barrels) and represented 50 percent of total gasoline sales. Supply, Trading and Terminals sold more than 1 million gallons of 2008 85 52 20 14 biodiesel, a more than four fold increase from 2009. We 2009 estimate that in 2011 we will increase biodiesel sales more 86 49 24 13 than five fold compared to 2010. 2010 88 44 25 15 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 Million Barrels Gasoline Distillates Residuals Other 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 71 Ethanol is the primary designated renewable fuel under Energy Marketing the RFS program. Hess Marketing and Refining has gone Hess Energy Marketing, headquartered in Woodbridge, through a system wide conversion in its terminals and N.J., is active in retail and wholesale energy markets retail stores to provide wholesale and retail customers and well established as the leading energy supplier to with ethanol blended fuel. Domestically produced ethanol commercial and industrial businesses on the U.S. East from corn dominates the market supply that Hess and Coast. Small business services were added in 2009, other petroleum retailers rely on to meet federal renewable bringing our total customer base to more than 21,000. fuel mandates. Hess welcomes efforts by industry and government to advance cost competitive cellulosic ethanol Sales volumes for the year increased 1 percent for natural and advanced biofuels that can be produced from non-food gas, 4 percent for electricity and remained steady for oil. crops; however, commercial volumes are not yet available to Based on cost considerations and regulatory drivers for meet either current or increasing future demand. improved air quality, we expect to increase sales of natural gas, while reducing sales of No. 6 and No. 4 heating Hess is one of many oil and gas companies that has been oil, including an eventual phase out to New York City party to resolved and ongoing lawsuits and claims related customers due to new air emissions regulations associated to historic MTBE use as disclosed in our annual SEC Form with PlaNYC 2030. We have identified new business 10-K filing. The company no longer makes or sells gasoline opportunities helping customers comply with PlaNYC 2030 that contains MTBE. air quality and energy efficiency initiatives, including energy efficiency and savings projects and conversion of legacy oil services to natural gas coupled with long term commodity contracts. Hess “Green Suite” Since 2008 Hess Energy Solutions has offered customers a “Green Suite” of products and services, including Hess C-Neutral, Demand Response and Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (RECs). Customers can offset their carbon emissions, temporarily reduce their energy use during peak energy use periods and support the development of U.S. renewable energy through the purchase of RECs. We provide turnkey opportunities for our clients to participate in demand response and other load management programs. We work with our clients to provide engineering studies, determine curtailment plans, facilitate enrollments and provide payments for their membership in demand response programs. Our customers can access our proprietary Web based program, Hess PowerPort, which enables them to track their energy use, access performance reports and view Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, a Hess Energy Marketing Customer payment history. 72 Products and Services We have enrolled more than 500 customers in Demand metropolitan area. The facility will have the ability to Response programs throughout New York, New England ramp from a static state to full dispatch in fewer than 10 and the Mid-Atlantic region. Hess’ portfolio accounts for minutes, providing the New York City market with critical nearly 500 megawatts of demand response, up from 400 ancillary services and reliability benefits. Once operational megawatts in 2009, producing income for our customers in 2012, the facility will generate enough electricity to while simultaneously improving grid reliability and reducing power approximately 500,000 homes in the New York City the need for more costly generation. We also provide area and is expected to displace older and less efficient opportunity for our demand customers in the capacity, generating assets in the dispatch order. energy (day-ahead and real-time) and ancillary markets (synchronous reserves). We continue to expand our Nuvera Fuel Cells product line to adapt to the changing needs of the market Nuvera Fuel Cells is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hess and our customers. with locations in the U.S. and Italy. The company is focused on applied research and development (R&D) and In 2010 we purchased and retired 485,682 voluntary RECs commercialization of key hydrogen energy technologies, for our customers. In addition we purchased 140,000 RECs including hydrogen fuel cells that produce electricity and for our company to offset 11 percent of our net purchased steam methane reformers that produce hydrogen from electricity. We also purchased and retired 1,895,333 natural gas. compliance RECs to meet compliance requirements related to our overall electricity sales. Nuvera received a $1.1 million grant from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for fuel cell Electricity Operations commercialization in the material handling industry. The Energy Marketing also provides asset management grant was used to deploy 14 fuel cell hybrid systems services to wholesale power generators. Under and a hydrogen refueling station at a large Texas based power purchase agreements totaling more than 1,600 supermarket distribution center in 2009. Nuvera previously megawatts, Hess assists independent generators with installed fuel cell/battery hybrid units in a fleet of 20 forklifts all commercial activities. These assets are used for being used to service the U.S. Defense Logistics Agency baseload, mid-merit and peaking duties and use a variety (DLA) and in late 2010 installed an additional 18 units of conventional, alternative and renewable fuel sources at the DLA site. These projects are being evaluated for including natural gas, biomass and hydropower. We have lifecycle cost projections, productivity gains and overall partnered with several of our industrial customers with environmental benefits. cogeneration assets to export excess power to the grid. Nuvera conducts its fuel cell R&D with partners that In 2010 construction began in New Jersey on the include the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) National Bayonne Energy Center (BEC), a 512-megawatt, natural Energy Laboratories, other companies and academic gas fueled electric power plant jointly owned by Hess institutions. In 2010 Nuvera continued its research on Corporation and ArcLight Capital Partners. The BEC, improving fuel cell durability and the efficiency of fuel cell located on a brownfields site adjacent to our Bayonne stack technology meeting DOE cost and durability targets oil products terminal, will be one of the most efficient with $8.4 million in funding from the DOE’s Office of Energy and modern combustion turbines in the New York City Efficient and Renewable Energy. 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 73 Customers and Consumers We are committed to customer satisfaction and benchmark the results and determine actions to privacy, truth in advertising and compliance with improve our customer satisfaction scores. applicable laws and regulations. Customer privacy Customer service and satisfaction The most significant customer privacy issues Within Hess Energy Marketing, retail and wholesale are payment card security for retail and internet customers are assigned account managers to privacy for Hess Energy Marketing. Hess dedicates support and assist them. In our retail operations significant resources to ensure the security of customers can speak directly with store managers. customer data through its Payment Card Industry Customers with concerns, complaints or Compliance Program. The Hess Energy Marketing compliments can also contact our retail and energy Web site contains a privacy policy that provides marketing service departments via dedicated disclosure on information use and security of telephone lines, Web site links and e-mail. Customer customer data (www.hessenergy.com/privacypolicy. issues are logged and tracked to final resolution. We htm). There were no incidents of non-compliance also conduct formal customer satisfaction surveys, with customer privacy or data loss. HESS EXPRESS in Clearwater, Florida 74 PERFORMANCE DATA This table contains a subset of our publicly reported performance data. More is available on our Web site, (www.hess.com) Units 2010 2009 2008 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 5,855 3,245 4,828 Income Taxes, royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 2,715 1,129 3,231 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 131 131 130 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 992 794 720 Interest paid to lenders and holders of debt securities $ Million 361 360 266 Recordable supplier spend (U.S.) $ Million 2,407 2,451 2,345 Community and social performance Total social investment $ Million 18 13 21 Education % 34 13 49 Health % 12 23 12 Disaster relief % 9 8 15 Community contributions (non-in-kind) % 19 29 18 In-kind % 18 25 6 Arts and culture % 7 — — Environment % 1 2 <1 Global workforce Number of employees # 12,587 12,229 12,432 International employees % 9 9 9 Hourly paid employees (U.S.) % 63 61 66 Part-time employees (U.S.) % 27 24 26 Employees represented by independent trade unions (U.S.) % 8.7 9.0 7.5 Employee turnover voluntary (excluding Retail hourly) % 5.4 4.5 7.3 Female members of the Board of Directors % 15 15 15 Minority members of the Board of Directors % 8 8 8 Board members from outside the U.S. % 0 0 0 Board members in the 50 and above age group % 100 100 100 Female employees (U.S. and International) % 40 40 40 Executives and senior officers % 4 6 7 Managers and professionals % 32 37 40 Minority employees (U.S.) % 36 36 37 Executives and senior officers % 7 7 7 Managers and professionals % 25 27 26 Technical and personal training and development spend (U.S.) $ Million illion 12 11 13 Training per year per management/professional employee Average hrs 25 25 25 Training per year per hourly retail employee Average hrs 14 14 12 Employees receiving performance reviews (excluding retail hourly) % 100 100 100 Safety Performance – Workforce (Employees + Contractors) Fatalities Employees + Contractors # 0 0 1 Hours worked Million hours 48 45 47 Recordable Incident Rate – Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 0.80 0.82 1.11 Recordable Incident Rate – Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked 0.46 0.43 0.68 Recordable Incident Rate – Workforce (Employee + Contractor)** per 200,000 hrs worked 0.62 0.64 0.89 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Employees per 200,000 hrs worked 0.25 0.30 0.37 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Contractors per 200,000 hrs worked 0.09 0.14 0.15 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Workforce per 200,000 hrs worked 0.17 0.22 0.26 Lost Work Time Incident Rate – Workforce per 100,000,000 hrs worked 0.85 1.10 1.30 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 75 Units 2010 2009 2008 Environmental Performance Gross operated hydrocarbon production/throughput (normalization factor) 000 BOE/D 1,345 1,392 1,333 Net hydrocarbon production and net refinery throughput 000 BOE/D 668 672 665 energy use Direct energy use 000 GigaJoules 45,904 46,126 43,295 Indirect energy use (gross) 000 GigaJoules 12,516 10,584 9,110 Indirect energy use (net) 000 GigaJoules 4,323 3,655 3,146 Production energy intensity GigaJoules/tonne 0.88 0.83 0.79 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) 000 MWh 140 100 100 Greenhouse gas emissions Operated direct CO2e emissions (Scope 1) Million Tonnes 6.7 8.5 10.7 C02 emissions Million Tonnes 6.4 8.0 10.1 Methane emissions Million Tonnes CO2e 0.3 0.5 0.6 Operated indirect CO2e emissions (Scope 2) Million Tonnes 0.8 0.6 0.6 Total Net Equity Emissions Million Tonnes 9.0 9.5 10.8 Net equity carbon intensity (Scope 1 and 2) Millions Tonnes/BOE 37.1 38.8 44.4 Product end-use emissions (Scope 3) Million Tonnes 40.2 45.8 47.2 Other Scope 3 emissions Thousand Tonnes 109.0 100.7 NR Freshwater use Groundwater* Million m3 6.7 6.7 6.0 Municipal Million m3 3.7 3.9 2.6 Surface water Million m3 0.04 0.04 0.06 Air emissions criteria pollutants Sulfur oxides (SOx) Tonnes 3,302 3,233 3,149 SOx Intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 6.7 6.4 6.5 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 12606 11,353 11,581 NOx Intensity Tons/100,000 BOE 25.7 22.3 23.7 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 24444 30,631 29,031 VOC Intensity Tonnes/100,000 BOE 49.8 60.3 59.5 Exploration & Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 228 141 175 Oil in produced water to sea ppmv 13 19 20 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 20.4 8.6 10.2 Produced water reinjected Million cubic meters 20.2 18.4 15.5 US Clean Water Act Discharges Port Reading Refinery Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) Tonnes 7.4 36.9 7.4 Suspended solids Tonnes 11.2 41.2 5.8 Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons Tonnes 4.6 4.8 4.6 Waste Non-hazardous waste 000 Tonnes 84.9 117.1 100.4 Recovery/Reuse/recycle % 49 56 60 Treatment/disposal/incineration % 51 44 40 Hazardous waste 000 Tonnes 4.4 9.5 2.5 Recovery/reuse/recycle % 4 3 16 Treatment/disposal % 76 95 75 Incineration/energy recovery % 20 2 9 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 0 11 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 12 14 13 ISO 14001-certified operations # 3 3 3 EHS fines and penalties (environment and safety) $ Thousand 96 362 1,188 Remediation expenditures $ Million 13 11 11 Environmental reserve $ Million 55 55 61 Note: * 2008 does not include Retail + Terminal freshwater use; 2009 and 2010 do include this information. **There was one recordable illness in 2010. All other recordable incidents were injury related. NR: Not Reported 76 GRI CONTENT INDEX This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Detailed information on GRI indicators relating to Board-level indicators, with cross-reference to the 10 Principles in the governance (4.1 through 4.7, 4.9 and 4.10) and defined United Nations Global Compact (Compact Principles) and benefit plan obligations (EC3) can be found at http://www. International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation hess.com/investors. Association sector-specific guidelines (IPIECA). Core Indicator Additional Indicator IPIECA only ● Fully reported ▲ Partially reported GRI GRI COMPACT IPIECA General Description Page Indicator Status principle(s) Indicator Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Chairman's letter 2-3 ● 2-3, 4-5, 15, 17-18, 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 24-25, 32-33, 39, ● 51, 59, 69 Organizational Profile 2.1-2.9 General information on reporting organization 9-11 ● 2.10 Awards received during reporting period 80 ● Report Parameters 3.1-3.3, Report period, scope and boundary; materiality determination for content 6-7 ● 3.5-3.8 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 7, IBC ● 7, 37, 45, 53-55, 3.9 Data measurement techniques and basis of calculations ● 59-60, 64-66, 79 3.10, 3.11 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 7 ● 3.12 GRI content index 76-78 ● 3.13 External assurance 79 ● Governance 4.1-4.7, Information on highest governance body 13, 15 ● 4.9-4.10 4.8 Internal values, codes of conduct, and principles 13-14, 16-19 ● 4.11 The precautionary approach 59 ● 7 4.12 Externally-subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives 2-3, 18, 27 ● 4.13 Key memberships and associations 80 ● 4.14-4.17 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 19-22, 40, 27-33, 48 ● Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach to economic performance 2-3, 9, 27 ● EC Disclosure on management approach to market presence 9-11, 69 ● Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 27 ● ECO-1 – EC1 Direct economic value 21 ● ECO-A3; SOC-A4 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 51-53 ● 7 EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations 48-49 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 21, 72 ● EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage 48, 49 ● 1 EC6 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation 21 ▲ SOC-A3 EC7 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 45-46 ● 6 ECO-3 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 27-32 ● EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 27-32 ▲ 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report 77 GRI GRI COMPACT IPIECA General Description Page Indicator Status principle(s) Indicator Environmental Indicators (UN8) EN Disclosure on management approach to environmental aspects 51-52, 59 ● 7 EN1, EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled input materials 63-64 ● 9 EN3, EN4 Direct and indirect energy use by primary source 55-56 ● ENV-5 EN5 EN7 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 57 ● 9 ENV-5 & A8 EN8, EN9 Total water withdrawal by source, significantly affected water sources 59-61, 67 ● 9 ENV-A7 EN10 Water recycled and reused 59-61 ● 9 EN11, EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 63 ● EN13, EN14 Habitats protected or restored and management of biodiversity impacts 62-63 ● 7 ENV-A9 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List and national conservation list species 63 ● EN16, EN17 Total direct and indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions 53-55 ● ENV-3 & 4 EN18 Greenhouse gas reduction initiatives and results 51-53 ● 7, 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 65 ▲ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 65 ● ENV-A6 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 65-67 ● ENV-2 & A2 ENV-A3, EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 64-65, 67 ● A4 & A5 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 64, 67 ● ENV-1 & A1 EN24 Basel Convention waste management summary 65 ● EN25 Biodiversity value of receiving waters for water discharges and runoff 66 ● EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 69-72 ● 7, 8 EN27 Products sold and packaging reclaimed 63-64, 69-70 ● 9 EN28 Fines, penalties and non-compliances 66-67 ● EN29 Transportation impacts 55 ● EN30 Environmental expenditures 66 ▲ 7, 9 IPIECA only Environmental management systems 18-19 — — ENV-6 Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on management approach to employment, labor/management 43 ● LA relations, training and education and diversity and equal opportunity Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 35 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 43-44 ● Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, LA2 44 ▲ 6 gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary LA3 48-49 ● or part-time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 49 ● 1, 3 LA5 Minimum notice period of significant operational changes 49 ● 3 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in joint safety committees 40 ▲ 1 H&S-2 LA7 Injury, occupational illness, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities by region 36-39 ● 1 H&S-4 Programs to assist workforce, their families and communities with LA8 48-49 ● 1 H&S-3 serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in collective bargaining agreements 40 ● LA10 Average hours of training per employee by employee category 46 ● SOC-5 LA11 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning, career endings 46-47 ● LA12 Percent employees receiving regular performance and development reviews 46 ● Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity LA13 44 ● 1, 6 SOC-4 indicators LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men by employee category 48-49 ▲ 1, 6 IPIECA only Health and safety management systems 18-19 — — H&S-1 IPIECA only Employee satisfaction 48 — — SOC-A2 IPIECA only Non-retaliation and grievance system 17-18 — — SOC-6 78 GRI Content Index GRI GRI COMPACT IPIECA General Description Page Indicator Status principle(s) Indicator Human Rights HR Disclosure on management approach to human rights aspects 27, 32 ● Significant investment agreements that include or are screened HR1 32-33 ▲ 1-6 for human rights HR2 Significant suppliers/contractors screened for human rights 21 ▲ 1-6 HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights 33 ▲ 1-6 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 45 ● 1, 2, 6 HR5 Operations at risk re: freedom of association and collective bargaining 49 ● 1, 2, 3 HR6 Operations at risk re: child labor 33 ● 1, 2, 5 HR7 Operations at risk re: forced and compulsory labor 33 ● 1, 2, 4 HR8 Security personnel trained on human rights 33 ▲ 1, 2 HR9 Violations of indigenous peoples’ rights 33 ● 1, 2 Society Disclosure on management approach to corruption, public policy, 13, 15, 17-18 ● 10 SO anti-competitive behavior and compliance Disclosure on management approach to community 27, 33 ● Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations SOC-A7 SO1 27, 32, 59, 61 ● on communities & SOC-8 SO2 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 13 ● 10 SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures 17 ▲ 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 17-18 ● 10 Public policy positions/participation in public policy development SO5 18, 51, 69 ● 1-10 SOC-A1 and lobbying SO6 Political contributions 15 ● 10 SOC-3 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior and outcomes 17 ● SO8 Fines and penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations 17 ● IPIECA only Bribery and corruption, transparency of payment 13, 17-18 — — SOC-2, ECO-A1 IPIECA only External capacity building 27, 32 — — SOC-A5 Product Responsibility PR Disclosure on management approach to product responsibility 69 ● PR1 Lifecycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products/services 69-70 ● 1 Non-compliances with health and safety impact requirements for PR2 69 ● 1 products/services PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products 69-70 ● 8 PR4 Non-compliances with product and service labeling requirements 69 ● 8 PR5 Customer satisfaction practices 73 ● PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs 69 ● PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations/voluntary codes 69 ● PR8 Substantiated customer privacy complaints and data loss 73 ● 1 PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations re: products and services 69 ● Note: Performance data is also available on p. 74-75. 79 ASSURANCE statement Scope and Objectives • Discussions with Hess Corporation’s leaders who exercise overall business responsibility and those ERM Certification & Verification Services (ERM CVS) was with authority for data and Report content. commissioned by Hess Corporation to undertake verification • Visits to offices in Houston, Texas, and Woodbridge, of its 2010 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). New Jersey to assess and review data collection, The objective of the verification was to establish that the consolidated data management, data interpretation information presented is a reliable representation of Hess and internal data assurance processes. Corporation’s performance and programs, and that the data presented conform to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Opinion & Recommendations and also the IPIECA/API Reporting Framework guidelines. Based on the assurance activities undertaken, we conclude Respective Responsibilities & Independence that, in all material respects, the information provided and Hess Corporation’s assertion that the report meets Hess Corporation is responsible for preparing the Report and the the requirements of GRI G3 application level A+ are an information contained within it. appropriate presentation of performance during 2010. ERM CVS, responsible for reporting to Hess Corporation on its In the opinion of ERM CVS, Hess Corporation has continued assurance conclusions, is a member of the ERM Group. This is to improve the quality and breadth of information, and the ninth year that ERM CVS has been engaged by Hess overall presentation of the sustainability data and we are Corporation in this role. The work that ERM CVS conducts not aware of the exclusion of any material issues or of any for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities misstatements made in relation to the information presented. and training programmes related to auditing techniques and approaches. Our processes are designed to ensure that the Opinion & Recommendations work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict Our key observations build on those provided by ERM of interest. ERM CVS and the staff that have undertaken CVS previously and the work that Hess Corporation has work on this assurance exercise provide no consultancy accomplished this year and is committed to pursuing further. related services to Hess Corporation in any respect. These are to: Verification Approach • Seek to implement consistent methodologies for calculating We based our work on Hess Corporation’s internal guidance and and capturing GRI/IPIECA performance data where those definitions for the reported metrics. Our assurance approach do not currently exist to improve accuracy and reliability; and was developed with reference to the International Standard • Support these methodologies with user guidance and for Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements training related to data collection requirements; and other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Information issued • Consistently applying independent data by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards review at the operational level. Board (ISAE 3000); as well as principles that ERM CVS has We have provided Hess Corporation with a separate, developed and refined for report assurance assessments. confidential report detailing our assessment of Hess’s Between February and April 2011 we undertook a series of 2010 Sustainability Report. activities, including: • Visits to the following operations to review activities and verify data and data management processes at reporting units; Exploration and Production operations at the Sea Robin Gas Plant, Louisiana, U.S.A, North Dakota drilling and Leigh Lloyd, Managing Director production operations; and Marketing and Refining (M&R) June 2011 operations at the Port Reading refinery in New Jersey, U.S.A; ERM Certification and Verification Services, London and U.S. oil products storage terminals in Baltimore. www.ermcvs.com | Email: post@ermcvs.com 80 Awards & Recognition Key Memberships & –– CDP 2010 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index Associations Hess has leadership or is actively engaged in these key –– Maplecroft Climate Innovation Index national and international organizations, among others: –– Oekem Prime Status –– American Petroleum Institute –– Transparency International Revenue Watch – Among –– Conference Board’s Executive Compensation top oil and gas companies for anti-corruption Council reporting and country level revenue transparency –– Corporate Council on Africa –– Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top 50 Employers List –– Council on Employee Benefits –– Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 Employers list –– E27 Group –– Recognized as a Women’s Health Week –– International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Collaborator by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control –– International Emissions Trading Association and Prevention (CDC) –– International Petroleum Industry Environmental –– Designated a Gold Level Fit Friendly Company by Conservation Association The American Heart Association –– National Petrochemical and Refiners Association –– National Safety Council’s 2011 List of CEO’s Who ‘Get It’ –– National Safety Council –– ORC Worldwide Executive Business Issues Forum –– Retail Energy Supply Association –– Society of Petroleum Engineers Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given, however, that these events will occur or that expected results expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. requests for information For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Human Rights Policy or our Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our Web site at www.hess. com. We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: Vice President, Environment, Health, Safety and Social Responsibility Hess Corporation 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, NY 10036 You can also send us an e-mail at ehs@hess.com. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified printer with Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody printed the Hess Annual Corporate Sustainability Report with the use of renewable wind power resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC-certified Mohawk Options paper, a processchlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. The savings below are achieved when PC recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: 174 trees preserved for the future 503 lbs waterborne waste not created 73,991 gallons wastewater flow saved 8,187 lbs solid waste not generated 16,119 lbs net greenhouse gases prevented 123,379, 200 BTUs energy not consumed Savings from the use of emission-free wind-generated electricity: 8,183 lbs air emissions not generated Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: 9 barrels of crude oil In other words your savings from the use of wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: Not driving 8,098 miles Planting 557 trees Cert no. BV-COC-080903 1185 Avenue of the Americas New York, New York 10036 www.hess.com
