Values without Fr ontiers Sustainability Report Table of Contents About this Report 02 About Orascom Telecom Holding 02 Year at a Glance 02 Message from the Group Executive Chairman 04 Message from the Chief Executive Officer 07 Values without Fr Managing Our Corporate Social Responsibility 12 Business Ethics 15 Our Customers 22 Our Network 20 ontiers Environmental Responsibility 28 Our Employees 30 Our Social Investment 34 GRI Table 42 About this Report Scope and Structure This is our second sustainability report, entitled “Values without Frontiers”, which outlines our performance Like the first Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E sustainability report, this document provides our stakeholders (customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, public authorities and local communities) with a balanced view of the overall performance of the group. The report and successes in the Group-wide implementation of corporate social responsibility throughout the various highlights our efforts to meet the expectations of our stakeholders and comply with rules and regulations and international best practices on the phases of our value chain. It is a ready reference to Orascom Telecom Holding’s relevant policies, practices, issue of sustainability. and programs as well as to additional related information. The content of this report covers Orascom Telecom Holding GSM and telecom support operating companies in 11 countries: Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Pakistan, Bangladesh, North Korea, Canada, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Central African Republic, and Burundi. The data also cover the holding’s management contract in Lebanon for which Orascom Telecom is responsible of managing the day-to-day operations of Alfa. Unlike last year, this report does not include Orascom Telecom sister companies Wind Telecommunications and Wind Hellas. Our sustainability report is aligned with the internationally recognized guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) version G3 including the Telecommunication Sector Supplement. The GRI has confirmed that our reporting qualifies for Application Level B. The performance indicators published in this report (see page x) and on the internet document shows the extent to which we meet the reporting requirements of the GRI level B application. The indicators also provide page references for each section of the report. The report also serves as Orascom Telecom Holding’s Communication on Progress in the scope of ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Reporting Period and Frequency Our sustainability report is a group report, which incorporates all group operating companies and main activities and it is published annually. The facts and figures in this report cover the period from January 1st to December 31st 2009. Our next sustainability report is scheduled for publication in spring 2011. External assurance was not exercised for Orascom Telecom first and second sustainability reports but it is planned for later reports. A number of our GSM operating companies publish sustainability and corporate social responsibility reports focusing on their local economic, social and environmental practices. These reports are available online on their websites. Orascom Telecom Holding Sustainability report is an invitation to engage in an open and critical dialogue with us. Please submit any questions or comments to csr@otelecom.com More information on the GRI can be found at www.globalreporting.org 02 03 About Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. From 200,000 subscribers in 1998 to more than 120 million subscribers, through its parent company “Weather Investments”, Orascom Telecom (OTH) established itself as a global brand and is considered today to be one of the largest and most diversified telecom operators. Operating in eleven emerging markets, the company has a population under license of approximately 512 million with an average mobile telephony penetration of approximately 50 percent as of June, 2010. Orascom Telecom operates GSM networks in Algeria (“OTA”), Pakistan (“Mobilink”), Egypt (“Mobinil”), Tunisia (“Tunisiana”), Bangladesh (“banglalink”), North Korea (“koryolink”) and Canada (“Wind Mobile”) through its indirect equity shareholding in Globalive Wireless. In addition, Orascom Telecom has an indirect equity ownership in Telecel Zimbabwe (Zimbabwe) and through its subsidiary Telecelglobe, OTH also operates in Burundi, the Central African Republic and Namibia. In 2009, the company was also awarded the management contract of one of the two Lebanese mobile telecommunications operators (“Alfa”) from the government of the Republic of Lebanon. 04 05 In September 2004, OTH purchased 100 OTH’s first operation was the Egyptian Company for Mobile Services commonly known as percent of Sheba Telecom (Pvt.) Limited in Mission (“Mobinil”). Mobinil is a market leader serving Bangladesh. OTH re-branded and launched over 26 million subscribers representing a its services as “Banglalink” in February 2005. We Exist to Enrich our customers’ lives through accessible communication services market share of 40 percent (as of June 2010). Mobinil is one of Egypt’s five Immediately after the launch, OTH started its largest companies on Cairo & Alexandria Stock Exchange (“CASE”) in terms aggressive plans to develop Banglalink into a leader in the mobile sector by rapidly expanding its GSM network to Ensure our shareholders’ returns with the highest yields of market capitalization. provide high quality communications services at affordable prices. Banglalink serves over 16 million subscribers with Expand our employees horizons with exceptional growth opportunities Pakistan Mobile Communications Ltd 26.9 percent market share (as of June 2010). (“Mobilink”) started its operations in Enable our communities’ development and prosperity by always giving back Pakistan in 1994. In April 2001, OTH took over management control of the company. As the market leader, In the beginning of 2009 OTH has been awarded the Mobilink serves over 32 million subscribers, representing a market management contract of Alfa, one of two Lebanese share of 32.6 percent (as of June 2010). mobile telecommunications operator, owned by the Republic of Lebanon. The management contract Vision extending for one year required OTH to increase the To harness our networks to provide millions of connected customers with number of subscribers of Alfa from around 600,000 at the end of 2008 to solutions that empower their personal and professional lives. Orascom Telecom Tunisie (“Tunisiana”) around 1 million at the end of 2009. Having successfully achieved this, the launched its services in December 2002, contract was extended for a further 6-month period in February 2010. and serves over 5.5 million subscribers on its network with a growing market share of 52.9 percent (as of June 2010). Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. Network Koryolink is the first 3G mobile network to operate in the Democratic People’s Republic Total base stations sites 30,300 of Korea (“DPRK”) and is established as a OTH witnessed success as Orascom Telecom joint venture between OTH (75 percent) and 2G base station sites 28,130 Algeria SPA (OTA) was launched in February Korea Posts and Telecomm Corp. (KPTC) 2002. It grew to become the market leader in (25 percent). OTH was awarded the license to establish 3G base station sites 2,170 terms of both subscriber numbers as well as a 3G mobile network in DPRK in January 2008 to deliver the quality of telecommunications services provided. OTA world-class voice and data communication services to the Co-located (2G & 3G) base station sites 1,555 serves over 15 million subscribers on its network and has a people of the DPRK. As of June 2010, Koryolink is serving 59.1 percent market share (June 2010). approximately 185 thousand subscribers. Brand Presence and Retail Total number of stores owned 217 OTH has 65 percent indirect equity ownership in WIND Mobile which has officially been granted its Total number of stores franchised 635 spectrum license from Industry Canada in 2008. “WIND Mobile” commenced its operations in Canada in December 2009 becoming the first national wireless provider in over a decade in the country and Total Orascom Telecom Holding subscribers for 2009 91,046,985 offering state of the art all-IP 3G network. WIND Mobile has launched its services in Toronto, Calgary, Edmonton, Ottawa and Vancouver with over 200 retail locations nationally and has succeeded in exceeding 100,000 subscriptions by early July Total fixed broadband customers for 2009 53,731 2010, only two quarters after the inauguration of its services. Since launching, WIND Mobile’s presence in the market has Total Wimax Customers 20,710 worked to drive competition by cost reduction, the introduction of more handsets and more advanced technologies. 06 07 Year at a Glance What major events happened in 2009? A quick glance at the year. February 2009 LINKonLINE swept the Egypt Web Awards for the third year in a row winning best website in four separate categories: Feb Masrawy.com won best Media and Press website, Otlob.com received the best E-Commerce website, Yallakora Fantasy January 2009 Game won the Sport category and Mazika.com led the Entertainment category. The Egypt Web Awards Competition Jan Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E announced that it has been awarded the management contract of one of the two Lebanese recognizes Egypt’s best website designers, developers and owners each year. It provides them with an opportunity to highlight their work to the region’s IT community. mobile telecommunications operators, Alfa, which is owned by the Republic of Lebanon. Under this contract, OTH was required to increase the number of subscribers of Alfa from around 600,000 at the end of 2008 to around One million at the end of 2009. The management fee was paid by the Republic of Lebanon and was defined based on the performance of the operator as measured by operating expenditure per active subscriber. Telecelglobe, a subsidiary of Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., acquired the mobile telecommunications operator Cell March 2009 One in Namibia. Namibia is amongst the wealthiest countries in sub-Saharan Africa with a GDP/capita of US$ 5,200 Mobile operator Tunisiana launched an SMS-based job search service costing TND 1.56 for ten job offers. Users are r Ma (at PPP). It has a population of approximately 2.1 million and a mobile penetration of close to 50 percent at the end of invited to register and submit their profile at www.emploisms.net or at wapup.com.tn to start receiving the employment 2008. Cell One operates a GSM 900/1800 network and has 198,000 active subscribers and over 20 percent market share. announcements. If interested in maintaining the service, users must pay TND 1.56 to re-subscribe for the next ten These acquisitions are part of Telecel Globe’s strategy to target licenses and mobile operators in small and medium sized messages. developing countries that have high growth potential. 2009 April 2009 Mobilink partnered with the Polio Eradication Fraternity including UNICEF and the Ministry of Health, to help create Apr awareness of this disease. An SMS broadcast targeted to reach over 7 million users in high-risk zones across Pakistan was sent to inform parents upcoming immunization drives. May 2009 May Orascom Telecom sponsored the 11th Annual Arab International Telecom Development Summit for Arab States. It was held in Beirut under the theme “Broadband a Necessity for Socio Economic Development & Growth”. Alfa participated in this summit as a distinguished exhibitor and speaker. The traffic on Alfa’s booth was remarkable and innumerable. experts, professionals and media representatives were all interested to know more about Orascom Telecom’s presence in the Lebanese market and Alfa’s new services. 08 09 September 2009 Sep As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility program, Orascom Telecom Holding (OTH) volunteers celebrated Eid June 2009 El Fitr with the orphans of Dar El Mowasah orphanage in Al Abasseya district. Orascom Telecom Volunteers donated The Egyptian Company for Mobile Services (Mobinil) is proud to be the first mobile phone operator in Egypt to offer their time and effort to pack the new clothes, shoes, school bags and sweets and distributed them to 140 boys and girls Jun GPS-enabled handsets. The Egyptian National Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (NTRA) allowed the licensing who are residents of the orphanage. Dar Al Mowasah was established in 1926 and is considered one of the poorest orphanages in Egypt. of GPS-enabled mobile phones, computers, and other civilian use devices. Mobinil is the first mobile phone operator in Egypt to offer GPS-enabled handsets, which is a true testament to Mobinil’s mission of providing the best quality service for its subscribers. GPS is the latest in navigation technology and subscribers will greatly benefit from this service. October 2009 Oct On 25 October 2009, Mobinil announced and commemorated the outcome of its 2009 Ramadan SMS fundraising July 2009 campaign. The initiative gave more than 23 million Mobinil customers the opportunity to give back to the community Mobilink signed an agreement with Citibank N.A Pakistan (“Citi”), to promote and facilitate the growth of mobile commerce through donating an amount from every transaction made. Mobinil was able to raise EGP 24 million during Ramadan, July in Pakistan. Under the agreement, Citi will utilize Mobilink’s extensive retail infrastructure to extend the reach of financial which were distributed to a network of micro-finance charities. services to the previously un-reached masses starting initially at select pilot locations followed by nation-wide launch in line with State Bank of Pakistan’s guidelines. Mobilink and Citi envision taking this partnership further by using this platform to empower subscribers to avail and repay November 2009 loans, purchase goods and services, pay bills, buy airtime and a host of other services using their cell phones. Such Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E announced the restructuring of its organization in a move to more effectively focus on services will further Mobilink’s vision of “reshaping lives” of the people of Pakistan by providing unparalleled benefits that Nov growth and drive greater agility in the execution of key strategic transformational goals. Effective November 12, 2009, were previously available only to a limited section of the society. the Board of Directors of Orascom Telecom Holding has endorsed the restructuring of its organization, promoting Mr. Khaled Bichara to be the Group Chief Executive Officer reporting to Mr. Naguib Sawiris, the Company’s Executive Chairman who will be leading and directing the Group’s growth and expansion strategy. August 2009 Orascom Telecom Bangladesh, Banglalink won the Best Mobile Enterprise Application Product or Service Award Aug On 18 August 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to renovate Al Akarmeya category at the Mobile Asia Congress for ‘Banglalink Jigyasha’. Banglalink Jiggyashait translates into the banglalink Health unit in Edfu district, Aswan Governorate, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility program. The MOU that question this service provides access to Agriculture related information through a call center to the marginal farmers is under the auspices of H.E. Governor of Aswan General Mustafa El Sayed, was signed between OTH, the Ministry of of the country and business related information to the small and medium enterprises. Health, and Takamol Project. Through this project, OTH will finance in total the complete renovation and development of the Akrameya Health Care Unit, which serves a population of around 4,000 inhabitants of neighbouring villages and districts. This will entail a structural renovation, the provision of medical equipment, training the staff and upgrading the level of medical services provided December 2009 in the unit, as well as providing the community with additional community services, such as literacy courses, health D ec Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E celebrated the inauguration of WIND Mobile, the latest addition to the successful list awareness message dissemination, and other development activities. of OTH investments marking a historic day for wireless in Canada, as WIND Mobile was the first new national wireless provider in Canada in over a decade. WIND Mobile will provide voice, text and data services to Canadians on a next generation wireless network and, where it has not rolled-out its network, will provide national coverage through a roaming agreement. 10 11 Message from Group Executive Chairman Dear Stakeholder, Despite security, tax and investment challenges, we believe that there We continue to support the United Nations Global Compact and are huge opportunities for continued growth and expansion in all areas its principles on human rights, labor rights, the environment and I am honored to introduce Orascom Telecom Holding’s where we affect and are affected by our stakeholders, be it markets, anti-corruption. We participate in the national quarterly roundtable second annual sustainability report. The 2009 report technologies, or social investment, particularly with the continuing rapid discussions and our annual sustainability report meets the criteria of provides our stakeholders with information about our nongrowth of, and change in the telecommunications sector. the UN global compact communication on progress requirements. financial practices and activities undertaken in 2009. It also illustrates our sustainability performance in most areas of I was particularly impressed by our employees’ outstanding efforts to This year, we have selected “Values without Frontiers.” as the theme our operations and reflects our commitment to contributing help local communities in Egypt, Pakistan and Canada. In Egypt, our of our report. This title reflects our affirmation that we are starting to positively to the countries in which we operate. Headquarters had their first chance to donate blood to the National formulate our corporate social responsibility strategy, policies and Cancer Institute; pack food boxes for the poor; and donate money for the practices across our operations and we are doing this hand in hand Much has happened in the last year since we published our first needy. In Pakistan, the torchbearers’ team volunteered in 27 activities with our shareholders, employees, customers, and our business sustainability report “Defining and Refining”. The financial crisis in 2009 with a total of 4000 volunteer hours. In Canada, Wind Mobile partners globally. and the economic recession it triggered have resulted in inevitable facing a delay to its launch, started on its volunteering program, dubbed reverberations affecting almost all businesses; however, the deleterious I invite you to read the full report and send any comments or as Random Acts of Kindness (RAK), where 400 employees, utilized consequences of the economic climate were relatively limited on the suggestions to csr@otelecom.com their working hours to community work and assisting a number of telecommunications industry. On the contrary, the telecommunications organizations in their social and developmental work. I believe that in industry has maintained a steady growth with no decline in demand 2010 we need to maximize our impact and create enduring results to among end customers. Naguib Sawiris benefit the community by partnering with other organizations. For Orascom Telecom, 2009 was a year of new opportunities and Group Executive Chairman We face a distinctive set of CSR challenges in the different markets we challenges. Despite the various challenges we have encountered operate in. The challenges we face in Egypt differ from those in Canada in the countries of our operations, which ranged from tax and legal and Algeria. Consequently, we applied a decentralized responsibility challenges to security challenges, we were able to overcome many of structure based on the assumption that each operating company them and create opportunities for success. We continued to expand operates in a different socioeconomic environment and has its unique our presence in various markets. In January 2009, TelecelGlobe, a set of norms and values. In spite of this, the group has decided to subsidiary of Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. acquired the mobile establish common standards to ensure more uniform practices in areas telecommunications operator, Cell One in Namibia. We also acquired a such as stakeholder engagement, ethics, environmental management, management contract in Lebanon. In December 2009, we successfully social investment and occupational health and safety. We are currently launched Wind Mobile in Canada. In addition, in seeking a path to developing a new institutionalized corporate social responsibility effective innovative management, we created a new organizational strategy that will assist our operating companies in identifying the structure for Orascom Telecom and appointed Khaled Bichara as Group material issues and set targets and action plans to be benchmarked and Chief Executive Officer in November 2009. reported annually to our stakeholders. 12 13 Message from Group Chief Executive Officer Dear Stakeholder, brilliant illustrations of how the mobile technology has created It is an honour for me to be writing to you as the new CEO of Orascom economic and social opportunities for the base of the pyramid. Telecom Holding. I would like to seize this opportunity to introduce Our partnership with the GSMA in implementing different projects the Group’s new approach to corporate social responsibility, and our in Pakistan and Bangladesh served to achieve the goal of creating commitment to an actionable way forward. Our new approach is just the sustainable business practices. start, but we are conscious that we have a long way to go. Given the group’s leadership role in the developed and emerging One of the core strengths of Orascom Telecom Holding is its ability markets and the consolidation stage facing the telecommunication to operate in conflict zones and disaster prone countries through its sector, I believe we need to focus some of our effort on building decentralized management system. This is definitely a challenge in itself a greater understanding of the challenges we are all facing. While for many mobile operators, but as OTH has grown, it has also built up our decentralized management model has succeeded over the a resilient organization that has granted each operator the autonomy to past decade, the new corporate responsibility strategy aims to respond to its challenges based on local needs. develop corporate responsibility policies and strategies to reflect stakeholders’ needs, which would be implemented through local Upon my appointment as CEO, my first-priority and clear-cut task was CSR programs. For example, we will set general qualitative and to take Orascom Telecom to its next stage of development. As part of quantitative targets on the group level and the operating companies this global task, we embarked upon an ambitious plan to transition from will be the owners at the local level. We recognize that combining corporate philanthropy to embedded corporate social responsibility the vision and strategy of Orascom Telecom Group and the local practices within our day-to-day business operations. While not yet implementation of its operating companies in the area of corporate completed, the plan has already established a number of significant responsibility would be valuable for all our stakeholders. proposals that, I am confident, will prove invaluable in helping Orascom Telecom better mitigate potential operational risks and overcome challenges, particularly in the environmental, social and governance domains. Khaled Bichara Group Chief Executive Officer Reflecting that indivisible link between our business operations and corporate responsibility, this year we have started to integrate sustainability in our management system. We have launched the process of fulfilling the requirements of Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001 and Occupational Health and Safety 18001 to undertake the surveillance audit and acquire the certifications. I also realize that the creation of sustainable business practices generate business opportunities for Orascom Telecom. The GSMA’s various M-health, Magri, Mlearning, M-commerce and M-women working groups are 14 15 Managing Our Corporate Social Responsibility Organization The Group Corporate Social Responsibility Division is responsible for strategy formulation and material issues identification. The Group Corporate Social Responsibility division now reports to the Group Executive Chairman who is responsible for the CSR performance of Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. The performance of the Group CSR is evaluated on a regular basis and the CSR projects and budget, partcularly expenditures, are reported to the General Assembly. Group Corporate Social Responsibility Team A Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) team was formed in February 2008. The creation of an independent division and cross-functional team solely responsible for the strategic direction and optimization of CSR across the group were effective steps towards achieving Orascom Telecom Holding’s goal to awareness on CSR and sustainability issues among our employees enhance its CSR and sustainability profile. These steps significantly connect using different communication tools and instruments. A further all Orascom Telecom Holding’s employees who are responsible for corporate important duty is the compilation of data and external CSR and responsibility and sustainability. sustainability reporting. Our Group CSR Team works closely with local operating companies and Group operational functions on all The Group CSR is responsible for of a wide range of tasks aimed to embed these activities. the principles of sustainable business practices systematically across all our operations and all departments at the Headquarter level and more rigorously at the local operating companies’ levels. A key element of the Team’s responsibilities is Orascom Telecom First Global Workshop the formulation of the Group CSR strategy, program and setting targets. Since its Driven by a desire to continuosly improve our CSR performance, the creation in 2008, it has developed instruments of its own to monitor and evaluate Group CSR Team hosted its first global CSR workshop in October the performance of CSR and sustainability practices across the group. Additionally, 2009, focusing on key csr tools, sustainability reporting and ethical the Group CSR Team undertakes a number of formal and informal stakeholder conduct case studies. The workshop was held in Cairo in partnership engagement activities to ensure that we meet our responsibilities and respond Orascom Telecom first group CSR workshop with the World Bank Institute and the Egyptian Institute of Directors to the needs of the community in which we operate. The Team works to raise Cairo October 2009 and was followed by a one month on line training using the World Bank Institute portal. All CSR staff of Orascom Telecom local operating companies participated in the workshop. The workshop provided the opportunity for all the attendees to engage with their counterparts in other operating companies and become a part of a CSR community. The workshop was a knowledge sharing and team building exercise. Over the coming years, additional forms of engagement between the Group functions and local operating companies will be introduced. 12 16 17 Communicating our CSR Internally Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E communicates regularly with employees about its corporate social responsibility activity to raise awareness of key CSR and sustainability issues. In 2009, we produced several animated videos to call for volunteers to be part of different employee volunteering activities; we also, publish regular newsflashes and announcements on the intranet all our social investment and compliance programs. Public announcements using posters and roll-ups at our premises were also used to inform our visitors (suppliers, customers, regulators, and others) of our key initiatives. Promoting Ongoing Dialogue – Engaging Our Stakeholders Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E has identified various groups of stakeholder who have a direct relationship to, or are affected by, our business. Group Description Channels of Engagement They include shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers, industry partners, governments, end-users, academia, non-governmental Government & Includes OTH subsidiaries interactions All mobile cellular operators organizations and the media. Engaging in dialogue with key stakeholders is an essential ongoing activity undertaken to enhance our understanding Regulatory with: MoITs, Regulatory authorities Workshops of the different markets in which we operate. Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. is keen on responding promptly to its stakeholders worldwide to Competition authorities, GSMA conferences share information, to understand their expectations of our products and services and to help us determine our strategic priorities. Spectrum allocation authorities Regulatory authority letters National Board of Revenue Regulatory letters Examples of Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E stakeholder engagement range from employee surveys, one-on-one meeting, press releases, and Board of Investment Authorities customer satisfaction surveys, among others. Suppliers Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. works Conferences meetings, with a broad network of manufacturers and Workshops, service providers. Social and sports events Below are the details of OTH’s Stakeholder engagement: NGOs Examples include Cherie Blair Foundation, Feedback on oth 2008 sustainability report Aid organizations, Partnership in development initiatives worldwide Telecom Holding S.A.E Stakeholder Groups Meetings and participation in different conferences Media Examples include journalists, press Press releases Group Description Channels of Engagement associations TV and radio stations. Social events, working groups and conferences Customers Includes OTH 98 million customers Daily interaction across all touch points Academia Examples include London Business School, Scholarships Potential customers, corporate clients The French University in Egypt Trainings Local distribution channels/sales partners Regional Information Technology Institute Graduate programs for employees Shareholders Private Equity Firms analyst days and meeting Supranational GSMA Development Fund Meetings and conferences Investors conferences and roadshows Organizations United Nations Global Compact subsidiary days UNICEF, UNESCO & GRI Investor presentations Communication on Progress. Quarterly earning releases Press releases and press-ads One on one meetings, Conference calls and emails AGMs, EGMs, Employees 19,595 of OTH employees Employee opinionsurveys, intranet Code of conduct Annual group /departmental workshops Social events 18 19 Business Ethics Organizational Structure Chairman & CEO Naguib Sawiris Internal Audit Mohamed Naguib CEO OTA PR & Corporate Communication Tamer EL Mahdy Manal Abdel Hamid Grojup CEO Khaled Bichara Legal Affairs Regulatory Affairs Ragy Soliman Performance Management Corporate Governance and Ethics Orascom Telecom is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest standards of Group HR Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Strategy Officer corporate governance. We consider effective corporate governance essential to enhancing & Aministration Officer Aldo Mareuse Chief Commercial Officer Chief Technology Officer Emad Farid Wafaa Lotaief shareholders’ value and protecting stakeholders’ interests. Accordingly, the Board attributes CEO Bangalink Philip Tohme Ahmed Abou Doma Ashraf Halim a high priority to identifying and implementing appropriate corporate governance practices to ensure transparency, accountability and effective internal controls. The Board continued CEO Koryolink to further its commitment to corporate governance through reviewing existing processes Ezz Heika and, where appropriate, developing new ones. The Company substantially complies with the practices enunciated in the Egypt Code of Corporate Governance and will strive to comply with CEO Mobilink these and other appropriate standards and governance guidelines. Rasgid Khan CEO Mobinil Orascom Telecom Holding Code of Ethics Hassan Kabbani Orascom Telecom Holding‘s Code of Ethics provides our stakeholders with clear guidance CEO Telecel Globe on a range of complex areas, together with appropriate monitoring mechanisms. The Code of Kai Ubach Ethics includes a number of policies and procedure designed mainly to ensure effective and ethical performance by our stakeholders. The standards addressed by Orascom Telecom Code CEO Tunisiana of Ethics standards are anti-corruption, insiders trading, discipline and penalties policy, public Yves Gauthier disclosure, gifts and hospitality. In addition, all employees of Orascom Telecom including officers and directors sign an employability contract that includes clauses to ensure that they perform in an ethical manner. 20 21 The General Assembly The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer establish meeting agendas to ensure adequate coverage of key issues during the year. The General Assembly (”GA”) is the ultimate governing In addition, they ensure that workshops and strategy meetings take body of the Company. The “GA” is composed of all the place. Executives and other senior employees regularly attend Board Shareholders of the company. meetings and are also available to be contacted by Directors between • The GA votes for all decisions. Each shareholder holds one vote. meetings. Shareholders and other parties who wish to communicate • The GA holds at least one ordinary meeting per year and may have an with the Board attend those meetings and are also encouraged to extra-ordinary meeting as needed; send their inquiries to Orascom Telecom investor relations email: ir@ • The responsibilities of the GA are derived from the laws and otelecom.com. Any concerns related to financial planning, financial Company Statues; information provided to shareholders, and systems of internal control, are immediately brought to the attention of, and are handled by the • The GA appoints the board, endorses financial results, appoints the audit committee according to its procedures. Any concerns related to external auditors, and approves dividends distribution. sustainability issues are immediately forwarded to the CSR function. Board of Directors Executive Chairman The Board has the responsibility to enhance the value of the Naguib Sawiris Company and maximize the interest of the Company and its shareholders. In summary, the Board: Board Members Naguib Sawiris (Executive-Board Member) • Develops strategic plans on regular and systematic basis and Onsi Sawiris (Non-Executive-Board Member) approves corporate strategies, including the approval of transactions Ahmed Maher El Sayed (Non-Executive Board Member) relating to acquisitions and divestments, and capital expenditure François Dopffer (Non-Executive Board Member) above delegated authority limits; Hassan Mostafa Abdou (Non-Executive Board Member) • Reviews and approves the corporate plan for the forthcoming Iskander Shalaby (Non-Executive-Board Member) year and the following two years, including capital expenditure Khaled Galal Bishara (Executive Board Member) and operating budget, and reviews performance against strategic Khaled Ezz El-Din Ismail (Executive-Board Member) objectives; Ajit Nedungadi (Non-Executive-Board Member) • Assesses business opportunities and risks on an ongoing basis and Emad Farid (Executive-Board Member) oversees the Company’s control and accountability systems; • Monitors and approves the Company’s financial reporting and In addition to three Alternate Board Members; dividends policies; Hythem El-Nazer Michael Cole • Appoints and removes the Chief Executive Officer and approves the Salim Nathoo recommendations of the Human Resources Department; • Approves the appointment and has the authority to remove the Chief Secretary to the Board Financial Officer and Group General Counsel and appoints the Ragy Soliman Company Corporate Secretary; and The aforementioned Board Members classification is based on the • Oversees succession planning for the Chief Executive Officer and Egyptian Corporate Governance code. The latter did not specify the senior management. criteria for independent directors that would allow the Company to benchmark against it, yet in our opinion and based on internationally recognized best practices, a number of our directors would qualify as independent directors bringing to the company the highest possible standing from both personal and professional standpoint. 22 23 Orascom Telecom Holding Whistle Blowing Hotline Board Committees Remuneration Committee System Report 2009 The Committee System of the Company is one of the most important The objective of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the tools for the management and the operational integration of the company has a formal process of considering management and Company. As of December 2009, the Board Committees are: directors’ remuneration that is, executive directors should play no part 20 Total reports in decisions on their own remuneration, there should be an alignment submitted Executive Committee of the remuneration schemes and the performance objectives of the 18 The objective of the Executive Committee is to review and, where Company, and the remuneration schemes should attract and retain appropriate, authorize corporate action with respect to most matters talented individuals. 16 concerning the Company’s interests, strategy and management of Reports 14 its business and subsidiaries during intervals between meetings of requiring Operational Committee the Board of Directors, and generally perform such duties as may be 12 investigation Investigation directed by the Board of Directors from time to time. The Operational Committee is in charge of the day-to-day operations on the Operational and Holding level, This committee also serves as a 10 under process *Investigations bridge between the management and the Executive Committee to make Investment Committee 8 Investigations closed sure that all are working together for the benefit of the Company. The objective of the Investment Committee is to assist the Board in substantiated & reviewing the Company’s investment policies, strategies, transactions 6 resulted in and performance, and in overseeing the Company’s capital and Whistle Blowing Hotline System 4 disciplinary Investigations financial resources. The Committee has resources and authority Orascom Telecom strives to maintain the highest standards of internal action nonappropriate to discharge its responsibilities, including the authority control and ethical behavior. In 2009, we introduced our whistle 2 substantiated to retain experts or consultants. blowing hotline system to receive all Orascom Telecom Holding and 0 operating companies’ related controls and management complaints. Audit Committee The system establishes procedures for the receipt, retention, and * Complaint is either out of whistle blowing scope or required information was not received from the The objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in treatment of complaints related to the Group regarding accounting, whistle blower. overseeing and reviewing the following: (i) proposed financial plans; internal accounting controls, auditing matters and illegal or unethical * Complaints directly reported to subsidiaries management without notifying the policy compliance (ii) the financial information provided to shareholders and others; behaviour; and the confidential, anonymous submission by employees employees are not included in the above report. (iii) systems of internal controls which management and the Board of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters of Directors have established; and (iv) the audit process, including and illegal or unethical behaviour. OTH Audit committee will review both internal and external audits. The Audit Committee interacts status and progress of investigating all received complaints and the directly with the independent auditor to ensure the independent resolution and outcome of all investigations that have been terminated auditor’s ultimate accountability to the Board and the Committee, as or completed. Each complaint will be treated as confidential, and the Human Rights Commitment representatives of the shareholders, and is directly responsible for identity of the complaint will be maintained as anonymous, to the full As part of Orascom Telecom commitment and respect to Human Rights in the the appointment, compensation and oversight of the independent extent reasonable in light of the Company’s need to investigate the workplace, the Group Executive Chairman, Naguib Sawiris signed the CEO auditor. complaint. The hotline was introduced to OTH employees by a message Statement on the occasion of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration from the Group CEO to encourage them to use the system to report their of Human Rights. The endorsement of the statement reaffirms our commitment comments, and complaints to OTH senior management. to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the human rights related principals of the UN Global Compact with respect to our stakeholders. 24 25 Our Customers Complaints Management Reducing customer complaints is at the heart of our operations to increase our customer’s confidence and ultimately loyalty. Within the customer care department in all our operating companies there is a dedicated Complaints Management Team responsible for handling and analyzing customer complaints received through different communication channels (calls, web, email, letter, stores). These teams are empowered with systems and authority to handle customer complaints in order to retain our customers and increase their loyalty through a Customer satisfaction and innovation is one of the most important part of OTH’s overall business strategy. The value segmented complaints compensation matrix, trouble ticketing/service request systems. For each complaint type there is a segmented operating companies of Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E apply a continuous improvement approach to their SLA (Service Level Agreement) within which, the complaint should be resolved. customer service to ensure an effective and immediate response to customers’ requests. Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. is dedicated to providing customer care services to 6 different groups of customers in more than 12 countries Expanding our Mobile Technology for Development including key and large corporate clients, small and medium enterprises, consumer customers, and authorized As a market leader in the countries of operations, we are committed to improving the lives of the communities we serve using our core business activity, the mobile technology. The last decade has witnessed the mobile technology stimulating social and economic development agents in addition to tailored services made available to customers with disabilities. in different emerging markets in Africa, Asia and Latin America. The impact of the mobile communications on the development of the economy and society translated in improving the flow of information, improving access to quality health services, bringing in connectivity to inaccessible rural areas, and empowering women. Customer Satisfaction Our objective is not to meet the highest standards of customer run Customer Satisfaction Index Reports by third party quarterly and on Orascom Telecom and its local operators collaborate with the GSMA Development Fund, international organizations and NGOs through care but actually strive to exceed them across customer touch monthly basis internally across the group and these reports show the its local operators to develop mobile services in the areas of increasing connectivity, energy and mServices including mHealth, mAgri and points and throughout the entire customer lifecycle. In our material ranking of our operators among other competitors in terms of quality of mWomen. issues identification exercise, consumer issues and particularly customer agents, interactive voice response IVR, speed of answer,...etc.. customer satisfaction are of high priority. Customer satisfaction is a key component of our subscribers’ loyalty and retention. In all the In 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E group-wide target was to markets we serve, we use a number of tools to measure and asses our ensure that our local operators implement a customer oriented strategy customers’ satisfaction throughout their experience with our customer and improve the level of customer satisfaction. To achieve this target, management platform. we launched a new customer relationship management system in three operators namely Mobilink, Mobinil and Orascom Telecom Algeria. • Service Level: Measures the percentage of answered calls that have Moreover, we introduced further self services on web portals and IVR in mHealth been answered within seconds and the SL varies depending on addition to availing a number of multilingual and promotional IVRs. banglalinkHealthlink service customer’s value segment. Orascom Telecom values its long-term reputation with customers and In its continuous endeavour to provide customers with innovative and • Staff Utilization: Number of customers served by each customer therefore we continuously set up new challenging targets and KPIs and convenient services, banglalink, launched “Healthlink Service” for its service representative and number of customer base to total customer we run an ongoing customer service quality improvement program to customers. This service allows banglalink subscribers to get health care head count. maintain the reliability of our customers. counselling services through a third party call centre managed by Synesis • Average speed of answer: Average time to answer a customer’s call. IT. The customer service agents are all MBBS professionals and are trained to provide health related consultancy over the phone. The services • Call Rate: percentage of lost calls before being answered. offered include professional medical consultancy, health care information, • First Call Resolution: how many customers are served in the first and beauty tips. contact within a specific period. The satisfaction of our customers and ensuring effectual and immediate answer to their queries is managed transversely by the group local operating companies. In addition, each operator runs different programs to stimulate customer relationship and ensure that their customers are satisfied from their dealings with Orascom Telecom’s local operator. We 26 27 What our stakeholders have to say mLearning Mobilink Sms-Based Literacy for Learning Launched in 2009 with the objective of reshaping lives through connectivity, I am impressed with Orascom’s commitment to advance women’s socioeconomic situation through its multiple initiatives. I witnessed the great the SMS-based literacy program is a joint venture between Mobilink, UNESCO impact the Lady Health Workers and the Ladies First programmes had on and a local NGO called Bunyad that acts as the implementing partner. In the women’s lives. The two examples formed part of the report we did together pilot phase, the 250 learners received interesting and informative text messages with GSMA which quantified the gender gap owning mobile phones in in Urdu on a daily basis, to which they were expected to respond. In the developing countries. I look forward to working together on using the mobile phone for women’s health, education, income and safety. rollout phase, participants were evaluated on a periodic basis to assess gains in knowledge and learning. The program was conducted with the help of ten Cherie Blair teachers recruited by Bunyad. Founder, The Cherie Blair Foundation for Women Credit: John Swannell At the beginning of the program, 57 percent of the girls received grade ‘C’ and only 28 percent of the girls managed to score an ‘A’. Towards the end of the project the percentage of girls receiving a ‘C’ dropped to as low as 11 percent and those receiving an ‘A’ increased to more than 60 percent. In addition, Magri teachers reported a stark improvement in the confidence of the young girls. They banglalink-banglalink jigyasha explained that owning a mobile phone bolstered the girls’ sense of security. The economy of Bangladesh is highly reliant on the agricultural sector; in fact, 60 percent of the population are farmers. In addition, On 25 March 2010, Mobilink announced the expansion of the SMS-based the growth of SMEs working in the agriculture sector is crucial to the economic development of Bangladesh. However, existing literacy project. The five months pilot project conducted with 250 adolescent and potential SME owners often find it difficult to access necessary market information. In response, banglalink introduced “Krishi girls in Punjab resulted in a remarkable improvement in their skills and Jigyasha 7676” which provides information and answers to queries related to poultry, livestock feed, information on seeds, fisheries overcame the socio-cultural barriers traditionally associated with owning a cell including daily prices, and agriculture with a focus on vegetable and fruit farming, among others. The “banglalink Jigyasha” offers phone. The President and CEO, Rashid Khan announced the replication of the services to individual farmers and fisheries just by dialling 7676. This service helped Banglalink become a pioneer in Bangladesh. program to include an additional 1,000 girls to widen the circle of beneficiaries. The “banglalink Jigyasha” won the Best Mobile Enterprise Application Product or Service Category at the prestigious Asia Mobile Awards 2009. Mwomen Women and Mobile, A Global Opportunity The GSMA, which represents the interests of the worldwide mobile communications industry, and the Cherie Blair Foundation for Women, a charity that supports women entrepreneurs published ‘Women and Mobile: A Global Opportunity’ at Mobile World Congress 2010. The report, written by Vital Wave Consulting is the first detailed global study of its kind, attempting to understand What our stakeholders have to say the nature of women mobile subscribers in low and middle-income countries such as Kenya and India, and highlighting the barriers facing women’s adoption of mobile technologies. It also shows that, by extending the benefits of mobile phone ownership to more We have got many benefits because of this program. We women, a host of social and economic goals can be advanced. have come to know how we can in a very minimum amount fulfil our needs. We were not aware of the cell phones but The report reveals for the first time the extent of the gender gap in mobile usage in many low and middle-income countries. It through this project we have come to know about the use shows that a woman in a low or middle-income country is 21 percent less likely to own a mobile phone than a man. Closing this and significance of cell phones. Now we know how to read and write. Our teachers help us greatly in learning. gender gap would bring the benefits of mobile phones to an additional 300 million women, empowering and enabling them to stay better connected with family and friends, improving their safety, and helping them obtain paid work, in line with the third UN Millennium Development Goal on gender equality. The mobile phone as documented in the report is an effective productivity and Naseer Bibi, Solangi Awan: Hafizabad development tool which creates education, health, and employment, as well as banking and business opportunities. GSMA, Development Fund, mWomen Programme, February 2010. 28 29 Our Network Contractors undertake most of our network deployment and to radiation and applies the environmental and health guidelines of management processes. Operating companies outsource most of the local Ministers of Telecommunications, Health and Environmental new sites’ acquisition, maintenance and services management. Each Affairs, the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, operator assigns a quality supervision team to carry out regular onInternational Commission on Non-ionizing Radiation Protection site audit, and ensure contractors and sub-contractors are keeping (ICNIRP) and World Health Organization (WHO). Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E mobile and fixed network infrastructures serve different segments of the standards and quality parameters in addition to compliance with consumers and provide them with access to information and communications technologies in more than national and international safety as well as environmental policies Researches on the possible health effects from exposure to base and guidelines. stations, antennas and the wireless network conducted by the WHO 12 countries. Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E GSM consumers enjoy reliable indoor and out-of-doors and the International EMF project have not proven any adverse health coverage supported by the diverse range of operated narrowband and broadband technologies. Our Engagement with our consumers is a top priority for Orascom effects on human beings. We encouraged our operating companies Telecom Holding and its GSM companies, particularly to address to communicate to their stakeholders’ information relating to the products and services around the globe rely on a powerful network of 30,300 base station sites. concerns on the potential health effects of the electro-magnetic possible effect of EMF on health and to respond to their concerns. Our aim is to improve customer experience and provide them with a powerful accessible network. radiations. The on-site audit includes safety codes designed to For more information related to the International EMF Project and ensure that all base stations are within the limits of human exposure research conducted on EMF in general, go to www. who.org. Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. Network Total base stations sites 30,300 Visual Impact A concern associated with the mobile telecommunications technology is the adverse visual effects of base stations. The operating 2G base station sites 28,130 companies of Orascom Telecom Holding use a different number of designs to cover the base stations and antennas particularly in areas proximate to touristic areas and properties of high value. The different designs include palm trees, flagpoles placing antennas inside signs, 3G base station sites 2,170 and matching architectural backgrounds. Co-located (2G&3G) base station sites 1,555 How our Operating Companies Manage The Visual Impact of their Base Stations Sharing Mobile Network Infrastructure We believe that network infrastructure sharing in the telecom sector is an important measure to minimize environmental impact, reduce costs, reduce the number of base stations and provide competitive advantage. All our operating companies with the exception of Wind Mobile who had recently launched operations in December 2008, have joined network-sharing venture to eliminate the duplication of needed base stations and reduce the Electro Magnetic Frequency Emissions. Responsible Network Deployment As one of the world largest telecommunications companies, Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E. ensures that its operating companies comply with the national Mobinil Mobinil Orascom Telecom Algeria specific legislations and local government agencies guidelines. Despite that, Hilton Red Sea, Sahl Hasheesh Novotel Hotel, Sharm El Sheikh Thallasso Hotel Sidi Ferradj Orascom Telecom did not develop a group based formal Network deployment Egypt Egypt Algiers policy yet. We guarantee that in all the countries where we operate, we comply with the rules of the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP). 30 31 Environmental Responsibility VER equivalent to 1000 Tons CO2 which offsets all carbon emissions Initiatives to Reduce our Indirect Environmental Impacts The impact of our operations on the environment is considered minimal when compared to other Launched in 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding joined the GSMA initiative industries. As a leading telecommunications company we recognize that we have an impact on the “Universal Charging Solution”, along with other 25 leading mobile operators and vendors. The UCS is a new means of helping our customers environment through three main elements: network, phones and offices. As part of our responsibility reducing environmental impact of our products and services. The UCS towards sustainable development, we are committed to minimizing the environmental impact of our is considered one of the industry-wide tools of eco-consumerism and it products and services. Our target is to reduce the CO2 emissions resulting from our direct and indirect is expected to reduce energy consumption by 50 percent and eliminate duplicate chargers. A number of our operating companies have introduced operations. several eco-consumerism services such as paperless billing, E-charge and handsets and batteries recycling. Environmental Management System 14001 In the fiscal year 2009, we started the process of establishing an environmental management system to be certified according to the standard ISO 14001. The environmental management system clearly identifies the processes and responsibilities that are required to eliminate our environmental impacts. The management system will be checked annually by a third-party auditor to guarantee that our strategy is implemented as effectively and that there is continuous improvement in our efforts to reduce environmental hazards. Orascom Telecom Algeria and the Egyptian Company for Mobile Services, Mobinil have also been certified to the standard ISO 14001. As part of the requirements of the ISO 14001, we have established Orascom Telecom Holding Environmental policy. The policy addresses all our existing and potential environmental impacts that might arise from our daily operation. The policy has been announced to all OTH operating companies, suppliers and employees. The policy is available at www.otelecom.com/csr Improving Energy Efficiency of Our Base Stations Orascom is participating in GSMA’s Mobile Energy Efficiency project which analyses energy consumption data to identify areas where efficiency improvements can be made. To minimize our own carbon footprint and reduce the emissions of our network sites, we have deployed 67 solar powered base stations in three countries where we operate: Egypt, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The use of renewable energy enables the sites to Consumer education is an important component in efforts to reduce be powered entirely by solar panels in order to reduce our reliance on diesel consumption and thus reduce our energy usage. We are currently environmental impact. exploring the possibility of expanding our network in regions that lack coverage for off-grid areas by deploying additional renewable energy sources. Voluntary Emission Reduction Some of Orascom Telecom operating companies offset part of their carbon impact by investing in researches and projects that support the environment across the world. In 2009, Mobinil purchased UCS features efficient power characteristics, a common connector and a detachable cable to provide for broad interoperability and an enhanced and simplified user experience. 32 33 Our Employees by Gender 2009 Op’co Male Female Employee Health and Safety The health, safety, and welfare of our employees are of principal importance to us and our stakeholders. Our objective is to provide our employees with an accident-free and secure workplace. Maintaining Orascom Telecom HQ 177 50 the health and safety of our people is critical to reducing group At Orascom Telecom, we recognize that our employees are our enduring advantage that makes up the base operational risks while supporting sustainability. Orascom Telecom Algerie 2,134 1,149 of our group infrastructure. Our workforce is an integral part of our corporate value chain that strives to Orascom Telecom Tunisia 1,032 442 exceed the expectations of our customers. We believe that valuing and empowering our people is crucial to Mobinil 2,312 1,039 The management of employee health and safety varies from one operation to another according to each country local regulations our continued success. Mobilink 3,908 800 as well as the size of the operation itself. Generally, responsibility Banglalink 1,038 198 for day-to-day health and safety falls within the duties of the We aim to attract, empower, and retain each and every individual who is passionate about contributing to the growth of our Group and wants to make a human resources and administration departments; however, in significant difference. Alfa Mobile 310 243 operations such as OTA and Mobinil we manage our health and Koryolink 168 84 safety performance through our comprehensive health and safety As of December 31st 2009, we employed over 19,595 full-time employees in 12 countries. 62 percent are based in the Middle East (Egypt, Algeria, management systems. These systems outline leadership and Tunisia, and Lebanon), 32 percent are based in our operations in Asia Pacific (North Korea, Pakistan and Bangladesh), 3 percent are based in Telecel Globe 453 173 management responsibilities and provide the tools necessary Africa (Namibia, Burundi, Zimbabwe and Central African Republic) and 3 percent are based in Canada. Orascom Telecom Holding and its operating Wind Mobile 404 199 to implement our health and safety strategies, including audits, companies offer competitive benefits to all full time employees such as medical insurance, pension plans, retirement plans, corporate performance Ring Holding 1,113 160 inspections, and performance monitoring and tracking; health and rewarding incentive schemes. However, benefits vary considerably from one operation to the other due to many factors including local social security safety training, including driving and contractor safety training; Link Dot net 1,388 258 benefits. emergency preparedness; and incident investigation. ARPU+ 130 31 Breakdown of workforce by operating company 2009 Mena Cable 14 1 At Orascom Telecom Holding and in all the countries where we operate, we provide our employees with different health insurance programs and safety plans to help them live in good health. Our Op’co Full Time Expatriate Consultant Total Diversity and Inclusion health insurance program extends to the employees’ first degree Orascom Telecom HQ 224 3 227 As a global business, our diversified workforce represents relatives to help them meet their family health care needs. In addition, Orascom Telecom Algerie 3,255 28 3,283 a vast mix of nationalities, cultures and backgrounds. In As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, we are we provide our employees with a number of health and safety training our experience, diversity is a business advantage helping committed to eliminating any forms of discrimination and protecting programs to reduce hazards that might occur in the workplace. Orascom Telecom Tunisia 1,469 5 1,474 us to understand the needs of our different customers, human rights in our day to day operations. Due to the nature of our Mobinil 3,344 6 3,350 suppliers and communities in the different countries business, we have identified no risk of child or forced labor in all our Mobilink 4,702 6 2 4,710 where we operate. Furthermore, a diverse workforce is an operations. excellent source of broader range of perspectives. Banglalink 1,218 18 1,236 Alfa Mobile 552 1 8 561 Orascom Telecom Holding encourages equal Koryolink 235 17 252 opportunities across its operations. Women represent an active part in our organisations. Certainly, there are TelecelGlobe 602 24 626 noteworthy regional differences, with women representing Wind Mobile 603 603 53 percent in Americas, 17 percent in APAC and 24 Ring Holding 1,309 7 1,316 percent in MEA and a total of 23% across the group. Orascom Telecom Employees Breakdown Link Dot net 1,781 1,781 ARPU+ 163 8 171 Mena Cable 14 1 15 Total 19,605 10 19,595 34 35 Orascom Telecom Group Work-related Fatalities 2009 Serious reportable injuries 4 Talent Management Program Total Accidents involving the fatality of an employee 8 OTH GSM average training hours Orascom Telecom Holding actively supports career mobility across its operating companies through the Talent Management Program per employee which was launched in 2008. In 2009, 23 employees selected In 2009, in order to integrate sustainability in our daily operations, we have started the adoption of the occupational health and safety from OTA, Mobilink, Banglalink, OTH and sister company Wind management system, the OHSAS 18001. We have also committed to Country Fiscal 2007 Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Telecommunication completed the first round of the Talent Management establishing objectives, targets and programs with the aim of reducing Egypt 53 40 55 Program. The program focused on building the capacity of the selected occupational risks at Orascom Telecom Headquarters to guarantee and employees and building on their practical experience. The five best continuously improve the health and safety of our employees. Algeria 38 50 29 performing participants were offered the opportunity to pursue an Canada N/A N/A N/A international e-MBA from London Business School fully covered by the As part of our wider management of corporate responsibility, we have company. Tunisia 32.4 27.6 29.58 developed the group Health and Safety policy. This policy has been communicated to all our operators as well as suppliers and vendors Pakistan N/A 0.24 0.37 in order to ensure that OTH group policy is taken into consideration Bangladesh 22 24 21 along country-specific local regulations. To ensure that our employees Lebanon 46 51 49 understand our health and safety policies and procedures, all related North Korea N/A N/A 10.10 What our stakeholders have to say information is publicized on the intranet. In addition, all Orascom Telecom group employees worldwide attend a health and safety informative session as part of their induction training. Employee Turnover In 2009, our turnover rate was 9.5 percent compared to 9.8 percent Continuous learning is central to our career development and we offer in 2008 and 11.4 percent in 2007. The turnover ratios vary from one different programs to enhance the professional qualifications of our country to another; as such, we have explicit guidelines regarding local employees as well as other programs designed to disseminate practical recruitment policy that comply with local regulations. In accordance, experiences. The training and development offerings in each country of the minimum notice periods we apply comply with local labor laws and operation differ according to the market demand and function needs. legislations. Reinforcing Cultural Diversity through Annual Development Events Sanford I Weill suggested that people were a product of their Training and Development We reinforce cultural diversity through annual global departmental experiences. This could well be said in the context of the workshops. Every year, OTH holds different Management meetings Orascom Talent Management Program, an experience that Investing in personal career development continues to be fundamental and workshops where all operators send employees according to the has made a lasting impression on me as a professional and to Orascom Telecom Holding. We offer our employees a variety of as a person. topics discussed. These annual workshops offer lots of opportunities for training and development activities to help them develop their skills Besides all the work, I also experienced the richness of other exchange of knowledge and experience worldwide. cultures; including learning how to say a salutation in 5 and improve their efficiency. Orascom Telecom applies a competencydifferent languages (besides English), driving a left hand car, based approach to its training and development function. On an annual indulging in Italian coffee traditions, experiencing amazing basis, each line manager highlights the gaps in the core competences food i.e. Egyptian Koshary, Napoli pizza, Mozzarella di Bufala that need to be developed for each employee. Accordingly, the training and Algerian Mint Tea to name a few. Every conversation & and development function works on identifying the appropriate training lost in translation moment has been an experience in itself! needed. This annual competency assessment is applied to all full-time Saad Khalid Bashir. employees of all departments. From Mobilink Market Development Specialization 36 37 Our Social Investment Our Target for 2010 During the past decade, Orascom Telecom operating companies have been investing in different areas according to the needs of the communities. We believe one major challenge has been to improve monitoring and evaluation of our social investment across all our operations. We will also establish common themes At Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., we believe that the support and trust of the local communities is across our operating companies to report against on annual basis and we will continue to support the indispensible to the success of our long-term business activities. Therefore, Orascom Telecom Holding mHealth, mLearning and mWomen alliances. S.A.E. and its local operating companies strive to build and sustain a trustworthy relationship with the host communities where we operate. The fact that we operate in conflict zones and disaster-prone countries Education and Learning Support Programs urges us to construct a binding relationship and gain the support of the local stakeholders including host Education is one of the key factors that affect the socioeconomic development of countries where we operate in. It has a direct impact on the governments, NGOs and civil society and communities with the purpose of mitigating operational risk. communities that affect and are affected by our operations. It directly influences the quality of both our human resources and our customers. Orascom Telecom Holding creates and sponsors educational and learning support programs for students of all ages, women living in rural We work with our local stakeholders to extend the positive effects areas and Persons with Disability (PWDs) to ensure that everyone gets an opportunity. Our programs across our operations focus on the of our presence by supporting social investment projects that provision of scholarships, capacity building, health education, and basic literacy programs. The core of our educational programs is to Group Social Investment Spending for 2009 improve access to quality education. Brief descriptions of our education and learning support programs undertaken in 2009 are listed below. are innovative, sustainable and that leave positive impact on the Social Investment Spending communities we serve. Our community investment priorities are Country reflected in all our operators’ social investment activities, which EgyptOrascom Telecom Holding S.A.E in USD include: Education Fund with the French University in Egypt Egypt 3,000,000 In recognition of the importance of liberal arts education, Orascom Telecom Holding established in partnership with the French University in Algeria 1,000,000 • Direct employment; Egypt an Educational Fund. The fund supports students who demonstrate educational excellence and are in need of financial assistance to Canada* N/A • Improving health practices and access for medical services; join the undergraduate program in Literature & Linguistics, Engineering, Information Technology or Business Administration. The program Tunisia 223,922 • Using core business competencies in social development will continue until 2012 and it offers both full and partial tuition fees to the selected students. The selection criteria include non-academic initiatives; qualifications such as demonstration of extracurricular activities, volunteering and leadership skills. Seven students were enrolled in 2009; Pakistan 1,100,000 two in linguistics and five in information technology. • Investing in education and learning support programs; Bangladesh 223,046 • Disaster relief; Lebanon 75,000 • Employee volunteering; AlgeriaOrascom Telecom Algerie North Korea 1,100,000 • Improving living condition for children University Project As part of Orascom Telecom Algeria’s efforts to expand the reach of openly available educational resources, OTA partnered with 11 Sub-Saharan Africa 400,000 • Charitable donations; universities to provide selected students with different trainings to grant them professional experience and technical know-how. The * Wind Mobile, in Canada, was not operational until end of 2009. training program accentuated Orascom Telecom Algeria’s core knowledge and learning processes in using the managers and supervisor as trainees. The program provided students with on the job training in the accounting, communication, treasury, telecom and human resources departments. After the completion of the program, the recipient of the course received an internship at OTA. The total number of students Through our social investment programs in more than 12 countries, who participated in this project were 56 and the partnering universities were: we aim to improve the socio-economic environment and bring about • Ecole Nationale Supérieure de l’Informatique • Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Commerce change in underprivileged communities. Our social investment • Ecole Nationale Supérieure Polytechnique • Ecole Nationale Supérieure de Science Commerciales et Fin programs are locally tailored to create opportunities and improve the standards of living in areas where we do business. • Université d’Alger • USTO Université des Sciences et de la Technologie d’Oran • Institut National de la Télécommunications • Université d’Oran • Université de Sidi Bel Abbes • Université de Tlemcen • Université de Constantine 38 39 Egypt-Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E & Mobinil EgyptOrascom Telecom Holding S.A.E SIFE Egypt Capacity Building for the Visually Impaired As part of our education and learning support program, in 2009, we sponsored SIFE Egypt National Competition. SIFE is an international non-profit organization that works with leaders in business In April 2009, Sawiris Foundation for Social Development (SFSD) and Orascom Telecom (OT) in and higher education to mobilize university students to make a difference in their communities while collaboration with IPPSN funded The Development Association for Empowering Persons with Special developing their skills to become socially responsible business leaders. Students form teams on Needs (DAESN) to implement a project entitled “Capacitating and Developing Skills Project for the their university campuses and apply business principles to develop outreach projects that improve Visually Impaired”. the quality of life and standard of living for people in need. SIFE is active on more than 1,400 SIFE World Cup, Germany 2009 college and university campuses in more than 40 countries. First graduation cermony of Capacity Building The project started in May 2009 with the objectives of raising the capacities of 160 visually impaired for the Visually Impaired Project persons to meet the requirements of the job market through a communication skills course. The The national champion SIFE teams from 40 countries met in Berlin, Germany for SIFE World Cup 2009. Competing teams presented the results of course provided them the best ways of dealing with persons whether colleagues or customers, and their community outreach projects to business leaders who evaluated the teams based on how much impact they achieved using business concepts to enabled them to work in different fields, such as customer service, tele sales and call centres. improve the quality of life and standard of living for people in need. Furthermore, as these works require using computers, the project provided them with a course in computer skills to meet the qualifications required The competition began with each of the universities being divided among eight opening round leagues. From the opening round, two finalists from by the market. Most importantly, the program provided the graduated beneficiaries with a free accessibility software that is downloaded in the company each league advanced to one of four semi-final round leagues. The teams from Canada, Egypt, Germany and India moved out of the semi-final round where beneficiaries work. The software is sponsored by Orascom Telecom and the IPPSN. and won the opportunity to compete in the prestigious final round of competition and present in front of a distinguished group of international business leaders. After the termination of three training courses, the trainees were employed mostly by private sector companies such as Orascom Telecom, Armanious Group, Orman Schools and Organizations, Behmen Hospital, Aramex, The Engineering Industrial Company, Coptic College for Girls, Daesn The final results were as follows: Association, Lions Garden City. SIFE World Cup Champion Namibia-Leo Namibia, Telecelglobe Egypt Education for All French University in Egypt In March 2009, Leo Namibia began an on-going programme of providing educational assistance to the less privileged children by offering bursaries in First Runner-Up partnership with the Sam Nujoma Foundation, a foundation that promotes self-reliance and capacity building in Namibia. India Alpha Arts and Science College First Runner-Up The scholarship program is open to children from Grades 1 to 12 but emphasis is placed on assisting vulnerable students and those whose parents lack the financial capabilities to ensure their educational Third Place growth. Particular emphasis has been placed on supporting children in the lower grades, especially Canada in communities that are struggling to put their children through the lower grades of school. This is in Memorial University of Newfoundland Third Place contrast to the thrust of most other corporate bodies in Namibia providing educational assistance, most Fourth Place of which are targeting students who are close to finalizing Grade 12 or about to commence tertiary Germany SIFE World Cup champion, Germany 2009 education. University of Mannheim The 2009/2010 program is targeted at enabling 500 children across all 13 regions of the country to More than 2,000 university students, academic professionals, business executives and other guests, representing the top leaders of today and achieve their academic goals. Altogether, 138 schools across the country benefited from this initiative tomorrow, attended the 9th annual SIFE World Cup. In addition to the competition, events such a culture fair, Top to Top Forum, Top to Future Top in 2009. Forum and many other unique activities offered participants the opportunity to connect, collaborate and learn from one another. The SIFE World Cup is a showcase of the positive difference that SIFE teams are making around the world and the success of this event offers strong support for the Leo Namibia’s corporate social investment in the education of children is in line with and supportive of organizations’ vision to be the premier international business and higher education network. the Namibian Government’s 2030 vision, a long-term plan for the growth of Namibia which envisages every child receiving an education. 40 41 Improving Health Practices and Access for Medical Services Egypt-Mobinil SMS Campaign to Raise Awareness about Swine Flu In an effort to raise the level of protection against H1N1 Flu, the Egyptian Ministry of Health launched a national campaign aimed at improving the hygienic habits and awareness levels among the public. In its leading role as a responsible corporate citizen, Mobinil participated in this campaign by sending awareness text messages to over four million subscribers, living in the most-affected areas by the pandemic, such as Cairo, Giza, Alexandria and some Delta governorates. The text message was drafted by the Ministry of Health, offering simple and effective advice on how to fight the influenza. That’s not all! Mobinil also helped in spreading public awareness amongst our customers by distributing educational flyers at our shops. Egypt-Orascom Telecom Holding Al Akrameya Health Unit Renovation In 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding partnered with Takamol project to renovate Al Akrameya health unit in Aswan. The objectives of the project were to provide a Sesobel Sports Show functional high quality health facility with up to date equipment according to the standards of the Egyptian Ministry of Health with a well-trained staff to serve the community of El Akarmeya in addition to inflicting positive behaviour changes in the Upper Egypt governorate. The project activities included the complete physical Improving Living Conditions for Children renovation of the building, provision of new medical equipment, training of clinic staff and service providers, in addition to awareness-raising of local communities to Lebanon Alfa improve their health behaviour. Supporting Sesobel Association Alfa’s social investment program focuses on empowering children with special needs. Alfa works with non-governmental organizations to support Al Akrameya Health Unit Renovation before In order to sustain the performance of the health facility and ensure improved health the academic, physical and emotional development of handicapped children through managing different social events and launching sms fundraising behaviour, the project established a clinic board by holding elections, which consists campaigns. In 2009, Alfa supported Sesobel which is a Lebanese NGO that applies a holistic interdisciplinary approach taking into account the child’s of 50 per cent clinic staff and 50 per cent community members. The community needs on every level, be it health, education, rehabilitation,…etc. Alfa worked with Sesobel to promote the “Child by Child “program where children nominated those they saw fit to take on the job and a new clinic board has been interact with disabled children to promote both children’s rights in the society. Together, they organized a sports show, and specialized sports trainer appointed to run the clinic and maintain what has been learned in the trainings. The worked on training the children on different exercises. Alfa also launched an sms campaign to raise funds and raise awareness of the public on the board itself also received a Clinic Board Management Training course. The board importance of integrating children with special needs into the society. will encourage the community and prepare the clinic to empower the clinic to receive contributions; mobilize local businesses to support their clinic; and train clinic boards to manage clinic funds and donations. North Korea Orasom Telecom Holding Soy Bean Milk Factory Since 1994, North Korea has been hit by several crises such as droughts and floods that led to sever food shortage and serious child malnutrition. In a primarily agricultural economy with little abundance of livestock and due to extreme weather conditions, DPRK reverted to soya bean as an alternative source of protein to provide basic nutrition in their diet. It was concluded that the most efficient approach to tackle the problem of child malnutrition is to invest in dairy products manufacturing projects. In 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding was presented with the project to install a modern soybean milk factory in Pyongyang. The new production line will be installed in a new 5,000 meter squared building currently being constructed in the centre of the Pyongyang foodstuff factory complex. The new lines will have an average daily milk production capacity of 4,000 litres per hour or 4 tons of powder milk Al Akrameya Health Unit Renovation after per day. This complex will supply daily meals to school children in Pyongyang and its surrounding cities. 42 43 Disaster Risk Reduction Employee Volunteering Pakistan Mobilink Across our operating companies, the tradition of giving and participating in voluntary activities Mobilink Camp for IDPs is a core principle among our employees. Our employees support their local communities On 5 June 2009, Mobilink in partnership with Orascom Telecom Holding established a Mobilink Camp at Kund, through various ways, such as raising funds, in-kind donations, and organizing charity events Nowshera to support 1,000 displaced families who were affected by the terrorist activities that took place in and visits to selected charities and hospitals. Northern Pakistan. The camp provided shelter, food, basic non-food items, medical support, water and sanitation in Egypt-Mobinil addition to education and recreation activities. Mobilink Habitat for Humanity Camp for the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) is In continuation of our efforts to improve the welfare of the Egyptian community, Mobinil considered the largest private sector commitment of its in cooperation with Habitat for Humanity Egypt organized a volunteer work camp to help kind to date for IDPs relief. build and restore Mobinil volunteers who included Mobinil Chairman Alex Shalaby, VP Finance Khalid Ellaicy, and VP Technology Marwan Hayek who were keen on In line with Mobilink’s tradition of employee volunteerism, participating in this mission. Our volunteer work reflects a strong commitment to giving a team of Mobilink employees was personally involved in back to our community; providing a sense of hope and solidarity to local families; and various areas of camp management, procurement of items spreading the volunteering spirit in our Egyptian society. and other requirements. CanadaWind Mobile During the two months that Mobilink Camp was Random Acts of Kindness operational, it catered efficiently to the needs of displaced On November 18th, 2009, WIND Mobile launched its ‘Random Acts of Kindness’ families also providing support and counselling for those Mobilink Camp at Kund, Nowshera (RAK) community initiative after a delay to its launch. The stall, as a result of a CRTC most affected by trauma. The camp closed down on 13 (Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission) ruling, put WIND August 2009 following the return of IDPs to Swat as Mobile in a position where 400 Store and Call Centre employees, fully trained and ready required by the Government. to go, were left idle. To best utilize these fully trained and enthusiastic employees, WIND Wind Mobile Random Acts of Kindness Mobile deployed street teams into the Toronto and Calgary communities where WIND Subsequent to the return of the families, Mobilink was to have a business footprint. volunteers worked to ensure that Kund Park returns to its original condition and that facilities that were built on site are removed and grounds levelled. All remaining The 400 WIND Mobile employees brainstormed in their store and care teams, planning their RAK outreach autonomously. Over the course of one week, educational and health material were also donated to teams volunteered their time all over the Toronto and Calgary areas, assisting organizations such as the Salvation Army, Ronald McDonald House, and relevant agencies in the area. Habitat for Humanity. Further, many teams participated in ad-hoc public initiatives such as pumping gas, helping people carry groceries and sheltering public transit commuters from the elements. On November 30th, WIND Mobile participated in its biggest group RAK, with over 150 employees volunteering at the Daily Bread Food Bank. This group was made up of corporate, Store and Call Centre employees, including the company’s Chief Customer Officer, its Chairman along with many other senior executives. 44 45 Paksitan-Mobilink The Mobilink Foundation Torchbearers The Mobilink Foundation is a reflection of the commitment of Mobilink and its employees to benefit the people of Pakistan. It is a grant-giving organization, which also provides support for the local community through its nationwide force of dedicated volunteers. The Mobilink Foundation Torchbearers platform was initiated in 2008 to formalize volunteer work. The nationwide Torchbearers contribute with over 250 hours of community service in the span of a month. Torchbearers have played a vital part in mobilizing employees as well as families and friends to allow the Foundation to participate in a number of initiatives such as setting up free medical camps, organizing blood drives, planting trees, and distributing food and other basic needs to the poor and vulnerable groups. OTH employees during the packaging of food for the needy Egypt-Orascom Telecom Holding Food Packing and Distribution to the Needy In September 2009, Orascom Telecom Holding partnered with the Egyptian Food Bank (EFB) to pack and distribute Ramadan basic necessities to needy families in different areas of Cairo governorate. Orascom Telecom and its employees were able to raise funds for around 2000 packages that were targeted to orphans, elderly, widows, and needy families in poor areas, such as Al Sayeda Zeinab, Al kom El Ahmar, Al Emam EL Shafei, EL Basateen and Al Amiria. Orascom Telecom employees participated further and volunteered to pack the boxes, which took place at the premises of the Egyptian Food Bank located in 6th of October governorate. The packages, sufficient for families comprising of five people, included basic food items, such as rice, sugar, pasta, lentils, corn oil, beans, dates, tomato paste. This is considered the first round of packing and distribution that OTH has organized in partnership with the Egyptian Food Bank. Mobilink employees vounteering activities with children in schools 46 47 GRI Table of Content Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period. • About this report 02 We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines to guide our corporate responsibility reporting. This GRI Content Index is provided to 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. • About this report 02 assist readers in navigating the report and understanding how our report aligns with the GRI’s G3 Sustainability Guidelines. 3.3 Reporting cycle. • About this report 02 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Message from Group 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. • 12 1. Strategy and Analysis Executive Chairman Message from Group 3.5 Process for defining report content. • About this report 02 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker. • 12 Executive Chairman 3.6 Boundary of the report. • About this report 02 For additional information on Message from Group 3.7 Limitations on scope and/or report boundary. • About this report 02 financial, market, regulatory Executive Chairman, and credit risks, please refer to 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. • About this report 02 12, 14, 1.2 Description of Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. • Message from CEO pages 67, 68 & 69 of Orascom 38 Telecom 2009 annual report. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. • About this report 02 Our Social Investment This report can be found at www.otelecom.com Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information provided About this report, Our 3.10 • 02, 38 in earlier reports. Social Investment 2. Organization Profile Significant changes from previous reporting periods (scope, 2.1 Name of Organization • About this report 02 3.11 • About this report 02 boundary or measurement methods). About Orascom Telecom Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 2.2 Primary brands, Products, and/or services. • 04 3.12 • GRI Table of Content 48 Holding S.A.E report. Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, About Orascom Telecom Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 2.3 • 04 3.13 • About this report 02 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Holding S.A.E assurance for the report. About Orascom Telecom 4. Governance, Ethics and Commitments 2.4 Location of Organization’s headquarters. • 04 Holding S.A.E Governance structure of the organization, including committees Corporate Governance and 20, 22, About Orascom Telecom 4.1 • 2.5 Number /names of countries where the organization operates. • 04 under the highest governance body. Ethics 24 Holding S.A.E Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an Corporate Governance and About Orascom Telecom 4.2 • 20 2.6 Nature of Ownership and legal form. • 04 executive officer. Ethics Holding S.A.E Number of members of the highest governance body that are Corporate Governance and About Orascom Telecom 4.3 • 23 2.7 Markets served (e.g., geographic breakdown, sectors, customers). • 04 independent and/or non-executive members. Ethics Holding S.A.E Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Corporate Governance and 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. • About this report. 02 4.4 • 23 recommendations to the highest governance body. Ethics Message from the Group Linkages between compensation for members of the highest 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. • 14 Corporate Governance and Executive Chairman. 4.5 governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the • 24 Ethics Message from the Group organization’s performance. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. • Executive Chairman, Our 12, 29 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Corporate Governance and Customers 4.6 • 24 conflicts of interest are avoided. Ethics • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 48 49 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Managing our Corporate EC2 4.7 the members of the highest governance body on economic, • 16 organization’s activities due to climate change Social Responsibility environmental, and social (EE&S) topics. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of About Orascom Telecom 4.8 • 07 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. conduct, and principles. Holding S.A.E Aspect: Market Presence Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Managing our Corporate 4.9 • 07 organization’s identification and management of EE&S performance. Social Responsibility Range of rations of standard entry level wage compared to local EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. Processes for evaluating the highestgovernance body’s own Managing our Corporate 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, • 16 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based Social Responsibility. EC6 and social performance. suppliers at significant locations of operation. Our Employees Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or EC7 • Our Employees 34 4.11 • Environmental 32, 34 hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. principle is addressed by the organization. Responsibility Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact About this report – Our Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, 02, 26, Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 4.12 • Customers Environment principles subscribed to. 32 EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or • Our Social Investment 38 Responsibility pro bono engagement About this report – 02, 20, Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Our Customers Our 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or advocacy organizations. • Corporate Governance and EC9 • 26, 38 26 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Social Investment Ethics – Our Customers Promoting Ongoing 6. Human Rights Indicators 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. • DialogueEngaging Our 16 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements Stakeholders HR1 that include human right clauses of that have undergone human Promoting Ongoing tights screening. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. • DialogueEngaging Our 16 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Stakeholders HR2 undergone screening on human rights and action taken. Promoting Ongoing Total hours of employees training on policies and procedures 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. • DialogueEngaging Our 16 HR3 concerning aspects of human tights that are relevant to operations, Stakeholders including the percentage of employees trained. For additional information on 2009 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder Financial performance, please refer Aspect: Non-discrimination Our Customers, Our 4.17 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key • 29, 34 to page 03 of Orascom Telecom We did not have any formal Employees. 2009 Annual Report. This report topics and concerns including through its reporting. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. • Our Employees 34 complaints or incidents of can be found at www.otelecom.com discrimination. 5. Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Economic Performance Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of For additional information on 2009 HR5 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Financial performance, please refer actions taken to support these rights. About Orascom Telecom revenues, operating costs, employees’ compensation, donations and to pages 04, 07, 31-83 of Orascom EC 1 • Holding S.A.E – Our 04, 38 Telecom 2009 Annual Report. This Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to HR6 • Our Employees 34 Social Investment. report can be found at labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. capital providers and governments. www.otelecom.com • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 50 51 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Aspect: Formed and Compulsory Labor Aspect: Training and Education Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Average hours of training per year per employee by employee LA10 • Our Employees 34 HR7 forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the • Our Employees 34 category. elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Aspect: Security Practices LA11 the continued employability of employees and assist them in • Our Employees 34 managing career endings. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 • Our Employees 34 relevant to operations. development reviews. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees HR9 • Our Employees 34 indigenous people and actions taken. LA13 per category according to gender, age, group, minority group Our Employees 34 membership, and other indicators of diversity. Labor Practices and Decent Work LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Aspect: Employment 7. Product Responsibility Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and LA1 • Our Employees 34 region. Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, Product cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products LA2 Our Employees 34 and region. PR1 and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of Our Network 30 significant products and services categories to such procedures. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 • Our Employees 34 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products Aspect: Labor/Management relations and services by type of outcomes. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Aspect: Products and Services Labeling agreement. Type of product and service information required by procedures Minimum notice period (s) regarding significant operational LA5 • Our Employees 34 PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. information requirements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint A Health and Safety committee PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Our Environmental is currently being established labeling, by type of outcome. LA6 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor 32 as part of the OHSAS 18011 Responsibility and advice on occupational health and safety programs. requirements. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 Our Customers 26 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, LA7 Our Employees Aspect: Market Communications and total number of work-related fatalities by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or Our Employees 34 PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, community members regarding serious diseases. promotion, and sponsorship. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions. 34 • Covered Partially Covered Not covered • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 52 53 Indicator Description Status Report Section Page(s) Explanatory Notes Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complains regarding breaches of PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 8. Society Aspect: Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices Managing our Corporate SO1 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, • 16 Social Responsibility. including entering, operating and exiting. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption SO3 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Aspect: Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiSO7 trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonSO8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. • Covered Partially Covered Not covered 54
