UN Global Compact Communication on progress 1 What is the UN Global Compact? The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalization, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. As social, political and economic challenges (and opportunities) — whether occurring at home or in other regions — affect business more than ever before, many companies recognize the need to collaborate and partner with governments, civil society, labour and the United Nations. Participation in the Global Compact is a widely visible commitment to the implementation, disclosure, and promotion of its ten universal principles. A company joining the initiative is expected to: 1. Make the Global Compact and its principles an integral part of business strategy, day-to-day operations and organizational culture; 2. Incorporate the Global Compact and its principles in the deci sion-making processes of the highest-level governance body (i.e. Board); 3. Contribute to broad development objectives (including the Mil lennium Development Goals) through partnerships; 4. Integrate in its annual report (or in a similar public document, such as a sustainability report) a description of the ways in which it implements the principles and supports broader devel opment objectives (also known as the Communication on Pro gress); and 5. Advance the Global Compact and the case for responsible busi ness practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers and the public at large . The ten universal principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery . 2 Contents What is Duba-B8? 4 Duba-B8’s mission is to create freedom at work for ... 4 The Management Board on Duba-B8 & CSR Policy 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES AND LABOUR PRINCIPLES 6 A safe and healthy workplace 6 Our suppliers’ working environment 7 Environmental Principles 8 Life cycle design 9 Office furniture of sustainable wood 9 Chain of custody (CoC) 9 The forests and the climate 10 The social aspects of forest certification 10 Eco-friendly driving 11 Re-entry 11 From waste to valuable resource 12 Environmental requirements on suppliers 12 Anti-Corruption Principles 12 The ten principles of the UN Global Compact in practice 14 Case 1: Reuse as a design philosophy 14 Case 2: Bamboo as a material 15 Case 3: MOLO 16 3 This Communication on Progress (COP) covers the period from when Duba-B8 joined the UN Global Compact on 9 September 2010 to the end of the first year of membership. This report has thus been concluded and published on 8 September 2011. What is Duba-B8? Duba-B8 A/S is a 100% Danish-owned company and the largest manufacturer of office furniture in Denmark. Duba-B8 designs and manufactures a range of office furniture under its own name and also deals in recognised national and international brands. The company’s customer base includes the largest businesses and public sector bodies in Scandinavia. Duba-B8 designs, manufactures, delivers, services and disposes of complete solutions for businesses. Many furniture concepts are tailor-made for the customer in question, and 80% of the company’s own production is created for specific customers and specific layouts. Our customers typically focus on corporate identity, employee development and wellbeing, the environment and CSR. We work with product development from a holistic perspective, where the end product is more than just an item of furniture; it is also work enjoyment for the end user and a product that aligns with the company’s goals and values. Duba-B8 is the result of a merger between two traditional Danish office furniture manufacturers: System B8 møbler and Duba Møbelindustri. Both these furniture companies were founded as family businesses by men with strong opinions and visions. These opinions and visions still exist to this day and make up a part of the Duba-B8 identity, which finds expression, for example, through Duba-B8’s corporate mission: Duba-B8’s mission is to create freedom at work for ... … Our customers’ business – through a flexible and customer-oriented layout that improves conditions for deploying values, knowledge and communication throughout the company. During the work process, we involve the customer and the customer’s external partners so as to ensure that the interior and exterior design of the building form a coherent entity. This working relationship helps optimise space allocation, acoustics/lighting conditions and a spatial design that supports the creation of ideas and their realisation in practice. The end product is a workplace where people genuinely want to work and develop, and where there is authentic freedom at work. … Individual employees – through an ergonomic and flexible layout that respects the needs of the individual for development, maturity and in-depth focus, and which supports the employee’s options for knowledge sharing and teamwork with others on an everyday basis. This helps boost work enjoyment for the individual. … The environment and our surroundings – we provide solutions designed with consideration for the environment and our surroundings by applying furniture design that ensures a long service life for our products. We create modular, mobile and flexible furniture concepts that can be supplemented and thus reused in new interior layouts at the company. Working with our customers, furniture professionals and architects, we strive to create furniture concepts and interior designs that are not only sustainable but also eco-friendly. 4 The Management Board on Duba-B8 & CSR Policy Duba-B8 has formulated a CSR policy (the Duba-B8 Code of Conduct and Suppliers’ Code of Conduct) that lays down the framework for interaction with our stakeholders. These stakeholders include: customers, suppliers, employees, public authorities and society around us. Duba-B8’s CSR policy is founded on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and is built on Duba-B8’s mission to create freedom at work for our customers, our customer’s employees, the environment and our surroundings. Duba-B8’s mission to create freedom at work is the value base that permeates every decision and action that stems from the organisation, and Duba-B8’s CSR policy is a natural extension of same. Both the mission to create freedom at work and Duba-B8’s Code of Conduct are points of reference in everyday work and interaction with customers, suppliers and partners. They also form the foundations for our interaction with one another. Moreover, the positive attitudes and values expressed through our mission and policies constitute what could be termed “the company spirit”. The values, which can be expressed through words such as credibility, responsibility, profitability, sustainability and respect, should not be viewed exclusively as concepts linked to a modern company, but as firmly rooted values which, throughout the 98-year history of the business, have helped shape the DubaB8 organisation into a modern Scandinavian company in a globalised world. Fulfilment of the goals of the UN Global Compact does not start with ten principles, but with the way in which we interact with each other on a daily basis. Social responsibility starts with the actions we take and the decisions we make on an everyday basis as people and players in the Duba-B8 company. For every sustainable step we take, our ambitions to become even better continue to grow. Today, it is taken as read that furniture from Duba-B8 is manufactured in sustainable conditions, that the materials are eco-friendly and do not damage the interior climate for the people who are subsequently to use them – and that all this can be documented. In the future we hope that our customers will also take for granted that after a long and useful service life, the office furniture will not simply end up as scrap, but will return as components in new items of furniture or be reused as a source of energy in our production department. Endorsing the UN Global Compact is a specific way to tell the world around us that we are willing to shoulder our social responsibility. At the same time, it constitutes a hand extended to our suppliers, customers and partners: “come and join us – together we can make a difference”. I hope that this global network of commercial companies will grow both in size and in influence over the coming years. One thing is for sure: Duba-B8 will be a part of it in 2012 as well. Christian Jacob Flarup CEO OF DUBA-B8 A/S 5 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES AND LABOUR PRINCIPLES Duba-B8 operates production in Denmark and sales offices in Denmark and Norway. A total of 140 people are employed at the company’s facilities in these countries. Our customers are primarily Scandinavian companies that operate at global level, and we service these customers’ overseas departments through a network of partners. In the following sections, we therefore differentiate between how we work with the principles of the UN Global Compact internally at Duba-B8 and externally through our suppliers and partners. The countries of Scandinavia have a long tradition of implementing legislation to regulate the behaviour of both citizens and companies. This legislation covers all areas: fundamental rights of freedom, employer and employee rights, the environment and occupational health and safety. This means that by following ordinary legislation, we can be sure that we are complying with principles 1–6 of the UN Global Compact. In a range of areas, however, we work more intensively and more broadly than we are obliged to by law. We have agreements with several of our employee groups and have set up a collaboration committee to deal with any conflicts that may arise. We place great emphasis on developing the potential of the individual employee and on retaining staff at our company. The managers at Duba-B8 have completed a 4-module management development programme, which focuses on areas including the capacity of managers to communicate values and corporate culture. As a company, we are committed to ensuring that Duba-B8 is a good place to work with regard to both physical and social working environments. This commitment permeates all areas of the organisation – from owners, board members and managers to individual employees – in shared efforts to promote a good, enjoyable working environment on an everyday basis. We support social employee initiatives such as our staff association. A safe and healthy workplace Duba-B8 is a workplace where a great many different departments are operated side by side. Around half our employees are employed to handle administrative or management assignments. These are assignments that rarely result in industrial accidents or injuries. The other half of our staff work in our production department. Their work often involves the use of large machines which have the potential to cause serious industrial injuries if the work is performed incorrectly or inattentively. For this reason, we give the highest priority to safety. It is compulsory to use protective equipment (ear protectors, protective footwear, etc.) and everyone has to be aware of the risk associated with a given assignment and of how to prevent accidents. Keeping work areas neat and tidy is a simple way to prevent minor accidents. Therefore, we have decreed that objects are not to be left in walkways, and that all workplaces are to be kept neat and tidy. The floors in the production facilities are washed every other day, which helps to reduce the volume of dust that is inevitably generated from working with wood. Everyone who visits our production facilities remarks on how clean and tidy they are. Duba-B8 is certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard for occupational health and safety. This confirms that Duba-B8 works purposefully and systematically to improve occupational health and safety on an ongoing basis. We have drawn up a range of safety policies and contingency plans, which are openly available on the company intranet. Moreover, we have established a safety committee that deals with industrial accidents and near-misses and implements measures to prevent the recurrence of similar incidents. 6 Our suppliers’ working environment We have to take into account that we make purchases from countries all over the world, and must therefore make demands on our suppliers and partners because the conditions at their facilities may be different. Duba-B8 acts in accordance with the legislation of the countries in which we operate. And we expect our subcontractors to do the same. This is one of the provisions in the signed co-operative agreement between Duba-B8 and the individual subcontractor. Failure to comply with this part of the co-operative agreement may affect the working relationship between the parties. (cf. the Duba-B8 Suppliers’ Code of Conduct) We support and respect the protection of internationally stated human rights and employee rights, and we play our role in ensuring that we do not contribute to the infringement of these rights. We do this primarily by demanding that our suppliers abide by national legislation. In fact, our suppliers sign a document to this effect as a part of their contractual relationship with us, and breach of this provision may result in our terminating the contract. Duba-B8 acts in accordance with and respects the ILO “Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work”, which is an integral part of the UN Global Compact. Duba-B8 and the company’s subcontractors must play a part in ensuring the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, in assuring effective elimination of all forms of forced or child labour, and in working actively to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We recognise that the Scandinavian method is just one way of doing things, that major cultural differences exist, and that these may have an effect in the field of labour. We make our suppliers aware of our expectations with regard to observing human rights and employee rights, child labour, the environment and occupational health and safety – particularly when such issues are not unambiguously regulated through national legislation. We make sure to visit our suppliers in the Baltic region and the Far East before establishing working relationships with them. In order to assess conditions in the Far East, we have also employed our own quality controller, who is responsible for auditing our suppliers so as to ensure that we are in no way associated with child labour, forced labour and the like. Moreover, as a part of our contract negotiations, our suppliers are required to state whether they apply ethical and social guidelines, and whether they have any outstanding issues with the public authorities before we accept them as suppliers. 7 Environmental Principles A mission centred on freedom at work for the environment and our surroundings We expect a lot of our furniture. We will never be satisfied by simply meeting legal requirements. We consistently strive to identify the most eco-friendly alternatives without making the end product more costly for the customer. We do this because we believe that, as a supplier of workplaces, we have a responsibility to preserve the environment, the working environment and our climate. We at Duba-B8 have focused on our environmental impact for many years, and we have been certified to the ISO 14001 environmental standard since 1998. This means that Duba-B8 works purposefully and systematically to improve its environmental performance on an on-going basis. Duba-B8’s environmental management system is assessed yearly by external auditors who evaluate Duba-B8’s actual environmental performance in relation to the procedures in the environmental management system. Every year, we map the environmental impact generated by our operations, and on the basis of this mapping process we prepare a plan intended to reduce the most significant impacts. When making new investments, we analyse the best technology available and we focus on environmental aspects in connection with product development, concept development and choice of materials. As mentioned above, Duba-B8 is certified to the ISO 14001 standard, which means that we critically appraise the way in which our activities impact the environment. In addition, we are a member of Danish Furnituremakers’ Quality Control association, which obliges us to meet a range of environmental and quality requirements. This ensures that we live up to the applicable EU standards. Office furniture must meet a range of requirements concerning durability and content of environmentally hazardous substances, for example. The Danish Technological Institute carries out tests to check that our furniture abides by the applicable standards. Duba-B8 strives purposefully to design, manufacture and supply the company’s products in a way that makes the least possible impact on the environment, and thus consistently to reduce the environmental impact of our production activities. Sustainability and environmental concerns are integrated into our product development processes and choice of materials. We provide our customers with solutions designed with consideration for the environment and our surroundings by applying furniture design that ensures a long service life for our products. However, there is no denying the fact that every item of furniture affects the environment during its life cycle. This applies to everything from materials and product development, through production, transportation and fittings, to use, maintenance and disposal. New focus areas at Duba-B8 in 2010/2011 include reduction of climate impact through recycling and reuse. 8 Life cycle design At each phase in the life cycle of an item of furniture, it is possible to reduce environmental impact. We at Duba-B8 focus unswervingly on improving every phase in the lifetime of every piece of furniture. We call this “life cycle design”. Life cycle design comprises: Simple, well-thought-out design We work with recognised designers to develop furniture with a long service life Few components This makes it possible to replace parts that suffer wear and tear on an ongoing basis and to reuse/recycle the components Good raw materials Our raw material suppliers live up to our Suppliers’ Code of Con duct (CSR). The raw materials we use feature a high proportion of recycled material, which benefits the climate. We always use wood from responsible sources. Low level of pre-processing In the pre-processing phase, we work according to the “minimum principle”: the fewest possible processes, with the least possible waste and the least possible consumption of consumables. Simple assembly We use the least possible packaging for our furniture and strive to achieve the best possible utilisation of freight space in the transport of our goods. The items are assembled on site. All packaging is returned to Duba-B8 and fully recycled. Simple maintenance Low operating and maintenance costs combined with a long ser vice life equals a low TCO (Total Cost of Ownership) Well-thought-out design The items of furniture we produce are designed to end their service lives as components and raw material for new furniture. Our ambition is to recycle as many materials as possible. Office furniture of sustainable wood Wood is the primary component material of the furniture produced at Duba-B8. Wood is a natural, CO2neutral material and a renewable resource. Over the years, we have also made requirements on our suppliers to ensure that the wood we purchase comes from forests that operate replanting programmes. That is why it was a natural next step to require documentation for the origin of the wood – i.e. a guarantee of sustainable forestry – that we can pass on to our customers. It is for this reason that we have been FSC® and PEFC™ certified since the start of 2011 . There are two global certification systems designed to ensure that forestry is carried out in a long-term, sustainable manner: PEFC™ (Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification™) and FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council®). Whereas PEFC™ was established on the initiative of a range of forest owners and the timber industry, FSC® is the brainchild of a number of green organisations. FSC® is the only forest certification approved by the WWF and the Rainforest Alliance. Both certification programmes are monitored by a neutral, external third party. Globally, 8% of the world’s forests were certified in 2010. The Nordic countries, however, have made much more progress. In fact, around 80% of the forests in this region are certified in accordance with FSC® or PEFC™ – or both. Chain of custody (CoC) An important part of the work of FSC® and PEFC™ is to act as guarantor for the origin of the wood. To 9 receive FSC® and PEFC™ certification – and therefore have the right to sell certified products – the company has to be able to document the origin of the wood. The traceability requirement applies to all links in the value chain, irrespective of how many stages there may be between the felled tree and the finished item of furniture. Only in this way can the end user be sure that the wood used to make the furniture stems from a responsible source. The forests and the climate The forests are extremely important to the climate of our planet. As plants grow they assimilate CO2, which they release again when they die or are burned. Around 80% of the CO2 on land is bound up in the forests. When areas of forest disappear, this affects the CO2 balance and contributes to climate change. Every year an area of forest three times the size of Denmark disappears. Deforestation is a global climate problem, but a problem that we – as a manufacturer of wood-based furniture – can make a positive contribution to reducing. In contrast to what many people may think, the solution is not to stop using wood as a material for furniture. Rather, it is to use wood in a sustainable manner. Sustainable management of forests entails using the forest in a responsible manner that lives up to the established requirements that cover ecological, social and financial aspects. Replanting ensures that forestry operations can be run from the long-term perspective and thus accommodate both social and financial considerations. Sustainable forestry means: • Running forestry operations responsibly and from a long-term perspective • Not removing more trees than the forest itself can manage to reproduce • Maintaining the forest as an eco-system, including its biodiversity • Improving social and financial conditions for the people who live off and in the forest • Running forestry operations in a financially profitable manner • Monitoring forestry operations and adapting them as and when necessary The social aspects of forest certification PEFC™ certified forests are operated from a sustainable perspective. Sustainability is not just about the climate and the environment. It also has to do with safeguarding the conditions for the people who live off and in the forests, in both the short and the long term. PEFC™ traceability certification requires the certified companies to live up to a range of social requirements: • Employees are to be free to organise and to apply collective bargaining • Forced labour is prohibited • Child labour is prohibited, and minimum age requirements must be respected • Equal pay, and • No discrimination 10 FSC® licence code: FSC® C104600 and PEFC™ licence code: PEFC/09-31-044 FSC® lays down requirements for the forest to be operated in a responsible manner. This applies not only to ecological issues, but also to social and financial aspects. The three aspects are not viewed in isolation, but as a coherent whole, which defines responsible forestry. Eco-friendly driving Every phase of the products’ life cycle is linked to transport – when the components are to be brought together, when the finished product is to be delivered to the end user, and when the product is to be disposed of at the end of its service life. Minimising and improving the efficiency of transport is therefore an important focus area with regard to improving the carbon footprint of the furniture. The vast majority of goods within the Danish borders are transported by lorry. A trip of 1000 km in a lorry emits 315 kg of CO2 into the environment, and lorries account for 5% of the total CO2 emissions in Denmark. (Cars account for more than twice this figure: 12%). It is possible to improve the carbon footprint of lorry transport in a number of ways: • Pack intelligently: make maximum use of the space in the freight compartment, and use less packaging • Drive intelligently: drive fewer, more intelligent runs through the application of route planning and zone distribution • Drive well: energy-efficient driving • Replace: use lorries with improved fuel utilisation and fewer emissions. All Duba-B8 fitters are trained in eco-friendly driving to ensure that CO2 emissions are kept to a minimum. When the furniture is to be delivered, it is packed so tightly that fewer transport runs are necessary, which helps minimise the number of kilometres driven. In addition, we work hard to optimise the packaging of our products. For our large complete deliveries, we sometimes do not use packaging at all as we ship the furniture unassembled. Re-entry In 2010, Duba-B8 signed its first re-entry agreement with a customer. The agreement stated that Duba-B8 was to take the customer’s old furniture back to the factory and dispose of it in the most environmentally responsible manner. This agreement marked the start of a new service concept, which simultaneously completes the life cycle of our furniture. In the Re-entry section of our goods reception department, the old furniture is disassembled into material fractions and then sorted on the basis of the most resource-friendly and sustainable disposal options. To date, only a few of our customers have signed re-entry agreements with us, but we hope that these agreements will become increasingly common in the future. The goal of our Re-entry management service is to make it easy for our customers to act in a sustainable and responsible manner – even when disposing of their old furniture. 11 From waste to valuable resource: Metal parts for reuse After cleaning and a little renovation, some components can be reused. This means completely carbon and climate neutral components for new furniture. Metal parts for recycling All other metal parts are completely recycled. Wood components: 10% are used for heating the Duba-B8 site in Bjerringbro, Denmark, thus replacing fossil fuels. 90% are recycled by our Danish supplier of sheet material and thus become new furniture. Electrical parts Recycled in accordance with the WEEE Directive concerning the disposal of electrical and electronic components. All components in electrical parts are recycled. Plastic: Pure plastic parts are 100% recycled (e.g. the MOLO chair, which is made of ABS plastic). Mixed plastic components such as upholstered parts are used to generate energy in district heating installations. Here, the natu rally high combustion value of plastic is utilised to ensure improved energy utilisation of other household waste. Cardboard: Used for packaging and completely recycled. Furniture for reuse Furniture that can be resold is donated to The Danish Cancer Society’s secondhand shops, where the profits from its sale are used to support the work of the Danish Cancer Society. Environmental requirements on suppliers We require the same high standards of our suppliers as we do of ourselves. Any company wishing to become a Duba-B8 supplier is required to provide documentation of the components’ impact on the environment, quality and the working environment. Our subcontractors must likewise abide by the environmental standards and regulations that apply within the EU. Anti-Corruption Principles Even though we are based in Scandinavia, whose countries are rated among the least corrupt in the world, we must take into account conditions in the rest of the world – primarily in relation to our suppliers. We must seek to avoid putting ourselves in positions where bribery and corruption are necessary. For this reason, none of Duba-B8’s employees grants or accepts undue benefits to or from Danish or foreign officials or private sector representatives. We at Duba-B8 are familiar with, respect and abide by anti-corruption regulations as expressed in Danish legislation. Accounts and bookkeeping Duba-B8 meets applicable legislation and best practices in accounts and bookkeeping. At Duba-B8, 12 bookkeeping, budgets, audits, project evaluation, etc. must produce accurate data in accordance with best accounting practices. Corporate assets must be recognised in their entirety in the company’s principal ledgers. Acceptance of gifts Duba-B8 employees must not accept gifts or services from customers, potential customers or suppliers, the acceptance of which might influence decision-making in any way that is contrary to the best interests of Duba-B8. Furthermore, Duba-B8 employees are not permitted to solicit current or potential customers or suppliers by giving them gifts or services. Employees may, however, give and receive gifts where such exchange is an ordinary, acceptable business practice. The maximum acceptable value for gifts and services given or received must be in accordance with the level that is customary in the industry. An employee’s immediate superior shall ascertain on a case-by-case basis if the gift-giving can be considered acceptable business practice. Exchanging modest gifts with customers and suppliers from time to time is intrinsic to certain functions at Duba-B8. In this context, it is customary to share such gifts with colleagues or pass them on to colleagues in functions that do not normally receive gifts. If an employee is offered a gift or service, the value of which exceeds the level customary in the industry, he or she must notify his/her immediate superior or the Chairman of the Board. Money transactions and other kinds of rewards that are not part of the recipient’s work-related obligations, and which are made for the purpose of obtaining specific competitive advantages for Duba-B8, are not only infringements of the Duba-B8 Code of Conduct, but also in breach of international conventions and the national legislation in most countries. This applies regardless of whether the recipient is employed by a customer, by a public authority, or simply not a Duba-B8 employee. Duba-B8 employees are not permitted to participate in any transactions of this kind. It is particularly important that: 1. Duba-B8 employees do not become involved in any kind of agreement or trading that includes kickbacks or similar kinds of financial rewards. 2. Duba-B8 employees do not transfer sums of money to public sector employees, except where this is determined by law or by dint of a signed agreement with a public authority to this effect. 3. Duba-B8 never pays commission or makes similar payments to intermediaries, except where such payments are made on the basis of a written agreement that includes a detailed description of the task/ purpose. 4. Duba-B8 never transfers money prior to a tender. 13 The ten principles of the UN Global Compact in practice Three cases The following section presents three examples intended to describe how we work with and apply the ten principles in our everyday operations. Case 1: Reuse as a design philosophy (The following text was previously published in the Duba-B8 Freedom at work magazine as part of a special theme issue on sustainability, and focuses on life cycle design as an approach to envisaging products – an approach that carries both environmental and financial advantages. Freedom at work magazine is published by Duba-B8 and has a readership of 3,700 regular subscribers) One man’s trash is another man’s treasure When office furniture is scrapped, it is often because some parts have become worn. Although only a few parts are affected the entire item is scrapped. At global level, the volume of waste is increasing at explosive pace at the same time as natural resources are being exhausted. Thinking and acting in a sustainable manner involves considering the entire life cycle of the product. This includes thinking about how scrapped furniture can become a resource and a source of new products. At Duba-B8, scrap is a valued resource. When an electrically operated desk is delivered to the customer from Duba-B8, it has 10–15 years ahead of it as a desk before its useful cycle comes to an end. At the end of its service life, it is scrapped – but some of its parts are still fully functional. This is because some components wear out faster than others. When the desk is scrapped, it is often because the electrical parts are worn out. During the intervening period, the internal electrical components have probably raised and lowered the desk around 5,000 times, and the desktop is likely to have been replaced 3–5 times. The scrapped desktops are returned to Duba-B8 and used to heat the production facilities at the company’s factory in Bjerringbro, Denmark. They thus replace a proportion of the fossil fuel used for heating. When, after 10 years of service, the entire desk returns to Duba-B8, it is disassembled into various fragments. The metal parts can continue working the longest – for at least two use cycles in principle. Therefore, these components are sorted. Some metal parts are renovated and reused, some are melted down for reuse, and the wood components are used for fuel. All electrical parts are reused under the WEEE recycling directive, and nothing goes to waste. Desks from Duba-B8 are designed to be disassembled. They consist of a small number of simple components, and the desktops are fitted using Duba-B8’s patented desk system. This makes it simple to replace worn desktops without having to replace the entire desk – which is, of course, good for the environment and for our customers’ finances. 14 Case 2: Bamboo as a material The popularity of bamboo has been increasing for quite a while now on account of the environmental benefits of using the material, and a number of furniture designers have experimented with it. However, no manufacturer has yet launched bamboo office furniture onto the market. Towards the end of 2010, DubaB8 decided to investigate whether bamboo was suitable as a material for office furniture. Bamboo grows faster than any other plant in the world, and it can produce a great deal of biomass per hectare. A bamboo plant grows approximately 20 metres in its first year and can be harvested when it is six years old. Every two years, a new bamboo plant shoots from the same root, which means that bamboo can be harvested every second year. This means that bamboo is classed as a rapidly renewable resource. By way of comparison, a beech tree has to grow for 150 years before it can be used to make furniture, and when it is felled … well, that’s the end of it. Bamboo assimilates the most CO2 of any plant and thus makes a significant contribution to combating the greenhouse effect. In a single hectare, bamboo produces 35% more oxygen than the same area planted with trees. Bamboo is a member of the grass family, so it is not actually a tree. However, even with its low mass of just 0.9 grams per cm3 (lightness), bamboo is 16% harder than the hardest woods. Bamboo is readily usable, too, as there is no need to cut branches and knots out of the wood before using it to make veneer. There is a special type of bamboo that is used to make veneer. It grows in southern China and can reach heights of up to 40 metres. Therefore, we had to find a Chinese supplier of bamboo veneer. In selecting the supplier, we analysed the occupational health and safety aspects of the veneer production as well as the environmental impact of the processing work itself. Duba-B8 eventually found a supplier who incorporated sustainability in all areas of the process and used no chemicals at all in the actual veneer production. The bamboo is processed by machines and the colour of the veneer is controlled by boiling it. The water from the boiling process is reused for other purposes. We at Duba-B8 operate under the principle that the organic materials we use in furniture production (wood, bamboo, etc.) must be produced in a sustainable manner. Our supplier of bamboo veneer is FSCcertified and can therefore document that the bamboo used comes from responsibly run plantations, where the workers are guaranteed safety equipment and a fair wage. The majority of the organic materials we use for our furniture production are grown in Europe, which means that they only need to be transported relatively short distances to our factory in Bjerringbro, Denmark. So how about the transportation of the bamboo veneer – wouldn’t it upset the company’s entire carbon footprint? We took on the task of establishing how much CO2 is emitted from the transport of bamboo. We discovered that it challenged our preconception that distance is the decisive factor with regard to carbon emissions. It is actually the means of transport that defines the level of emissions. The 15 larger the volume transported per litre of fuel, the lower the carbon impact per ton of material transported. Transport by container ship – which is the method used to carry bamboo veneer from China, for example – emits 4.5 kg of CO2 per ton of veneer over the course of its 17,000 km voyage. By way of comparison, a human being emits 900 g of CO2 per day – simply by breathing. On the basis of our study, we decided to launch a range of bamboo office furniture comprising raise/lower desks, storage solutions and “Runner”, Kasper Salto’s award-winning meeting room chair. The bamboo Runner model in particular has gone on to become a firm favourite with our customers. Not only is it an attractive designer chair, but it is also a chair that fully aligns with the principles of the UN Global Compact. “If we choose eco-friendly materials and then have the products manufactured in places where people receive a fair wage and enjoy good working conditions that nurture the individual and his/her safety and well-being, then we have made real progress – bamboo is a really attractive material in every respect.” Kasper Salto Case 3: MOLO MOLO – a chair that looks good, lasts a long time, can be recycled, is comfortable to sit in and contributes to a good cause when you buy it. Duba-B8’s new chair for 2011 is and does good. MOLO was designed for Duba-B8 by the design team Norway Says. The shape of the MOLO chair is organic but nevertheless clear and finely defined – which are traits that normally distinguish design from Norway Says. MOLO is actually not a chair, but a whole family of chairs. It has a wide range of uses and is ideal for canteens, coffee lounges, conference halls or meeting rooms. The MOLO shell is made of ABS, which is an eco-friendly, self-sustaining type of plastic. ABS can be completely reused or used to generate energy in incineration plants without harming the environment. The MOLO frame is made of chrome, which means that it has an exceptionally long service life (15 years) without showing signs of wear. MOLO is simple to disassemble into material fractions for reuse or energy generation. MOLO – the latest chair from the major Norwegian design team Norway Says, which consists of Torbjørn Andersen, Espen Voll and Andreas Engesvik. Norway Says has made its mark on a range of design projects both locally and internationally, and, through its finely honed sense for shape and design, has helped Norwegian design to bloom. Designer chair supports the Danish Child Cancer Foundation A feature common to all the models in the range is that their organic shape radiates care and support. For this very reason, Duba-B8 has chosen to make the new MOLO an ambassador for the work to help children with cancer and their families. For every MOLO chair Duba-B8 sells in 2011, a donation of DKK 10 will be made to the Danish Child Cancer Foundation (Børnecancerfonden). It is no accident that Duba-B8 has chosen to sponsor the Danish Child Cancer Foundation. Cancer is a terrible illness that generally affects adults, so it is particularly horrible when it affects children. For many years, children with cancer have had the lowest recovery percentage of all population groups. It takes specialist knowledge and different methods to treat cancer in children. It is essential to involve the entire family in the treatment. The cancer does more than affect the child – it has a severe impact on all the family. Using Duba-B8’s new range of chairs – MOLO – as the spearhead of the sponsorship work is not the only measure the company will be using in 2011 to assist children with cancer and their families. Duba-B8 is also supporting the annual Team Rynkeby cycle ride, “Tour de Paris”. Team Rynkeby is the principal sponsor of the Danish Child Cancer Foundation, and every year the organisation sends 500 charity cyclists 16 off to Paris. Christian J. Flarup, CEO of Duba-B8 and family father, will be cycling the route from Ringe in Denmark to Paris to raise awareness of the good cause. In addition, the executive offices of the Danish Child Cancer Foundation are furnished with sponsored furniture from Duba-B8, and the familiar green wristband bearing the Børnecancerfonden logo is on sale at all Duba-B8 showrooms. “We could have chosen simply to write a cheque and leave it at that. Instead, we have decided to run a number of initiatives at intervals throughout the year. In this way, we hope to keep focusing attention on the aims and work of the Danish Child Cancer Foundation.” Jeanette Holmgaard, HR and CSR Executive at Duba-B8 There is plenty of support for the sponsorship project both internally at Duba-B8 and externally among the company’s customers. It is particularly pleasing to know that what we do makes a difference to others, simply by doing what we do on a daily basis – furnishing Scandinavian companies and, through our solutions, creating freedom at work for our customers, our customers’ employees, the environment and our surroundings. 17 18 19 Showrooms Bjerringbro Martin Bachs Vej 5 DK-8850 Bjerringbro Tlf. +45 70 10 24 10 Fax +45 70 10 24 40 Email: info@duba-b8.com Søborg Vandtårnsvej 62 DK 2860 Søborg Tlf. + 45 70 10 24 10 Fax + 45 70 10 24 20 Email: info@duba-b8.com Oslo Pilestredet 27, 2. etg. N-0164 Oslo, Norge Tlf. +47 23 35 48 38 Fax +47 23 35 48 39 Email: oslo@duba-b8.com Odense Svendborgvej 102 DK-5260 Odense S Tlf. +45 70 10 24 10 Fax +45 70 10 24 40 Email: info@duba-b8.com www.duba-b8.com 20
