COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS 2011 “Everyone wins when people get an opportunity to show what they can do.” Robert Ontiveros Chairman & Founder commitment sustainability purpose|tomorrow our mission Group O will enrich our environment by investing in the world we live in. We will educate and encourage our employees and partner organizations to embrace sustainable values and encourage a zero waste ideology. We will comply with all legal and regulatory requirements. We will communicate our progress to our stakeholders and will require them to hold the business accountable on its sustainability efforts. our vision We are committed to making tomorrow better than today by continually improving our greatest resources ... our earth and our people. people sustainability our sustainability strategies To embed purpose|tomorrow in our culture, we will: • Educate & increase awareness • Solicit opportunities • Build involvement & support • Benchmark & measure progress • Recognize success our sustainability objectives • Sa Safe e Work o Environment o e t • Community Service • Reduce Carbon Footprint • Talent Retention • Transparency p y purpose|tomorrow sustainability In support of our mission, we: • Sponsor and help build Habitat for Humanity homes • Donate funds to help disaster relief efforts • Initiate intern programs to support our talent retention efforts • Recognize success with Ovations, our employee l recognition iti program • Invest in our community p p | purpose|tomorrow human rights B i Business should h ld supportt and the protection d respectt th t ti off iinternationally t ti ll proclaimed l i dHHuman Ri Rights ht andd make k sure that th t they li it in th are nott complicit i hhuman rights i ht abuses. b PRINCIPLE 1 PRINCIPLE 2 Group O is committed to promoting the human rights values manifested in Group O is committed to conducting business in an ethical and responsible our Standard of Conduct and Human Resources Policies and Practices. We manner. We respect and support international principles aimed at protecting are committed to fostering an environment of respect, integrity and fairness and promoting human rights, as described in the United Nations' Universal for our employees and customers wherever we do business, and we expect Declaration on Human Rights and the International Labor Organization's (ILO) that our business partners will operate the same way. We support the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Group O strives to protection and preservation of human rights around the world and are operate in compliance with all applicable laws wherever we do business and guided by fundamental principles of human rights, such as those in the we expect that our business partners will operate the same way. United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Rights It is the policy of Group O to ensure equal employment opportunity without discrimination or harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability, marital status, citizenship or any other characteristic protected by law. Group O prohibits any such discrimination or harassment. Group O recognizes and adheres to all labor and employment laws wherever it operates, including those respecting freedom of association, privacy, and equal employment opportunity. Group O encourages reporting of all observed and suspected violations of the law and Group O Policies, including Group O’s Rules of Conduct. Every Group O employee is required to participate in new new-hire hire training, training during which they receive Group O’s Standard of Conduct and Policies on Nondiscrimination, Equal Employment Opportunity, Workplace Safety and Security, Harassment, among many others. labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 3 Group O’s commitment to fair labor standards provides employees with the i ht to right t freely f l associate i t with i t or nott associate ith third-party thi d t labor l b organizations, i ti along with the right to bargain or not bargain collectively; fair compensation for the work they do; and protection from every form of discrimination. Through our Open Door Policy, we provide an environment of open communication where employees can speak with their managers about their ideas, ideas concerns, concerns or problems, problems and team together to address workplace issues. issues Group O is committed to protecting freedom of association for all of its employees wherever we conduct business. This policy is applicable to business partners and is universally applied independent of local laws. PRINCIPLE 4 Under no circumstances does Group O tolerate the use of forced or compulsory labor. As stated in the Employee Handbook, Group O upholds ‘employment at will’ relationships. A worker’s employment can be terminated by either the employee or the employer at any time, for any reason, with or without notice. We provide competitive compensation and benefits, programs for balancing the demands of work and home, home a safe and friendly work environment, environment and ample opportunities for learning and career advancement. Group O’s workforce is diverse; comprised of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of age, ethnicities, religions and races. To protect our employees from abuse or harassment and ensure that our working environment is inclusive and respectful of all employees, Group O implements a strict policy against any sort of harassment or discrimination. labor Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective abolition of child labor; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 5 PRINCIPLE 6 It is the policy of Group O to comply with all child labor laws regarding prohibition Group O strongly believes a company is only as healthy and viable as of child labor and child exploitation. exploitation We understand that children may the people it employs – employees are the base on which success is legitimately perform tasks that do not interfere with their education and do not built. This core belief sits at the heart of Group O’s corporate culture negatively affect their health, safety and development. Although Group O’s and was one of the major catalysts for establishing our business model strictly follows all federal, state and local (human rights) laws of purpose|tomorrow initiative in 2008. The vision of purpose|tomorrow our country, we hold ourselves to a higher standard as to how our company ‘…is to make tomorrow better than today by continually improving our functions within the communities we operate and within the local, national and greatest resources, our earth and our people.’ global business world. Group O has established a minimum hiring age of 18. Group O expects business partners (suppliers and contractors) with whom It is the policy of Group O to provide equal employment and we do business to embrace similar values and standards. advancement opportunities to all individuals regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, or disability or any other characteristic protected by law. All applicants are considered for employment and/or promotion based on their education, education training, training experience, skill, attitude, and any other pertinent job requirements. This policy governs all aspects of employment including selection, job assignment, compensation, discipline, termination, and access to benefits and training. All applicants are considered for employment Ethnicity 2011 and/or promotion based on their education, training, experience, skill, White – 46% attitude, and any other pertinent job requirements. Group O Hispanic or Latino – 35% recognizes and adheres to all labor and employment laws whenever it Black or African operates, including those respecting freedom of association, privacy, American – 17% and equal employment opportunity. Group O expects business Asian – 2% partners (suppliers and contractors) with whom we do business to embrace similar values and standards. standards Gender Male – 65% Female – 35% environmental pp a p Business should support precautionaryy approach pp g ; undertake initiatives to p to environmental challenges; promote ggreater environmental responsibility; p y; and encourage g the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Kwh PRINCPLE 7 Group O will enrich our environment by investing in the world we live in. We will educate and encourage our employees and partner organizations to embrace sustainable values and encourage a zero waste ideology. We will comply with all legal and regulatory requirements. We will communicate our progress to our stakeholders and will require them to hold the business accountable on its sustainability efforts. We will reduce our carbon footprint as it relates to the amount of greenhouse gases produced in our day-to-day lives resulting from the consumption of natural resources. 1st Qtr 2010 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr 1st Qtr 2011 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 PRODUCTION ENERGY MINIMIZATION Energy reduction initiatives through equipment upgrades pg in 2010 reduced our demand for electricity 10% while production increased 24%. 1st Qtr 2010 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 4th Qtr 1st Qtr 2011 2nd Qtr 3rd Qtr 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 stretch film SMART Audit ® verifiable cost savings The SMART Audit ® program achieved the following results in Year 1 and Year 2 for one of Group O’s top food and beverage clients. Through gauge reduction, equipment upgrades/ modifications, and total wrap count reduction, the following savings were seen for the client. The environmental impacts are also shown below. Dollars Pounds Year 1 $4,399,622 4,018,955 Year 2 $3 969 210 $3,969,210 3,795,704 3 795 704 Total Savings $430,412 223,251 % Decrease 9.78% 5.55% Resin Savings : Barrels of oil saved: 223,251 lbs 364 Cars not driven CO2 Emissions for 1 year: Reduced: 34 156 metric tons environmental pp a p Business should support precautionary y approach pp g ; undertake initiatives to p to environmental challenges; promote g greater environmental responsibility; p y; and encourageg the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCPLE 8 The Group O Sustainability Mission: Group O will enrich our environment by investing in the world we live in. We will educate and encourage our employees and partner organizations to embrace sustainable values and encourage a zero waste ideology. We will comply with all legal and regulatory g y requirements. q We will communicate our p progress g to our stakeholders and will require them to hold the business accountable on its sustainability efforts. To embed Sustainability in our culture, we will work within the following strategies: Boys & Girls Club Golf Outing Event hits its 10th Year! • Educate The annual golf event supporting the Boys & Girls Club of the Mississippi • Increase awareness Valley is a major event in our community. The club is a safe place for • Solicit opportunities area children to go and learn life skills. For the past ten years, Group O • Build involvement & support has organized and hosted this event and attributes its success to the • Benchmark & measure p progress g generous donations of our partners, vendors, customers, and friends. All • Recognize success of the proceeds raised at this event go directly to provide programs and services for 6-18 year-olds during critical out-of school time at one of our Club locations in the Quad City area. The outing impacts the lives of more than 1,200 Boys and Girls Club members. In 2011, we topped over $1,000,000 raised for the BGC over the last 10 years. environmental pp a p Business should support precautionaryy approach pp g ; undertake initiatives to p to environmental challenges; promote g greater environmental responsibility; p y; and encourage g the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 9 Group O annually participates in Living Lands and Group O operations and equipment are to meet or Waters X-Stream cleanup of the Mississippi River banks. banks Our employees and their families volunteer exceed federal, state, and local environmental for a day of clean up resulting in the improvement of requirements using the most effective and our environment. economical methods available. Group O will consider best practices and technologies for the purpose of implementing the most efficient and effective pollution prevention programs and processes that will minimize the use of hazardous For more than 20 years, Group O employees have materials and generation of hazardous bi-products participated – in the classroom and at the Board level and waste. Group O is committed to manage and – in the Junior Achievement (JA) program. As the world’s largest organization dedicated to educating reduce waste through the development and students about workforce readiness, JA help students implementation of recycling programs, and gain entrepreneurship and financial literacy skills processes. Group O employees are to assess the through hands-on programs. environmental impact in business planning and decision making to promote a healthy and safe workplace for employees, and protect the environment, its resources, and the community. Group p O annuallyy p participates p in a Sustainabilityy Summit hosted by a large client. The show is designed to provide attendees with new ideas for improving sustainability programs, connect customers with valued suppliers, drive productivity and cost savings. In 2011 over 600 attendees with 200 exhibitors participated. environmental pp a p Business should support precautionaryy approach pp g ; undertake initiatives to p to environmental challenges; promote g greater environmental responsibility; p y; and encourage g the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Employee-led Earth Day and Recycling Initiatives The Group O’s purpose|tomorrow team members reported the following spring activities: • Group O celebrated Earth Day (April 21st) by handing out 200 trees to employees in the Quad Cities. The purpose|tomorrow effort was in conjunction with the Living Lands and Waters Million Trees Project. • New recycling bins were installed in all facilities in the Quad Cities as part of the Uniform Recycling Program. The goal of this program is for consistent and visible recycling so employees and visitors always know where to find a recycle bin. • Employees who wore green for Earth Day or who were “caught” recycling were given reusable shopping bags as part of the “Go Go Green and Win Win” initiatives. • 2011 year to date recycling initiatives diverted 5,429 cubic feet of materials from the landfill. anti-corruption B i Businesses h ld work should i t allll fforms off corruption, k against ti l di extortion iincluding t ti and db ib bribery. Rules of Conduct At Group O we take conducting business ethically and legally seriously. Group O expects employees to follow rules of conduct that will protect the interests and safety of all employees and the organization and to work within all federal and state laws. Infractions I f ti hi h are considered which id d to t be b actst off misconduct i d t or in i violation i l ti off any state, t t local, or federal laws may result in immediate disciplinary action, up to and including termination. As example; • Illegal conduct of any kind • Prohibited solicitation • Refusal to fully cooperate with the Company in any investigation relating to the workplace o p ace • Violation of any Company rule, policy or standard • Inducing another employee to commit any breach of the rules or regulations Group O SYSTEM Rules of Conduct are part of our employee handbook. Each new employee is required to receive handbook training and sign a document that documents they have received and understand. This becomes part of the employee file record and is kept in Human Resources. • Maintain the documents on our Management System (KRONOS) • Suggestion Boxes are available and maintained by Human Resources for the employees to use for reporting non-compliance • Open Door policy within Human Resources to report any infraction to our policies • Sourcing groups are given training on Ethical Supply Management as part of their on-boarding Group O ACTIVITIES • Both an internal and external communication was sent to announce our participation in UN Global Compact and announcing our support of the Principles • We post on our website our commitment to being a participating member of UN Global Compact as well as SEDEX • We have continual training events within the organization to emphasize our stand on anti-corruption with our Supply Management teams • We make known our position in all client and supplier presentations Group O PERFORMANCE We have no instances of legal action taken either for or against Group O in the area of corruption, including extortion or bribery.
