PIRAEUS BANK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 20 years supporting of support the economic of the economic activityactivity and the of the local local communities societies, with acontributing contributiontotothe thesafeguarding safeguarding of culture and protection protectionofofthe theenvironment environment. Piraeus Bank believes that the development of economic activity is most successful when it takes place within a social environment, in which the quality of life, cultural standing and protection of the natural environment also play an important role in business decisions. This belief has been guiding Piraeus Bank’s actions consistently for the last two decades, thus acting with its business targets as guidelines but with its social, cultural and environmental commitments as its basis. Foreseeing the social benefits and the economic prospects of green entrepreneurship, the Bank has focused on systematically supporting environmentally friendly business activities and encourages its customers who invest in this new field of development, thus playing also a leading role in the sector of the green economy. 3 Chairman’s Note The difficult economic conjuncture we are facing today requires both collective effort and individual responsibility in order for the necessary and substantial reorganisation to take place in the Greek economy and Greek community in general. Piraeus Bank is on such a course responsibly and fully aware that our actions have a direct or indirect impact on households, businesses and their employees both in Greece and in the countries we have been operating for more than a decade. We are dealing with these challenges responsibly, realistically and with guarded optimism. We are providing actions to assist entrepreneurship and enhance competitiveness. We support initiatives, aiming to improve the productivity of new sectors with potential and to promote new fields that are dynamic, innovative and with a notable scope for development, such as green economy, e-banking and venture capital. The Bank’s response to these challenges remains creative. We support:  the efforts to restructure the Greek economy and its transition to a new, sustainable form of development as well as the economic recovery in the wider geographical region;  our customers according to their specialised needs and demands, particularly now that those needs have had to adjust to the present economic conditions;  our shareholders, by shielding the Bank and by strengthening the structures and transparency of corporate governance;  our employees, by contributing to their constant development and to the necessary balance between professional and personal life;  our suppliers, our business partners and also our social partners on a mutual benefit basis and harmonious collaboration;  every effort to protect the environment, both in our internal operation and by sharing our know-how with all our partners;  the efforts to preserve the culture, traditional technologies and industrial heritage, with an emphasis on the Greek periphery through our Museum Network;  the principles of the UN Global Compact for the protection of human and labour rights, and the environment and the efforts to eliminate corruption. In this report, we present the Corporate Responsibility principles we work by and the specific actions and results achieved in 2010 and outline the targets we have set for the future. Our effort has been and remains collective, with specific commitment to all our stakeholders and with the principles of trust, solidarity, innovation and creativity – values that are more important than ever nowadays. Michalis Sallas Chairman of the Board of Directors 5 Reduction Employee of Ecological Training Footprint 1 2 3 4 climabiz Preservation of Cultural Heritage CONTENTS Selected Figures Associated with 2010 Corporate Responsibility 9 Corporate Responsibility Principles 10 Stakeholders’ Dialogue 11 Corporate Responsibility Key Actions and Targets 13 Participation in Organisations, Indices and Distinctions 17 1. Corporate Governance 21 2. Customer and Supplier Relationship 27 3. Human Resources 33 4. Society, Environment and Culture 41 Appendix: GRI Reporting Content 57 Selected Figures Associated with 2010 Corporate Responsibility Human Resources 13,320 people Human Resources Compensation and Benefits €411 mn Piraeus Group Training Man-hours 446,000 Group seminars 2,794 seminars Bank Engagement and Satisfaction Index 76% (November 2010) Piraeus Group Customers 3.4 mn Customer Satisfaction Index (Greece) 95% of total, based on independent survey Shareholders 153,000 Total Tax in Full Year 2010 €32 mn of which extraordinary corporate responsibility €25 mn contribution imposed on large enterprises in Greece for profits posted in 2009 Contribution to social, cultural and environmental actions, 1.7 % of the Group’s FY 2010 pre-provision programmes and initiatives and tax profit Museum Network – Visitors 7 museums operating in select sites of the Greek periphery with 97,000 visitors in 2010:  Silk Museum, Soufli  Open-Air Water Power Museum, Dimitsana  Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil, Sparta  Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Lesvos, Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos island  Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas, Volos  Museum of Marble Crafts, Pyrgos, Tinos island  Environment Museum of Stymphalia Selected Environmental Indices  Transformation of 45 branches in Greece into specialised green branches  51% increase in approved green loan credit limits versus 2009  Training of more than 2,000 employees in Green Banking, the Environmental Management System and other environmental issues  Increase in all recycling indices (paper, ink, batteries, plastic)  Reduction in business trips by car per employee by 13% (against 5% target) in 2010 versus 2009  Completion of the external auditing process leading to the ISO 14001 and EMAS certification 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES Corporate Responsibility Principles Corporate Responsibility is the voluntary commitment to include social, environmental and cultural actions in business practices and the assumption of initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and progress. Principles and Commitments Harmonious Relationship with Social Partners  R  eturning part of the value generated by the Bank to its social partners within a strategically designed and systematic framework of social actions. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity  Customer support before and after product and service sales, with emphasis on the Bank’s consulting role.  Support of entrepreneurial initiatives aimed at the promotion of competitive fields with potential and prospects for growth. Corporate Governance Optimisation  Transparency in governance and organisational structures.  Adoption and realisation of best practices of governance and operation.  S ymmetric and systematic information dissemination to the investment and business communities, media and NGOs.  Transparent supplier/business partner evaluation and selection processes. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices  Development of a humane and responsible organisation, where competent and engaged employees work together to lead the market, innovate by adding value and ensure the prosperity and sustainability of the Group. Environment Protection using natural resources responsibly and supporting environmentally beneficial business activities  Continuous support of green entrepreneurship through development of new green products and enhancement of existing ones.  Development of strategies to improve the Group’s environmental performance and reduce its ecological and carbon footprints.  Implementation of institutional and natural risk management procedures due to climate change and the development of evaluation tools.  Support to individuals and businesses and strengthening of the market to better adapt to the effects of climate change. Promotion of Culture  Active contribution to the promotion of Greece’s cultural identity via the creation of a museum network in Greece (events, educational programmes).  Ongoing research programmes and publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation.  Safeguarding and highlighting of the Bank’s historical archive.  Providing scientific consultancy to organisations and contributing to the shaping of cultural policies. 10 Stakeholders’ dialogue The table below shows the basic stakeholders with whom the Bank cooperates and the general framework of this cooperation. As this cooperation is systematic and of particular importance to the Bank, regular communication and dialogue channels have been designed. Their main aspects are as follows: Stakeholder Cooperation Framework Ways of Cooperation Investors Information regarding the   eneral Meetings of Shareholders G course and strategy of the  Disclosure of Financial Results Group to evaluate invest(presentations, press releases, ment in Piraeus Bank teleconferences, internet)  Communication of business developments (press releases, internet)  Contacts with the Management and the specialised Business Planning and Investor Relations Division (events, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows)  Contacts with the Shareholder Registry Investment Analysts Information regarding the   ontact with Management and C course and strategy of the specialised Business Planthe Group to evaluate inning and Investor Relations Divestment in Piraeus Bank vision (presentations, meetings, shares or securities teleconferences, roadshows)  Disclosure of Financial Results (presentations, press releases, teleconferences)  Communication of business developments (press releases) Credit rating firms Information regarding the  C  ontacts and meetings with the course and strategy of the Management and appropriate Group to evaluate the credBank units it rating of Piraeus Bank  Delivery of financial data Banks Mutual Information sharing  Contact and meetings with relevant Bank units Customers Responsible information  2  4h Customer Call Centre and provision of products  Branch network and alternative and services with respect to channels (ATMs, e-banking) the code of business con C ustomer Service-complaint duct and business ethics handling procedure  Seminars and informative meetings with customer groups  Customer satisfaction survey at regular intervals  Social Media Employees and Open Communication  Internal communication network their families (intranet)  Internal newsletter “winners” distributed to all Group employees 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 STAKEHOLDERS’ DIALOGUE Stakeholder Cooperation Framework Ways of Cooperation Employees and Ongoing development, fair   iraeus Bank Group Employee P their families treatment and reward of Satisfaction Survey human resources  Training programmes  Established procedure for emCare for the improvement ployee performance review and of quality of life of emcompetency appraisal ployees in all aspects of  Employee Assistance Programmes their lives  Collective Representation Business Community Mutual cooperation on a  D  ialogue and cooperation with win-win basis Trade Associations, Commercial, and Industrial Chambers  Participation in Seminars and other information events Non Governmental Supporting environmental   ynergies for common interest S Organisations and social actions actions (the environment, society, culture)  Financial support of specific NGO actions Local Communities Supporting local actions   peration of a Museum Network O on a national level (support of local economies, job positions, local suppliers)  Support of local social and cultural events and educational programmes  Assuming an advisory scientific role in cultural and development actions upon request  M eetings to exchange views on common interest issues Suppliers / Service Cooperation on a win-win  Established procedures for supProviders basis plier and service provider tendering, evaluation and selection through outsourcing  Seminars, information meetings and attendance of live material demonstrations for large procurements of information systems, etc  Green supplies & procurement State-Regulatory Group compliance with the   rdinar y and extraordinar y O Authorities regulatory framework communication with supervision authorities (data provision, meetings, participation in consultations) Media Information – communica P  ress releases and conferences tion – promotion of cor Promotion, communication camporate and product Group paigns actions  Communication with the Bank’s Press Office  Social Media 12 Corporate Responsibility Key Actions and Targets Business Environment Targets  Funding of approved investment programmes to Greek businesses within the framework of National Strategic Reference Framework.  Support of green business through new product solutions.  Emphasis on e-banking services for enhanced transparency, increase in the use of natural resources, more efficient transactions.  Continuation of support to small and medium size businesses in collaboration with competent organisations (e.g. EBRD, for countries in SE Europe). Key Actions  Approx. 130,000 new customers in Greece, reaching 2.4 mn at the end of 2010. 1 mn customers stemming from Group’s international operations. 2010  Maintaining market share in Greece.  Establishment of Customer Experience Management Unit.  Completion of the evaluation of almost 10,000 investment plans submitted to Piraeus Bank’s branches in Greece as Intermediary NSRF Manager.  Establishment of winbank direct, first online banking product sales channel in Greece directed at the market as a whole and not just the Bank’s customers offering flexible banking products specially designed for online users.  Collaboration of Piraeus Bank and EBRD for granting of credit lines, totalling €200 mn to the Group’s subsidiaries in Romania, Bulgaria and Albania.  €1.0 billion of approved credit limits for green loans in 2010, +51% on an annual basis.  More than 10% of RES investments in Greece have been funded by Piraeus Bank. Key Targets  Continuing support to customers and business initiatives with potential.  Emphasis on pioneer green and e-banking services. 2011  With the completion of the capital increase in Greece by €807 mn at the beginning of 2011, the Bank was strengthened further, enabling it to deal with the challenges of the economic environment from an even stronger position.  Taking advantage of the development prospects both in Greece and in the wider geographical region is a priority for the Group, as soon as the economic conditions permit it. Society Targets  Financing of new investments for businesses and individuals in green economy.  Support to customers facing difficulties due to the economic crisis. Key Actions  Actions to facilitate customers facing difficulty in paying off loans due to the economic crisis.  P reservation of actions and support of: large families in Thrace; young people on detoxification 2010 and rehabilitation programmes; organisations caring for disadvantaged and orphan children; organisations caring for the elderly; preventive medical service providers in remote areas of Greece.  Financing of the construction of the largest photovoltaic power plant in Greece with a capacity of 9.99MW, thus directly supporting green entrepreneurship. Key Targets  Piraeus Bank’s commitment and unfaltering dedication to a society faced with a prolonged 2011 economic crisis.  Encouraging the participation of Bank executives in volunteer work. 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY ACTIONS AND TARGETS Working Environment Targets  Active reallocation of employees aimed at the best use of their skills and competencies profile along with business needs. The target is to fill 70% of vacancies with existing human resources.  Preservation of 27 training hours per employee on average, covering 60% of the Group’s human resources.  E xpansion of e-learning to the Group’s subsidiaries, ensuring 40% training man-hours annually.  E xpansion of performance review policies and tools to 75% of the Group.  Implementation of Piraeus Bank Group Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010.  E xpansion of awareness-raising actions for well-being to 100% of the Group’s employees.  Employee Assistance Programmes for 100% of Piraeus Bank employees and their families, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; Investigation of potential Group – wide coverage. 2010 Key Actions  Achieving a high retention rate for employees.  79.5% coverage of job positions through internal reallocations and promotions.  Increase in training hours per employee from 27 to 33 on a Group level, covering 67% of human resources.  Implementation of Piraeus Bank Group Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010.  E xpansion of performance review policies and tools to 100% of the Group employees in Greece and to 68% of the Group as a whole.  Employee Assistance Programmes for 100% of Piraeus Bank employees and their families, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.  Completion of the 1st Executive Academy and the launching of three new Management and Leadership Academies of the Group.  Certification of 349 employees in financial Investment and investment services and 63 employees in specialised insurance advising. Key Targets Communication of Employee Satisfaction Survey 2010 results, implementation actions for improvement.  Implementation of Human Rights Survey.  E xpansion of counselling awareness and support to subsidiaries in Greece and abroad.  Use of new tool for the sharing of knowledge and experience for 1,000 executives of Piraeus Bank.  Establishment of employee volunteering and materialisation of 10 volunteer actions on a Group level.  E xpansion of performance review policies and tools to 80% of the Group. 2011  Providing 34 hours of training on average per employee in the Group.  Commencement of e-training through webinar.  E xpanded and more in-depth training in Green Entreperneurship.  Commencement of the Corporate Credit Academy for the Group.  Coverage of the Bank’s needs in Certification matters.  E xpansion of e-learning to subsidiaries abroad.  Further use of technology and research that enable flexible working modes that can effectively promote further work life balance and at the same time reduce operating costs. 14 Culture Targets  E xpansion of the Museum Network and of cultural and educational actions in Greece, aimed at economic and cultural support of local communities.  C apitalisation of research material, further utilization and distribution to multiple groups of society.  New publications.  Scientific use of the historical archive.  Contribution to nationwide actions, in collaboration with organisations distinguished in the field of culture. Key Actions  Administration of 7 Museums’ Network and incorporation of 2 new museums to the Network.  Completion of research for the incorporation in the National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF) of Chios Mastic Museum, Silversmithing Museum at Ioannina and Museum of paper2010 making and Greek typography, in Kerkyra.  Inauguration of the Environment Museum of Stymphalia.  Planning of 9 exhibitions at the Museum Networks, 2 as Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Fundation (PIOP) participations at “Istanbul European Capital of Culture 2010” and 1 as PIOP’s participation in the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism’s stand at “Shanghai Expo 2010”.  Planning of 9 educational exhibitions actions, 4 annual educational programmes and 31 cultural events in the Museum Network.  Scientific and managerial support to the Municipilaty of Falanthos in Arcadia, Peloponnese for the creation of the Mainalon Museum of Forest History.  New publications and donations of books to schools and libraries.  Research programmes for the enrichment of the museums’ exhibits, planning of periodical exhibitions, and development of scientific digital archived base and publications in support of national and international research programmes.  Providing support to the academic and research community (lectures, PIOP library).  Scientific processing of the Historical Archive.  Affiliation with similar Organisations in Greece and abroad and participation in multiple scientific meetings and international. Key Targets  Increase in visitor numbers and actions (cultural and educational) of the 7 thematic Museums operating in the Greek periphery.  Operation of three new museums (Chios Mastic Museum, Silversmithing Museum at Ioannina and Museum of paper-making and Greek typography, in Kerkyra).  Organisation of exhibitions, educational actions and cultural events. 2011  Capitalisation on research material.  Digital actions (of scientific, educational and popularising character).  New publications.  Collaboration with the Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism for the Intangible Cultural Heritage (UNESCO).  Ongoing scientific processing of the Historical Archive and new acquisitions.  P rovision of scientific advisory work to organisations and local communities and shaping of cultural policies. 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY KEY ACTIONS AND TARGETS The Environment Targets  urther mitigation of the environmental impact caused by the Bank’s core business operations. F  MAS certification. E  valuation of the climate change effects and arising opportunities for the Greek business community E within the framework of the climabiz project.  D evelopment of new green products.  Increase in the market share of the RES investment financing market. 2010 Key Actions 4  5 specialised green branches, green points in all the Greek branches. D  evelopment of 5 new green products. T  raining of more than 1,400 employees in “Green Banking” products. T  raining of 400 employees approximately in Environmental Management Systems. C  ompletion of the external auditing procedure of the ISO 14001 and EMAS certification. R  ealization of the European climabiz project for the adaptation of the market to climate change. 1  3% reduction in business travel by car and 17% by plane.  Increase in all recycling indicators (paper, ink, batteries, plastic). Key Targets  % reduction in the total electrical power consumption in the Bank’s buildings versus 2010. 1  0% increase in the recycling of paper versus 2010 in the Bank as a total. 1  % reduction in the consumption of paper versus 2010 in the Bank as a total. 2 2011  ontinuation of green training internal certification of 400 employees in environmental Management C System awareness.   ompletion of EMAS certification procedures. C   overing customer needs in all sectors of green entrepreneurship, with specialised products and servC ices and based on the developments of the regulatory framework. 16 Participation in Organisations, Indices and Distinctions U.N. Global Compact At the beginning of 2004, Piraeus Bank joined voluntarily the UN Global Compact, which pertains to ten principles in the areas of human rights, employment rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. Piraeus Bank took the initiative to support and promote these principles in its scope of activities. The table below lists the ten Global Compact principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to put them in practice. Implementation Method Description Basic Principles or Reference to the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Human rights 1. S  upport and respect the protection of inFull compliance with the relevant Greek and ternationally proclaimed human rights with international legislation. businesses and their sphere of influence Additionally, incorporation of the Group’s Hu2. M  ake sure that businesses have no comman Right’s Policy plicity in human rights abuses 3. B  usinesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Full compliance with the relevant Greek and Labor 4. E limination of all forms of forced and cominternational legislation. pulsory labour Corporate Responsibility Report 2010, 5. Effective abolition of child labour “Human Resources” 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7. S  upport the precautionary principles in enEnvironment vironmental challenges 8. U  ndertake initiatives to promote greater Corporate Responsibility Report 2010, environmental responsibility “Society, Culture and the Environment” 9. E  ncourage the development and expansion of environmentally friendly technologies 10.Businesses should work against all forms of   ode of Conduct and Compliance Policy C corruption, including extortion and bribery  Relevant terms in employment contracts Anti-corruption  Relevant labour relations framework in the Bank  Control mechanisms and procedures, and anti-money laundering information system (including fraud detection)  Corporate Responsibily Report 2010, “Corporate Governance” 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 PARTICIPATION IN ORGANISATIONS,INDICES AND DISTINCTIONS Participation in Organisations and Sustainability Indices Piraeus Bank participates in international initiatives and indices aimed at promoting corporate responsibility to both the business world and social environment with sustainable development being its main goal. Furthermore, by participating in this process, Piraeus Bank adopts self assessment mechanisms for its CSR policies and practices based on international standards and compared to international practices with the goal to continuously improve them. Since 2002, Piraeus Bank has consistently been meeting the FTSE4Good Index criteria. This international index was established by FTSE in order to provide investors with ratings of companies that implement Corporate Responsibility programmes. Apart from its membership in the UN Global Compact the Piraeus Bank has also signed the Statement of accession to the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) in 2007, whereby 190 financial institutions from around the world have pledged to incorporate social and environmental criteria in their decision-making. Piraeus Bank is the first Greek bank who signed the Statement of “Caring for Climate: The business leadership platform” under the UN Global Compact whereby 378 businesses world-wide demonstrate leadership in mobilizing the market to deal with climate change. At the same time, Piraeus Bank is a member of the Hellenic Corporate Responsibility Network. In April 2011, Piraeus Bank was for the second consecutive year the only Greek Bank to receive the highest recognition awarded in Greece during the 3rd National CR Index. In addition, the Bank received a special award in recognition of its environmental work, following the special commendation that the Bank received in 2010 for its contribution to the community and the manifold activities of the Piraeus Bank Group’s Cultural Foundation (PIOP). Since 2009, the Piraeus Group’s Human Resources Division has emerged as one of the first corporate departments in Greece to have acquired the international certification ‘Investors in People’. This certification remains valid up to date depicting the Group’s ongoing commitment as a responsible employer, emphasizing on the improvement of its competitiveness and corporate performance through the effective management and development of its people. Piraeus Bank has also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) by answering the Investor CDP questionnaire in 2010. Finally, Piraeus Bank received the following distinctions and awards in 2010:  “Green IT Initiative by a Financial Institution” for the Bank’s intitiatives in promotion of green banking through electronic -banking networks and services, which was awarded by Banking Technology Magazine in London;  “Best Sustainable Financial Institution in Greece” by the international financial magazine New Economy;  ranked among the only 10 Greek businesses that are included in the worldwide list of top 1,000 socially responsible businesses, according to the rating of CRD Analytics’ in collaboration with JustMeans;  ranked as one of the 10 companies in Greece to receive distinction for its business social responsibility 18 actions, according to social barometer Awareness & Social Behavior Index;  “Thalis” award, a social responsibility distinction awarded to businesses for their social and environmental work, at the Money Conference & Eurocharity;  h ighest ranking in the Greek Banking sector, achieving the 6th ranking evaluation grade out of a total of 7, according to the “Environmental Management and Disclosure Index” Report compiled by WWF Greece. 19 1 Corporate Governance For the purpose of safeguarding its corporate interest as well as the interests of its shareholders, Piraeus Bank has adjusted itself to the institutional framework of corporate governance. At the same time, the Group’s main priorities were the constant upgrading of the systems of governance and internal control, regulatory compliance, transparency and information diffusion towards the investment community as well as the integration of best governance principles to cover all activities are of primary concern to the Group. Within this framework, Piraeus Bank applies the following:  adjustments to the composition of the Board of Directors (BoD) in order to be compliant with the effective regulations on Executive, Non-Executive and Independent members;  the Audit Committee, comprised of non-Executive and Independent non-Executive Directors, which monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System at Parent and Group levels, based on the data and information provided by the Internal Audit Unit, and findings and remarks of the external auditors and regulatory authorities;  the Risk Management Committee, which aims to cover all forms of risk (credit, market, operational), and ensure integrated risk control, expert risk management and the required coordination on individual and consolidated bases;  the Corporate Governance and Corporate and Legal Affairs General Divisions which are responsible for the development of Corporate Governance actions and programmes approved by the Management, and for the supervision of their implementation in the Bank and the Group’s companies in Greece and abroad. Additionally, the General Division of Corporate Governance supervises the operational support provided to the BoD, Executive Board and Chairman’s Office applying corporate governance best practices;  the Internal Corporate Governance and Operating Regulations Manual, which ensures transparency and symmetrical information, and encompasses issues which are not stipulated in the Bank’s Articles of Association but are indispensable for its smooth operation, such as the Code of Conduct, which governs the obligations of the Group’s personnel;  the General Division of Internal Audit (Internal Audit Unit under Act 2577/2006 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece), which is independent, reports to the Board of Directors-through the Audit Committee-and the CEO of the Bank’s Board of Directors, and is responsible for Group-wide internal control;  the Compliance Division, which institutes and applies procedures and prepares the annual compliance programme in order to achieve the Group’s timely and permanent compliance with the effective regulatory framework, ensuring compliance and preventing the involvement of the banking system in legalizing funds that originate from illegal activities and combating terrorism;  the Investor Relations, Shareholder Registry and Corporate Announcements services, entrusted with the task of informing investors, shareholders and appropriate regulatory authorities accordingly. 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Supreme Management Bodies The General Meeting of the Shareholders of Piraeus Bank is the supreme body of the Bank and inter alia it is responsible for electing the members of the Board of Directors. The following is the current composition of the Board of Directors of Piraeus Bank, which was elected by the Annual General Meeting of 30.04.2009, as this has resulted after changes (resignations, replacements, reconvening as a body) in accordance with 1253/09.02.11 BoD resolution: 1. Michalis Sallas, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Executive Member 2. Ioannis Vardinoyiannis, Vice Chairman, Non Executive Member 3. Iakovos Georganas, Vice Chairman, Non Executive Member 4. Stavros Lekkakos, Managing Director & CEO, Executive Member 5. Alexandros Manos, Managing Director, Executive Member 6. Georgios Alexandridis, Independent Non Executive Member 1 7. Christodoulos Antoniadis, Deputy Managing Director, Executive Member 8. Hariklia Apalagaki, Non Executive Member 1 9. Eftyhios Vassilakis, Non Executive Member 10. Stylianos Golemis, Non Executive Member 11. Fotini Karamanli, Independent Non Executive Member 12. Elias Milis, Deputy Managing Director, Executive Member 13. Theodoros Mylonas, Independent Non Executive Member, Chairman of Piraeus Bank Group’s Audit Committee 1 14. Spiridonas Papaspyrou, Deputy Managing Director, Executive Member 15. Vassilios Fourlis, Non Executive Member The Bank’s Board of Directors includes 9 non executive members of whom Mr. Georgios Alexandridis, Mr. Theodoros Mylonas and Ms. Fotini Karamanli are independent, non executive members, in accordance with Law 3016/2002 on corporate governance. It should be noted that in accordance with Law 3723/2008 on Enhancement of Liquidity, Mr. Athanasios Tsoumas attends the meetings of the Bank’s Board of Directors as the appointed Representative of the Greek State. Main Committees For the purpose of more effective and secure operation of the Bank, the Board of Directors has entrusted the following main committees and boards with special issues and specific responsibilities: Board of Directors Committees   Audit Committee   Risk Management Committee   Management Compensation and Evaluation Committee   Succession and Nomination Committee of BoD members   Strategic Planning Committee Main Executive and Administrative Committees  Group Executive Board, with subcommittees  a. Approval Committee b. IT Strategy and Planning   Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO)   Retail Banking Development Committee   International Planning Committee   Budget Expenses Committee   Corporate Social Responsibility Committee   Crisis Management Committee   Promotion and Advertisement Committee   Sponsoring Committee  or more details regarding the Group’s organizational structure and Committees, please refer to: F www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Concise Organizational Chart www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Main Committees ¹ Audit Committee Member 22 Internal Audit System (IAS) Piraeus Group systematically monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of the existing Internal Audit System and takes prompt action to constantly deal with and mitigate risks. At the same time the Group has the incorporated early-warning mechanisms in order to ensure the implementation of the Internal Audit System by the Units, as well as the full compliance of all those involved in the principles and goals of the Internal Audit System. A fundamental concern for the Bank is that continuously, both at individual and at Group level, to develop and improve the Internal Audit System, which constitutes a consolidation of all audit mechanisms and processes which monitor every activity and transaction of the Bank and is conducive to the Bank’s effective and safe operation. The Bank has established a strong Internal Audit System to safeguard its assets, to ring-fence and maintain in a detailed manner and safeguard its clients’ assets and to safeguard the interests of its shareholders. The members of the Board of Directors have the ultimate responsibility for maintaining the System and for monitoring and evaluating its adequacy and effective implementation. The Internal Audit System is designed to address effectively the risks to the Bank a/as not necessarily to eliminate them. In accordance with the effective framework the Bank’s Internal Audit System is supported by an integrated communications and Management Information System (MIS), also by intercomplementary mechanisms, forming an integrated system for controlling and auditing both the Bank’s organizational structure and activities and also the procedures and regulations. The Internal Auditor, the Audit Committee and Internal Audit are all in charge of adherence of IAS. The members of the Board of Directors assess the efficiency and effectiveness of IAS annually and design the strategy for its improvement based on the relevant report submitted by the Bank’s Administration and on the Audit Committee’s report observations. The efficiency assessment of IAS on a Bank and Group level is assigned to external, non-regular, chartered auditors-accountants and takes place periodically and at least once every three years and following Audit Committee recommendation. The relevant evaluation report is made known to the Bank of Greece within the first six months of the year following the three-year expiry. Internal Audit The Group’s General Division of Internal Audit is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee, and the Group’s CEO. The General Division of Internal Audit supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control Units in the Group subsidiaries. In this context, in 2010, the General Division of Internal Audit:  prepared a detailed audit plan with an annual audit cycle for Branch Network and with a 2to 3-year audit cycle for the rest of the activities according to risk assessment;  the Bank maintained its continual observation and monitoring of branch activities in Greece and subsidiary banks in Bulgaria, Romania and Albania by means of the Regional Divisions’ Auditors (RDA) and extended RDA’s responsibilities to include Egypt and Serbia;  continued the development of a data base using own resources aimed at electronic transaction tracing, the development of fraud identification and prevention “scenarios”, and at supporting the auditing work performed by Regional Divisions’ Auditors. The Bank also completed the implementation of this system in its subsidiary banks in Romania, Bulgaria, Albania and Serbia;  provided consulting in the development of specific Bank processes in order for them to incorporate proper auditing mechanisms;  increased its certified Internal Auditors to 26%, and continued the training of its people directing them towards appropriate professional certifications (ACCA, CIA, CISA etc.) and further specialisation thereof;  adoption of a qualitative evaluation procedure for auditing projects;  updated the Teammate information system in the parent Bank in order to automate specific auditing procedures. 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The 2011 action plan of the Group’s General Division of Internal Audit aimed at the successful and smooth performance of its work to strengthen the Internal Control System (ICS) operation in the parent Bank and Group subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, includes:  further development of an electronic monitoring transaction IT system;  the implementation of an electronic monitoring transaction IT system, similar to the one operating in Greece, Romania, Bulgaria , Albania and Serbia and in its subsidiary Banks in Cyprus and Egypt;  ongoing updating of procedures, standards and methods to ensure smooth and efficient operation of the General Division of Internal Audit.  or further information regarding the principles and targets of the Group’s Internal Audit System, F please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Internal Audit System Compliance In the context of the Basle II supervisory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece, the independent Group Compliance Division operates and reports directly to the Management (General Manager of Corporate Governance), in accordance with the provisions of the Bank of Greece Governor’s Act 2577/2006 and is accountable to the Group’s General Division of Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures, which the Bank is additionally certified for based on the model ISO 9001:2008. For a more effective risk management of the Bank’s services on issues of money laundering and terrorism funding, a special department for prevention and control has been set up within the Group Compliance Division, supervised by the Deputy Head of the Department, who has been assigned the particular statutory authority, in accordance with Law 3691/2008 and Commission for Banking and Credit Affairs resolution 281/5/17.03.2009. The aforementioned manager proposes measures to strengthen the effectiveness of the procedures that are being applied for the observance of the above duties, acts as a contact with the relevant Authorities and Bank of Greece, providing the legally-bound information and the following, among others:  receives reports from Bank employees on unusual or suspicious transactions and provides guidance on prevention and control of money laundering and funding of terrorist actions;  indicates the relevant procedures and reporting standards of suspicious transactions to the relevant Authorities, as well as the procedures for mutual exchange of information among the branches, subsidiaries and the Bank;  observes and evaluates the proper and effective implementation of policy and of the relevant procedures -on an individual basisthat the Bank has established on this matter;  prepares an annual report in accordance with the procedures for the prevention and control of money laundering and funding of terrorist actions, which is evaluated by the Audit Committee and is submitted to the Bank of Greece. During 2010, the following projects were implemented:  intensified inspections of Branch networks, of central units and of subsidiary companies abroad in order to ascertain their compliance to internal policies, procedures and regulatory framework;  on-site reviews were performed of the Compliance Units of Piraeus Bank Cyprus, Piraeus Bank Romania, Piraeus Bank Beograd, Piraeus Bank Egypt;  procedures regarding outsourcing were completed and implemented;  the updated Group Compliance Policy was adopted by all subsidiaries abroad and is gradually being implemented;  the basic operational modules operational units of the Anti-Money Laundering system (AML, Customer Due Diligence and Watch List Management batch modules) were installed in Piraeus Bank Egypt, and the operational unit for Watch List Management module was installed in Piraeus Bank Cyprus. In 2011 the following are projects are expected to be completed and/or implemented:  the incorporation in the Bank’s systems of AML Risk Based Approach; 24  the  Compliance Chart an analytical codification of the regulatory framework – to be recorded, interactive with and reference to the Bank’s internal policies and procedures of the Bank, in order to ensure the Bank’s compliance to the Chart;  installation of the module to monitor payments and customers in real time in remaining Group’s sub sidiaries abroad (Watch List Management);  training programmes for Bank employees on issues of money laundering and terrorist funding in col laboration with the Group’s Human Resources Division. During 2010 there was an internal allocation of employees with the aim to further strength the Group Compliance Division and its resources. F  or further information regarding the Group’s Compliance Policy please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Compliance External Auditors According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 19.05.2010, the audit firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers was chosen as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s parent and consolidated financial statements 2010; specifically Mr. Konstantinos Michalatos (Reg. no. 17701) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor and Mr. Dimitrios Sourbis (Reg. no. 16891) as Substitute Certified Auditor. It should be noted that the certified auditors are elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders annually and the maximum mandate may be up to five years. Transparency and Communication Investor Relations Investor information is provided by the Business Planning and Investor Relations Division with the active involvement of the Group’s Top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and progress of Piraeus Group. During In 2010, 340 communications with institutional investors and analysts in Greece and abroad took place; the Bank also participated in 18 roadshows and conferences in Europe and the U.S. Shareholder Registry The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. Corporate Announcements Service Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent immediately to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors.  or further information regarding the responsibilities of the above units, please refer to: F www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance>Transparency and Communication Shareholder Relations Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company with a broad shareholder base consisting of eminent representatives of the business world, local and foreign institutional investors and numerous private investors. Despite the adverse economic environment in Greece, the Bank proceeded with an €807 mn capital increase at the beginning on 2011, which was completed with an oversubscription of 1.3 times and the participation of approx. 94 thousand investors from Greece and abroad – a sign of confidence towards Piraeus Bank and, the Greek banking system. During the preparation and implementation of the rights 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE issue (29.10.10 – 10.02.11) all the Bank’s mechanisms and units contributed to the prompt and reliable information of all interested parties (existing or new investors, analysts, custodians, media) and of the appropriate regulatory authorities. Within this context, a special section on the Bank’s internet site was created providing all the necessary information in a comprehensible manner and it received high hits during the rights issue registration period. Following the capital increase, which was completed on 31.01.2011, the total number of the Bank’s shareholders was 152,296 on 15.02.11. Of the total number of shares (1,143,326,564), 33.8% was held by individuals and the remaining 66.2% by legal entities. Furthermore, the Bank has issued 77,568,134 non-voting preference shares in accordance with Law 3723/2008 which are held by the Greek State. Shareholders’ structure (15.02.11) 8.0% Greek Institutional Investors 33.8% 30.3% Individual Investors Foreign Institutional Investors 1.3% Greek State 26.6% Companies Note: Structure calculated on the outstanding total number of common shares pursuant the rights issue in January 2011 (1,143,326,564). The new shares that resulted from the capital increase commenced trading on the Athens Stock Exchange on 10.02.11 26 2 Customer and Supplier Relationship Customer Relationship The accurate and transparent information of existing and potential customers is a key priority of Piraeus Bank Group. The Bank observes the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics, which pertain to the relations between banks and customers and are in accordance with the applicable legislation and business ethics. The Code is a result of interbank collaboration under the auspices of the Hellenic Banking Association. Piraeus Bank takes great care to ensure the incorporation of these rules at all stages of the product development and marketing processes, as well as upon delivery of such products to customers. Indicative of the above is the Bank’s compliance to the directive 2007/64/EC, which governs all EU payment services (Payment Systems Directive-PSD), which is aimed at enhancing customer protection, increasing transaction transparency and improving the quality of services. To this end, Piraeus Bank modified and consolidated the existing General Terms of its payment services into a unified agreement (Provision on Payment Services Agreement) and makes sure that all customer contact points and service channels provide and ensure the availability of detailed information regarding the new terms that apply to payment services. Furthermore, as far as information transparency is concerned, Piraeus Bank has been providing full precontractual information whether it is for simple information requests for mortgages for a number of years. Moreover, the Bank has fully complied with the directive 2008/48/EC of the European Parliament regarding consumer credit products, as it has been agreed on by the European Consumer Associations and the European Credit Sector Associations. Apart from complying with the legislative framework and EU directives, the Bank is constantly concerned with its customers’ financial literacy and familiarisation in order to help them understand and make best use of the available products and services. To this end, the Bank is taking targeted actions and it has adopted mechanisms to measure its performance in this area, i.e addressing such issues in its customer satisfaction surveys. The Bank’s products and services are advertised accurately, describing them without exaggerations, inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or attempts to conceal any features of such products and services, and, certainly, without trying to take advantage of the public’s ignorance, inexperience or fears and in compliance with the relevant regulatory framework. 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP In 2010 the Bank intensified its efforts to assist its customers with the consequences of the economic crisis by providing individualized solutions to specific needs and financial consulting advisory services. As a result, the existing programmes for measures to address the crisis continued while new debt-support programmes in order to assist households and businesses that suffer by the economic dowturn are being implemented. At the same time, the Bank is making timely preparations to respond to new customer needs, by focusing on sectors that are developing and have prospects. Indicative of this effort is the emphasis that the Bank has been giving to green banking for the past years. The result of this is that the Bank can now provide a complete package of green-banking products to households and businesses, thus taking advantage of its leading position in the market but also of the expertise of its specialised human resources. Towards this direction, the Bank established the first GREEN BRANCH in Southeastern Europe while additionally in 2010 it appointed a Green Banking specialist in every branch, whose main responsibility is to inform customers about green products and all the initiatives that promote green entrepreneurship. Furthermore, 45 selected branches in Greece have been transformed into Green Points for providing information and promoting green entrepreneurship, environmental footprint reduction and supporting responsible and sustainable development of businesses, professionals and household. Furthermore, in the direction of supporting new activities in the business sector, Piraeus Bank in 2010 enhanced its operations in private equity and venture capital, gaining presence in all stages of fostering entrepreneurship and innovation through:  investments in start-up companies in the technology industry (stage seed capital) in cooperation with OpenFund, which covers the first steps of a company from the conception of a business idea until it is created. In this area 5 investments were completed in companies from Greece and other European countries in 2010;  venture capital investments that focus on the next steps of developing companies, where Piraeus’ TANEO Capital Fund (PTCF), via its fund manager Piraeus Capital Management (PCM), has also invested further in the existing 3 companies in its portfolio since 2009;  creating the business structure of a private equity, with the foundation of the company Piraeus Equity Partners and its subsidiaries, covering the more mature stages of a business initiative in specific areas of innovation. In 2010, an investment fund Piraeus Clean Energy LP (PCE) was created, that invests in renewable energy projects (RES) in Southeastern Europe and other Mediterranean countries, where Piraeus Bank has committed a total of € 50 mn, demonstrating its focus in the field of equity investment in green energy projects. Pursuant to the authorization that the PCE received from the Central Bank of Cyprus, a significant portfolio was created, comprising of potential investments in renewable energy projects of more than € 140 mn. The completion of the first investments and strategic partnerships is expected to take place in 2011. Having recognised the importance of focusing on and dealing with customers according to their particularity and dynamics, the Bank has adopted and applied policies so that all its business operations be planned and done in that direction. Its ultimate goal is the complete and concerted support from all service channels, the targeted approach at developing and managing a product portfolio based on the individual customer needs and the development and adjustment of the Bank’s products and services according to the trends of existing customers and that of the market in general. In December 2010 the total number of customers reached 3.4 million both in Greece and abroad. Particular emphasis was placed on the acquisition of new customerswhich resulted in approximately 130 thousand new customers in 2010, a considerable number given the market conditions. New customers stemming from the Group’s international activities reached approx. 65 thousand in 2010. In order to establish whether the Bank meets customer requirements, among other measures, it has been systematically monitoring its customer satisfaction rate by means of specifically designed surveys performed by independent companies. In this manner, information is provided on customer satisfaction as a whole and on individual indices. According to the 2010 survey, total satisfaction with Piraeus Bank scored paricularly positively, as the rate of (“totally” and “generally”) satisfied customers remained stable (95%). 28 Overall customer satisfaction with the Bank Overall customer satisfaction with the complete information and clear explanations the Bank provides 94% 95% 95% 95% 95% 95% 95% 96% 96% 97% 10% 40% 42% 35% 41% 33% 21% 23% 14% 20% 87% 82% 74% 72% 76% 60% 62% 54% 53% 54% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Generally Satisfied Totally Satisfied Intention to Recommend Piraeus Bank to Intention to use the Bank for Friends / Colleagues Further Products / Services 92% 92% 94% 94% 94% 92% 91% 93% 93% 95% 36% 37% 30% 27% 26% 36% 35% 32% 29% 26% 68% 69% 56% 55% 64% 67% 56% 56% 61% 64% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Very Probable Highly Probable The level of satisfaction with “ the complete information and clear explanations the Bank provides regarding its products and services from the start” is significantly higher, as 87% of customers replied “Totally Satisfied” to the question, versus 76% in the 2009 survey. Similarly, to the question “If in the future you wanted more products/services from a Bank, how likely would you be to turn to Piraeus Bank?”, the percentage of customers who replied “Highly Probable” shows a notable increase over time. The aim of the Bank remains to maintain the high level of customer satisfaction. In conclusion, it should be pointed out that when the survey is conducted, customers are asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank, and the information collected is used by the Bank to implement respective corrective actions. 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIP Customer Service and Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services In response to the institution of the Banking Ombudsman, the Bank has set up a Customer Service, the tasks of which are to review and settle any grievances or complaints of Bank customers and provide information and clarifications with respect to banking services and products offered. It has established a mechanism to receive and immediately investigate customer concerns. Through a simple process, customers can choose one of the numerous means of communication to address their concern (at a branch, call center, via fax, e-mail, internet) in order to receive the appropriate responses-clarifications.  or further information regarding the ways to communicate with the Customer Service, F please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Individuals>Customer Complaints Office>1-2-3 simple steps The percentage of written and verbal complaints processed by the Bank’s Customer Service in 2010 compared to 2009 were as follows:  Loans: 41% versus 35%  Cards: 34% versus 43%  Deposits–cashier transactions: 20% versus 17%  Investment products: 2% versus 3%  E-Banking: 2% versus1%  Other Banking operations or operations of subsidiaries: 1%, remained stable  Other : <1%, remained flat The Bank’s customer cases handled by the Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services, out of the total cases of banks operating in Greece, decreased to 5.4% (2009: 7.8%) of total written complaints and 4.5% (2009: 5.7%) of total phone calls. Similarly, the percentage of cases stemming from legal entities (self-employed professionals and small enterprises) of the Bank handled by the Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services, of the total of the banks’ cases, remained unchanged at 11% as in 2009 for written complaints and improved for phone calls, decreasing to 7.5% versus 10% in 2009. It is still the aim of the Bank to improve them further in the near future. Such percentages are considered to be within acceptable range, considering the Bank’s market share which was 11% at the end of 2010. The Customer Service’s executives continue to participate in the “Effective Branch Management” training programme as advisors, aimed at communicating the issues that the Service had occupied itself with. In 2010, 5 training programmes took place with participants from 85 Piraeus branches. The Bank’s Customer Service, aiming to further improve the way it processes customer cases, proceeded with upgrade of its system by incorporating a new workflow management called APPIAN. This new workflow system enables the interaction of the procedural e-form with the Bank’s operational systems for direct information access, thus reducing significantly the processing time. Furthermore, it enables the branch network and the central units to record and send-as electronic files-the customer cases they receive. This process fully complies with the new specifications given by the Bank of Greece concerning the way complaints are assessed and dealt with, under Act 2501/2002 Chapter D paragraph 2 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. Supplier Relationship The Bank’s supplier relations are governed by the principles of merit-based selection and transparency in the contract terms. Collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers that are evaluated on the basis of established criteria and processes, which are incorporated both in the responsibilities of the Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support Division and reviewed by the Group’s General Division of Internal Audit and the Group’s Outsourcing Policy. Furthermore, it should be noted that outsourcing procedure was completed and implemented at Group level in 2010. 30 The Bank works with suppliers who meet objective and measurable criteria, such as the performance and quality to price ratios, reliability and market position. There are uniform procedures applied to all suppliers, who are regularly evaluated, so as to maintain relations with most appropriate ones based on the progress of the cooperation. It should be noted that local suppliers are used in each country by approximately 100%, with the exceptions of furniture, cashier counters and signs, for which the Group has signed a global contract in order to maintain a uniform corporate identity. Recognising the need for responsible operation, Piraeus Bank implements a concrete green supplies policy. The choice of environmentally friendly products decreases the environmental footprint of the Bank itself as well as helping in the development of new markets related with the so-called green supplies, such as environmentally friendly paper, recycled consumables and low CO 2 emissions corporate vehicles. 31 In achieving our environmental goals, we rely on the engagement of our employees and the growing awareness of society at large. Informing and sensitizing employees, with regard to environmental and sustainable development issues, are priorities for Piraeus Bank Group. Environmental education programs cover a wide range, from general information about contemporary environmental problems to specialized seminars for green entrepreneurship, new clean technologies, and green banking products. At the same time, employees are encouraged to voluntarily participate in environmental and social activities. Piraeus Bank’s commitment for the promotion of sustainable development is also present in social media. This is where the Bank shares the knowledge gained from the benefits of an environmentally-friendly lifestyle; opinions are expressed; experiences are exchanged; ideas are promoted and environmental conscience is reinforced. 3 Human Resources One of the fundamental objectives and constant pursuit of Piraeus Bank Group is to bring out the full potential of its people and ensure their commitment to achieving excellent results. In 2010, the following Group commitments were reaffirmed:  supporting and empowering the people of the Group;  ensuring recruitment procedures free of discriminations utilising specific candidate selection systems;  offering pioneering training programmes, and  ensuring full-time employment for our people. Commitment to Safeguarding Human Rights Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact and Declaration of Human Rights, applies equal opportunity principles to all its actions and is opposed to any form of discrimination, inequality or human rights violation. All the Bank’s policies, procedures and human resource management practices are all governed by respect for human rights. Thus, the Bank ensures that there is no possibility of discrimination, while at the same time Individuality is recognised and promoted. Aiming to raise awareness of the entire Group’s human resources regarding human rights, Piraeus Bank continued to offer Group employees in Greece and abroad the e-learning training unit entitled “The Human Rights in Piraeus Bank Group”, which is also incorporated in the curriculum of the Management Academy. The study material of these courses is based on the six fundamental principles of human rights according to the UN Global Compact and ILO Conventions: Forced Labour, Child Labour, Equal Opportunities, Collective Bargaining, Health and Safety at Work and Working Conditions. The above actions are aimed at the dissemination of the Group Human Rights Policy through systematic training. In addition to the above, Piraeus Bank, aiming to communicate with all employees, has created a specific contact point within the internal network (intranet), where they can highlight issues that concern them and receive guidance from experienced counsellors. In addition, the Bank has incorporated a process for complaints regarding the safeguarding of human rights. To this end the Bank aiming to contribute actively to the elimination of child and / or forced / compulsory labour, the Group’s Human Resource Division to evaluates these parameters with its partners and suppliers. 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 HUMAN RESOURCES Number of People Working in Piraeus Group At the end of 2010, Piraeus Bank Group employed 13,320 people compared to 13,417 in 2009, while Piraeus Bank in Greece employed 4,853 people in 2010 versus 5,049 in 2009. In total, at the end of 2010, the Group employed 6,370 people in Greece and 6,950 abroad compared to 6,600 and 6,757 respectively, a year earlier. Piraeus Group’s Employees Piraeus Group's Employees 14,255 13,417 13,320 7,366 6,757 6,950 International Subsidiaries 1,771 1,611 1,517 Domestic Subsidiaries Piraeus Bank 5,118 5,049 4,853 2008 2009 2010 Diversity among Piraeus Group’s Employees Distribution per Gender, Education and Age Among the total Group employees, 55% are female and 45% male. The average age of the Group’s employees is 36 years. The age distribution of employees is a major advantage for the Group. The age composition favours the introduction and implementation of changes in technology, methods and targets, as 82% of people are up to 45 years old. At the same time, its highly-trained employees provided invaluable support in offering efficient customer guidance and services in the financially critical year that elapsed. Distribution by Gender & Age Group >=56 46-55 36-45 26-35 <=25 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 Women Men 34 As it can be seen by the high rate of graduate and post-graduate degree holders (65%), the Group has managed to have in its employment high quality and educated employees who contribute substantially to the achievement of its business goals. It is worth mentioning that the equivalent percentage of such employees in the international subsidiaries is 71%. Distribution per Employment Type and Contract Piraeus Bank Group employs 99.6% and Piraeus Bank 100% of their people on a full-time basis. In the Group 99.6% of the employees hold an indefinite time contract, and 0.4% are employed on a definite time contract, in the context of a trial period starting right after their hiring. Moreover, 100% of Piraeus Bank employees receive as a minimum the compensation and benefits agreed to in the employment contracts that resulted from collective bargaining. Promoting Equal Opportunities for Career Development The Bank’s equal opportunities policy and its clear orientation to effectively and continuously develop its people, enabled new managers to develop and get promoted. Regarding career advancement, irrespective of level of management, 271 men (51%) and 256 women (49%) were promoted. It is worth noting that from 2006 until the end of 2010 there was a 2% increase in the proportion of women in middle and senior management positions. Selecting the Right People for the Right Jobs For Piraeus Bank, respect for human value, ethos and integrity of character is of great importance carry special weight. This is reflected in the Group’s philosophy and practices of human resources management, starting from the selection and recruitment stage. In 2010, as in 2009, emphasis was placed on utilizing the existing human resources to meet new business needs. Specifically, only 4% of vacancies were filled through external recruitment at Piraeus Bank, while 96% were covered through internal reallocations (internal transfers and transfers among Group companies). At Group level, staffing needs were met via external recruitings by 20.5%, internal reallocations and promotions by 79.5%. Having actively and consistently used internal hiring in recent years:  vacancies are communicated openly and transparently, and are filled by existing people in the Group as a priority, thus ensuring the development of employees who have the competencies to assume management role in the medium-term;  development and career incentives are offered to all employees based on the career planning;  Assessment & Development Centres are applied for middle and higher management roles. For the purpose of candidate selection and evaluation, the Group uses a set of standard tools, which vary according to the candidate’s level of education and experience and ensure a transparent and objective recruitment procedure. The tools include job simulation exercises, competency tests, occupational personality questionnaires and a structured interview. In 2010, Piraeus Bank’s vacancies were filled by women by 53% and men by 47%. Moreover, for external recruitments, emphasis is placed on local candidates in order to support the local communities where Piraeus Bank operates. In 2010, 99% of the Branch Managers in the periphery were locals; similarly, Piraeus Bank aims to meet internal hiring and employee reallocation needs based on the criterion of local origin. It is the belief of Piraeus Bank that it can thus ensure better understanding and service of the local needs and, consequently, achieve its business goals. Human Resources Communication Philosophy In everyday practices the Group exploits every opportunity for an open and bilateral communication between management and employees. In order to enhance communication, the Group uses systematic and reliable communication channels and provides counselling to employees in all aspects of their lives.  or further information concerning the available communication channels, please refer to: F www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Human Resources>Our philosophy 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 HUMAN RESOURCES Investing in People Development Piraeus Bank Group consistently invests in the development and improvement of its employees’ competencies and skills, creating a learning and development environment, aiming to bring out the full potential of its people. The use of standard efficiency criteria, incorporated into the advanced evaluation systems used by Piraeus Bank Group, enables the alignment of human resources performance with the Group’s strategic goals. The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication and guidance of employees by their managers, and creates the framework for recognizing individual contribution. Similarly, employees are given the opportunity to make self-assessment and then review their evaluation and openly express their views prior to the finalization of the procedure. Annual performance appraisals based upon standard criteria and following a specific procedure were applied to 100% of the Bank and subsidiaries employees in Greece in 2010. At Group level, the above performance review system was applied to 68% of total staff versus 54% in 2009; the target for 2011 is to extend the performance review process to at least 80% of human resources using common criteria and a specific performance and competence management system. In 2010, written annual reviews were completed for 92% of the Bank’s human resources, same as 2009. Fully aligned with its strategy, the Group invests in continuous training for its employees, designing and implementing high value adding training activities in two directions: a) to establish an integrated skills development system made up of specifically designed “Academies”, and b) to conform to the existing legal and regulatory framework and be systematically covered against possible risks (operational, credit, market). In total, 446,402 training man-hours were recorded in Piraeus Bank Group in 2010. Accordingly, 2,794 educational courses (in-house and external) were organized or attended. At Group level, training man-hours reached 33 from 27 hours in 2009 while 67% of the Group human resources participated in at least one training course versus 58% in 2009. The respective figures for Piraeus Bank were 59 training man-hours per person versus 45 in 2009, while 85% of the employees participated in at least one training course versus 75% in 2009. Training Programmes %Total training man-hours Development of financial and banking knowledge 43% Product and Services Knowledge 30% and development of selling skills Development of personal/managerial/specialised 17% technical know-how skills Corporate Responsibility Issues 10% The instructor-led courses were evaluated by Piraeus Bank employees as “excellent” on average and attained an average satisfaction rate of 85%. In 2010, 86% of training man-hours in Piraeus Bank were intended for staff level, 12% for middle and higher management level and 2% for top management. In 2010, 63 employees of Piraeus Bank were certified in specialised insurance consulting and 349 employees were certified in financial investment services. The Group continued to invest extensively in the training of employees and also in raising their awareness of issues related to the prevention of fraud and corruption. Moreover, 46% of Piraeus Bank Group employees were trained in issues related to the prevention of fraud and corruption. After 3 years of joint effort, the Top Management Academy of Piraeus Bank Group, entitled “Piraeus Leaders of Tomorrow Academy” was successfully completed. More specifically, the programme, which began in November 2007, was attended by 32 top management executives from Greece and abroad. Distinguished professors from top universities and business schools around the world 36 taught in the programme while experienced advisors provided additional support. In total, 29 different learning activities were planned and held. At the same time, two new academies as well-began-where each one will last 3 years. The “Top Management Network Academy”, which is attended by 32 top managers, aimed at creating an already active and fully-trained group of leaders, and the Management Academy, which is attended by 113 middle and higher level managers, aimed at strengthening their managerial skills. Additionally, “Piraeus Bank Group Management e-Academy” was continued successfully with the participation of Group Managers from the Bank and subsidiaries abroad. Moreover, “The First Steps in Management” e-learning programme was implemented with great success, certified by the prominent Harvard Business School Publishing. E-learning proved once again a major foothold for training work. Within the framework of corporate responsibility and aiming to reduce the environmental impact from travelling, there was increased use of e-learning with 19,692 participants in 2010 compared to 16,007 in 2009. It is important to clarify that a high percentage of participation in e-learning courses is recorded in the framework of integrated modular courses, implemented with the parallel use of classroom, e-learning courses or other learning means. Finally, in 2010 Piraeus Bank Group also continued its highly successful support and development programme for employees, financing the participation of 20 selected individuals in under-graduate and post-graduate courses, as well as foreign language learning for 167 employees. At the same time, emphasis was placed once again on the planning of customised training programmes in the workplace and job rotation programmes in different units. There were 53 individual programmes while 152 individual development programmes were designed and implemented in 2010. Furthermore, in order to develop its employees in green banking issues, the Bank developed and implemented specialised training programmes for its branch network and the central units. A total of more than 2,000 employees were trained in green entrepreneurship and Environmental Management System through both e-learning and in classroom seminars. Finally, aiming to extend the successful course of Credit School in Greece, the Bank introduced the Credit Analysis School abroad. Selected executives, who were trained in planning and executing an equivalent School in their countries, participated in this, keeping in mind the particularities and the legal framework that applies to each country. Schools in 4 countries are already operating while in 2011 two more are expected to be launched. Rewarding Human Resources Piraeus Bank Group acknowledges that it has to attract and retain the appropriate employees with the required knowledge and skills in order to achieve its strategic goals. To this end, benchmarking with other organizations is used so as to keep compensation and benefits at a competitive level and according to the level of skills. Compensation and benefits are an integral part of the Group-employee relationship and evolves over time according to employees’ business maturity and growth. On the basis of the equal opportunities policy, no discriminations are made in the definition of minimum wages between men and women, nor in the various hierarchy levels or age groups. Focusing on improved performance and efficiency, employees’ additional effort is recognized and rewarded. Bonus systems are in place rewarding both individual and team effort. These bonus systems are structured in such a manner that they do not urge people to assume excessive risks or focus on shortterm benefit against long-term targets. In 2010 Employee Awarding Events were held aimed at recognising and rewarding those who have contributed to the Group’s development. In the various events that took place in Greece and abroad, a total 127 colleagues and 3 units (97 employees) who were distinguished for their contribution to the Group regarding their presence and input, their consistently high performance and innovative actions, ethos, integrity, exceptional professional presence, social responsibility, general contribution and volunteer work were given awards. 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 HUMAN RESOURCES Providing a Modern and Safe Work place Fully respecting its legal obligations and the importance of the issue, and being showing particular sensitivity to employees’ physical and mental health, the Bank takes care to provide a modern, healthy and safe workplace. At the same time, it complies with all regulations regarding employees health and safety. Furthermore, in 2010 a total of 1,190 people from Central Units were trained on procedures concerning safe evacuation from buildings. F  or further information regarding health and safety at the work place, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Human Resources>Our People>Health and Safety in the Work Place Social Policy Piraeus Group aims to offer competitive compensation and benefits to its employees. Thus, total employee expenses of the Group reached €411 mn in 2010, as follows: Staff compensations €294.6 mn Social insurance contributions €65.6 mn Other expenses €19.3 mn Retirement benefits €31.5 mn Other expenses include the cost of medical care, employees’ insurance with death and permanent disability coverage (Group Insurance Scheme), preventive check-up for managers, as well as expenses for nursery schools, employer contributions other than social security funds, etc. Piraeus Bank fully meets its obligations regarding the defined benefit plan. F  or further information regarding Piraeus Group’s Social Policy and additional benefit employees, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Human Resources>Our People>Compensation and Benefits It is worth noting that within the framework of the Bank’s social policy, mortgage loans worth €3.8 mn were granted to employees in 2010, while employee outstanding loan balances amounted to €51.3 mn at the end of 2010. Employee Assistance Programmes In 2010 all Bank employees and members of their families had the opportunity to take advantage of counselling and psychosocial support for prevention and intervention in order to manage more effectively the issues being faced in different aspects of their lives. Specifically, the Bank provides a 24/7 helpline, one to one counselling services, support in critical incidents (robberies, health issues, family issues), lectures, focused information through Intranet and the internal newsletter “winners”, educational programmes promoting health and well-being. It should be noted, that apart from Winners in Greece, a specialised newsletter was designed for employees abroad. In 2010, two Career Orientation Events were held in the framework of the Employee Assistance Programmes and focusing on families and the need for counselling guidance of parents and teenagers on the key issue of choice of study and career. Furthermore, 100 high school students were given the opportunity to take advantage of a specialised career orientation test and individual counselling based on their test results. Assessing Human Resource Engagement In line with the Bank’s commitment towards two-way communication between emloyees and management, Employee Satisfaction Survey was planned and implemented for all Group employees. The employee en38 gagement and total satisfaction rate reached 76%, reflecting the positive impact of the actions done based on the previous survey’s results. The high engagement and satisfaction levels combined with the confidence in the leadership, the high level of responsibility of employees and the exceptionally positive company image and social responsibility of the Group, shield the Group in Greece against the great challenges that have resulted from the economic crisis. Furthermore, these results are of particular significance when compared with other distinguished financial Organisations and businesses – as they give a clear lead to Piraeus Group in many parts of the survey. Overview of Piraeus Bank Employee Engagement June 2005 April 2008 Nov. 2010 Engagement and Employee Satisfaction Index 67% 74% 76% Investing in the most Advanced HR Management Systems The integrated human resource management system (HRMS) remains the core platform for the human resource information management and the automation of the relevant procedures. Last year, emphasis was placed on the development of applications for mapping employees’ performance, talent management and career plan development. With a view to extending Performance Appraisal Policies to the Group’s international subsidiaries, the installation of the special IT platform continued in Piraeus Bank Serbia and Piraeus Bank Cyprus and their subsidiaries. This platform is to be extended to two more countries abroad where the Group is active Albania and Egypt – in 2011. Additionally, upgrades were performed to two MIS subsystems, i.e. training management and pay/benefits management. One of the key targets for 2011 is the development of a subsystem for succession planning management, exploiting the platform potential and tools. Collective Representation Almost all Piraeus Bank employees are represented by three unions, of which the one with the most representatives is recognised as the competent body for bargaining with the Management. Seeking to empower the dialogue with employees and their collective representation bodies, in order to establish an even better working environment, the Bank not only fully complies with the respective legislation framework and the individual and business contracts, but also organizes a work meeting among Top Management executives and Union representatives at least once a month. During these meetings, parties are informed about the Group’s activities including important operational changes. It should be noted that 100% of Piraeus Bank human resources receives the salaries and benefits agreed upon in the employment contracts that resulted from collective bargaining. Contribution to Information Society and Entrepreneurship Executives of the Bank are encouraged to take part in conferences and seminars in Greece and abroad, in an effort to actively contribute to enhanced entrepreneurship and dissemination of the organisation’s best practices. In this context, 23 executives of the Bank participated as speakers in conferences and scientific seminars in 2010, providing know-how and best practices to the market in support of the business and academic community. In the context of supporting entrepreneurship 32 selected executives and 7 university student groups participated in the cutting edge entrepreneurship competition Global Business Challenge. Through this com39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 HUMAN RESOURCES petition participants were given the opportunity to manage a virtual business and to gain hands-on practice on fundamental parameters of business management, such as, strategy planning, marketing, accounting, organisation and management of a business and its human resources, production and logistics, sales. Finally, with a sense of social responsibility, the Bank participated in the Future Leaders in Greece programme contributing actively to the advancement and promotion of the leaders of tomorrow and the support of local communities. Specifically, 4 Group executives acted as coaches, providing guidance to 4 groups of students in the planning and executing of projects in different regions in Greece. Voluntary activities Piraeus Bank’s commitment and constant orientation to Society, the Environment, and Culture gain added value through the encouragement and participation in volunteer actions. Group’s goal is to widen company vision towards volunteerism by the enabling individual employee contribution to volunteer work so as to ensure sustainability and a better future for the generations to come. In this context, in 2010 the actions of domestic subsidiary Avis’ employees continued in social and environmental aspects, and the first volunteer environmental action was organised with the participation of Piraeus Bank employees. 40 4 Society, Culture and the Environment Piraeus Bank sponsors and supports various programmes aimed at assisting disadvantaged social groups and protecting the natural environment every year. Moreover, the Bank has also made remarkable contribution to culture through the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation. In total, the Bank’s contributions to actions, programmes and initiatives regarding social, cultural and environmental work accounted for 1.7% of the Group’s pre-provision and tax profit and 1.2% of the Group’s total operating costs in 2010. Corporate Social Responsibility Commitee Piraeus Bank has incorporated Corporate Social Responsibility in its values which is a strategic investment, thus contributing in every possible way in developing the economy and the community. Within this context, and for better coordinating and implementing various corporate responsibility programmes, the Bank has established a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee which comprises of 7 members and is chaired by Mrs. Sophia Staikou, Management Advisor for Corporate Social Responsibility Issues, Chairman of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) and Supervisor of the Group’s Marketing and Communications Division. Other members of the Committee are: three General Managers, the General Manager of Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and two Deputy General Managers. The Committee’s responsibilities are:  to evaluate and support programs that support social groups in need and protect the natural environment  to evaluate philanthropy programmes and submit proposals for the Bank’s contribution  to examine and participate in programs that lead to the creation of museums  to supervise Bank’s sponsorships and press subscriptions Social Actions Cooperation with public welfare organisations in three fields of action, i.e. “Child, Family, Health”, is a strategic choice of the Bank for targeted social interventions. Examples of such interventions include:  a special  programme, in collaboration with the Greek Church, to assist families with many children in Thrace;  financing of rehabilitation programmes for young people’s detoxification from drugs and their gradual  social re-integration;  systematic support to organized communities, associations and organizations for disadvantaged  and orphan children;  financing of organizations supporting the elderly.  At the same time, amidst the unfavourable market conditions, the Bank continues to support its customers through a series of specific actions (see Corporate Responsibility Key Actions and Targets). 41 We preserve our cultural identity, highlighting the strong interdependence of man and nature. The Stymphalia water basin is the southernmost mountain wetland in the Balkans and hosts a rich biodiversity. The Environment Museum of Stymphalia was founded by the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation to highlight exactly the ecological value of the area, which is confirmed by its accession to the NATURA 2000 European Network of Protected Areas. The Environment Museum aims to offer the visitor a feeling of strong interdependence of man and nature and their harmonious coexistence in the Stymphalia basin, with emphasis on the traditional occupations formed around it. Likewise, the Museum’s permanent exhibition uses a variety of contemporary museological tools so that the visitor is informed about the environmental wealth of the region, its history, and the human activity developed in it, experientially discovering his organic ties with nature. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Cultural Actions The Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) enacts an important part of the principles and targets of the Group’s Corporate Responsibility policy in the cultural sector, forwarding its primary statutory targets, namely to safeguard traditional technologies and industrial heritage and to contribute to the cultural and economic development of the Greek periphery, by promoting its cultural reserve. 2010 was a year of development for PIOP during which the high specifications for its operation and services to Greek society and to ensure their quality for which it has obtained relevant certifications, were upheld, despite the objective difficulties of the present economic conjunction. The year was marked by the expansion and increase in its activities which are supported by its 60 employees: operation of the Environment Museum of Stymphalia (the seventh Museum to be included in the Foundation’s Museum Network) after its completion, and the redisplay of the Silk Museum, in Soufli. In 2010 studies that were conducted the previous years concerning the creation of three more thematic technological museums were completed and submitted for inclusion in European and international funding programmes. Activities in the Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museum Network were continued and were also offered to local institutions for the hosting of events. The capitalisation of the research material that has been collected by the Foundation, the publication or preparation of publications as well as the serving of the scientific community’s research needs were also uninterruptingly pursuited steadily pursued. Activities in the Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museum Network were continued and were also offered to local institutions for hosting of events. The capitalisation of the research material that has been collected by the Foundation, publication or preparation of publications as well as serving the research needs of the scientific and academic community were also pursuited. Another significant action was PIOP’s involvement in the public international dialogue with institutions to determine strategies in culture through its collaboration with similar institutions in Greece and abroad. Furthermore, PIOP aligned itself more with the principles and procedures of Piraeus Group and pursued the projection of its work to multiple groups of the public in Greece and abroad, where it promoted Greek culture internationally in response to invitations by official government institutions. PIOP’s aims for the near future mainly concern the impending incorporation of the three scheduled museums to its Network. This will allow for fully coordinated actions in the Greek periphery to support financially the local communities – through the creation of tourist attraction centres – and culturally through the development of similar high quality activities that meet their needs. Further to the continuation of the basic activities (museum operation, research programmes, publications, maintaining the Historical Archive), the Foundation’s target in the immediate future remains the further dissemination of its work to multiple groups of the public following the principles and the priorities set by Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility policy as well as the fulfillment of demands of society that are related to its field.  or further information regarding PIOP’s activities, please refer to: F www.piop.gr The Foundation’s activities report in 2010 per Department is described analytically bellow: Museum Department It is the objective of the Foundation’s Museums Department, and therefore the Bank’s as well, to substantially contribute to the cultural life of the country in an efficient and constructive manner, thereby ensuring the sustainability and active role of a museum network that operates in the Greek regions according to international standards, continuously enriched with the information, knowledge and events of Greek and European cultural centres. Specifically, the range of activities of the Museums Department is as follows: 42 Network Management a. Museums in operation: 1. Silk Museum, Soufli 2. Open-Air Water Power Museum, Dimitsana 3. Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil, Sparta 4. Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Lesvos, Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos island 5. Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas, Volos 6. Museum of Marble Crafts, Pyrgos, Tinos island 7. Environment Museum of Stymphalia The smooth operation and all regular and contingent issues of the museum network are managed by the Museums Department in collaboration with the Technical Services, Administrative and Accounting Services and other Services of the Foundation with the support of Piraeus Bank. b. Collections: Creation, enrichment, digital database management, conservation, storage, contextualisation (production of documentaries, digital programmes, publications, etc.). c. Visitor managment increase: Number of visitors per museum TOTAL NUMBER OF VISITORS Silk Museum 7,876 Open-Air Water Power Museum 34,739 Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil 10,697 Museum of Industrial Olive-Oil Production in Lesvos 6,478 97,023 Rooftile and Brickworks Museum 10,800 Museum of Marble Crafts 16,010 Environment Museum of Stymphalia 10,423 Categories of Entrance Fees Museum Network PIOP 2010 34% Regular Discounted 64% Free of charge 2% Museum Creation – Expansion a. Projects with EU Funding: The Environment Museum of Stymphalia was completed and inaugurated by the President of the Hellenic Republic in June 2010. Furthermore, in the context of supporting regions devastated by fires, PIOP worked in conjunction with the Municipilaty of Falanthos in Arcadia, Peloponnese, assuming the 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT scientific and managerial aspects of the project “The Mainalon Museum of Forest History”, which was funded by the development programme THISEAS (Leader+) and the Municipality and was inaugurated in December 2010. b. Planning of new units: According to the Museums Department planning, the completion of the museum network is planned in the framework of the NSRF, with the inclusion of three new units: Chios Mastic Museum, Silversmithing Museum at Ioannina and Museum of paper-making and Greek typography, in Kerkyra. c. Digital activities: In collaboration with the Photographic/Digital Archive of PIOP, the collections of the museums network are systematically recorded in the framework of the “Europeana, Athena, Access to cultural heritage network across Europe” programme. Cultural Actions In 2010 there were 9 exhibitions in the Museum Network and 2 as PIOP’s participation at Istanbul European Capital of Culture 2010, 9 educational activities, 4 educational programmes available throughout the school year with equivalent supporting electronic leaflets (available on the Foundation’s website) and 31 cultural events. Network Communication Promotion a. Connection with educational institutions: Ongoing informing of the appropriate department of the Ministry of Education, Lifelong Learning and Religious Affairs. Information events for teachers from the Division of Secondary Education in Laconia, concerning the Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil. b. Internet: Updating of website www.piop.gr and e-newsletter “piopnews”. Adding the Environment Museum of Stymphalia webpage on www.piop.gr. The design of supporting e-leaflets for training programmes on the Foundation’s website, in collaboration with the Photographic/Digital Archive. c. Contacts with museums / cultural organisations in Greece and abroad: The objective of the Museums Department is the constant and active participation (contacts, lectures, publications), as well as contribution to the shaping of national and international museum policy. In this context, the following actions were taken:  PIOP  Museum Network’s acceptance of the nomination proposal from the Greek ICOM Department for the “European Prize for Cultural Heritage”, the Europa Nostra Awards 2011, Dedicated Service.  Participation in the submission of proposal to NSRF for the programme “EMPEIRIA, Dynamic Experi ences in Museums using Intelligent Interactive Technologies”.  Participation in the project proposal entitled “Re-connecting the bonds between archaeological arti facts and historicity” on the ICD-MUSE Programme, in the framework of the “The Civil Society Facility – EU-Turkey Intercultural Dialogue, Museums (ICD-MUSE)” Programme.  Allocation of available office space in the Environment Museum of Stymphalia to the Ministry of Cul ture/ 37th Ephorate of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities and the Canadian Archeological Institute. d. Communication – Public Relations: Promotion of the Museums Network to the media; contact with tourist organisations. e. Conferences, Seminars, Meetings: The management staff of the Museums Department attends Greek and international conferences, semi44 nars and meetings in order to promote the PIOP and its museum management model to scientific and cultural fora and to foster partnerships and to inform and train employees. In 2010, the Museums Department took part in 8 scientific meetings in Greece and abroad. f. Publications: Elia Vlachou, Alexandra Tranta, “Educational actions in museums of Piraeus Group Cultural Foundation”, Eirini Gabrilaki, Foteini Katsaouni (ed.), Educational Programmes and Popular Culture, Athens 2010. Research and Communication Department The Department organises its activities in two main axes: i) research and ii) promotion. Research Strategic goals are the creation of the research depository for the Foundation’s projects, the development of the basic research, as well as comparative studies: the use and dissemination of research results and completed scientific work to wider groups of the public, networking with Greek and international academic and research centres, organisations and other public institutions on cultural policies. The main area of research activity is the recording and promotion of the pre-industrial heritage and the thorough study of the technical and economic aspects of modern Greek society, by coordinating and managing intradisciplinary research, conducted by groups of external partners. The Foundation’s longstanding, renowned and specialised experience in specific thematic research and the development of similar innovation provide with a competitive advantage. The following were completed in 2010:  preparation of the Chios Mastic Museum with an emphasis in enriching its full collection and the conservation of artifacts found;  preparation of a touring exhibition “The art of Silversmithing in the 20th Century. The case of Georgios Chatzilaos”, also by comprising the research results to a draft museum scenario and similar core monography;  recording traditional workshop and craftshop sites in Pilio (250 researched sites), with an immediate target to place them in an electronic database accessible from the Foundation’s Central Library, and  reviewing the deliverables of the research programme for the recording of industrial sites in Albania, with emphasis on the oil industry and those of the programme concerning the economic presence of Greeks in the sectors of cotton production and trade in Egypt in the 19th and 20th centuries, in order for them to be published. Furthermore, PIOP also participated in various partnerships with research and academic institutions for the implementation of international scientific programmes, with emphasis on an interdisciplinary approach and it provided scientific assistance to public or collective entities, schools, scientific associations and community stakeholders with regards to Greek cultural heritage. The section of the PIOP library under the responsibilitiy of the Department supports research activity of the wider research community and the Foundation’s personnel. The acquisition of material (monographs, periodical titles, CD/DVD, educational programmes) is achieved through purchases and exchanges with similar institutions in collaboration with Publication Department. In the Library’s Acquired Books Catalogue 365 new titles were registered which were obtained in the above ways. Researchers have free access to original PIOP research findings in the Central Section of the Library. These findings are stored in the following electronic databases: a. “Information on technology in Venice Archives and Libraries”, the result of a research programme on technology in the Greek regions of the post-Byzantine period, which was realised in the past by PIOP in collaboration with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Studies of Venice and b. “Greek Musical Instruments”, the result of a five-year research programme conducted by the Department of Music Iconography of the School of Fine Arts, Aristoteleio University of Thessaloniki that PIOP supported in the past . The Department focused on the continuous training of its people, who also took part in scientific meetings with the goal to promote PIOP’s cultural products and welcomed students for their academic practice on the operation of cultural institutions. 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Communication The Department worked for the continuous informing, parameter-setting and use of the address recorder (conventional and electronic) to inform approx. 5,000 recipients of the Foundation’s events, for the coordination of a continuous informing/updating of the Foundation’s website, of the intranet and Piraeus Group’s internal newsletter “Winners” regarding PIOP’s activities, preparation/hosting of scientific event/exhibitions, as well as the networking of the Foundation with counterpart scientific institutions and unions. Publications Department The Department of Publications supports and promotes publication of interdisciplinary work, from a wide range of research fields, such as history of technology, industrial archeology, museum studies, economic history, etc. All 110 Department publications reflect and adopt PIOP’s targets, as they are also expressed through the Museum Network’s actions and the research programmes that have already been completed or are in progress. The fact that many publications are selected as university textbooks shows the scientific world’s trust in them. Moreover, more popularizing publications are also being promoted, often deriving from the Museum Network themes and aimed at the wider public. It is worth noting that PIOP’s publications enrich school, municipal, university and research centre libraries through donations. In 2010, the publishing series “Our Museums” was enriched with the following works: a. Nadia Macha-Bizoumi, The Traditional Costume of Soufli. b. A.Florakis, Museum of Marble Crafts. Guide (in Greek and English). c. Georgia Kokkorou-Alevra, Irini Poupaki, Alexis Efstathopoulos, Ancient Greek Quarries. Work and space organization, mining and hewing techniques, methods of transport, cost, dissemination and use of stone. d. Yannis Lolos, The Hadrianic Aqueduct of Corinth and the transportation of water in Roman times. Addition to the series “Industrial Heritage” of the work of K. Adamakis, The industrial buildings of Volos. Two collections were published in the series “Contributions”: a. H. Bouras, P. Tournikiotis (editors), Conservation, restoration and rehabilitation of monuments in Greece 1950-2000 b. The Lyceum Club of Greek Women 100 years. In 2011, the following are expected to be published: a. Th. Kalafatis, E.Protzas (editors), The Economic History of the Greek State. b. Conference Proceedings: Women in Byzantium: Worship and art. Special topic of the 26th Symposium CHAE (Christian Archaeological Society) Athens, May 2006. Chios Mastic, 11th Three-Day Working Meeting, Chios island, 17-19 October 2008. c. In the series “Museology”, The Museum and Museum Studies: A Complete Guide. MacDonald Sharon (editor). d. Museum Guides for the Silk Museum and the Environment Museum of Stymphalia. e. In the series “Cultural Guides”, D. Zivas, The Architecture Guide of Athens. Historical Archives Department It is the goal of PIOP’s Historical Archives Department to contribute to the research of the country’s economic history with the preservation, organisation and use of the historical archives of Piraeus Bank Group. The collections of the Department currently forty-three – include archives of banks (Piraeus Bank, Bank of Chios, Greek Bank of Industrial Development), organisations or institutions that have played a decisive role in Greece’s economic development (Central Loan Committee, Economic Development Financing Organisation, Industrial Development Organisation), important businesses as well as personal archives. The Department’s main objective is to apply modern methods of data and document cataloguing and management so that this valuable archive material may be freely accessed by both the scientific community and the general public. In this context, in 2010 the archiving and documenting of the Archives’ 46 original material was continued: five new collections and archives were added to the Department’s organized collections available for research. Through the website http://archives.piop.gr, which is constantly being updated with new data, the research public has access to internet searches, the e-catalogue of the records as well as the data that has already been digitised. Moreover, the Department’s Library specialising in matters of economic and banking history was further enriched with new books and periodicals, thereby offering the Archive’s researchers the opportunity to search and study through a rich reference library. Search of the Library’s material is possible through the OPAC catalogue (Online Public Access Catalogue) on the Foundation’s website. Throughout 2010, a considerable number of researchers consulted the archives both on the internet and in the Department’s reading room and worked in its Specialised Library. The Historical Archive Department is an active member of scientific associations and societies, such as the International Council on Archives, Hellenic Archives Society, European Association for Banking and Financial History e.V. Employees of the Department participated in Greek and international seminars, conferences and meetings in order to promote PIOP’s work. 47 We continually reduce our energy consumption and make wise use of natural resources. Leading by example, Piraeus Bank has committed itself and implements a specific policy and management programs that reduce environmental impacts, deriving from both its operation and business activities. In this way, the Bank's ecological footprint is continuously being reduced year by year. Piraeus Bank has significantly reduced and continues to limit the use of consumables, gas emissions, water and electricity as well as business travels. The Bank promotes the use of green procurement and implements projects for managing and recycling solid waste. With these practices, Piraeus Bank demonstrates that adopting the principles of sustainable development in everyday business decisions is not only necessary but also feasible and beneficial, as it contributes to enhancing the quality of life. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental Actions Environmental Strategies Following the Environmental Management Policy, in place since 2003, the Board of Directors issued in 2010 an Environmental Policy in order to better reflect the new entrepreneurial priorities and in response to the current environmental and social situation. Specifically, in 2010:  The Board of Directors adopted specific strategies to deal with climate change aimed at: the reduction of the Bank’s ecological footprint, the evaluation of the risk that arises for Greek businesses due to climate change, finding solutions to climate change, the adaptation of businesses to the new climate conditions and at the enhancement of green entrepreneurship.  A Board of Director’s member was appointed the responsibity for environmental issues.  The Group’s Executive Committee decided to enact specific actions in order to enhance the Bank’s know-how on matters of green business with two specific targets: to make Piraeus Group the most prominent Group with specialisation in green entrepreneurship in Greece and in countries abroad where it operates; to accomplish this goal with an innovative development model, upholding the principles of sustainable banking. F  or further details regarding the Group’s Environmental Policy and Articles of Association, refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>The Group>Corporate Responsibility>Environment www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations>Corporate Governance Piraeus Group’s Green Structure For improved coordination of the Bank’s environmental work, the Environment Unit (former Office for Environmental Issues) has been in operation since 2004 and since 2009 the Green Banking Sector, which includes, among others, the Green Banking Products Division and the Green Banking Branch in Athens. In 2010, a trained member of staff was appointed to all Bank branches in Greece, with the main mission to promote the specialised products and all the initiatives that support green entrepreneurship. Furthermore, 45 selected network branches in Greece were transformed into central vehicles for the promotion of green entrepreneurship, the reduction of the ecological footprint and the support of responsible and sustainable development for businesses, self-employed professionals and households. These branches were architecturally renovated so as to reflect the Bank’s new strategic priorities of e-banking and green business and have been staffed with employees specialised in green entrepreneurship. Furthermore, these branches are technologically equipped to enable, via video conferencing, the communication of customers with the in-house special green advisors and to promote direct bank transactions through winbank stations (e-banking). In the process to acquire the EMAS (Eco-Management Audit Scheme) certification, an employee was appointed as an Environmental Management System Coordinator in every branch and administration building, whose main role is the implementation of procedures and the application of programmes to manage the Bank’s ecological footprint. It should also be noted, that a dedicated Database on Environmental Legislation (DEL) has been created aiming at evaluating the Bank’s compliance with the demands of the relevant legislation and the corporate responsibility commitments. DEL ensures a direct response to the new regulations concerning the Bank’s Environmental Policy. In 2011 special emphasis will be placed on the legislation’s sections which support the work for: a. reduction of operational impacts and compliance with EMAS, b. reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation to climate change, and c. promotion of environmentally-friendly investments and green business as a priority field for Piraeus Bank. 48 Ecological Footprint Overall, the Bank’s environmental performance in 2010 was positive, as in most cases the quantitative targets were achieved. Main objective for 2011 is the improvement of the Bank’s environmental performance in terms of establishing programmes that will increase recycling of materials and reduce consumption of natural resources, such as paper and water and primarily energy use. Specifically, both the Bank’s certification under ISO 14001 and the compliance with the Eco-Management Audit Scheme (EMAS) are expected to improve the quality of the data and the procedures within the Group. Environmental Performance Consumables Paper Consumption In 2010, it was decided to reduce the frequency of Bank Account Statements sent to individual customers from a monthly to quarterly basis. The Bank’s consumption of paper consumables and paper forms has been showing a steady decrease in the past years as a result of the changes made to banking procedures that formerly required printouts, but now are managed electronically. Specifically, in 2010 this reduction reached 11.5%. It should be noted that for the first time paper consumption for marketing activities was also calculated. 2011 Target: further reduction of total paper consumption by 2%. Paper consumption (tn) 386 352 355 Recycled A4 and A3 paper Marketing paper 224 1 161 Consumables and printed material 143 108 92 94 Newspapers 2008 2009 2010 Newspaper consumption Consumption of printed newspapers remained unchanged with a slight increase of 1% which did not allow for the 2010 target – a 2% reduction to be met. Many of the newspaper’s subscriptions have already been turned to electronic ones and hence, since the end of 2010, there has been a significant reduction. 2011 Target: reduction of printed newspaper consumption by 5%. Ink and Toner Consumption Consumption of ink and toner shows a gradual reduction. Specifically in 2010, this reduction reached 7%, greatly surpassing the 0.5% goal set. 2011 Target: reduction of ink and toner use by 1%. Ink and toner consumption (items) 26,127 24,343 22,637 2008 2009 2010 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Green Procurements Environmentally-friendly paper Total consumption of recycled and chlorine free paper in the Bank increased slightly by 1% in 2010 compared to 2009 and with recycled and chlorine free paper accounting for 60% of the total paper used in the Bank. The set goal has been achived. Percentage of recycled paper versus conventional paper consumption 60% 58% 54% 2008 2009 2010 Environmental benefit from certified recycled and chlorine-free A3 and A4 paper use from 2006 to 2010 Solid waste not produced (tn) 1,006 CO2 emisssions prevented (tn) 1,980 Energy saved (MWh) 9,873 Water saved (x 10,000 litres) 7,636 Number of trees saved 42,802 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 Refilled ink and toner cartridges There was an increase in the percentage of the ink and toner cartridges that were refilled. 2011 Target: increase by 2% of refilled ink and toner cartridges in relation to original cartridges used. Water In 2010 the total water consumption in the Bank’s buildings reached 47,129 m3 with water consumption per employee reaching 8.8 m3. These levels of water consumption are not directly comparable to the previous years’, as the latter were calculated by extrapolating data which were collected from a sample of branches and building units. 2011 Target: To reduce water consumption in 20 branches by 10%. Energy Electricity consumption Most ecological footprint reduction measures taken by the Bank refer to energy saving. The encouraging fact that in 2010 total energy consumption remained unchanged compared to 2009 (there was a slight increase of just 0.4%) partly offsets the fact that the 2% reduction per surface unit target set was not achieved. Energy consumption per surface unit increased slightly in 2009-2010 (from 177 to 50 186 kWh/m2) which is mainly attributed to the Bank’s building stock as well as to the weather conditions since the Bank’s buildings are heated and cooled with electricity for the most part. In any case, the Bank’s average electricity consumption per surface unit is very close to the average for office buildings in Greecewhich is approx. 187 kWh/m2 (2004 study of the National Observatory of Athens on the extension of supportive policies for the promotion measures to reduce emissions in the householdtertiary sector). Electricity consumption per employee in the Bank’s buildings was also slightly higher in the years 2009-2010, calculated to 7,023 kWh/employee in 2010 versus 6,975 kWh/employee the previous year. Electricity Consumption in Piraeus Bank Electricity consumption per unit area (kWh/m2) Electricity consumption per employee (x 10 kWh/employee) Electricity Consumption (x 100,000 kWh) 0 200 400 600 800 2010 2009 2008 2007 In 2011, the energy-saving programmes that started in 2009 will continue, while more pilot programmes and actions are planned:   Installation of energy-management system to Administration buildings allowing for automatic activation/deactivation of electric and electronic appliances   actions to increase human resource participation in reducing electricity consumption 2011 Target: To reduce total electricity consumption by 1%. Heating fuel consumption As was mentioned in the previous corporate responsibility reports, diesel fuel is used in approx. 20 Bank buildings, representing 5% of buildings and 10% of total surface area. There was a 13% rise in diesel fuel consumption in 2010 versus 2009. Total consumption in the Bank’s buildings demonstrates great fluctuations year to year due to diesel fuel deliveries for power generators (which may not be made again for several years) and to a lesser degree due to the changeable weather conditions. 2011 Target: to maintain the same heating fuel consumption. Transportation The Bank’s green policy on business travel had positive results, as business air travels were reduced by 17% -the target set was to keep it at 2009 levelsand business trips by car fell by 13%-by far exceeding the 5% target set. In contrast, training trips increased three times -when the target set was a 2% reductionbut this was expected to happen pursuant to the Bank’s decision to implement an intensive series of green training sessions which took place in training centres. It is worth noting that reasons that e-learning programme use increased by 47.5%, thus contributing to the overall prevention of 1,000 tonnes of CO2 being emitted from 2007 to 2010. 2011 Target: To reduce air travel and training trips by car by 5%. 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental benefits from e-learning 1,000 fewer tonnes of CO2 1,200 1,000 Quantity of gases not emitted 800 600 400 200 CO2 (tonnes) CH4 (kgs) N2O (kgs) SO2 (tonnes) CO (tonnes) Gases not emitted 2010 2009 2008 2007 Solid waste management Paper The target set for 2010 was to extend paper recycling to branches in Attica. Paper recycling now takes place in all branches and Administration buildings in Attica, the wider area of Thessaloniki and in some branches in the Greek periphery, such as the island of Kos. As a result, paper recycling in the Bank increased notably by 7%, exceeding the 2% target set, thus saving more than 6,100 trees (125,000 m2 of forest). There was a similar trend in the percentage of paper that was recycled versus paper consumption, which reached approx. 10%. This was the result of increased recycling and reduced consumption of paper. 2011 Target: To increase paper recycling by 10%. Ink and toner cartridges The Ink and toner cartridges management programme was extended to further locations, resulting in the doubling of the quantities returned for reuse/refill. The 2010 target was only a 5% increase. 2011 Target: To increase ink and toner cartridges quantities returned for reuse/refill by 5%. Battery Battery recycling is implemented in all of the Bank’s branches and Administration buildings. The 2010 set target of 10% was almost tripled, reaching 28%. In addition, 2.2 tonnes of large accumulators were delivered for recycling, 2011 Target: To increase the quantity of batteries delivered for recycling by 5%. 52 Plastic The pilot programme to extend plastic recycling to Administration buildings, resulted in a 58% increase in plastic recycling, by far exceeding the 10% target set in 2010. 2011 Target: To increase the quantity of plastic recycled by 10%. Electric and Electronic Appliances and Light Bulbs For the collection of electric and electronic appliances and light bulbs, the Bank collaborates with APPLIANCES RECYCLING SA 2, to which the Bank delivered more than 2.9 tonnes of electric and electronic equipment for recycling. Gas emissions The major gas emission sources from the Bank’s activities derive directly from the consumption of heating fuel, and consumption of fuel for car and air travels and indirectly from electricity consumption in all the Bank’s buildings. Approximately, 94.1% of CO2 emissions, 99.8% of SO2 emissions and 92.8% of NOx emissions derive from the consumption of electricity. More specifically, in 2010, the total CO2 emissions reached 33,523 tonnes, reduced by 0.3% compared to last year, while there was a significant reduction, by 7%, in CH4, CO and VOC emissions. Green Business Further to managing its environmental operational impact, the Bank has made a commitment to support environmentally and socially responsible investments, specifically by providing banking services to entrepreneurial initiatives that promote green business. For this purpose, the Bank conducts environmental analyses and research for each sector of economic activity, in order to determine the possible risks and opportunities that may stem from climatic change and new environmental legislation, and suitably adjusts its policies and actions. This strategic choice is strongly supported by the fact that the number of enterprises that reform their operational interest and activities, using technologies and investments friendly to the environment, is growing constantly. It’s worth mentioning that financing by Piraeus Bank of green investments in 2010 prevented the emission of 311,000 tonnes of CO 2. F  or further details on Green Business in Piraeus Bank, refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr>Investor Relations > Annual Reports > Annual Report 2010 Collaborations Piraeus Bank has developed strategic alliances with the community for the protection of biodiversity and the environment. Within this framework, it has a long-standing co-operation with the environmental organisation MOm for the protection of the endangered Mediterranean Monk Seal. Piraeus Bank has also supported the activities of ARCHELON, the Hellenic Ornithological Society, Callisto and the Ecological Recycling Society, while the Bank’s partnership with WWF Greece for the implementation of the European climabiz programme are all proof of the systematic collaboration that Piraeus Bank pursues to have with society. Furthermore, Piraeus Bank has started a separate collaboration with the Social Cooperative (Limited Liability) “Klimax plus” for the collection of paper to be recycled in Attica. This collaboration, apart from contributing to the achievement of environmental goals, is also part of the Bank’s policy to support disadvantaged social groups, as well as the organisations that are involved in the rehabilitation of these groups. Environmental Communication and Education Raising environmental awareness and educating its employees as well as the general public on sustainable development is a priority for Piraeus Bank. Taking regulatory measures is not enough to improve the Bank’s environmental performance. First and foremost, it requires the active participation of the employees themselves. 2 A  ppliances Recycling SA is a collective take back and recycling scheme for all WEEE (Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Categories in Greece. 53 We inform and support businesses and individuals through special environmental programs. Through the European program climabiz, Piraeus Bank identifies and evaluates risks and opportunities arising from climate change for Greek companies. It identifies, per business sector, the effects and business opportunities arising from climate change in Southeast Europe. It develops an assessment model for both risk and adaptation costs. It informs and supports primarily small and medium-sized businesses, as well as individuals, for their smoother adaptation to the new climatic conditions. Climabiz is implemented by Piraeus Bank in collaboration with the environmental organization WWF Greece and the consulting company face3ts, and it is co-financed by the financial instrument LIFE+ of the European Union. The duration of the program is three years, beginning as of January 11, 2010, and actions take place, besides Greece, in Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental training takes place at various levels. The first is the general level, consisting mainly of e-learning programmes which provide basic environmental knowledge and present the environmental work of the Bank. Approx. 1,000 employees (19% of the total Bank employees in Greece) have voluntarily attended the series of 5 hour-long, e-learning lessons on the environment. At the next level, training is more specialised and deals with green business, the Bank’s green products and even the EMAS Environmental Management System of the Bank. In 2010, approx. 350 employees, who have taken on the role of the Environmental Management Coordinator, participated in two e-learning programmes that focused on the requirements and standards of the EMAS certification. In total, over 2,000 employees (38% of employees in Greece) participated in at least one of the many green education programmes implemented by the Bank. On average 1,000 employees per month follow the “green news” as they appear every week on the internal network (intranet). Employees of some Group’s subsidiaries (e.g. ETBA Industrial Parks, Piraeus Direct Services, Piraeus Bank Cyprus Ltd) also have access to the green news. Moreover, a website for the european project climabiz (www.climabiz.gr) was set up in early July and by the end of December 2010, it had had 1,181 visitors. In addition, climabiz has been mentioned in the press 35 times and there have been 1,730 entries on the internet. F  or further details regarding the climabiz programme, please refer to: www.climabiz.gr Employee Volunteer Programme The Bank’s commitment and steady interest for society, the environment and culture gain even greater value through the encouragement and participation of its employees in volunteer activities. In this framework, the first volunteer activity was organised for the Bank’s employees in Attica on 24.10.10 at the Environmental Awareness Park “A. Tritsis”. This action was organised in conjunction with the Hellenic Ornithological Society and included the cleaning of artificial lakes, tree planting, renovation of wooden fences and the construction of water taps for visitors. Climate Change Piraeus Bank has started the implementation of climabiz, an innovative European programme that aims to prepare the market to adapt to the new conditions in a timely manner and to make good use of the opportunities that arise from climate change. Climabiz is implemented by Piraeus Bank in collaboration with WWF Greece and Face3ts, a consulting company with experience in climate change. The project is co-financed by the European Union and more specifically by the funding instrument “LIFE+ Environmental Policy and Governance”. The project has a three-year duration and the fields of actions include Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Cyprus. With climabiz, the Bank will help deal with climate change in the following ways by:   defining the economic risks and business opportunities that arise from climate change in Greece and SE Europe in general;   creating specific software applications to monitor the developments of risks and business opportunities that arise from climate change in Greece;   informing and supporting businesses for their smoother adaptation to climate change and   educating and raising awareness among Piraeus Bank’s employees and customers as well as the general public on ways of dealing with and adapting to climate change. 54 Results Target Target Trend Gas Emissions 2010 2011 2009-2010 (%) 2009v 2010 (%) (%) CO2 emissions (tonnes) 33,609 33,523 -0.26 -1 CO2 emissions (kg/employee) 6,261 6,264 0.05 -1.0 CH4 emissions (kg) 1,015 938 -7.59 -1 CH4 emissions (grams/employee) 189 175 -7.4 -0.5✓ NOx emissions (tonnes) 86 85 -1.16 -1 NOx emissions (kg/employee) 16.02 15.94 -0.87 -1.5 SO2 emissions (tonnes) 196 197vi 0.51 -1 SO2 emissions (kg/employee) 36.51 36.73 0.60 -0.5 CO emissions (tonnes) 75.38 70.78 -6.31 0 CO emissions (kg/employee) 14.04 13.23 -6.00 -1.5✓ VOC emissions (tonnes) 10.71 10.02 -6.55 0 VOC emissions (kg/employee) 2.00 1.87 -6.5 -1.5✓ PM10 emissions (tonnes) 17.37 18 0.36 0 PM10 emissions (kg/employee) 3.24 3.36 3.7 -1.0 CO2 carbon dioxide, CH 4 methane, NO x nitrogen oxides, SO2 sulphur dioxide, CO carbon monoxide, VOC Volatile Organic Compounds, ΡΜ10 Particulate Matter gas emissions from car travel gas emissions from energy consumption gas emissions from plane travel positive change ✓ target achieve i The effectiveness of the energy saving measures being applied, is believed to be reflected adequately in the electricity consumption index given the assumption that the Bank’s activities will remain at the level of 2010. ii  he estimated indices for 2009 are different to those published in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report, as the methodology used to calculate them has changed T and is now calculated based on the total employees and the total surface of the Bank’s buildings. iii Only concerns branches in islands of the Aegean. iv Concerns 20 Branches of the Bank. v  he 2009 gas pollutant ratios were reviewed. The annual reviews of the gas pollutant ratios for electricity are due to the changes in the energy mix in the country’s T electricity sector from year to year and are calculated based on the latest available national emissions inventory and the country’s energy balance. vi A new SO2 ratio was used, which is based on the improvement in fuel quality (diesel fuel). 55 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2010 SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT Results Trend Target Target Piraeus Bank Ecological Footprint 2009-2010 (%) 2010 (%) 2011 (%) 2009 2010 Consumables Newspaper consumption from subscriptions (tonnes) [I] 92.33 93.59 1.36 -2 -5 Paper consumption from the use of paper consumables & 161.21 142.53 -11.58 bank transaction forms (tonnes) [II] Paper consumption from Marketing ( tonnes ) [IΙΙ] 1.43 Total conventional paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 253.54 237.55 6.31 Total conventional paper consumption (kg/employee) 47 44 6.38 Consumption of toner and cartridges (items) 24,343 22,637 -7.01 -0.5✓ -1 Consumption of toner and cartridges (items/employee) 4.53 4.23 6.62 Green Procurement A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (tonnes) [IV] 351.39 355.42 1.15 A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (kg/employee) 65 66 1.54 Total paper consumption (tonnes) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV] 604.93 592.97 -1.98 -1✓ -2 Total paper consumption (kg/employee) 113 111 -1.77 Energy Energy consumption from electricity (kWh) 37,441,191 37,588,690 0.39 -1i Energy consumption from electricity (kWh/employee) 6.975ii 7.023 0.69 Energy consumption from electricity (kWh/m ) 2 177 186 5.39 -2 Heating fuel consumption ( litres ) 91,688 103,880 13.3 Heating fuel consumption (litres/employee) 17.08 19.41 13.64 Heating fuel consumption (litres/m )2 0.43 0.51 18.6 0 0 Water Water consumption (m ) 3 40,797 47,129 15.5 Water consumption (m /employee) 3 7.6 8.8 6.6iii -2iii -10iv Solid Waste Management Paper recycled (tonnes) 238.22 255.12 7.09 +2✓ +10 Percentage of paper recycled 39.38% 43.02% 9.2 +2✓ +1 (paper recycled/paper consumed) Recycled ink cartridges and toners (items) 2,016 4,260 111.31 +5✓ +5 Plastic recycled (kg) 3,740 5,902 57.81 +10✓ +10 Batteries recycled (kg) 3,523 4,495 27.59 +10✓ +5 Transportation Business travel by plane (km) 2,582,424 2,131,551 -17.46 0✓ -5 Business travel by plane (km/employee) 481 398 -17.21 Business travel by car (km) 8,909,601 7,697,271 -13.61 Business travel by car (km/employee) 1,660 1,438 -13.35 -5✓ -2 Travel by car for educational purposes (km) 103,144 290,358 181.51 -2 -5 Travel avoided by opting for e-learning instead of 1,423,816 2,100,193 47.50 0✓ 0 conventional training in educational centres (km) * For symbol index description please refer to previous page. 56 Appendix GRI Reporting Content The present Corporate Responsibility Report covers the calendar year 2010 and forms part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report. It is structured on the basis of the revised Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (2011) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement. The content of the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report is governed by the same principles as the 2009 Report (Completeness, Accuracy, Clarity, Reliability, Objectivity, Comparability, Substantiability and Stakeholder Dialogue). Piraeus Bank Group has implemented the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines for a fourth consecutive year, in line with the 2009 Report, considering that this model is a comprehensible framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of Corporate Responsibility issues for both the Group and stakeholders. The 2010 Annual Report pertains to the entire Group. The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report covers almost all the activities of the Group; however, some of the data reporting and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Wherever this is true, reference is made to the relevant Report sections. The objective is to gradually extend the Bank’s knowhow and systematic approach of CSR issues to all the Group companies. Piraeus Bank Group implemented the GRI Application Level B, which is GRI-checked. The 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report has not received external certification, which is expected to occur in the near future. To collect the 2010 data contained in the Report, the electronic database management systems were used, enabling data collection and processing. Moreover, internal processes have been adopted to ensure the validity and reliability of information. With regard to the Report indicator data measurement methodology, it should be noted that figures for gas emissions differ from those published in the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report. This is due to the fact that we are now in a position to apply a more elaborate methodology for the collection and interpretation of data, as a result of the expansion of the data collecting network and the technical improvements in the collecting system. For comparative reasons, the necessary adjustments have been made in calculating the corresponding 2009 environmental indices with the new methodology. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative below contains all the information for all the key GRI indices and a significant number of supplementary GRI indices. Additionally, the concise table below contains relevant references to policies, approaches and management aspects adopted by Piraeus Bank for each GRI index category. Questions/views on the report and/or its content may be submitted to: Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr. 57 Indicator Description Reference PROFILE 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization AFR 2-5, CRR 5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities AFR 2-5, CRR 5 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization PIRAEUS BANK SA 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services www.piraeusbank.gr 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating www.piraeusbank.gr/Investor Relations companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 AMERIKIS ST. ATHENS 105 64, GREECE 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of www.piraeusbank.gr/The Group countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form www.piraeusbank.gr/Investor Relations 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types www.piraeusbank.gr/The Group of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization CRR 57 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or CRR 57 ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CRR 18-19 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided 01.01.2010-31.12.2010 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 19.05.2010 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents investor_relations@piraeusbank.gr 3.5 Process for defining report content CRR 57 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, CRR 57 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see CRR 57 completeness principle for explanation of scope) 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced CRR 57 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizationsς 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including asCRR 57 sumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earCRR 57 lier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, CRR 57 or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report CRR 57 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the CRR 57 report 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the CRR 21-22 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 59 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI REPORTING CONTENT 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an execuCRR 22 tive officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of CRR 21-22 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or CRR 11-12 direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, AFR 14-15 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of AFR 16-17 interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members AFR 14-15 of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and CRR 10 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organizaCRR 11-12, 41 tion’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, CRR 18, 41 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is AFR 16-17 addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, CRR 17-19 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ CRR 17-19 international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization CRR 11-12 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage CRR 11-12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement CRR 11-12 by type and by stakeholder group 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engageCRR 11-12 ment, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting DMA PS Disclosure on Management Approach PS www.piraeusbank.gr FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to busiCRR 10 ness lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in CRR 41-42, 48 business lines FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with enCRR 30, 33, 41 vironmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental CRR 36, 54 and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmenCRR 11-12 tal and social risks and opportunities Audits CRR 23 Active Ownership www.piraeusbank.gr 60 DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC AFR 2-5 Economic PerformanceCOMM AFR 2-5 Market presence AFR 2-5 Indirect economic impacts AFR 2-5 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN CRR 48-49 Materials CRR 49-50, 56 Energy CRR 50-51, 55-56 Water CRR 50, 56 Biodiversity CRR 53-54 Emissions, effluents and waste CRR 52-53, 55-56 Products and services AR 38 Compliance CRR 48 Transport CRR 51-52, 55-56 Overall CRR 48-49 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA www.piraeusbank.gr Employment CRR 33-35 Labor/management relations CRR 35 Occupational health and safetyCOMM CRR 38-39 Training and education CRR 36-37 Diversity and equal opportunity CRR 35 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR www.piraeusbank.gr Investment and procurement practices CRR 30-31, 33 Non-discrimination CRR 33, 35 Freedom of association and collective bargaining CRR 39 Child labor CRR 17, 33 Forced and compulsory labor CRR 17, 33 Security practices CRR 17, 33 Indigenous rights CRR 17, 33 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO www.piraeusbank.gr Community CRR 41 Corruption CRR 24-25, 37 Public policy CRR 27-29 Anti-competitive behavior CRR 27-29 Compliance CRR 24-25 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR CRR 27-29 Disclosure on Management Approach PR CRR 27-29 Customer health and safety CRR 27-29 61 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI REPORTING CONTENT FS15 Policies for the fair design CRR 27-29 and sale of financial products and services Marketing communications CRR 27-29 Customer privacy CRR 27-29 Compliance CRR 27-30 PERFORMANCE INDICATOR Product portfolio FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. AFR 2-5 micro/SME/large) and by sector FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social AFR 2-5 benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific enviAFR 38 ronmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Audit FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental CRR 48, Ετήσιος and social policies and risk assessment procedures Active ownership EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating AFR 2-5 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s CRR 54-55 activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. CRR 38 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government AFR 3 Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers CRR 30-31, 33 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management CRR 35 Indirect economic impacts EC8 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at CRR 41-42 significant locations of operation EC9 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from CRR 41-42 the local community at significant locations of operation Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume CRR 49-50, 56 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials CRR 50, 56 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source CRR 51-52, 56 62 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source CRR 50-52, 55-56 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements CRR 50-52, 55-56 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and AR 38 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved CRR 50-52, 55-56 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CRR 50, 56 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water None EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused CRR 50, 56 Biodiversity ΕΝ11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, proNone tected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ΕΝ12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiverNone sity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ΕΝ13 Habitats protected or restored CRR 53-54 ΕΝ14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity CRR 53-54 ΕΝ15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with None habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, effluents and waste ΕΝ16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR 53, 55 ΕΝ17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight CRR 53, 55 ΕΝ18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved CRR 50-53, 55 ΕΝ20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight CRR 53, 55 ΕΝ22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method CRR 52-53, 56 ΕΝ23 Total number and volume of significant spills None Products and services ΕΝ26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation CRR 53, AR 38 ΕΝ27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category CRR 48, AR 38 Compliance ΕΝ28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sancCRR 48 tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport ΕΝ29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials CRR 51-52, 55-56 used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type CRR 41 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region CRR 34-35 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary CRR 35-36 or part-time employees, by major operations 63 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GRI REPORTING CONTENT Labor/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CRR 35, 39 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including CRR 39 whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational health and safety LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place CRR 38-39 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions CRR 38 Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category CRR 36-37 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued CRR 36-37 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developCRR 36-37 ment reviews Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category CRR 22, 34 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category CRR 37 Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that CRR 33 include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone CRR 33 screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human CRR 33, 36 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken CRR 33 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collecCRR 17, 33, 39 tive bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and CRR 17, 33 measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory CRR 17, 33 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Social: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage CRR 41-42 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. 64 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people CRR 13 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies CRR 36 and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CRR 36 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying AFR 2-5, CRR 5 Social: Product Responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services CRR 27-28, 30 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary CRR 27-28, 30 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage CRR 27-28 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes CRR 28-30 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary CRR 28-30 FS16 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marCRR 28-30 keting communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Marketing communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marCRR 27-28 keting communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary CRR 28-30 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer CRR 28-30 privacy and losses of customer data Indicator Category Symbols used in the table above EC Economic Website www.piraeusbank.gr EN Environment CRR (number): C orporate Responsibility Report 2010 LA Labor Practices and descent work AR (number): Annual Report 2010 HR Human Rights AFR (number): A nnual Financial Report 2010 SO Society Core Index PR Product Responsibility PS Product Portfolio All GRI Indicators are fully reporded in the table above 65
