VIORAL S.A. Leoforos NATO, Nea Zoi, 193 00 Aspropyrgos, P.O Box 83 Tel.: +30210 5596525 , Fax: +302105596531 ALUMINIUM & ZINK ALLOYS PRESSURE DIE CASTERS Email: theod@vioral.com Communication On Progress 2010 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Brief company’s presentation – Our customers – Our suppliers 2. Declaration for continuous support of GLOBAL COMPACT principals, 3. Support for human right principals. 4. Support of working conditions principals 5. Environmental principals, support. 6. Anticorruption principals, support 1. Brief company’s presentation – Our customers – Our suppliers VIORAL was founded in 1958, as a bronze and aliminium die casting company. Today’s activities are located in the industrial area of Aspropyrgos in Attica County, approximately 20 km from Athens. It is a relatively small company employing 35 employees. VIORAL produces industrial aluminium alloy components using the high pressure die casting process. The raw material used is secondary aluminum alloys, supplied by local smelters certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001; each delivery is accompanied by a certificate of chemical analyses of the lot(s), while at the same time a spectrometric analysis is done by the Quality Laboratory of VIORAL. VIORAL’s quality methods and processes were implemented at very early stages, investing in new equipment developing at the same time a written system of quality based on the US military standards MIL-I-45208, as early as 1986, shortly after as soon as the ISO 9000 was developed VIORAL was updated approved with the new certificate. Today the company is certified in accordance with the ISO 9001 and the certificate for automotive ISO/TS 16949 and also the environmental standards ISO 14001. VIORAL’s export activities in France and Germany started in 1978 and 1982 respectively. In 1990 our export’s share in the turn over, was 60% and after 1996 above 90% to reach 100% today. Our customers are big size industrial companies in Europe and USA. Their activities are Automotive, Electrical equipment and apparatus, white appliances, telecommunication, hardware etc. 2. Declaration for continuous support of GLOBAL COMPCT’s principals VIORAL is a small company participating in UN GLOBAL COMPACT SINCE 2008. This is our first COP. Irrespective to our size we operate as a legitimate citizen and we are dedicated to our principles and values of the GC in respect to the human rights, working environment, the environment and fighting against corruption, principals that we respectfully. Our dedication to the principals of GC concerns all the stakeholders. The present declaration is made so that all our customers, suppliers, our personnel, the stakeholders and all concerned are aware. Kyriakos Stringaris President VIORAL SA 3. Endorsement of the human right principals We declare that: A) We are committed to respect and protect the internationally decaled human rights. B) Our company is committed, our suppliers and all the stakeholders not complicit in human rights abuses. In VIORAL there is not and there will not be in future discrimination of labour force for whatever reason, like age, race, sex, family status, religion, sexual preferences or nationality. In our small size company there coexist and work together in harmony since 1990 four different nationalities. Top management and the personnel of the company there is full and complete respect to that effect and there exists excellent cooperation between ALL of the colleagues with the administration. To this purpose instructions have been issued to all concerned in respect to the mutual respect of their fellow men and women and this is part of the training program of company’s personnel. Pict. 3: Employees per sex 2010 Pict. 4: Employees Nationalities 2010 Pict. 5: Accidents in Vioral 4. Principals endorsement, for Working Conditions VIORAL is committed to support and sustain the principals 3, 4, 5 and 6 under the general title LABOUR of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT. In particular is committed to provide the capability of union activities for its personnel, to lock out any form of forced labour work, to forbid child work and not to allow any discrimination between the workers of the company. VIORAL has an approved by the state, Ministry of Labour “Regulations for Intercompany Functions” document, which is issued to all newly employed personnel. All the company’s obligations to the personnel and vice versa are explicitly described within the above mentioned regulations document. Often enough meetings are held with the personnel and every 2 years an intercompany seminar is held with all the personnel and one of the subjects to be discussed is the human relations, the mutual respect and recognition of human rights. We award our personnel with various means based either on targets or recognition of long term cooperation and linked to company’s fiscal results and others. In particular, a ceremony is organized, with the presence of all personnel, in honor of the persons that are retired after a long presence in the company, a bonus is given according pre-agreed targets, etc. In order that the friendly relations between the personnel will be strengthened, since these relations may suffer due to the work stress, the company organizes a free for the personnel and their families 2 or 3 days excursion in a place of their choice. The results of such activities are very positive taking into consideration the excellent relations of VIORAL with its personnel and the end results. Within the size of the company actions are taken to the local society such as financial support to the local football club of Aspropyrgos so that a lot of young people can find a home to cover their needs many of those youngsters are VIORAL’s personnel boys and daughters Pict. 1: APOLLON Foot ball team Pict. 1: VIORAL’s personnel excursion 2010. 5. Endorsement of environmental principals. VIORAL supports the number 7, 8 and 9 of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT principals concerning environment. The company is certified with in accordance with ISO 14001 since 2005 and its policy is to be amongst the top companies for the health, Safety and Environment, as well as to minimize the effect from the production activities. The procedures are described in the ISO 14001 system. Our goal is to carry out measurements, maintain records and to set targets for improvement of all the environmental indices. The possible after effects from the production activities of VIORAL and all the measures taken for their control are: a) Liquid deposits (industrial mad). Water used as dilution to the cooling lubricant of the dies mixed with hydraulic fluid as a surplus from the die casting machines is collected in underground depots and collected by a certified company. b) Solid deposits, i.e. paper, plastic materials, batteries, bulbs and apparatus are collected in separate containers and collected by certified companies. The skimmed aluminum melt (aluminium oxides) are collected by our raw material suppliers for recycling. c) Gas emissions. These are due to the melting of aluminium alloys during melting process. These emissions are measured by specialized laboratories, records are kept and controlled not only to be within the specified by the State limits but to make continuous improvements. d) Consumption of natural resources. Our main concern is the electrical as well as the natural gas consumption for melting and holding the aluminium alloys at the desired temperature level for casting at the minimum possible level. Records are kept and for statistical analyses. The indices are reviewed during management review and new improved targets are set. Pict. 6: Energy consumption During the previous years a target was set to reduce the total energy consumption; in particular the electrical one. In 2009 we had an increase in our consumption of the natural gas and total energy due to the melting of aluminium alloys in back up furnaces for almost 6 months due to technical reasons. Our target for 2010 is set for a total energy consumption <=7,00 Kwh/Kg Alum. 6. Endorsement of anticorruption principals VIORAL is committed to work against any form of non transparence including corruption. Our policy is that all our transactions with our personnel, our suppliers, our customers and public services are fully transparent, do not sustain any form of bribe, laundry of money, theft etc. VIORAL although a small size company and due to this, there is no room for such actions, the company is audited yearly by certified outside sourced controller.
