AnnuAl report lifting Businesses™ Konecranes is an industry shaping, global group of dynamic Lifting Businesses™. We have a strong commitment to provide our customers with products and services of unrivalled quality, safety and reliability, which results in improved efficiency and performance of our customers’ businesses. through applying both our unique knowledge and technology, and responsive service attitude of never letting the customer down, we are able to develop innovative and integrated lifting solutions that our customers can trust. these solutions help increase customers’ productivity and profitability, thus showing that we are not just lifting things, but entire businesses. 1 contents 2 26 Corporate responsibility Konecranes in a snapshot 4 2010 highlights 32 GRI 6 CEO’s review 34 Corporate governance 8 44 Risk management, internal control, and Chairman’s letter internal auditing 10 Company cornerstones 50 Group Executive Board 11 Strategy 52 Extended Management Team 12 Business environment 54 Board of Directors 14 Business area Service 57 Financial statement 2010 16 Business area Equipment 122 Investor information 18 Regional overview 125 Shares and shareholders 22 Research and development 127 Information to shareholders 24 Product overview 129 Contact details 2 KONECRANES 2010 Konecranes in a snapshot konecranes in a snapshot Konecranes is a world-leading manufacturer of lifting equipment, serving manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and power plants, including nuclear plants, with productivity-enhancing lifting solutions and services. Our extensive ­resources, technologies, and proactive mindset ensure that we always deliver on our customer promise: Lifting Businesses™. Market industry sales of 10,042 leader leading EUR employees in industrial cranes and technology and global modular 1,546.3 million product platforms crane service in 2010 Production Sales and service Head office in listed on Finland the facilities in locations in 12 countries 46 countries NASDAQ OMX HELSINKI 57% 43% 52% 48% 46% 54% sales Ebit Personnel By business area 2010 By business area 2010* by Business Area 2010 Service MEUR 707.8 Service MEUR 62.5 Service 5,397 Equipment MEUR 948.6 Equipment MEUR 67.4 Equipment 4,600 *Excluding restructuring costs Group staff 45 KONECRANES 2010 Konecranes in a snapshot 3 Business Areas Service Equipment Business Area Service offers service and maintenance soBusiness Area Equipment offers components, cranes, and lutions for all brands of industrial cranes, port equipment, material handling solutions for a wide range of industries, and machine tools. Konecranes has 578 service locations including process industries, the nuclear sector, industries in 46 countries. handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. Products are marketed Products through a multi-brand portfolio that includes the Konecranes Konecranes offers five different service levels covering the corporate brand and the STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verfollowing service products: inspections, preventive maintelinde, R&M, and Sanma power brands. Konecranes-branded nance programs, repairs and improvements, on-call service, products are sold directly to end-users, while power brand spare parts, modernizations, and special services such as products are sold to independent crane builders and disoperational service, remote services, and consultation. tributors. Market position Products The clear market leader in crane service, with the world’s Industrial cranes, including standard-duty cranes, heavy-duty most extensive crane service network. One of the largest cranes, and workstation lifting systems such as load maniinternational providers of machine tool service in the engipulators; components including wire rope hoists, crane kits, neering industry. electric chain hoists, manual hoists and accessories; nuclear cranes; port cranes; lift trucks and shipyard cranes. Service contract base More than 375,000 units are covered by Konecranes mainMarket position tenance contracts, of which approximately 25 percent are The world’s largest supplier of industrial cranes. A worldmanufactured by Konecranes. wide leader in explosion-protected crane technology. A global leader in electrical overhead traveling cranes for process industries and shipyard gantry cranes. A global supplier of cranes and lift trucks for container handling and heavy unitized cargo and bulk material unloading. Annual production Tens of thousands of cranes, wire rope hoists, and electric chain hoists, and hundreds of heavy-duty cranes, hoisting trolleys, and heavy-duty lift trucks. 4 KONECRANES 2010 2010 Highlights 2010 Highlights Satisfactory profitability despite lower net sales Major growth investments • Demand for maintenance services was strong through• Konecranes further strengthened its position in the out the year due to higher capacity utilization within world’s growing emerging markets, both organically and customer industries. Demand for new equipment was through bolt-on acquisitions. low in the first half of the year, but recovered towards • Konecranes acquired nine companies during 2010. the end of 2010. Geographically, demand improved In addition, Konecranes announced the acquisition of in emerging markets in particular, while demand for Indian-based WMI Cranes Ltd., which is one of India’s new equipment in developed markets suffered from leading manufacturers of heavy-duty cranes. customers’ overcapacity. Order intake totaled EUR • Konecranes acquired two crane service companies: 1,536.0 million, an increase of 13.9 percent compared one in France and one in Morocco. to 2009. • The Machine Tool Service (MTS) business was expand• 40 percent of new orders came from emerging markets. ed with six acquisitions, two in Denmark, two in the UK, • Konecranes’ order book as of the end of the year stood and two in the US. at EUR 756.2 million. • Konecranes and the Japanese hoist, crane, and mate• Net sales decreased by 7.5 percent compared to 2009 rial handling equipment company, Kito Corporation, enand totaled EUR 1,546.3 million. tered into a strategic alliance. Under this, Konecranes • Operating profit before restructuring costs was EUR will sell Kito manual products and Kito will sell wire 115.1 million, 3.2 percent below the 2009 figure. Operrope hoists made by Konecranes. To reinforce the alating margin before restructuring costs was 7.4 percent liance, Konecranes purchased 22.0 percent of Kito’s of sales. share capital and now has 24.4 percent of the com• Operating profit including restructuring costs was EUR pany’s voting rights. 112.4 million, 14.8 percent above the 2009 figure. • Personnel numbered 10,042 as of the end of 2010, an Operating margin including restructuring costs was 7.3 increase of 260, primarily the result of acquisitions. percent of sales. • R&D investments were 1.4 percent of net sales (2009: • Procurement cost savings and production capacity 1.3 percent) ­adjustments contributed to profitability performance. • The SMARTON® heavy industrial crane was launched in January 2010 and orders developed successfully durPerformance by Business Area ing the year. • Konecranes changed its organizational structure as of • The Konecranes automation and software developthe beginning of 2010, merging Standard Lifting and ment unit was founded to better utilize the scale of Heavy Lifting into one business area: Equipment. ExterKonecranes’ business and further develop software nal segment reporting was also changed to match the products for all business lines. Group’s operational structure. • Development continued in remote services to fully • Net sales in the Service business area were 6.1 persupport Konecranes’ advanced maintenance concept cent higher than in 2009, at EUR 707.8 million. Operatglobally. ing profit was EUR 62.5 million, or 8.8 percent of net sales. • Net sales in the Equipment business area were 14.9 percent lower than in 2009, at EUR 948.6 million. ­Operating profit was EUR 64.7 million or 6.8 percent of net sales. KONECRANES 2010 2010 Highlights 5 0% 5% 10% 15% 1,546.3 10 1,536.0 10 115.1** 10 756.2 1,671.3 09 1,348.9 09 118.8** 09 607.0 2,102.5 08 2,067.1 08 248.7 08 836.3 1,749.7 07 1,872.0 07 174.7* 07 757.9 1,482.5 06 1,472.8 06 105.5 06 571.6 sales/orders ebit/ebit margin Order Book (MEUR) (MEUR/%) (MEUR) Sales * Excluding capital gain Order intake ** Excluding restructuring costs 1.35 10 1.00** 10 18.1 10 24.2 1.08 09 0.90 09 15.5 09 19.3 2.83 08 0.90 08 48.9 08 56.3 2.17* 07 0.80 07 51.2* 07 50.4* 1.17 06 0.45 06 36.5 06 29.5 earnings & dividends Return on Equity Return on Capital per share (%) Employed (EUR) *2007 Excluding capital gain: 47.3% (%) Earnings per share, basic *2007 Excluding capital gain: 46.2% Dividend per share * 2007 EPS excluding capital gain: EUR 1.95 ** The Board’s proposal to the AGM -17.4 10 191.6 10 -3.8 10 1,821 -77.7 09 138.8 09 -19.1 09 1,122 11.3 08 263.8 08 2.8 08 714 19.7 07 166.4 07 7.0 07 1,380 128.2 06 216.2 06 57.3 06 1,322 net working capital net debt/gearing YEAR-END Market (MEUR) (MEUR/%) Capitalization* Net debt (MEUR) Gearing * Excluding own shares 6 KONECRANES 2010 CEO’s review Dear Konecranes shareholders, customers, and employees, The market conditions affecting our industry took a positive said before, the innovation potential when it comes to new turn in the second half of 2010, after some 1.5 years of very services is almost unlimited; it is up to us to change the low demand among our most important customer segments. game. This improvement was driven by gradually improving capacity Another key strategy is to develop a truly global footprint. utilization rates in our key markets. The recovery remained We took a number of important steps during 2010, opening fragile, however, as many customers continued to be cau33 new service locations, bringing the total to 578. An optious in taking decisions on new equipment investments. erational alliance with Kito Corporation, strengthened by an Excellent fourth-quarter orders boosted our total equipment equity stake, will open new doors for us, especially in Asia. orders for the year above those booked in 2009. The deWe made a total of nine acquisitions in 2010, mainly small mand for services was stronger throughout the year than service companies, including several machine tool service in 2009, and also the future potential in this area looks teams; we also took an important step in Africa through the promising. Most geographical markets recovered well, espeacquisition of Techniplus in Morocco. I would like to highlight cially emerging markets and North America. The weak point the strategic importance of our announced acquisition of continued to be equipment demand in the large markets WMI Cranes Ltd. in India in particular here. We established of Western Europe. In total, our orders grew 13.9 percent, a local presence in India in 2007, after which organic growth to EUR 1,536.0 million. Since we started the year with an has been encouraging already making India one of our top order book that was 27 percent lower than at the beginning countries. Following the announced acquisition of WMI, we of 2009, and growth in new orders came mostly during the now have a leading position in our chosen segments in both second half of 2010, our sales of EUR 1,546.3 million were India and China. Despite good progress like this, however, 7.5 percent lower than in 2009. The recession resulted in we have some way to go. Latin America, Africa, the Middle two consecutive years of declining delivery volumes, a trend East, Eastern Europe, and several parts of Asia will continue that we aim to reverse in 2011. to offer expansion opportunities for several years to come. We have every reason to be satisfied with our financial We increased our efforts in training and developing our result in 2010. The fact that we recorded an operating profit people during 2010, and we regularly monitor the views and before restructuring costs that was only slightly below that expectations of our employees to ensure that we remain as of 2009 (EUR 115.1 million vs. 118.8 million), while our good a career choice for them as possible. In addition to sales were EUR 125 million lower, shows how successful professional competencies, both the physical and mental our cost control measures have been. Our variable costs wellbeing of employees is also an important issue in a world (in-house manufacturing and material procurement) develwhere the battle over resources will continue intensifying. oped well and helped us even slightly increase our sales A full report on our efforts in the area of corporate responmargin, despite the price erosion that took place in smaller sibility – including safety, quality, the environment, and our and more standard equipment. Our operating margin, beupdated code of conduct – is presented in the section beginfore restructuring costs, actually increased, from 7.1 to 7.4 ning on page 26 of this Annual Report. percent, which is an achievement that our team should be I would also like to highlight the investments we are particularly proud of in a year of declining sales. Our balance making in increasing our internal efficiency. Beginning with sheet remained in good shape, and improvements in workfield service, we will gradually renew all our key information ing capital efficiency in particular helped us deliver a good systems, with the aim of achieving full real-time visibility for 24,2 percent return on capital employed. our business and yielding another leap in productivity. We One of the most important pieces of our strategy going are not changing all our systems in one ‘big bang’, however, forward will be to increase our investment in technology rather on a gradual basis, through a multi-year program. development, to further improve our ability to enhance our customers’ productivity. We have several important new Thank you all for your support! products and services in the pipeline, some of which will hit the market already this year. Some of the key development themes are safety, eco-efficiency, automation, maintenance Pekka Lundmark and control systems, and software in general. As I have President and CEO KONECRANES 2010 CEO’s review 7 8 KONECRANES 2010 Chairman’s letter Dear shareholders, During 2010, our stock price appreciated by over 60 percent. Including our 2010 acquisitions, our global footprint now Konecranes was one of the winners in the stock exchange covers 46 countries served through wholly owned subsidiarrally seen in Helsinki. Our recovery from the low of approx. ies. Adding a dozen countries served through independent EUR 10 per share in November 2008 to today’s price of apor partially owned partners, our network is one of the largest prox. EUR 32 (January 10, 2011) has been remarkable. in our industry. However, we must also remember that our all-time-high, But we will not stop here. As pointed out in the CEO’s almost EUR 35 per share, occurred as recently as July 2007. letter, our ambitions are far from satisfied. The valley thus lasted for about 3.5 years. In October, we confirmed a preliminary approach that we Our share price has recovered, but in business volume made some time earlier to one of our largest European terms we are still some way from our 2008 numbers. Going competitors. Our friendly approach was rejected, but our forward, it will be of essential importance to demonstrate strategic reasoning remains: We cannot ignore the benefits how we are going to generate growth. Let me highlight a few of scale. During the recession, we saw a shift in industrial parameters here, which in my mind define our company as power towards the East and to China in particular. We see a long-term growth business. further consolidation as a long-term necessity in defending During the recession, our management was quick to reEurope’s present leading global role. act to the complete stop we saw in new orders. Not only was Our approach to our competitor was a serious one. Of the reaction quick, it was also well-planned. As a result, our course we have a number of other options as well to significompany now comes out of the recession with an unscarred cantly increase our scale. balance sheet. More importantly, we successfully defended Advancing our global presence is a necessity for a growth our margins, in spite of the hostile scramble among competicompany. But we must beat our competition in technology tors for those few orders that were forthcoming. We were as well. Our way to advance our position is to focus on inable to lower not only our fixed costs to mitigate the impact telligent, innovative solutions that improve our customers’ of less business, we also further reduced our direct cost own processes and thereby their profitability. Throughout base. This new low cost level is very handy now that new the recession and the tough savings we made, only our R&D orders are coming in again. spending remained untouched. Today, we are increasing our More than anything, our actions during recent years demR&D investments. onstrate our strategic agility. In the rough waters that lie The recession is over and growth is returning. However, ahead, our capacity for swift action will continue to be of growth today is different from what it was pre-recession. pivotal importance. It is taking place in other places, and particularly in new During the recession we advanced our market positions. products. We increased our presence in China in late 2009, and we We at Konecranes are well-positioned in this new businow have a total of five plants there, with 1,471 employees. ness environment. Our basic business line – lifting – proIn March 2010, we formed a strategic alliance in Japan. Alvides solutions for a universal, eternal need. Our geographithough a mature market, Japan is still an industrial giant and cal reach enables us to serve customers wherever they are represents a huge potential for our products. We also took and manufacture wherever it is cost-effective. And our proda significant equity position in Kito, our Japanese partner. uct offering is modern and wide. We are now their largest shareholder. I welcome all new shareholders to a dynamic company, We targeted the Indian market with our announced acand I thank all old shareholders for their continued trust. quisition of the crane company WMI Cranes Ltd. in October. Together, we will share a future of growth and prosperity. WMI already holds a significant market position. We have been able to utilize that position successfully to introduce other Group products to the Indian market. Stig Gustavson In parallel to this, we have also advanced the Group’s Chairman of the Board position in South Africa and Morocco, and we have closed gaps in our Service coverage in the European market and in the US. KONECRANES 2010 Chairman’s letter 9 10 KONECRANES 2010 Company strategy company cornerstones Mission Vision We are not just lifting things, We want to be the undisputed leader but entire businesses. of the lifting industry, and a benchmark for business performance and customer service. Values Trust in People: We want to be known for our great people. Konecranes is an industry shaping, global Total Service Commitment: We want to be known for always keeping group of dynamic lifting our promises. businesses Sustained Profitability: We want to be known as a financially sound company. KONECRANES 2010 Company strategy 11 STRATEGY Differentiation through service and technology Dual-channel strategy innovation Given the very fragmented nature of the markets that we We at Konecranes are committed to providing excellent, proserve, we sell both directly to end-users and to small indeactive service and to never letting our customers down – by pendent crane-builders and industrial distributors. This dualalways being there when our customers need us. To ensure channel approach enables Konecranes to provide maximum that we are, we believe in the importance of continuously market coverage, while retaining economies of scale through developing our service offering and further enhancing the uniform product platforms. customer experience. Our other key differentiators are technology and innovaGlobal, demand-driven supply chain tion. We have continuously increased our R&D investments. Our global presence and our commitment to serving our Safety and quality remain high on our agenda and we are customers, wherever they are, means that we need a global committed to incorporating these into every aspect of our supply chain and one that offers similar capabilities worldmindset. wide to provide us with the optimum level of scalability. Our supply chain also needs to be flexible so that we can adapt Lifting People to fluctuations in demand, while offering competitive lead Our employees, together with their expertise and their moand delivery times, and avoid excessively large inventory tivation, are central to our success. This is why we continulevels. ally invest in training and in developing people’s leadership skills. The more capable our people are, the better both our Real-time information service and our products will be. To ensure that we can make rapid and well-informed decisions, Konecranes believes in decentralized decision-making Global footprint and the benefits of taking decisions as close to the cusKonecranes is committed to becoming an even more dytomer as possible. Giving our people access to transparent, namic and global force in the lifting business. While we real-time information will be essential to improving our peralready have a presence in more than 40 countries, there formance here, which is why we are investing in new-generaare still many areas where Konecranes could offer more, tion information systems to give us new capabilities. both in terms of products and service. We believe that we can achieve this through a combination of ongoing organic growth and acquisitions. 12 KONECRANES 2010 Business environment A gradual market recovery konecranes’ #1 market share of global market positions 15 percent in crane maintenance services #1 in industrial #3–5 #3–4 in port cranes in lift trucks cranes & components The turnaround in the global economy that started in the expansion in economic activity, although this was tempered autumn of 2009 continued in 2010. Driven by accommotowards the end of the year. dative monetary policies and low interest rates, global Demand for new equipment continued to suffer from overmacroeconomic indicators improved across the board and capacity across most customer segments, particularly in the even exceeded expectations in many cases. Growth rates in first half of the year. Demand for industrial cranes was held emerging markets continued to exceed those in developed back by a lack of major industrial investments, while that countries. for components was boosted by broader use and replaceEconomic news in Europe was dominated by concerns ment of old equipment. New inquiries from the power genabout the economies of various European countries, and eration, waste-to-energy and paper & pulp sectors increased several countries announced austerity measures to reduce whereas those from general manufacturing and the steel their budget deficits. Despite increased turbulence in the industry stayed flat. financial markets, macroeconomic indicators remained genThe stronger-than-expected turnaround in the global econerally positive, however. Export-led economies, such as Geromy was particularly visible in container traffic. Global conmany and Sweden, showed the strongest level of recovery. tainer volumes increased by 13 percent, reaching the previUS economic news was dominated by double-dip fears ous peak level of 2008, and this was reflected in greater linked to low construction activity, high unemployment and demand for lift trucks and reach stackers. After a quiet start general deleveraging. Macroeconomic indicators pointed to to the year, the increase in shipping volumes resulted in a a slow recovery in the overall economy. higher level of project activity with container ports towards As in previous years, the Chinese economy drove global the end of the year. growth. The Indian economy continued to gain importance Intense price competition continued due to overcapacity globally. in the crane manufacturing industry. Industrial capacity utilization improved in both Europe and Demand for lifting equipment services improved due to the US, but was still low by historical standards. Purchasing higher capacity utilization in Konecranes’ customer indusmanager indexes were buoyant worldwide, pointing to an tries. Customers have also continued to show a growing KONECRANES 2010 Business environment 13 interest in outsourcing their maintenance needs. New types has built up very strong positions in China and India in parof services utilizing the latest IT and measurement technoloticular. gies have proved increasingly attractive. The market for services and lifting equipment differ sigSteel and sea freight prices increased during the first nificantly in developed and emerging economies. Outsourchalf, but leveled off in the third quarter. Copper prices were ing continues to be concentrated in industrialized countries, high and rose further towards the end of the year. The US while the concept of outsourced crane maintenance has dollar appreciated against the euro during the first half. only recently started to gain ground in emerging markets While this development was reversed in the third quarter, with the growth in the installed base of Western-type equipthe dollar again strengthened against the euro during the ment. The preventive maintenance concept, which is already fourth quarter. well-established in developed countries, is gradually gaining a foothold in emerging markets as well. Key business drivers Automation, eco-efficiency, and safety are the key aspects The increasing economic power of emerging markets, such of the new equipment business in developed countries. as BRIC countries, was clearly reflected in Konecranes’ While local products in emerging markets usually incorpooperations. Orders from emerging markets accounted for rate basic robust technology, there is a clear trend towards approximately 40 percent of Group orders and more than similar features to those taken for granted in developed 50 percent of orders in the Equipment business. Thanks to markets – something which is clearly beneficial for technoinvestments in organic growth and acquisitions, Konecranes logically oriented companies such as Konecranes. 14 KONECRANES 2010 Business areas Service Konecranes’ Business Area Service offers service solutions Corporation, from which Konecranes was spun off in 1994, and maintenance for all brands of cranes, port equipment, founded a Crane Service Unit in 1960 to handle mainteand machine tools. Konecranes has the largest service nance and installation activities. Operations initially covered network in the industry, with 578 service locations in 46 Helsinki, but were soon expanded to the rest of Finland countries and 3,466 highly qualified technicians. and gradually to the Nordic countries. Today, 50 years later, Konecranes’ Service customers range from repair shops Konecranes has become the leading global crane service and general manufacturing sites, with maintenance cranes company. This has been achieved through organic growth and machine tools, to paper and steel mills, nuclear power and acquisitions. plants, and ports with lifting equipment that require 24-hour Konecranes Service launched a new unique crane runway availability because lifting represents an integral part of their measurement and analysis method, RailQ, in 2010. This operations. generates a 3D model of current runway conditions at a site The global Crane Service, Port Service, and Machine Tool and a thorough analytical report, highlighting improvement Service (MTS) business units ensure that customers have and correction needs. access to quality service 24 hours a day. The ModernizaThe development of remote services continued during the tions and Parts business units operate mainly via the seryear. The results of this work have been very promising and vice network but also directly with end-customers. Konecranes intends increasing its focus in this area. Konecranes offers a full range of service solutions deService continued to invest in training. A large number signed to match customers’ varying maintenance and perof service technicians took part in the global Technician formance needs. These range from expert services covering Development Program, intended for all service technicians a specific project or product to full service and material worldwide. In addition, technicians received training on new handling partnerships. The closer customers work with products, particularly in the area of automation. Significant Konecranes, the more potential they have to make use of emphasis was also given to sales and service management Konecranes’ expertise and service capabilities and develop training. their operations. Important orders in 2010 included various modernization contracts for power plants and shipyards. Konecranes’ Performance in 2010 restructured modernization organization, and a marketplace Demand for maintenance services improved during the enrecovering from the economic downturn, boosted the modtire year and order intake increased 21.5 percent to EUR ernization business. Other important orders included con605.7 million. Sales were 6.1 percent up compared to tracts covering the modernization of port cranes in Slovenia 2009, at EUR 707.8 million. The operating profit was EUR and Canada. 62.5 million and the operating margin 8.8 percent. The numA new Parts Manufacturing Centre (PMC) was opened in ber of units in the maintenance contract base increased to Finland in March 2010. Together with Konecranes’ estab375,514 from 362,996 at the end of 2009, and had an lished PMC in the US, this will improve customer service, annual value of EUR 145.7 million. particularly in respect of spare parts for critical process cranes and refurbished or repaired parts. Initiatives made Business environment in 2010 by the Distribution Centre network have also improved the Capacity utilization in customer industries improved during local availability of parts. 2010, supporting demand for lifting equipment services. The machine tool service (MTS) network was expanded Customers also continued to show a growing interest in during the year through acquisitions of MTS companies in outsourced maintenance. A number of new service products Denmark, the UK, and the US. Service also expanded in were introduced and were well-received by customers. North Africa with the acquisition of a port service company in Morocco; while in West Africa, Konecranes signed a partDevelopments in 2010 nership agreement with a company in Ghana. Another imporKonecranes’ Business Area Service celebrated its 50th antant acquisition included a service company in France. niversary in 2010. The lift and crane manufacturer, KONE KONECRANES 2010 Business areas 15 Part of group Key figures total % 2010 2009 Change % Orders received, MEUR 38 605.7 498.4 21.5 Order book, MEUR 14 103.3 75.9 36.0 Net sales, MEUR 43 707.8 667.2 6.1 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 49 62.5 58.3 7.2 Operating margin (EBIT), % 8.8% 8.7% Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 48 62.5 61.0 2.5 Operating margin (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 8.8% 9.1% Personnel at the end of period 54 5 397 4 991 8.1 16 KONECRANES 2010 Business areas Equipment Konecranes’ Business Area Equipment offers lifting equipments in process industries, while that for lighter industrial ment and material handling solutions for industrial use, cranes and components was boosted by a gradual improvetypically in general manufacturing, process industries, power ment in overall activity. Although the container port business plants, industries handling heavy loads, ports, intermodal started to pick up towards the end of the year, there was terminals, shipyards, and bulk material terminals. still some uncertainty in respect of the timing of new investBusiness Area Equipment has an extensive and diverse ments. Inquiries from the energy, steel, paper & pulp, and global customer base. General manufacturing represents mining sectors continued to be reasonably active. the largest single customer segment. Other important segments include ports, oil & gas, mining, automotive, distriDevelopments in 2010 bution centers, entertainment, energy (wind energy, power Konecranes introduced its innovative SMARTON® crane at plants, waste-to-energy), steel, petrochemicals, and paper the beginning of the year, primarily targeting heavy-duty promills. cess industries and applications requiring high lifting capaciThe product range includes industrial cranes, wire rope ties with state-of-the-art load handling features. SMARTON and chain hoists, crane components, workstation lifting sysunits can lift loads ranging from 30 tons to 500 tons. The tems, including load manipulators, and manual hoists. The launch went well, with a number of units ordered. range also covers products designed for efficient container Konecranes also entered into a strategic alliance with handling, including ship-to-shore (STS) cranes, rubber tired Kito Corporation of Japan in 2010. Under this, Konecranes gantry (RTG) cranes, rail mounted gantry (RMG) cranes, will start selling Kito’s manual products, while Kito will sell automated container yards with stacking cranes, straddle Konecranes’ wire rope hoists. The alliance is intended to carriers, reach stackers, and masted lift trucks. For shipcomplement the resources of the two groups. yard use, Konecranes offers a full range of cranes, all the The integration of the Chinese hoist and crane manufacway up to huge Goliath gantry cranes for handling extremely turer, Sanma, proceeded well. heavy sections. We also offer high-capacity grab unloaders Konecranes also announced the acquisition of one of for large bulk terminals, and all material handling equipment India’s leading manufacturers of heavy-duty cranes, WMI for nuclear power plants. Cranes Ltd. The organic growth of our Indian equipment Cranes, hoists, and services are marketed to end-users business, which now covers our entire offering, moved ahead under the Konecranes brand. The Group’s power brands – very well, and we booked an important industrial crane order STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verlinde, and R&M – sell their for a steel customer, secured sales of lift trucks for interindustrial crane products via independent crane builders and modal terminal use, and won a major order for container distributors, while Sanma focuses on the Chinese market. handling cranes, for example. All these channels complement each other and guarantee Other important orders elsewhere included a large AGD comprehensive global market coverage. P&H®-branded prodgrab unloader able to unload 3,000 tons/h of iron ore or ucts are also sold by the Konecranes sales organization. coal for a customer in Japan; 30 automated stacking cranes for a customer in the U.A.E.; and two RTG orders in Turkey, Performance in 2010 one of which featured the country’s first Konecranes RTG Business Area Equipment improved its overall performance cranes, while the other included Turkey’s first electricallycompared to 2009, in line with the gradual improvement fed cable reel RTGs. The market for lifting equipment in seen in the marketplace during the year. Order intake inAfrica was active, and Konecranes received a number of creased to EUR 1,004.9 million, an increase of 7.5 percent important orders. We also received coker crane orders from over 2009. Sales declined 14.9 percent to EUR 948.6 milpetrochemical customers in India, South America, and Saudi lion. Operating profit was EUR 64.7 million and operating Arabia. margin was 6.8 percent. The integration of Konecranes and Morris Material Handling, which began in 2009, progressed well during 2010. Business environment in 2010 The inauguration of the expansion of Konecranes’ lift Demand for new equipment continued to suffer from low truck plant in Lingang New City, Shanghai was held in Occapacity utilization rates. The demand for heavy industrial tober, and production capacity there is now double what it cranes was affected by the lack of major industrial investused to be. KONECRANES 2010 Business areas 17 Konecranes’ power brands, R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, a challenging market environment. Innovations included a SWF, and Verlinde, expanded their global footprint during full range of jib cranes for light loads up to 2 tons, and a new 2010, with the successful launch of the SWF brand in China range of heavy winches. Following this, units can now handle marking a particularly important step forward. All brands capacities up to 160 tons, double the previous 80 tons. launched new products, reinforcing their strong positions in Part of group Key figures total % 2010 2009 Change % Orders received, MEUR 62 1,004.9 934.6 7.5 Order book, MEUR 86 652.9 547.8 19.2 Net sales, MEUR 57 948.6 1,115.1 -14.9 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 51 64.7 58.5 10.6 Operating margin (EBIT), % 6.8% 5.2% Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 52 67.4 76.7 -12.2 Operating margin (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 7.1% 6.9% Personnel at the end of period 46 4,600 4,742 -3.0 18 KONECRANES 2010 Regional overview Regional Overview Konecranes’ operations are divided into three geographical regions – AME, EMEA and APAC – to maximize the company’s potential to understand its customers’ industries and their needs, and build long-term customer relationships. Americas (AME) South America is home to some fast-growing markets, with Konecranes holds a very strong position in the Americas, Brazil and Chile offering the most notable growth opportuparticularly in the US. The Americas accounted for 30 pernities, as a result of ongoing expansion and upgrades in cent of sales in 2010. The US is the most developed couninfrastructure, heavy industry, and general manufacturing. try in terms of outsourced crane services, and around half The main areas of business for Konecranes here are steel of the sales of Konecranes in the Americas are serviceand metals, energy, and ports. related. • Largest markets: the US, Canada, and Mexico. Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) • Operations: employees 2,259, locations 135. EMEA is Konecranes’ largest region, accounting for 53 per• Manufacturing: 5 plants manufacturing industrial & cent of sales in 2010. The region comprises both mature process cranes, including nuclear cranes, hoists, parts markets, with a high proportion of service sales, and fastand related components. growing economies where service is still small compared to • Key brands: Konecranes, P&H® (through Morris Mateequipment sales. The proportion of service outsourced to rial Handling), STAHL CraneSystems, R&M and Crane specialists varies widely from country to country. Pro Parts. 16% 20% 53% 57% 30% 23% sales per region personnel per region EMEA MEUR 823.2 EMEA 5,751 AME MEUR 468.2 AME 2,259 APAC MEUR 254.8 APAC 2,032 KONECRANES 2010 Regional overview 19 • Operations: employees 5,751, service locations 326 West Europe • Manufacturing: 11 plants manufacturing cranes and In the mature West European market, customer focus tends hoists, lift trucks, and steel structures for larger cranes to be directed to enhancing efficiency and productivity in ma• Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, terial handling to offset high labor costs. Service represents and Verlinde. a high proportion of Konecranes’ sales in the area, between 30 and 70 percent, with significant variation between different countries. • Largest markets: Germany, the UK, France, the Netherlands and Austria. 20 KONECRANES 2010 Regional overview Nordic Africa In the Nordic countries, service accounts for a high percentDemand in Africa is growing, as many countries continue to age of sales and a significant part of the service business invest in ports and other infrastructure. Konecranes focuses is based on long-term service contracts. Demand for new on North Africa, South Africa, and other coastal markets. equipment has suffered from slow decision-making. The cusThe main areas of business are ports and logistics, metals, tomer base is wide, with the main segments being energy, and mining. general manufacturing and pulp & paper. • Largest markets: South Africa, Algeria, Morocco, • Largest markets: Finland, Sweden. ­Ghana, Nigeria, Kenya and Tanzania. Eastern Europe Asia-Pacific (APAC) The emerging markets in Eastern Europe were hit by a This was the region least affected by the economic downcombination of reduced export opportunities and financial turn. It is driven by activity in India and economic momentum constraints. The situation has now started to turn and the in China. The region includes a mix of both mature markets, market is recovering. Demand for new equipment is higher in Australia and some of the Southeast Asian countries, and and increased oil & gas prices are having a positive effect fast-growing economies like China and India. on especially on the Russian market. Demand for modernPower, paper, steel, and mining remained the most active ization has also increased. The most active customer segend-user markets for Konecranes equipment in 2010. Ports ments are petrochemicals, metals, general manufacturing and container handling are also recovering in Asia leading to and automotive. Konecranes has continued to extend its increased activity for lift trucks and port cranes. market coverage in Eastern Europe with new service and • Largest markets: China, India, Australia, Thailand, sales locations. ­Indonesia, Vietnam, Malaysia, Korea, Japan, New • Largest markets: Russia. ­Zeeland and Singapore. • Operations: employees 2,032, service locations 117 Middle East • Manufacturing: 9 plants, including joint ventures, manuThe Middle East continues to show high potential, with large facturing hoists, industrial and process cranes, steel investments taking place in infrastructure, petrochemicals, structures, lift trucks and port cranes. and general manufacturing. Konecranes’ main areas of busi• Key brands: Konecranes, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF ness are petrochemicals, energy, metals, ports, and general and Sanma. manufacturing. Service accounts for a low percentage of sales. • Largest markets: the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia, and Egypt. KONECRANES 2010 Regional overview 21 22 KONECRANES 2010 R&D Product development Konecranes makes innovative use of technology in developDepending on configuration, a SMARTON crane can lift anying both new lifting solutions and its service offering. One thing from 30 tons to 500 tons. of our six key strategies is to differentiate our business Konecranes’ product offering was extended during 2010, through an innovative approach to service and technology, with the introduction of a range of higher-capacity lift trolleys and we believe that Konecranes’ commitment to preventive for the Group’s power brands. service is an excellent example of what we mean here. We Customers can expect new product announcements from develop our service offering continuously to further enhance Konecranes at the CeMAT trade fair in Hannover, Germany, the customer experience. Our service contract base, which in 2011. covers more than 375,000 items of equipment today, together with our 3,466 service technicians, give us a unique Global cooperation in product development competitive edge, and one that also contributes to growing The RailQ measurement and analysis service launched in our equipment sales. We service both Konecranes-supplied 2010 is a good example of a particularly successful prodequipment and equipment supplied by other manufacturers; uct development project and the value of cooperation with and the some 1.6 million customer contacts we have annucustomers, research institutions, and universities. The ally give us an excellent opportunity to stay up-to-date with project developed new measuring equipment and leveraged our customers’ needs. advanced skills in radio technology, electronics, and softWe have systematically increased our R&D investments. ware. Safety and quality are particularly high priorities for us, and Efficient networking and in-depth know-how played an improgress here calls for both development work and the right portant part in the smooth management of the project and mind-set. Material handling systems are an integral part of the progress it made. Konecranes’ product development our customers’ processes, which is why our expertise in personnel were responsible for overall management and areas such as automation can play a key part in helping developing and customizing the new software needed. The them improve their productivity. We further developed our development of the measurement trolley is a good example capabilities in this area in 2010. of cooperation with an external research institute. Involving The Konecranes Group spent EUR 21.5 million on remaintenance personnel in the project from the start made it search and product development in 2010, equivalent to 1.4 possible to get the product out into the field quickly. percent of net sales. The RailQ system can help prevent the need for expensive repair work on customers’ cranes by keeping crane SMARTON® broadened the platform runways in optimum condition. Runway measurements used We launched the Konecranes SMARTON industrial crane to take an average of eight hours, and this has now been cut concept in 2009, and extended the SMARTON product famsignificantly, reducing the amount of time a crane needs to ily in 2010 to cover all application areas. The project has be out of action. RailQ immediately provides a 3D image of generated numerous patentable innovations and many of the runway and a detailed analysis of any repairs needed. the capabilities that have been developed under its umbrella Compared to conventional methods, RailQ helps improve have been incorporated into other Konecranes products. safety significantly. The SMARTON crane reflects our promise to lift cusGlobal cooperation played a key role in the success of tomers’ businesses. The unique folding maintenance platthe RailQ project, which was given the internal Konecranes form incorporated into these units makes them compact Development Award 2009 in spring 2010. and helps customers save on building and heating costs. The digital control technology used provides very accurate Making more of innovation control and virtually eliminates sway-related problems and The importance of making more of innovation was raised shock loads, improving user safety and ease of operation. A to a new level across the Konecranes Group in 2010. The remote connection to Konecranes’ technical support center aim is to develop, harmonize, and extend common practices ensures that detailed, up-to-date data is available on crane and procedures for collecting and refining our best ideas to operations and helps eliminate unplanned service outages. benefit both Konecranes’ own business and our customKONECRANES 2010 R&D 23 ers’ businesses. We have continued to strengthen our inpart of the project and attracted ideas and solutions for imternal channels for developing viable new ideas and foster proving the safety of our working methods, tools, products, an atmosphere that encourages people to tell others in the and services. organization about their ideas – to help make innovation an integral part of our day-to-day management and routines. Safety is always our number-one priority Konecranes’ innovation work is not only focused on prodIn addition to cutting-edge technology, safety is always a ucts, technologies, and service solutions, although these key area of focus for Konecranes’ research and product are the most obvious outward reflection of what we do in development work. Environmental issues also play an imthis area. We also want to develop new ways of working, portant role and are taken into account throughout the life internally and throughout our supply chain, together with cycle of Konecranes’ products. Particular attention is given new business models that can benefit our customers’ opto issues such as efficient material usage, recyclability, and erations. energy efficiency. A good example of what we mean here is the closer way Industrial design forms an important part of the product that we are now beginning to integrate our suppliers in our design process, and helps set our products apart from those innovation work. The Early Supplier Involvement initiative of our competitors – and enables us to incorporate greater has already resulted in a number of innovative new soluefficiency, user-friendliness, cost savings, and new materials tions, helped enhance product development, and improved into our products. product manufacturability. We are also committed to being an attractive employer The safety innovation project launched in the spring is to young people, and many of the students who do their another example of what we are doing to promote innovadiploma theses at Konecranes go on to pursue careers with tion. A Group-wide competition was announced in April as us after graduation. 24 KONECRANES 2010 Product overview PRODUCT OVERVIEW Service and modernization activities focus on maximizing the availability and productivity of customers’ equipment, while minimizing the cost of ownership. We offer five solutions, ranging from single expert service to a comprehensive service and material handling partnership, and known as Contact, Condition, Care, Commitment, and Complete. Machine tool service provides service, maintenance, and modernization for all makes of machine tools used in the engineering industry. Our offering ranges from maintenance for a single machine to a total partnership agreement covering a customer’s entire equipment base. Workstation cranes offer ergonomic handling for loads up to 7,500 kg. Typical customers include small manufacturing workshops, automotive manufacturers, and renewable energy utilities. Load manipulators are designed for sophisticated material handling applications, and are typically used in delicate assembly processes in the aerospace and automotive industries, for example. Standard duty cranes feature Konecranes’ CXT hoist and have lifting capacities of up to 80 tons. These cranes are typically used in general manufacturing, the automotive industry, steel, pulp & paper, construction, and renewable energy sectors, aerospace, and petrochemicals. Heavy duty cranes are engineered for lifting heavy loads weighing 1,000 tons or more. Typical customers include the steel, aluminum, mining, general manufacturing, pulp & paper, petrochemical, cement, power, and waste-to-energy industries. Nuclear cranes are used across the industry, from lifting reactor heads to handling nuclear fuel, and are found in nuclear power plants, radioactive waste facilities, and at nuclear fuel production sites. The Konecranes/P&H®brand supplies nuclear safetyrelated equipment under its 10CFR50 Appendix “B” Nuclear quality program. Forklift trucks with lifting capacities ranging from 10 to 60 tons are used for transporting materials in process industries – such as forest products, steel, paper, and concrete – and at ports. konecranes 2010 Product overview 25 Reach stackers are used to stack containers in small and medium-sized terminals and railroad terminals. Straddle carriers are used for transporting containers from shipside to container yards and loading areas. They typically have a lifting capacity of 50 tons and can stack containers one over three high. Yard cranes include RTG and RMG cranes used for stacking containers high and wide at ports and intermodal terminals. These cranes usually have a lifting capacity of around 50 tons and can stack one over five containers high and six plus truck lane wide. Ship-to-shore cranes are used for loading and unloading containers from ships. Konecranes’ STS cranes have a lifting capacity of up to 65 tons and an outreach of up to 61 meters. Goliath shipyard cranes span over 150 meters and are designed for handling ship sections in shipyards. They can handle loads up to 1,650 tons and can lift up to 90 meters high. Brands The Group’s brand strategy is based on the corporate Konecranes master brand, complemented with a portfolio of freestanding power brands. Konecranes-branded products are sold directly to end-users, while power-branded products are sold to distributors and independent crane builders. Konecranes’ power brands include R&M, STAHL CraneSystems, SWF, Verlinde, and Sanma. 26 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility Konecranes is committed to lifting its customers’ businesses responsibly. We believe that sustainable growth depends on strong and responsible performance. We are committed to increasing the value of our shareholders’ investment, while respecting our personnel, the environment, and the societies in which we operate. Continuous improvement is the guiding principle in everything we do. Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our day-to-day reviewing and promoting the Code of Conduct and defining operations. As a global business, we promote the wellbecorporate responsibility areas. The Steering Group met four ing of communities around the world and abide by good times and held one workshop during 2010. corporate governance practices. All of our operations are Corporate responsibility encompasses financial, social, guided by our corporate values and operating principles and environmental responsibility. Konecranes follows the that define how we manage our business. We recognize the principles included in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in importance of a number of international initiatives and conits reporting on corporate responsibility, and aims to meet ventions, such as the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human the expectations of its stakeholders – such as customers, Rights. Konecranes joined the UN Global Compact initiative owners, and current and future personnel – and build a solid in April 2010 to express our support and commitment to foundation for a dialogue on corporate responsibility issues. these important issues. We have incorporated these prinOur reporting complies with GRI Level C requirements, based ciples into our ethical operating guidelines and published on our self-assessment. A table of GRI compliance can be specific sets of guidelines covering areas such as safety found on pages 32–33. and the environment. Corporate responsibility reporting covers the same timeThe Konecranes Corporate Responsibility Steering Group frame as our financial reporting, the calendar year. Our is intended to foster discussion on corporate responsibility current reporting covers all our major production units and issues and oversee management in these areas. The Steeroperations. Businesses acquired or closed during 2010 are ing Group includes senior managers and representatives not included, however. The reported indicators have been from business areas, production, product development, huchosen because they are the most relevant in terms of our man resources, and legal affairs. During 2010 the Steering operations and our stakeholders. The data behind these inGroup covered topics such as joining UN Global Compact, dicators has been collected from our management systems, 10 10,042 10 9,739 09 9,782 09 9,811 08 9,904 08 9,222 07 8,404 07 8,005 06 7,549 06 6,859 Number of personnel Number of personnel End of period Average KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility 27 supplemented with information sourced separately. Some of 2010. The aim of this global cooperation is to share inforthe data included has been scaled up to provide an overall mation, best practices, and raise awareness. The Group’s view of our performance, which could result in inaccuracies safety network held regular online meetings and an annual in some figures. face-to-face meeting during the Konecranes Global HSEQ Konecranes’ most important stakeholders include share(Health & Safety, Environment, Quality) Seminar. holders, customers, personnel, suppliers and other partners, We continued to implement safety procedures in line with the authorities, local communities, and the media. our safety management principles. A global project team developed global processes and templates for risk assessSafety comes first ments during 2010, and several of these were completed Safety always comes first for us. People develop, build, operin practice. Safety contacts around the world have been ate, and maintain lifting equipment in challenging locations trained to use global shared practices, which support and and under varying conditions. We want all Konecranes empromote the importance of assessments locally. ployees, customers, and partners to arrive home in good A Web-based near-hit and incident reporting tool was inhealth after the working day – and we want to be a safety troduced in 2009, and the rollout of the tool expanded to leader in our industry. English-speaking countries during 2010. The entire Group Konecranes continued building a global safety network will use the tool in incident reporting and for sharing knowland harmonizing operating procedures Group-wide during edge in 2011. Konecranes aims to recognize and meet different stakeholders’ needs and expectations in the area of corporate responsibility as elsewhere. In this chart, we have listed some examples of Konecranes’ stakeholder groups and how we engage in dialogue with them. stakeholders Customers Personnel Suppliers and • Continuous dialogue as • There are multiple channels subcontractors part of normal business for employee dialogue, • Continuous dialogue as part and in addition customer for example employee of normal business and in satisfaction indicators and satisfaction survey and addition Supplier Days event. surveys. various feed back channels. • Environmental and ethical requirements included in general terms and conditions. Students, universities and Shareholders There are also many other research institutes • This annual report is one stakeholder groups, such as • Student cooperation in the way of providing information local communities, authorities, form of trainee and thesis on Konecranes’ corporate media, interest groups, trade work opportunities. responsibility performance unions and non-governmental • Cooperation in different kinds and actions for investors and organizations, with which we of research programs with engaging in dialogue. use multiple channels for universities and research dialogue. institutes. 28 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility Safety innovation contest to share ideas The importance of safety was highlighted Group-wide through Safety can be simple a global safety innovation project. Launched in April, the Something as simple as the use of safety shoes is campaign took the form of an innovation contest, and was a good example of what our responsible approach to the first-ever campaign for all personnel to work together to safety means in practice. People’s safety awareness further enhance safety. Contest entries emphasized people’s and access to personal protective equipment has imhope that employees and customers realize the importance proved significantly at Sanma in China, for example, that Konecranes attaches to safety. since the company joined the Konecranes Group. The safety campaign generated a very positive response. Over 100 brainstorming sessions were held around the world, together with workshops for country contact personnel. Evaluation and further refining of the ideas produced by the initiative began in September 2010 and will continue in 2011. Given this very positive response, the concept of Lifting people collecting ideas and innovations like this will be further exThere is a great mix of talented Konecranes employees panded in future innovation endeavors. behind our customer promise: ‘Lifting businesses™’. The wellbeing and competence of our people are the keys to Continuous safety training our success. Acting more concertedly as one company is Comprehensive global safety training material was develincreasingly important to our success in the global market­ oped in 2010 to support local training. High-quality safety place. training plays a central role in Konecranes’ operations, and We continued to emphasize the importance of our people our minimum requirement is that everyone takes part in – their competencies and their motivation – during 2010. basic occupational safety training regularly. We have made This next-generation people strategy is called ‘Lifting People’ positive progress in accident frequency, and safety perforencompassing e.g. competence development, leadership, mance has improved. As our ongoing goal is to be a zeroperformance management, well-being etc. We have inaccident workplace, there are still some challenges ahead, creased our training investment significantly, but this alone however. Our target for 2011 is to establish more safety will not be enough. Leadership skills have to be developed KPIs and create indicators for driving positive behavior and continuously. taking preventive action. Several studies have shown that there is a direct corGlobal operations bring a number of safety-related chalrelation between people’s physical and mental wellbeing. lenges. Safe site operations call for good planning and acUnfortunately, the fitness of people has deteriorated a lot tive and efficient management, as projects can sometimes in recent years, resulting in an increasing risk of illnesses, be located in very challenging areas. absence from work, and premature retirement, all of which is costly for both the individuals concerned and their emLost Time Accident Frequency ployers. The importance of the physical conditions of our Business area LTA1 employees is also growing for Konecranes. As a result, we Konecranes total 11.7 launched a pilot project in Finland in 2010 to increase the physical wellbeing of our people. This includes a fitness Service 13 test for all employees and tailor-made individual fitness Equipment 12 programs. LTA 1 = (number of accidents/ working hours performed) * 1,000,000 Efficient performance management will be increasingly Including operatives and staff people important to help us succeed in the future, which is why we plan to measure everyone’s performance not only by achievements, but also by value-based behavior. Performance management is a continuous process at Konecranes and culminates every year in an annual development discussion. KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility 29 People system supports good HR practices ous 12 months seem to be more satisfied than those who Our new human resources information system, known as the have not. Discussion activities have continuously improved, People System, gathers all employment-related information and in 2010 we focused on further enhancing the quality online in one place. This will help support good HR practices of discussions and started a training program to improve and processes and will contribute to creating a common overall performance management and development discus‘language’ within our organization. Implementation of the sions as part of this. system started as a pilot project in Finland, and a broaderOur organization has been going through a lot of changes based rollout will continue in 2011. Complete implementaand we have harmonized a number of our processes. The tion will take some years. survey indicated areas for development in these areas, Competence development is a constant focus area for which will be focused on during 2011. Konecranes, and we have continued to invest in our people. We are focusing on resource planning and target-aligned Fair play training to eliminate gaps in our competence now and in As we are a part of a complex business ecosystem, we the future. want to ensure that we act as transparently as possible and Various local management and leadership training has are fully accountable. We joined the UN Global Compact in been organized to support local needs. Branch Management 2010 and reviewed our own Code of Conduct and updated Training in business area Service, for example, is continupeople on it worldwide. We also emphasized our anticorruping and over 500 employees have now participated in the tion guidance and arranged special training sessions for program. The Konecranes Academy for middle management people involved in purchasing and procurement. and experts took in 200 new participants in 2010 for its Financial responsibility means ensuring that Konecranes one-year training program. Almost 200 people have graduis profitable and competitive over the long term. Fulfilling ated from the Academy, which was launched in 2008. The our shareholders’ return expectations is the best way to training program for top management will be repeated durpromote the goals of our other stakeholders. A good finaning 2011. A total of 40 participants attended the current cial result is essential for the continuance of our business Konecranes Master leadership training program in 2010. and for ensuring that we have sufficient resources for areas such as environmental management and dealing with social Job satisfaction measured annually issues. Global job satisfaction surveys are an important tool and Konecranes has set itself challenging financial objecindicator for Konecranes. We carried out our fourth survey tives, which we monitor regularly and which also form the in 2010, covering almost 10,000 employees. The data probasis of our incentive systems. vided by this annual survey enables us to compare our perKonecranes understands the requirements of different formance to that recorded in the three previous ones and customers and industries and aims to develop strong, longthat of other companies. term customer relationships. Our existing customer partnerThe response rate at Group level was 73 percent in 2010, ships, together with our service contract base, offer us an the highest in the four-year history of the survey. The results excellent foundation for growth, by expanding cooperation showed that communication and cooperation between units and selling additional services. have improved over the last year. Konecranes’ image as an One of the tools we use to further improve our customer employer continues to be positive, and the level and quality service is called Customer Voice. This survey tool, designed of our training is also perceived favorably. to evaluate how our customers perceive us, has been in use The correlation between annual development discussions for two years; our target is to interview hundreds of customand the satisfaction of our people was clearly visible in the ers globally by phone every month. We improved the survey 2010 survey. During these one-to-one meetings, people’s process during 2010, as well as the tools covering all our goals and personal development plans – such as training customers in different countries and business areas. Conneeds, career development wishes, and interest in job rotatinuous development here is based on feedback received tion – are discussed and documented. Respondents who from the survey. have had a discussion with their supervisor during the previ30 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility Long-term supplier contracts Konecranes aims for long-term contracts with its key suppliduring 2010 also highlighted many additional product safety ers. Contract coverage is regularly monitored and the coverimprovement ideas. Konecranes’ first environmental product age rate is continuously improved. Supplier audits are based declarations will be published during 2011. on Group-wide processes and tools. Audits are carried out Konecranes began developing the Group’s innovation acaccording to a plan, which is updated on a monthly basis. tivities more systematically during 2010, to ensure that they Almost 90 suppliers were assessed during 2010. Supplier become an integral part of daily management and routines. performance is continuously improved in terms of delivery Asking the right questions to steer innovations into areas of accuracy, quality, total costs, and innovations. strategic importance, developing and fostering a corporate A good example of how we are working to promote coculture that embraces innovation, and further developing operation with our suppliers is our annual Supplier Day. the channels through which ideas are turned into business Konecranes invited senior managers from its key suppliers benefits will be key elements of this initiative. In addition to the 2010 Supplier Day in September to update them on to internal development efforts, we are also extending the our strategies and business challenges, and to enhance scope of our innovation efforts to include more input from their early involvement in new initiatives. our key suppliers and customers. Donation for philanthropic purposes Small environmental footprint Konecranes’ Annual General Meeting in 2010 decided to doWe work hard to develop our environmental management, nate EUR 1,250,000 to one or more Finnish universities to which enables comprehensive target setting and monitorsupport education and research in the fields of technology, ing results. Energy efficiency, recycling, waste disposal, and economy, or art. Aalto University received EUR 1 million and chemicals management are key issues for Konecranes. the Tampere University of Technology EUR 250,000. Konecranes’ Global Environmental Network continued its regular online meetings during 2010 and met once face-toA smarter offering face during the Konecranes HSEQ Seminar. The network Usability, eco-efficiency, and safety are our guiding principles provides a very useful forum for global cooperation and sharin the lifecycle of lifting equipment and in service. We are ing information and best practices. proud of the eco-efficiency and safety features of our equipEnvironmental awareness has continued to improve, and ment and service offering, as well as of the overall user we have developed training material to promote and facilitate experience we are able to give customers – both in the tanenvironmental issues locally. We offer a mix of global and logible and intangible area. Many cutting-edge features have cal online training. One challenge that we have encountered, been part of our offering for years. For more on our smart however, is to ensure that we have sufficient skilled trainers solutions, see www.konecranes.com > Equipment > Smart to offer environmental training in local languages. Solutions. New Group-level corporate responsibility guidelines were To further develop and enhance these features, we have communicated and promoted during 2010. These establish launched an environmentally conscious design concept. global expectation levels for Konecranes’ units and provide Originally known as ‘design for the environment’, the cona continuous improvement framework with three different cept was created in 2009 and piloted and further commuperformance target levels. Manufacturing locations conductnicated during 2010. Our global safety innovation project ed self-evaluation within this framework during 2010. KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility 31 Environmental data Energy consumption and emissions 2010 2009 Total emissions/sales tCO2e/EUR 124 125 Total energy consumption/sales MWh/EUR 332 319 Scope 1, energy consumption and direct Vehicle fleet fuel consumption, MWh 220,200 283,219 emissions Natural gas consumption, MWh 54,000 62,400 1) Direct emissions, tCO2e 85,000 102,600 1) Scope 2, energy consumption and Electricity consumption, MWh 158,000 149,000 1) indirect emissions District heat consumption, MWh 80,500 39,000 Indirect emissions, tCO2e 73,000 52,000 1) Scope 3, other indirect emissions Business travel, tCO2e 10,000 27,500 1) Commuting to work, tCO2e 22,950 24,000 Waste (tons) Metal scrap (2 12,500 9,000 Cardboard, paper and wood (2 5,500 7,000 Hazardous and electronic 1,100 1,300 and electrical waste (3 Mixed waste (4 950 900 Total numbers extrapolated based on data collected from the majority of manufacturing locations and major service units. 1) Energy consumption data from 2009 re-stated based on more comprehensive data gained and emissions re-calculated. 2) Waste streams go for recycling 3) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and other adequate treatment depending on location 4) Waste stream handling split into recycling, incineration and landfill depending on location 32 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Profile 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO's statement 6 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 12–13, 44–49 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 34 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 24–25 2.3 Operational structure 2–3, 34, 38 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 2 2.5 Number of countries and location of operations 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2 2.7 Markets served 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 2 2.9 Significant changes 4 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Not applicable 3 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 26 3.2 Date of most recent report 26 3.3 Reporting cycle 26 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding report 129 3.5 Process for defining report content 26 3.6 Boundary of the report 26 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary 26 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries and joint ventures 26 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases for calculations 26 3.10 Explanation of re-statements 31 table 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting perios 4 3.12 GRI content index 32–33 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure 34 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 36 4.3 Independence of the Board members 36, 54–55 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee consultation 29, 35 4.5 Executive compensation and linkage to organization's performance 40–43 4.7 Processes for determining expertise 37 4.8 Values, mission and business conduct principles 10, 26 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing risk management 44 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance 37 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 27 4.15 Identification of stakeholders 27 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 27, 35 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate responsibility 33 Global reporting initiative content index Page Comment Management approach and performance indicators (core indicators, unless marked to be additional) Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 69 – 106 Financial review part operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligation 86, 100 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 85 Labor practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region 18, 26 Partly covered LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 28 number of workrelated fatalities by region LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 28–29 development reviews (additional indicator) Human rights HR 2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone 30 Partly covered screening on human rights and actions taken. Society SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related 46–47 Partly covered to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies 29, 46–47 Partly covered and procedures Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 22–23 Partly covered services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 29 measuring customer satisfaction (additional indicator) Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 31 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 31 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 22, 30 Partly covered and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives (additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 30 Partly covered (additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 31 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 31 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 30 Partly covered (additional) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 31 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 22, 30 and extent of impact mitigation 34 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance Konecranes Plc (Konecranes, Company) is a Finnish public and approved by the Board of the Securities Market Associalimited liability company, which, in its decision making and tion. The Code can be found at www.cgfinland.fi. Konecranes administration, complies with the Finnish Companies Act, complies with all recommendations of the Code with no Securities Market Act, the rules of the NASDAQ OMX Helexceptions. Konecranes has issued a Corporate Governance sinki and other regulations concerning public companies as Statement based on recommendation 54 of the Code and well as Konecranes’ Articles of Association. a Remuneration Statement based on recommendation 47. Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate GoverSee www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance Code 2010 that came into force on October 1, 2010 nance for details. Corporate governance structure of Konecranes Group Konecranes Group Konecranes Plc Articles of Association General Meeting Auditor (Shareholders) Code of Conduct Group’s internal rules, Board of Directors regulations and Group Policies Laws, Audit Committee Internal rules and Audit regulations Nomination and Compensation Committee President and CEO Group Executive Board Group Administration Extended Management and Support Team Functions BA Equipment Market Operations BA Service Business Units Procurement Business Units KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance 35 General Meeting register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd on the record The General Meeting of Shareholders is the highest deciday for the Shareholders’ Meeting. A shareholder, whose sion making body in which the shareholders exercise their shares are registered on his/her personal Finnish bookdecision-making power and right of supervision and control entry account, is registered in the shareholders’ register over the business of the Company. of the Company. Changes in shareholdings that occur afAn Annual General Meeting (AGM) must be held within ter the record date of a General Meeting do not affect a six months after the end of a financial year. An Extraordinary shareholder’s right to participate in a General Meeting or a General Meeting (EGM) must be held if shareholders with at shareholder’s number of votes. least 10 percent of the shares so demand in writing in order A registered shareholder wishing to participate in a Gento deal with a given issue. eral Meeting must notify the Company of his/her intention Matters to be discussed at the AGM are defined in Article in the order and during the period prescribed in the Notice 10 of Konecranes’ Articles of Association and in Chapter 5, of the Shareholders’ Meeting. A notification by a holder of Paragraph 3 of the Companies Act. These matters include nominee-registered shares for temporary inclusion in the the adoption of the financial statements, distribution of profCompany’s shareholders’ register is perceived as prior noits, discharging Board members and the Managing Directice of participation in the General Meeting. tor from personal liability, the election of Board members and auditors, and the fees payable to them. Konecranes’ Proxy representative and powers of attorney Articles of Association can be consulted on the Company’s A shareholder may participate in the General Meeting in website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate person or through proxy representation. A proxy represenGovernance. tative shall produce a dated proxy document or otherwise demonstrate in a reliable manner his/her right to represent Information on General Meetings to shareholders the shareholder at the General Meeting. When a shareholder The Board of Directors (Board) shall convene an AGM or participates in the General Meeting by means of several EGM by publishing a notice on the Company’s website or in proxy representatives representing the shareholder with one or more national newspapers or by sending a written shares at different securities accounts, the shares by which notice to the shareholders by mail no more than three (3) each proxy representative represents the shareholder shall months and no less than three (3) weeks before the General be identified in connection with the registration for the GenMeeting of Shareholders. The Notice of the General Meeting eral Meeting. includes a proposal for the agenda of the Meeting. Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of The Company will disclose on its website the date by any proxies for the General Meeting when they notify their which a shareholder shall notify the Board of the Company participation. A shareholder and his/her representative may of an issue that he or she demands to be included in the bring an assistant to a meeting. agenda of the Annual General Meeting. The Company will publish the decisions made at General Shareholder’s right to ask questions and make proposals Meetings as stock exchange releases and on the Company’s for resolutions website without delay after the Meeting. The minutes of the At a General Meeting, every shareholder has the right to ask General Meeting including those appendices of the minutes questions related to an item on the agenda of the Meeting. that are part of a decision made by the Meeting, will be The shareholder may send the question to be submitted posted on the Company’s website within two weeks of the to the Meeting to the Company in advance. A shareholder General Meeting. also has the right to table draft resolutions at the Meeting in matters that fall within the competence of the General Attendance of shareholders Meeting and that are on the agenda. A holder of nominee registered shares is advised to request well in advance of the Meeting necessary instructions reAttendance of Board members, the Managing Director, garding the registration in the shareholders’ register of the and Auditors at the General Meeting Company, the issuing of proxy documents, and registration The President and CEO, holding the position of Managing Difor the General Meeting for his or her custodian bank. The rector under the Companies Act, the Chairman of the Board, account management organization of the custodian bank will and a sufficient number of directors shall attend General register a holder of nominee registered shares, who wants to Meetings. In addition, the Company’s Auditor shall be presparticipate in the General Meeting, to be temporarily entered ent at Annual General Meetings. into the shareholders’ register of the Company. In order to A person proposed as a director for the first time shall be entitled to attend an AGM or EGM, a shareholder must be participate in the General Meeting that decides on his/her registered as a shareholder in the Company’s shareholders election unless there is good reason for not attending. 36 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance The Annual General Meeting for 2010 was held on March Election and term of office 25, 2010 in Hyvinkää, Finland. A total of 295 shareholders The AGM elects Konecranes’ Board of Directors for a term representing approximately 46.1 percent of votes particiof one (1) year. According to the Articles of Association, pated either in person or by proxy. the Board shall have a minimum of five (5) and a maximum of eight (8) members. The Board elects a Chairman from Documents relating to General Meetings among its members. There is no provision in the Articles The Notice of the General Meeting, the documents to be of Association to appoint Board members according to a submitted to the General Meeting and draft resolutions will specific order. be available on the Company’s website at least three weeks Candidate Board members will be announced in invitabefore the General Meeting. tions to General Meetings, provided that the proposal has been made by the Nomination and Compensation CommitBoard of Directors tee, or if the candidate is supported by at least 10 percent Charter of the Board of Directors of the total votes of all Company shares and the candidate The Board of Directors of the Company has approved a writhas given his/her consent. Any candidates proposed after ten Charter to govern its work. The Charter supplements the invitation has been sent shall be announced separately. the provisions of the Finnish Companies Act and the ComThe Company will publish the biographical details of the pany’s Articles of Association. Information in the Charter candidates on the Company’s website. is intended to enable shareholders to evaluate the operaIn 2010 the Board of Directors consisted of eight (8) tion of the Board. The Charter can be consulted on the members: Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Mr. Svante Adde Corporate Governance. Mr. Tomas Billing Mr. Kim Gran Responsibilities Mr. Stig Gustavson (Chairman) The Board is responsible for the administration and the Mr. Tapani Järvinen proper organization of the operations of the Company. The Mr. Matti Kavetvuo Board is vested with powers and duties to manage and suMs. Malin Persson pervise the administration and operations of the Company Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen as set forth in the Companies Act, the Articles of Association, and any other applicable Finnish laws and regulations. Biographical details of the Board of Directors are presented The Company aims to comply with all applicable rules and on pages 54–55 and can also be found at www.konecranes. regulations affecting the Company or its affiliates (Group com > Investors > Corporate Governance. Companies) outside Finland, provided that such compliance does not constitute a violation of Finnish law. Independence of the Board of Directors The Board has a general obligation to pursue the best inUnder the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 2010, the terest of the Company and all of its shareholders, and is acmajority of directors shall be independent of the Company. countable to the Company’s shareholders. Board members In addition, at least two directors of this majority shall be inshall act in good faith and with due care, exercising their dependent of the Company’s major shareholders. The Board business judgment on an informed base in what they believe shall evaluate the independence of directors and reports to be the best interest of the Company and its shareholder which directors it determines to be independent of the Comcommunity as a whole. pany and which directors it determines to be independent The Board shall decide on the business strategy of the of major shareholders. Company, the appointment and dismissal of the President All other members elected to Konecranes’ Board of Direcand CEO, the deputy to the President and CEO, and other tors, except Mr. Stig Gustavson, are deemed independent of senior management, Group structure, acquisitions and dithe Company. Mr. Gustavson is deemed dependent of the vestments, financial matters, and investments. It shall also Company based on the Board’s overall evaluation relating continuously review and monitor the operations and perto his former and current positions in Konecranes combined formance of Group Companies, risk management, and the with his substantial shareholding in the company. Company’s compliance with applicable laws, as well as any All Board members are independent of the Company’s other issues determined by the Board. The Board shall keep major shareholders. itself informed of issues and business activities of major More detailed criteria for independence are listed in strategic importance to the Company on an ongoing basis. Recommendation 15 of the Finnish Corporate GoverThe Board shall appoint a secretary to be present at all nance Code 2010. The Code is available in the Internet at Board meetings. www.cgfinland.fi. KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance 37 Meeting procedures and self-assessment often as necessary to properly discharge its responsibilities. In addition to the Board and its secretary, the Company’s There shall be approximately eight regular meetings a year, President and CEO and CFO shall attend Board meetings. in addition the Board may convene whenever necessary. The agenda of the Board meeting and the needed backThe Board convened 13 times during the 2010 financial ground material will be delivered to the Board members prior year. The attendance of members at the meetings was as to the meeting for introduction. The Board shall meet as follows: Nomination and Compensation Board Meetings Audit Committee Meetings Committee Meetings Member Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Attendance Percentage Stig Gustavson 13/13 100% 3/3 100% Svante Adde 13/13 100% 4/4 100% Tomas Billing 12/13 92% 3/3 100% Kim Gran 12/13 92% 4/4 100% Tapani Järvinen 13/13 100% 4/4 100% Matti Kavetvuo 12/13 92% 2/3 67% Malin Persson 12/13 92% 3/3 100% Mikael Silvennoinen 13/13 100% 4/4 100% The average attendance of members at Board meetings was tion. The Charter of the Audit Committee is available on the 96.2 percent. Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > Investors > The Board and its Committees shall conduct an annual Corporate Governance. performance evaluation to determine whether the Board and Under its charter the Audit Committee shall meet at least its Committees are functioning effectively. The Board shall four times a year. The Chairman shall present a report on establish the criteria to be used in these evaluations. The each Audit Committee meeting to the Board. evaluation is conducted as internal self-evaluation. The perAs of March 25, 2010, the Board’s Audit Committee is formance review shall be discussed with the entire Board comprised of the following four (4) members: after the end of each fiscal year. Mr. Svante Adde (Chairman), Mr. Kim Gran (member), Board committees Mr. Tapani Järvinen (member), The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee and the NomiMr. Mikael Silvennoinen (member). nation and Compensation Committee. Both of the Committees were first formed in 2004. All members of the Audit Committee are deemed to be independent of the Company and Company’s significant Audit Committee shareholders. All members have sufficient expertise on the The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman corporate management. In addition, Mr. Svante Adde, Mr. of the Audit Committee from among of its members. The Kim Gran and Mr. Mikael Silvennoinen have a degree in Audit Committee shall have at least three (3) non-executive business administration and/or economics. Board members who are independent and not affiliated of The Audit Committee convened four times in 2010, and the Company. At least one member must be independent of the average attendance of members at meetings was 100 significant shareholders. percent. The attendance of members at meetings is shown The Audit Committee assists the Board in its responsibiliin the table concerning Board meetings. ties relating to the appropriate arrangement of the control of the company accounts and finances pursuant to the CompaNomination and Compensation Committee nies Act. The tasks and responsibilities of the Committee The Board shall appoint the members and the Chairman of are defined in the Charter which is based on a Board resoluthe Nomination and Compensation Committee from among 38 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance its members. The Nomination and Compensation Committee cordance with instructions and orders given by the Board. shall have 2–4 non-executive Board members. The majority The President and CEO may undertake actions which, conof the members shall be independent of the Company. sidering the scope and nature of the operations of the ComThe Committee shall e.g. prepare matters related to pany, are unusual or extensive, only with the authorization the appointment of the members of the Board of Directors, of the Board. The President and CEO shall see to it that President and CEO and other senior management, evaluate the Company’s accounting practices comply with the law the President and CEO’s performance and remuneration and and that its financial affairs have been arranged in a relimake recommendations to incentive compensation plans of able manner. The President and CEO is also responsible the Company. The Committee’s tasks and responsibilities for preparing matters presented to the Board and for the are defined in the Charter, which is based on a Board resoCompany’s strategic planning, finance, financial planning, lution. The Charter of the Nomination and Compensation reporting, and risk management. Committee is available on the Company’s website at www. konecranes.com > Investors > Corporate Governance. President and CEO’s contract The Nomination and Compensation Committee shall The terms and conditions of the President and CEO’s conmeet at least once a year. The Chairman shall present a tract of employment are specified in writing in a document report on each Compensation Committee meeting to the approved by the Board. Board. The President and CEO’s contract of employment may As of March 25, 2010, the Board’s Nomination and Combe terminated with six months’ notice at any time by either pensation Committee is comprised of the following four (4) the President and CEO or the Company. In the event that members: the Company terminates the contract without cause, the Mr. Matti Kavetvuo (Chairman), Company shall pay the President and CEO compensation Mr. Tomas Billing (member), corresponding to 18 months’ salary and fringe benefits, Mr. Stig Gustavson (member), in addition to the salary for the notice period. When the Ms. Malin Persson (member). President and CEO reaches the age of 60 years, both he and the Company may request his retirement with a target Mr. Stig Gustavson is deemed to be dependent on the pension of 60 percent of his underlying income, excluding Company, while all other members are independent of the bonuses. Company. All members are deemed independent of the Company’s significant shareholders. Group management The Nomination and Compensation Committee conKonecranes has a two-tiered operative management strucvened three times in 2010, and the average attendance of ture consisting of the Group Executive Board (GXB) and the members at meetings was 91.7 percent. The attendance Extended Management Team (EMT). of members at meetings is shown in the table concerning Board meetings. Group Executive Board The Group Executive Board consists of the following memFees paid to the Board of Directors bers: The remuneration for the Board members is resolved by the Mr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO Annual General Meeting. More information of the Board’s Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President, Service remuneration is available on page 40 under Remuneration Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President, Equipment of the Board of Directors. Mr. Harry Ollila, Executive Vice President, Market Operations President and CEO Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer Konecranes’ President and CEO holds the position of ManMr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Procurement Officer aging Director under the Companies Act. The Board decides Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Chief Technology Officer on the appointment and the dismissal of the President and CEO. The President and CEO may be a member of the Board The biographical details of the Group Executive Board memof Directors but may not be the Chairman. The current Presibers are available on pages 50–51. dent and CEO, Mr. Pekka Lundmark, is not a member of the The Group Executive Board assists the President and Board of Directors. CEO, but has no official statutory position based on legislation or the Articles of Association. In practice, however, it Responsibilities plays a significant role in the Company’s management sysUnder the Companies Act, the President and CEO is respontem, strategy preparation and decision making. sible for the day-to-day management of the Company in acKONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance 39 Extended Management Team to form a uniform customer interface for the Group, with a In addition to the Group Executive Board members, the primary goal to maximize the Group’s position within each members of the Extended Management Team include the Region. The Regional Senior Vice Presidents have line reSenior Vice Presidents of the regional organizations; Vice sponsibility for equipment sales and service, within the President, General Counsel; Vice President, Human Resourcguidelines given by the Business Areas. Additionally, they es; Vice President, Marketing & Communications; and the are responsible for coordinating and providing administrative Chief Information Officer. services for operations not directly reporting to them, such The Extended Management Team consists of the followas manufacturing. ing members: Group Staff forms a common resource for handling matMr. Pekka Lundmark, President and CEO ters of importance for the whole Group. Mr. Hannu Rusanen, Executive Vice President, Service Mr. Mikko Uhari, Executive Vice President, Equipment Meeting Practices Mr. Harry Ollila, Executive Vice President, Market OperaThe GXB shall convene as frequently as necessary, normally tions on a monthly basis. The EMT shall convene regularly twice a Mr. Teo Ottola, Chief Financial Officer year. In addition, the EMT shall conduct monthly reviews of Mr. Pekka Lettijeff, Chief Procurement Officer business performance and financial results, together with Mr. Ari Kiviniitty, Chief Technology Officer other executive managers under the chairmanship of the Mr. Pierre Boyer, Senior Vice President, Western Europe, President and CEO. Business Areas and Regions have their Middle East and Africa own management teams that convene on a regular basis. Mr. Aku Lehtinen, Senior Vice President, Nordic, Eastern Europe and India (as of February 1, 2010) Remuneration Mr. Pekka Päkkilä, Senior Vice President, Nordic, Eastern Principles applied to remuneration schemes Europe and India (until January 31, 2010) The idea of the Company’s remuneration schemes is to moMr. Tom Sothard, Senior Vice President, Americas tivate the personnel to good performance and to emphasize Mr. Ryan Flynn, Senior Vice President, Asia-Pacific (as of personnel’s commitment to Konecranes’ business targets. September 1, 2010) The goal of the remuneration schemes is to promote comMr. Edward Yakos, Senior Vice President, South Asia Pacific petitiveness and long-term financial success of the Company (until August 31, 2010) and to contribute to the favorable development of shareMs. Sirpa Poitsalo, Vice President, General Counsel holder value. Ms. Jaana Rinne, Vice President, Human Resources The objective is that all Company employees have a variMr. Mikael Wegmüller, Vice President, Marketing and Comable component based on their performance as a part of munications their overall remuneration. The amount of this variable comMr. Antti Koskelin, Chief Information Officer ponent varies according to the person’s duty, organizational level, and responsibilities. Typically the variable components The biographical details of the Extended Management Team used in remuneration are based on financial results of the members are available on pages 50–53. Company and/or the unit in question and personal achieveAs of September 1, 2010 Konecranes combined the ments. Remuneration schemes are drawn up in writing and North East Asia (NEA) and South Asia Pacific (SAP) Regions numerical evaluation is used in them whenever it is posto one. The new Asia-Pacific (APAC) Region is headed by sible. Mr. Ryan Flynn. Previously Mr. Flynn has been Senior Vice President in North East Asia Region. Decision-making process The Extended Management Team will focus on a sysThe remuneration packages for Board members are resolved tematic review of the progress of strategy development and by the AGM on the basis of a proposal made by the Nominaimplementation. tion and Compensation Committee. Business Areas’ operations are interlinked and synergyThe Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews driven. Business Area Executive Vice Presidents are responand issues guidelines for the Company’s remuneration sible for the day-to-day management of their Business Areas, schemes. The Nomination and Compensation Committee which in turn are ultimately responsible for the Group’s fireviews the President and CEO’s performance. Based on this nancial performance. review and other relevant facts, the Board determines the toFour Regional Senior Vice Presidents (five until August tal remuneration package paid to the President and CEO. 31, 2010) are responsible for managing the Group’s acIn addition, the Nomination and Compensation Committivities in geographical areas under Market Operations. The tee confirms remuneration packages for Group Executive Regional organization brings together the Business Areas Board members who report directly to the President and 40 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance CEO. Remuneration packages for other Extended ManageFees paid to the Board of Directors ment Team members are confirmed by the President and Annual fee 2010 CEO. Chairman of the Board 100,000.00 All other remuneration packages are also confirmed by Vice Chairman 60,000.00 the ’one above’ principle, i.e. a superior’s superior must always accept remuneration principles of a person. Board member 40,000.00 Fee per Board Committee meeting 1,500.00 Remuneration of the Board of Directors Board members were also compensated for their travel expenses. The remuneration packages for Board members are resolved by the AGM. Compensation to the Board as confirmed in the latest AGM is shown in the following table. Remuneration for Board members may also be paid in the form of Company shares. Board members employed by the Company do not receive separate compensation for their Board membership. Non-executive members of the Board of Directors do not receive stock options. Total compensation to the Board of Directors 2010 Number of Fee for Annual fee Fee paid in shares as part committee paid in cash for shares in 2010, of compensation meetings 2010, Paid in total 2010, EUR EUR in 2010 EUR 2010 Gustavson Stig, Chairman 60,004.96 39,995.04 1,718 4,500.00 104,500.00 of the Board Adde Svante, Board 40,000.00 0.00 0 6,000.00 46,000.00 member Billing Tomas, Board 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 4,500.00 44,500.00 member Gran Kim, Board member 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 6,000.00 46,000.00 Järvinen Tapani, Board 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 6,000.00 46,000.00 member Kavetvuo Matti, Board 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 3,000.00 43,000.00 member Persson Malin, Board 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 4,500.00 44,500.00 member Silvennoinen Mikael, Board 24,006.64 15,993.36 687 6,000.00 46,000.00 member Total 244,044.80 135,955.20 5,840.00 40,500.00 420,500.00 Remuneration of the President and CEO The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the an obligation, to set certain strategic targets that can trigger President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review and an additional bonus, maximum 50 percent of President and other relevant facts, the Board determines the total compenCEO’s annual base salary. sation package paid to the President and CEO. The pension scheme states that when the President and The compensation package includes basic salary, fringe CEO reaches the age of 60 years, both he and the Company benefits, pension scheme, and performance-related bonus may request his retirement with a target pension of 60 perscheme. The President and CEO’s bonus scheme is based cent of his underlying income, excluding bonuses. on Group Profitability and Growth and the maximum bonus is Salary and benefits paid to the President and CEO are 50 percent of the President and CEO’s annual base salary. shown in the table. Additionally, the Board of Directors have a possibility, but not KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance 41 Compensation to the President and CEO Salary, bonus and other benefits 2010, EUR 2009, EUR Salary and benefits 402,022 382,938 Bonus 176,880 198,000 Option rights owned (# of options Dec. 31) 194,000 154,000 Shares owned (# of shares Dec. 31) 180,000 180,000 Shares owned indirectly through KCR Management Oy (# of shares Dec. 31) 0 144,437 Additional shares as a result of the Share Swap (# of shares) 83,606 Total shares owned (# of shares) 263,606 324,437 Retirement age 60 years 60 years Target pension level 60 % 60 % Period of notice 6 months 6 months Severance payment 18 months salary and 18 months salary and fringe benefits fringe benefits At the end of year 2010, Konecranes had a loan receivable swap, the Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on of EUR 211,736 from President and CEO Pekka Lundmark a directed share issue in which the Company offered, in with an interest rate of 2.544 percent. The loan relates to a derogation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed to rights, a total of 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the the President and CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pendshareholders of KCR Management Oy against share considing against the imposed payment and the loan is effective eration (Share Swap). In the Share Swap, the shareholders until the appeal is concluded. of KCR Management Oy conveyed the KCR Management Oy The Konecranes Group executives established a compashares they held and received new Konecranes Plc shares ny named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Managein return. The new shares are subject to the transfer restricment Oy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the tion determined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and market. The acquisition was financed by capital investments expiring on November 1, 2012. President and CEO Pekka by the executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR Lundmark had a 27.9 percent share in KCR Management 1.3 million, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount Oy and as a result of the share swap he received 83,606 of EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR ManKonecranes shares. agement Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to The new shares have been registered on the subscriber’s the Group Extended Management Team upon the establishbook-entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register ment of KCR Management Oy. on January 13, 2011 and are subject for public trading on The arrangement extended and continued the incentive NASDAQ OMX Helsinki from January 14, 2011. scheme provided to the President and CEO of the Company in 2006. In connection with the establishment of the new Remuneration of Group Management (Extended arrangement, the five-year transfer restriction relating to the Management Team) 100,000 shares sold to the President and CEO in connecThe Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews and tion to the 2006 incentive scheme was amended, enabling issues guidelines for the Company’s remuneration schemes. the President and CEO to divest these shares on the market, In addition, the Nomination and Compensation Committee provided that the funds so received were invested in KCR confirms remuneration packages for Group Executive Board Management Oy. members who report directly to the President and CEO. ReAccording to the agreements governing KCR Managemuneration packages for other Extended Management Team ment Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay members are confirmed by the President and CEO. Comthe loan granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case pensation packages normally include basic salary, fringe the share price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily benefits (typically use of a company car and mobile phone), exceeds a certain level determined in the agreements. This contribution-based pension schemes, and performance-recondition was met in December 2010. The Board of Direclated bonus schemes. Bonus schemes are always based on tors of Konecranes Plc decided that the loan will be repaid written contracts. Bonus criteria vary, but are usually based through a share swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquired all on the Group’s five Key Performance Areas: Safety, Custhe shares in KCR Management Oy. To implement the share tomer, People, Growth, and Profitability. Bonuses are related 42 KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance to an individual’s performance and to the performance of the the Group Extended Management Team upon the establishunit that he/she belongs to. Numerical performance criteria ment of KCR Management Oy. are used rather than personal assessments. The maximum According to the agreements governing KCR Managebonus percentage is based on the individual’s responsibiliment Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay ties and in 2010 was 30 or 40 percent of individual’s annual the loan granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case base salary. In 2011, the maximum bonus percentage for the share price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily Extended Management Team members varies between 30 exceeds a certain level determined in the agreements. This and 50 percent. condition was met in December 2010. The Board of DirecThe Finnish members of the Extended Management Team tors of Konecranes Plc decided that the loan will be repaid participate in a contribution-based group pension insurance through a share swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquired all scheme, which can be withdrawn from the age of 60. Howevthe shares in KCR Management Oy. To implement the share er, the retirement age of the members of the EMT is accordswap, the Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided on ing to the Employees Pensions Act (TyEL). One member of a directed share issue in which the Company offered, in the EMT participates in a supplementary contribution-based derogation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription pension insurance scheme, which liability is fully covered. rights, a total of 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the The retirement age of the person in question is 60 years. shareholders of KCR Management Oy against share consideration (Share Swap). In the Share Swap, the shareholders of KCR Management Oy conveyed the KCR Management Oy Remuneration to Management shares they held and received new Konecranes Plc shares Extended Management Team, excluding the President and in return. The new shares are subject to the transfer restricCEO tion determined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and expiring on November 1, 2012. Salary, bonus and other benefits 2010, EUR 2009, EUR The new shares have been registered on the subscriber’s Salary and benefits 2,986,504 2,557,089 book-entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register on January 13, 2011 and are subject for public trading on Bonus 396,534 649,355 NASDAQ OMX Helsinki from January 14, 2011. Option rights owned 957,000 964,200 There are no loans issued by the Company to the Extend(# of options Dec. 31) ed Management Team (excluding the President and CEO) at Shares owned 256,218 276,018 the end of the period 2010 and 2009. (# of shares Dec. 31) Shares owned indirectly 0 373,259 Stock Option Plans through KCR Management Oy (# of shares Dec. 31) The Company has issued stock option plans for its key employees, including top and middle management, and employAdditional shares as a result 183,467 of the Share Swap ees in certain expert positions. (# of shares) Stock option plans require a corresponding resolution by Total shares owned 439,685 649,277 a General Meeting, and all plans have been adopted by the (# of shares) relevant General Meetings. Certain large institutional shareholders have adopted guidelines for stock option plans. These guidelines offer advice on the acceptable (maximal) The Extended Management Team (EMT) members’ basic saldilution effect, levels of incentives, lock-up periods, length aries were unchanged from 2009 to 2010. The differences of programs, etc. The Company’s option plans have been in “Salary and benefits” between 2009 and 2010 are mainly designed to comply with these guidelines in all their esexplained by changes in the number as well as responsibilisentials. ties of EMT members and by some EMT members voluntarily The purpose of the option schemes is to motivate key waiving certain monetary benefits in 2009. personnel to contribute to the long-term success of the The Konecranes Group executives established a compaCompany and to create a common understanding of and ny named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Managecommitment to the creation of shareholder value. A further ment Oy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the purpose is to create a joint sense of common ownership market. The acquisition was financed by capital investments among managers, which is seen as valuable for a company by the executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR like Konecranes with operations covering many countries, 1.3 million, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount cultures, and customer industries. of EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR ManThe Board decides on the distribution of options to key agement Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to personnel under a proposal made by the President and CEO. KONECRANES 2010 Corporate governance 43 In granting options to the President and CEO, the Board Konecranes securities during a period commencing on the acts independently. Konecranes Plc’s outstanding stock opfirst day after the end of each calendar quarter and endtion plans include Option Series 2007A, 2007B, 2009A and ing upon the publication of the Company’s corresponding 2009B. Series 2007C was not distributed and, according interim report or financial statement bulletin. Furthermore, to the terms and conditions of 2007C stock option, these trading is not allowed during the entire publication day. The stock options expired on December 31, 2009. Stock Option Company also maintains Project-Specific Insider Registers Series 2009C have been approved by the AGM 2009, but for all insider projects. People listed in these registers are have not yet been distributed. The terms and conditions of prohibited from trading in Konecranes’ shares until terminastock option plans and number of unsubscribed stock option of the project. tions based on outstanding stock option plans and number The General Counsel maintains Konecranes’ register of of employees belonging into stock option plans can be coninsider holdings and is responsible for monitoring complisulted on the Company’s website at www.konecranes.com > ance with insider guidelines and the duty to declare. The Investors > Share information > Stock option plans. Company maintains its public insider register in Euroclear As of the end of 2010, approximately 200 employees Finland Ltd SIRE system. were part of the Group’s stock option plans. More inforKonecranes Public Insiders’ share and option holdings mation on stock options can be found on page 95 of the can be consulted using the NetSire register. Financial Statements, note 29. Audit Remuneration Statement The main function of statutory auditing is to verify that Konecranes has issued a Remuneration Statement accordKonecranes’ financial statements represent a true and fair ing to the Recommendation 47 of the Finnish Corporate view of the Group’s performance and financial position for Governance Code 2010. The Remuneration Statement is the financial year, which is the calendar year. The Auditor reavailable on the Company’s website at www.konecranes.com ports to the Board’s Audit Committee on a regular basis, and > Investors > Corporate Governance. is obliged to audit the validity of the Company’s accounting and closing accounts for the financial year and to give the Insider administration General Meeting an auditor’s report. Konecranes’ Auditors The Board has approved a set of Insider Rules for are elected by the AGM and hold office until further notice. Konecranes based on the Finnish Securities Markets Act, The same auditor with principal responsibility may not serve standards issued by the Financial Supervision Authority, and for more than seven financial years. A proposal for the electhe NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Guidelines for insiders in force tion of external auditors made by the Audit Committee shall as of October 9, 2009. be announced in the invitation to the AGM. The Audit ComKonecranes’ Public Insider Register includes the memmittee strives to arrange a bidding contest on the selection bers of the Board of Directors, the President and CEO, the of the external auditor with regular intervals. Secretary to the Board, the Auditor, the members of the Ernst & Young Oy, Authorized Public Accountants, Extended Management Team, as well as other persons holdhas been the Company’s external auditor since 2006. ing a comparable position in the Group, as decided by the Mr. Roger Rejström served as Principal Auditor in 2010. Company. In addition, Konecranes’ Company-Specific PermaErnst & Young Oy and its affiliated audit companies received nent Insiders includes persons defined by the Company, who EUR 1,641,000 in fees for auditing Konecranes Group Comregularly possess insider information due to their position panies in 2010, and fees of EUR 760,000 for non-audit in the Company. services. Persons registered in the Public Insider Register and the Permanent Insider Register are not allowed to trade in 44 KONECRANES 2010 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROL, AND INTERNAL AUDITING Konecranes’ Board of Directors has defined and adopted business cycles of Konecranes’ customer industries. Capital a set of risk management principles based on widely acexpenditure on industrial cranes varies with the developcepted international good management practices. The Audit ment of industrial production and production capacity, while Committee evaluates and reports on the adequacy and apdemand for port equipment follows trends in global transpropriateness of internal controls and risk management to portation and, over the shorter term, port investment cycles. the Board. Demand for maintenance services is driven by customers’ capacity utilization rates. In addition to risks related to sales Risk management principles volumes, adverse changes in demand can also result in Risk is anything that will clearly affect Konecranes’ ability overcapacity and affect market prices. to achieve its business objectives and execute its strateKonecranes’ aim is to increase the proportion of service gies. Risk management is part of Konecranes’ control sysrevenue in its total revenue stream and thereby reduce its tem and is designed to ensure that any risks related to the exposure to economic cycles. In general, the demand for company’s business operations are identified and managed service is less volatile than that for equipment. adequately and appropriately to safeguard the continuity of As part of its strategy, Konecranes strives to maintain a Konecranes’ business at all times. wide geographical presence to balance out economic trends The Group’s risk management principles provide a basic in different market areas. Konecranes also aims to limit framework for risk management across Konecranes, and the risks resulting from changes in demand in different cuseach Group company or operating unit is responsible for tomer segments and for certain products by maintaining a its own risk management. This approach guarantees the diverse customer base and offering a wide range of products best possible knowledge of local conditions, experience, and services. and relevance. In 2010, Konecranes continued to dedicate substantial The Group’s risk management principles define risk manresources to enhancing its visibility in the marketplace and agement as a continuous and systematic activity aimed at the active pursuit of available opportunities. While recognizprotecting employees from personal injury, safeguarding the ing market risks, Konecranes is confident that, with the right assets of all Group companies and the Group as a whole, approach, extensive growth opportunities can be found. and ensuring stable and profitable financial performance. By minimizing losses due to realized risks, and optimizing Technology risks the cost of risk management, Konecranes can safeguard its Konecranes recognizes that there are various threats and overall long-term competitiveness. opportunities related to the development of new products and services in its business. Active management of intellecSignificant risks for Konecranes tual property rights is essential in the global marketplace. Konecranes has assessed its strategic, operational, finanKonecranes monitors market developments and its comcial, and hazard risks. The list of risks below and the risk petitors on a constant basis to recognize signs of potential management methods described here are intended to be changes in products, markets, and customer needs at an indicative only and should not be considered exhaustive. early stage. Dedicated, process-driven product development has Market risks sustained Konecranes’ leadership in offering advanced Demand for Konecranes’ products and services is affected technologies, products, and services to lift its customers’ by the development of the overall global economy and the businesses. Acquisitions have and will continue to be made KONECRANES 2010 Risk management 45 to gain access to advanced technologies where appropriate. ternal resources where applicable. Developing and deploying Konecranes ensures that its innovations are protected by globally harmonized people processes and systems contininternational patents wherever applicable, and also protects ued in 2010. its trademarks. Konecranes also continued to invest in training. The availDuring 2010, Konecranes continued its focus on remote ability of training was regarded as good in the 2010 emservices, extending the scope of this product and increasing ployee satisfaction survey. The ongoing retirement of skilled the installed base. This technology enables to leverage the personnel challenged Konecranes to enhance the transfer data from crane sensors into meaningful information. Afof tacit knowledge and skills to younger professionals. Apter being analyzed in Konecranes’ Global Technical Centers praisal discussion with managers, opportunities for influenc(GTS), this information can help us provide our customers ing one’s work, job rotation, and new career opportunities with enhanced product and service options. locally and globally are all prioritized. Conducting business in emerging and developing Acquisitions markets Unsuccessful acquisitions or the failure to successfully inKonecranes has manufacturing and supplier networks in tegrate an acquired company could result in reduced profitmany developing countries. A proportion of sales also takes ability or hamper the implementation of corporate strategy. place in emerging and developing countries. Sudden changKonecranes reduces the risks associated with acquisitions es in the political environment and economic or regulatory by carrying out thorough due diligence analyses, using exframework of these areas can have an adverse effect on ternal advisors when needed. Konecranes’ business. Konecranes conducts careful studKonecranes continued to develop its acquisition process ies of the political, social, and economic environment in during 2010. these countries to ensure that it is aware of developments there. Production risks The risks related to emerging and developing markets are Konecranes’ strategy is to maintain in-house production of balanced by Konecranes’ strong global presence and more some key components that have high added value and/ stable service operations in developed countries in Europe or provide core competitive advantages. There are specific and North America. risks involved with different aspects of production, such as Emerging countries will present a significant market production capacity management, operational efficiency, opportunity in the future, as economic growth is expected continuity, and quality. to be faster in these areas than the global average; and Efforts have continued to ramp up the decentralized Konecranes will continue its efforts to expand its presence production of some key components that have traditionally in these markets. been produced at only one location. The safety, security, During 2010, Konecranes continued investing in emergand functionality of key facilities continued to improve during and developing markets via acquisitions and strengthening 2010. ing the company’s existing presence. Material management and procurement risks Personnel Material management and procurement operations require a Konecranes’ ability to operate is dependent on the availproactive approach and development to avoid risks related ability, capabilities, and expertise of professional personnel. to issues such as pricing, quality, capacity, availability, and The ability to recruit and retain personnel is of key imporstock values. Inefficiencies in these areas could affect the tance for the future success of the company, and any failure performance of Konecranes adversely. Konecranes manages to do so may adversely affect Konecranes’ ability to execute its purchases and the logistics of materials and components its strategies. An annual employee satisfaction survey gives of substantial importance for its operations on a centralized important information about employees’ overall job satisfacbasis. Contracts with key suppliers are designed to optimize tion, leadership, and engagement. The results of surveys are these purchases globally. used to support development in areas such as communicaDuring 2010, Konecranes continued standardizing protion and leadership. curement processes and purchasing agreements globally. Konecranes manages its personnel-related challenges The procurement organization was further strengthened, through a professional human resources team, utilizing exand related systems development continued. Konecranes 46 KONECRANES 2010 Risk management has started regular management meetings with selected resiliency, and continuity of services, and rapid recovery in key suppliers to improve operational performance. To enthe event of any temporary loss of key services. sure material availability, we also continued improving our Konecranes IT successfully completed the harmonization demand visibility with respect to our supplier base. of end-user IT services and the majority of datacenter and network services during 2010. This has enabled Konecranes Quality risks to focus IT development on areas of higher added value and High-quality products, business procedures, processes, and enhanced business focus. services play a key role in minimizing Konecranes’ business During 2010, Konecranes IT added substantial resourcrisks. Most companies in the Group and all major Group ing to the development of business applications. As part operations use certified quality procedures. Several new of the Konecranes business process harmonization projquality certificates were applied for and received during the ect, this reflects the general development of Konecranes year, and certification work is continuing. IT. Konecranes IT was transformed in 2010 into a business Konecranes continued dedicated efforts to enhance qualsupport function that is no longer an integral part of headity by focusing on global quality coordination and developquarter operations, as it was before. ment through advanced quality training and a global quality task force. Contract and product liability risks Konecranes can be subject to various legal actions, claims, Supplier risks and other proceedings in the countries in which it operates Konecranes recognizes that price and continuity risks are typical of a company in this industry and consistent with a associated with some of its key suppliers, as they could be global business that encompasses a wide range of products difficult to replace. In the event of major production proband services. These issues may involve contractual disputes, lems, this could undermine Konecranes’ delivery capacity. warranty claims, product liability (including design defects, Quality risks and defects associated with subcontracted manufacturing defects, failure to post appropriate warnings, components are quality risks for Konecranes. and asbestos legacy), employment, auto liability, and other To reduce subcontracting risks, Konecranes constantly matters involving claims related to general liability. These seeks competitive and alternative suppliers while improving risks are managed by continuously monitoring operations, cooperation with existing suppliers. When available, alternaimproving product safety, training customers, and making tive suppliers enhance price competition, increase producuse of detailed terms in sales contracts. Konecranes also tion capacity, and reduce Konecranes’ risks of dependency issues written policies in some cases to ensure compliance on single suppliers. with legislation, regulations, and Konecranes’ own principles During 2010, Konecranes continued efforts to concenacross the Group. Particular emphasis is placed on traintrate purchases with key suppliers and extended the base of ing to ensure that employees are aware of and comply with suppliers with which we work on an active basis to develop applicable legislation, regulations, and principles relating to business processes. We started cooperation on risk mantheir work. Konecranes’ Legal Department retains outside agement practices and business continuity planning with experts to assist here when necessary. selected key suppliers. Illegal activities IT risks Konecranes aims to comply with all applicable laws and Konecranes IT is responsible for all IT services, applicaregulations, but breaches of the company’s policies resulting tions, and assets used by Group companies. Konecranes’ in illegal activities can threaten the company. Konecranes operations depend on the availability, reliability, quality, conconsiders the potential risks involved to be limited, however, fidentiality, and integrity of information. Any and all data sealthough it recognizes that even small-scale illegal activity curity risks and incidents may affect business performance could damage its reputation and affect its financial position adversely. and results adversely. Internal procedures, supervision, auKonecranes uses reliable IT solutions and employs efdits, and management tools are used to reduce Konecranes’ ficient data security management to avoid data loss and exposure to these types of risks. prevent the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of data During 2010, Konecranes continued training on good from being compromised. Due care is exercised with internal governance and management practices, and underlined its and outsourced IT services to ensure the high availability, KONECRANES 2010 Risk management 47 position on illegal activity. The Code of Conduct was revised is this done directly between an operating company and a during 2010 and related training started. bank under the supervision of Group Treasury. Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury sysDamage risks tem that enables transactions to be processed in real-time Damage risks include business interruption risks, occupaand provides in-depth records of activities and performance. tional health and safety-related risks, environmental risks, Standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and covers fire and other disasters, natural events, and premises secuGroup-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign rity risks. Konecranes identifies and assesses these risks currency transaction exposure, debt positions, derivatives continuously as part of its business processes. To mitigate portfolios, and counterparty credit exposure for financial the impact of these risks, we have adopted a number of transactions. In addition, all Group companies participate occupational health and safety guidelines, certification prinin monthly managerial and statutory reporting. ciples, rescue planning, and premises security instructions. See Note 3 to the financial statements and the Board Konecranes has also sought to prepare for the possible of Directors’ Report for a detailed overview of financial risk materialization of these risks through various insurance management. programs and by continuously improving its preparedness to deal with various crisis situations. Insurance During 2010, Konecranes continued investments to enThe Group reviews its insurance policies as part of its overall hance its most important performance index: the safety of risk management on a continuous basis. Insurance policies its employees. Increased global resourcing, a safety innovaare used to cover all risks that are economically feasible or tion competition, and safety projects internally and with subotherwise reasonable to insure. contractors and customers are among the Group’s ongoing efforts in the safety area. Internal Auditing The Internal Audit function in Konecranes is an independent, Financial risks objective assurance and consulting unit, which assists the Konecranes manages most of its financial risk on a centralorganization in achieving its objectives. The unit evaluates ized basis through its Group Treasury. Konecranes Finance the efficiency of risk management, control, and governance Corporation acts as a internal bank for the Group at Corpoprocesses and investigates all reports of suspected incirate Headquarters. Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a dents; such reports can be made in person or through a profit center in the sense that it does not strive to maximize new confidential e-mail reporting channel. its profits. Its role is rather to help the Group’s operating Internal Audit operates according to an audit plan apcompanies reduce the financial risks associated with global proved by the Board of Directors’ Audit Committee, and its business operations, such as market, credit, and liquidity procedures are based on the professional standards laid risks. Konecranes’ most significant market risk relates to down by the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA). Internal Audit foreign currency transactions. focuses on process-oriented engagement, rather than solely The responsibility for identifying, evaluating, and controlentity-based auditing. ling the financial risk arising from the Group’s global busiAdministratively, Internal Audit reports to the Group’s ness operations is divided between business units and CFO. Internal audit activities are also reported to the Board’s Konecranes Finance Corporation. Audit Committee on a regular basis. Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. The majority of the Group’s financial risk is channeled through Internal control and risk management Konecranes Finance Corporation, where it can be evaluated related to financial reporting and controlled efficiently. Internal control related to financial reporting is designed Almost all funding, cash management, and foreign exto give reasonable assurance concerning the reliability of change transactions with banks and other external counterfinancial reporting and the preparation of financial stateparties are handled centrally by Konecranes Finance Corpoments for external purposes in accordance with generally ration, in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only accepted accounting principles, applicable laws and regulain a few special cases, where local central bank regulations tions, and other requirements covering listed companies. prohibit the use of Group services for hedging and funding, Risk management is considered an integral part of run48 KONECRANES 2010 Risk management ning the Konecranes business. Konecranes’ corporate risk sible for areas such as the customer interface, including management principles provide a basic framework for risk sales activities and Service operations. management, while each Group company or operating unit Financial targets are set and planning/follow up activities is responsible for its own risk management. This principle are executed in both dimensions of the matrix organizais also followed in risk management related to financial retions in accordance with the overall business targets of the porting. Konecranes group. The service business is typically being followed up based on profit responsible service branches Control environment and business units whereas Equipment business is mainly The Group operates in a matrix organization where one dimonitored by business units that are further divided into mension is formed by the two business areas, Service and business lines. Equipment. Both business areas are further divided into Corporate Governance and business management at several business units, supply units, and various support Konecranes are based on the company’s values of trust functions. Business areas are responsible for matters such in people, total service commitment, and sustained profitas the product/service offering and global profitability. ability. The control environment is the foundation for all the The other dimension of the matrix organization is Market other components of internal control and for promoting emOperations. These front-line operations are managed and ployees’ awareness of the key issues. This supports the excontrolled through four regions: Americas, APAC, WEMEA ecution of strategy and ensures regulatory compliance. The (Western Europe, Middle East and Africa) and NEI (Nordic, Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible Eastern Europe and India). Market Operations are responfor defining the Konecranes Group’s Control Environment Control Environment Board of Directors Review of financial performance Overview of financial Audit Committee reporting process Feedback External Audit CEO and Group management Business supervision and monitoring Internal Audit Feedback Management teams in Business supervision and monitoring Business Areas and Regions Reporting units Business Controlling Konecranes Financial Reporting manual (Controller’s manual) Function Control activities Main Features in Internal Control related to Financial Reporting KONECRANES 2010 Risk management 49 through corporate policies, instructions, and frameworks the effectiveness of the company’s risk management and which relate to financial reporting. These include for examinternal control system. Internal Audit plans its work in cople the Code of Conduct and the Konecranes Controller’s operation with the Audit Committee, which approves an anManual, which constitutes the main tool for accounting and nual internal audit plan. The Audit Committee receives direct financial reporting principles in respect of providing inforreports from external auditors and discusses and follows mation, guidelines, and instructions. The interpretation and up their viewpoints. External auditors are also represented application of accounting standards is the responsibility of at Audit Committee meetings. The Group’s financial perforthe Global Finance function. Guidelines and instructions for mance is reviewed at each Board meeting, and the Board reporting are updated when necessary and are reviewed at of Directors and the Audit Committee review all external least once a year. financial reports before they are made public. Control activities Communication Konecranes Group management has operational responsiThe Controller’s Manual and reporting instructions together bility for internal controls. Financial control activities are with policies are accessible to personnel via the Konecranes built into the business processes of the Konecranes Group intranet. Additionally the Group, business areas and regions and management’s business supervision and monitoring arrange meetings at which information on financial proprocedures. The Group has identified and documented the cesses and practices is shared. Information for the Group’s significant internal controls that relate to the financial prostakeholders is regularly communicated via the Konecranes cesses either directly or indirectly through other process. Group’s website. To ensure that the information provided is The total number of identified financial internal controls is comprehensive and accurate, the Group has established a approximately 100. All legal entities and business units set of external communications guidelines. These define have their own defined controller functions. Representatives how, by whom, and when information should be issued; from controller functions participate in planning and evaluatand are designed to ensure that Konecranes meets all its ing unit performance, and ensure that monthly and quarterly information obligations and to further strengthen internal financial reporting follows the Group’s policies and instruccontrols related to financial reporting. tions and that all financial reports are delivered on time in In 2010 Konecranes launched the ORiGO system projaccordance with schedules set by the Group. Management ect to further develop and implement the harmonized profollow-up is carried out through monthly management reportcesses defined in the previous development programs, to ing routines and performance review meetings. increase visibility into the operations and thus to improve decision making as well as to reduce the number of variMonitoring ous IT systems. The internal control environment will be The Group conducts an annual self-assessment through its improved by using the common and unified processes and controllers to monitor the effectiveness of selected financommon system platform. Also monitoring the effectiveness cial internal controls. The Group has also an Internal Audit of the internal controls will become more transparent after function, which is responsible for monitoring and evaluating the implementation of the system. 50 KONECRANES 2010 Group Executive Board Group executive board Pekka Lundmark Elcoteq Network Oyj Mikko Uhari KCI Konecranes/Konecranes b. 1963 1998 – 1999: Group Business b. 1957 2003 – 2006: Country Executive President & CEO Controller Executive Vice President, Head Nordic Member of the Group Executive Elcoteq Lohja Oy 1996 – 1998: of Business Area Equipment ABB Finland 1995 – 2002: Vice Board since 2004 Business Controller Member of the Executive Board President, Service Employed 2004 Rautaruukki Oy 1992 – 1996: since 1997 Tampella Oy 1982 – 1995: M.Sc. (Eng.) Financial Planner Employed 1997 various management positions Primary working experience Shares: (per 31.12.2010) + Lic. Sc. (Eng.) in Finland and in the U.S.A. KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: 24,385 (registered 13.1.2011) Primary working experience: Shares: 20,000 Group Executive Vice President Option to acquire: KCI Konecranes/Konecranes (per 31.12.2010) + 24,385 Hackman Abp 2002 – 2004: 116,000 shares 2005 – 2009: President, New (registered 13.1.2011) CEO Equipment Business Areas Option to acquire: Startupfactory 2000 – 2002: Harry Ollila KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: 126,000 shares Managing Partner b. 1950 President, Special Cranes Nokia Corporation 1990 – 2000: Executive Vice President, Head (Heavy Lifting) Ari Kiviniitty various executive positions of Market Operations KCI Konecranes 1997 – 2003: b. 1957 Other current key positions Member of the Executive Board President, Harbour and Chief Technology Officer of trust: Marimekko Ltd.: since 1994 Shipyard Cranes Member of the Executive Board Chairman of the Board Employed 1991 KONE Corporation 1982 – 1997: since 2005 Federation of Finnish M.Sc. (Eng.) various managerial positions Employed 1983 Technology Industries: Primary working experience: at Wood Handling Division, M.Sc. (Eng.) Chairman of the Board KCI Konecranes/Konecranes (Andritz as of 1996 –) Primary working experience: Confederation of Finnish 2005 – 2009: President, Region including: 1996 – 1997 Group KCI Konecranes 2004 – 2005: Industries EK: Northeast Asia Vice President, Marketing, Vice President, Standard Lifting Vice Chairman of the Board KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2005: 1992 – 1996: Group Vice Equipment Shares: 180,000 Group Vice President, Group President, Project Business, KCI Konecranes 2002 – 2004: (per 31.12.2010) + 83,606 Development 1990 – 1992: Director, Wood Managing Director, Hoist factory (registered 13.1.2011) KCI Konecranes 1997 – 2001: Handling Unit, Finland KCI Konecranes 1999 – 2001: Option to acquire: Country Executive, Europe Shares: 74,750 R&D Manager 194,000 shares KCI Konecranes 1994 – 1997: (per 31.12.2010) + 24,385 KCI Konecranes 1996 – 1998: Technical Director (registered 13.1.2011) Technical Director, Components, Teo Ottola Ahlström Osakeyhtiö Option to acquire: Singapore b. 1968 1972 – 1991: various positions 126,000 shares Other current key positions Chief Financial Officer including; Ahlström Pyropower of trust: Member FEM (The Member of the Executive Board 1986 – 1991: Hannu Rusanen European Federation of since 2007 Technical Director b. 1957 Materials Handling Equipment Employed 2007 Pyropower Corp., U.S.A. Executive Vice President, Head Manufacturers), Member of M.Sc. (Econ.) 1981 – 1986: Director of of Business Area Service Technology Industries of Finland Primary working experience: Projects and Engineering Member of the Executive Board Business and Technology Elcoteq SE 2004 – 2007: CFO Shares: 128,888 since 2004 Working Group Elcoteq Network Oyj (per 31.12.2010) + 24,385 Employed 2003 Shares: 3,700 1999 – 2004: Senior Vice (registered 13.1.2011) M.Sc. (Eng.) (per 31.12.2010) + 13,934 President (Business Control Option to acquire: Primary working experience: (registered 13.1.2011) and Accounting) 107,000 shares Option to acquire: 68,000 shares KONECRANES 2010 Group executive board 51 Pekka Lettijeff Nokia Siemens Networks in Purchasing in USA and b. 1961 2007 – 2008: Germany Chief Procurement Officer Head of Global Purchasing Saab Automobile 1986 – 1994: Member of the Executive Board Nokia Networks 2001 – 2008: several executive positions since 2008 VP, Supply Network in Purchasing in Sweden and Employed 2008 Management and VP, Sourcing Germany University Degree in Business Astra Zeneca 2000 – 2001: VP, Shares: Administration, University of Global Supply and Purchasing (per 31.12.2010) + 13,934 Växjö, Sweden General Motors 1994 – 1999: (registered 13.1.2011) Primary working experience: several executive positions Option to acquire: 30,000 shares 52 KONECRANES 2010 Extended Management Team Extended management team In addition to the Group Executive Board members, the Extended Management Team includes: Pierre Boyer Member of the Extended KONE Corporation 1984 – 1988: Employed 1988 b. 1959 Management Team since 2010 Vice President, Maintenance LL.M. Senior Vice President, Head Employed since 1994 Services, North America Primary working experience: of Region WEMEA (Western M.Sc. (Eng.) Robbins and Myers KCI Konecranes 1997 – 1998: Europe, Middle East and Africa) Primary working experience: 1980 – 1984: District Manager Assistant General Counsel Member of the Executive Board Konecranes 2008 – 2010: Shares: 5,200 KCI Konecranes/KONE 2006 – 2009 Director, South East Europe (per 31.12.2010) + 18,579 Corporation, 1988 – 1997: Member of the Extended KCI Konecranes/Konecranes (registered 13.1.2011) Legal Councel Management Team since 2009 2006 – 2008: Director, RTG Option to acquire: Shares: 23,400 Employed 2006 Cranes 66,000 shares (per 31.12.2010) + 6,967 HEC Paris KCI Konecranes 2005 – 2006: (registered 13.1.2011) Primary working experience: Sales Director, Yard Cranes Ryan Flynn Options to acquire: Carrier Corporation KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2004: b. 1971 58,000 shares 2005 – 2006: Director, Sales Manager, Port Cranes Senior Vice President, Head of Commercial Refrigeration, KCI Konecranes 1994 – 2000: Region APAC (Asia-Pacific) Jaana Rinne EMEA Various Project & Product Member of the Extended b. 1962 Carrier-ERD Distribution, Management responsibilities in Management Team since 2009 Vice President, Human Netherlands and France Thailand, Israel and Finland Employed since 2005 Resources 2004 – 2005: Managing Director Shares: MBA, BCom Member of the Executive Board Carrier-Fincoil Oy, Finland Options to acquire: Primary working experience: 2007 – 2009 2001 – 2003: Managing Director 37,000 shares Konecranes Plc., China Member of the Extended Carrier Refrigeration 2005 – 2009: Director, Ports & Management team since 2009 Operations, USA 1999 – 2001: Tom Sothard Lift trucks Employed 1986 Director, Marketing and Product b. 1957 NFS Industrial Machinery, South M.Sc. (Econ.) Planning Senior Vice President, Head of Africa 2003 – 2005: General Primary working experience: Carrier Transicold Europe, Region Americas Manager KCI Konecranes/Konecranes France 1995 – 1999: Director, Member of the Executive Board Afinta Motor Corporation, South 2004 – 2006: Director, Human Sales and Marketing 1995 – 2009 Africa 1996 – 2000: Director Resources for Service Prior to joining Carrier, Boyer Member of the Extended Standard Bank, South Africa KCI Konecranes 1997 – 2004: worked at the Groupe Legris Management team since 2009 1990 – 1996: Business different positions within Industries’ mobile crane Employed 1983 Manager human resources in Standard division, PPM. B.Sc. (Marketing) Shares: Lifting Shares: Primary working experience: Option to acquire: KONE Corporation/KCI (per 31.12.2010) + 18,579 KCI Konecranes 2001 – 2006: 34,000 shares Konecranes 1986 – 1997: (registered 13.1.2011) President, Global Maintenance different positions in finance Options to acquire: Services Sirpa Poitsalo Shares: 106,000 shares KCI Konecranes 1995 – 2002: b. 1963 (per 31.12.2010) + 6,967 Group Vice President, North Vice President, General (registered 13.1.2011) Aku Lehtinen America Counsel Option to acquire: b. 1969 KONE Corporation/KCI Member of the Executive Board 20,000 shares Senior Vice President, Head Konecranes 1989–2001: 1999 – 2009 of Region NEI (Nordic, Eastern President, Maintenance Member of the Extended Europe and India) Services, North America Management team since 2009 KONECRANES 2010 Extended Management Team 53 Mikael Wegmüller SEK & GREY Oy 2000 – 2003: Antti Koskelin b. 1966 Director b. 1970 Vice President, Marketing and Publicis Törmä Oy 1997 – 2000: Chief Information Officer, CIO Communications Planning Group Director Member of the Extended Member of the Executive Board Finelor Oy (now L’Oreal Finland Management Team since 2009 2006 – 2009 Oy) 1993 – 1997: Sales and Employed: 2009 Member of the Extended Marketing Manager B.Sc. (Information Technology) Management team since 2009 Chips Abp 1991 – 1993: Primary working experience: Employed 2006 Product Group Manager Nokia Corporation 1994 – 2008: M.Sc. (Econ.) Shares: several global leadership Primary working experience: (per 31.12.2010) + 6,967 positions in USA and in Finland. Publicis Helsinki Oy (registered 13.1.2011) Shares: 280 2003 – 2006: Option to acquire: Option to acquire: Chief Operating Officer 48,000 shares 15,000 shares 54 KONECRANES 2010 Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS Stig Gustavson Managing Director, Kim Gran the Board, Normet Oy: Member b. 1945 Pöyry Capital Limited, London b. 1954 of the Board, Talvivaara Mining Chairman of the Board since Primary working experience Board Member since 2007 and Company Plc: Member of the 2005. Board Member since Compass Advisers, London Member of the Audit Committee Board, 1994 and Member of the 2005 – 2007: Managing since 2007. Shares: 1,888 Nomination and Compensation Director, Ahlstrom Corporation B.Sc. (Econ) Committee since 2006. 2003 – 2005: Chief Financial Principal occupation: Matti Kavetvuo M.Sc. (Eng.), Dr.Tech. (hon.) Officer, Lazard London and President and CEO, b. 1944 Principal occupation: Stockholm 2000 – 2003: Nokian Tyres plc Board Member since 2001 and Board memberships Managing Director, Lazard Primary working experience Chairman of the Nomination Primary working experience London 1989 – 2000: Director, Nokian Tyres Plc, Car and Van and Compensation Committee KCI Konecranes Plc Citibank 1979 – 1989: Director tyres 1995 – 2000: since 2009. Member of the 1994 – 2005: President and Current key positions of trust Vice President Audit Committee 2004 – 2008. CEO, KONE Cranes division Meetoo AB: Current key positions of trust M.Sc. (Eng.), B.Sc. (Econ.) 1988 – 1994: President, Member of the Board The Rubber Manufacturers’ Principal occupation: KONE Corporation 1982 – 1988, Shares: 4,395 Association: Chairman of Board memberships Sponsor Oy 1978 – 1982, the Board, Chemical Industry Primary working experience RAY (Raha-Automaattiyhdistys) Tomas Billing Federation of Finland: Vice Pohjola Group Plc 1976 – 1978 and Wärtsilä Oy b. 1963 Chairman of the Board, YIT Plc: 2000 – 2001: CEO, Valio Ltd Ab 1970 – 1976: holder of Board member since 2009 and Member of the Board, Nokian 1992 – 1999: CEO, Orion various executive positions member of the Nomination and Tyres Plc: Member of the Board Corporation 1985 – 1991: Current key positions of trust Compensation Committee since Shares: 3,627 CEO, Instrumentarium Corp. Handelsbanken Regional Bank 2009. 1979 – 1984: President Finland: Chairman of the Board Graduate degree in Business Tapani Järvinen Current key positions of trust Dynea Oy: Chairman of the Administration from Stockholm b. 1946 Lassila & Tikanoja Plc: Board, Arcada Foundation: School of Economics Board Member since 2009 and Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Board, Cramo Principal occupation: Member of the Audit Committee Orion Corporation: Vice Plc: Chairman of the Board, Oy President, Nordstjernan AB since 2009. Chairman of the Board Mercantile Ab: Vice Chairman Primary working experience M.Sc. (Eng), Lic. Sc. (Tech.) Shares: 4,543 of the Board, Vaisala Group: Hufvudstaden AB 1997 – 1999: Principal occupation: Member of the Board, IK President, AB Custos Board memberships Malin Persson Investment Partners: Senior 1996 – 1997: Director, Monark Primary working experience b. 1968 Regional Advisor Bodyguard 1994 – 1996: Outotec Oyj 2006 – 2009: Board member since 2005 and Shares: 2,038,490 President, Proventus AB President and CEO, Outokumpu member of the Nomination and 1989 – 1994: Investment Technology, Finland Compensation Committee since Svante Adde Manager, Salomon Brothers 2003 – 2006: President and 2005. b. 1956 International Ltd 1987 – 1989: CEO, Outokumpu Oyj, Finland M.Sc. (Eng.) Board Member since 2004 and Fixed Income Salesman 2000 – 2005: Executive Vice Principal occupation: Member of the Audit Committee Current key positions of trust President and Member of the President and CEO, since 2004 and Chairman of NCC AB: Chairman of Group Executive Committee, Volvo Technology Corporation the Audit Committee since the Board, Nordstjernan Compañía Minera Zaldívar, Chile Primary working experience 2008. Industriutveckling AB: Chairman 1994 – 2000: General Manager Volvo Group: Holder of various B.Sc. (Econ. and Business of the Board, Välinge Flooring and CEO executive positions including AB Administration) Technology AB: Chairman of Current key positions of trust Volvo: Vice President, Coporate Principal occupation: the Board Okmetic Oyj: Member of the Strategy and Business Shares: 11,648 Board, Outotec Oyj: Member of Development, Volvo Logistics KONECRANES 2010 Board of Directors 55 Corp: Vice President, Business Mikael Silvennoinen President and CEO, Pohjola Current key positions of trust & Logistics Development b. 1956 Bank Plc Pohjola Insurance Group Plc: Current key positions of trust Board member since 2008 and Primary working experience Chairman of the Board; Unico Hexpol AB: Member of the Member of the Audit Committee Pohjola Group 1989 – 1997: Banking Group: Member of the Board, Volvo Trucks AB: since 2008. Holder of various executive Steering Committee Member of the Board M.Sc. (Econ.) positions, Wärtsilä Group Shares: 2,327 Shares: 2,856 Principal occupation: 1986 – 1989: Group Treasurer 56 KOnecranes 2010 Financial statements 57 Financial statements Contents 58 112 Parent company statement Report of the Board of Directors of income – FAS 69 113 Consolidated statement Parent company cash flow of income – IFRS statement – FAS 70 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS 114 Parent company balance sheet – FAS 72 116 Consolidated statement Notes to the parent company of changes in equity – IFRS financial statement 73 120 Consolidated cash flow Board of Director’s proposal statement – IFRS to the AGM 74 121 Notes to the consolidated Auditor’s report financial statements 107 Konecranes Group 2006–2010 122 Investor information 108 Calculation of key figures 125 Shares and shareholders 109 Company list 58 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors Report of the Board of Directors Changes in reporting method Market review Konecranes changed its structure from the beginning of The turnaround in the global economy that started in the 2010 so that Business Areas Standard Lifting and Heavy autumn of 2009 continued in 2010. Driven by accommodaLifting were merged into one Business Area: Equipment. tive monetary policies and low interest rates, global macroExternal segment reporting was also changed to match economic indicators improved across the board and even with the operational structure of the group. From 2010, exceeded expectations in many cases. Growth rates in Konecranes reports on two segments, Service and Equipemerging markets continued to exceed those in developed ment. While the number of segments was reduced from countries. three to two, Konecranes discloses more information than Economic news in Europe was dominated by concerns before about the segments on a quarterly basis. The new about the economies of various European countries, and information includes EBITDA, depreciation and impairments, several countries announced austerity measures to reduce capital employed, ROCE and capital expenditure. their budget deficits. Despite increased turbulence in the To further improve the transparency of segment profitfinancial markets, macroeconomic indicators remained genability, the allocation of Group costs into the business erally positive, however. Export-led economies, such as Gerareas has been redefined. Previously, centralized Market many and Sweden, showed the strongest level of recovery. Operations, procurement, R&D and IT costs were reported US economic news was dominated by double-dip fears as unallocated Group costs. From 2010 these costs are linked to low construction activity, high unemployment and allocated to the business areas. The reporting of centralgeneral deleveraging. Macroeconomic indicators pointed to ized legal, marketing & communications, finance, HR and a slow recovery in the overall economy. general management costs remains unchanged and these As in the previous years, the Chinese economy drove will continue to be shown as unallocated Group costs. global growth. The Indian economy continued to gain imporAdditionally, the reporting of elimination of internal margins tance globally. (consolidation items) in inventories has changed as a result Industrial capacity utilization improved in both Europe of fewer segments and internal margins within the busiand the US, but was still low by historical standards. Purness areas being incorporated in the operating profit of the chasing manager indexes were buoyant worldwide, pointing respective business area. to an expansion in economic activity, although this was temKonecranes published the 2009 comparison figpered towards the end of the year. ures related to the segment reporting change in a stock Demand for new equipment continued to suffer from exchange release on February 24, 2010. overcapacity across most customer segments, particularly In addition, unrealized exchange rate differences relating in the first half of the year. Demand for industrial cranes to the hedging of trade receivables and payables that are was held back by a lack of major industrial investments, not included in IFRS hedge accounting have been reported while that for components was boosted by broader use as part of net sales and cost of goods sold above the and replacement of old equipment. New inquiries from the operating profit from 2010. Previously, these items were power generation, waste-to-energy and paper & pulp secreported in financial income and expenses. It is not postors increased whereas those from general manufacturing sible to recalculate accurately the impact of this change on and the steel industry stayed flat. 2009 numbers as a result of which restating of the 2009 The stronger-than-expected turnaround in the global numbers has not been done for this change. However, it is economy was particularly visible in container traffic. Global estimated that the change would only have a minor impact container volumes increased by 13 percent, reaching the on the segment operating profits in 2009. There would not previous peak level of 2008, and this was reflected in be any change in profit before taxes in 2009. greater demand for lift trucks and reach stackers. After a From year-end 2010, Business Area Service and Equipquiet start to the year, the increase in shipping volumes ment order book consists of external orders only. This resulted in a higher level of project activity with container reporting change discontinues the need for the elimination ports towards the end of the year. of the internal order book. The historical figures have not Intense price competition continued due to overcapacity been restated. The elimination of the internal order book in the crane manufacturing industry. has historically been less than EUR 20 million. This reportDemand for lifting equipment services improved due to ing change has no impact on the Group order book. higher capacity utilization in Konecranes’ customer industries. Customers have also continued to show a growing KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors 59 Net sales by region, MEUR Change % at Change Change comparable 10–12/2010 10–12/2009 percent 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 percent currency rates EMEA 258.3 244.2 5.8 823.2 928.0 -11.3 -13.4 AME 135.8 113.7 19.5 468.2 479.5 -2.4 -8.1 APAC 75.3 71.1 6.0 254.8 263.8 -3.4 -11.6 Total 469.4 428.9 9.5 1,546.3 1,671.3 -7.5 -11.5 interest in outsourcing their maintenance needs. New types Service accounted for EUR 103.3 million (14 percent) and of services utilizing the latest IT and measurement techEquipment for EUR 652.9 million (86 percent) of the total nologies have proved increasingly attractive. end-December order book. Steel and sea freight prices increased during the first half, but leveled off in the third quarter. Copper prices were Sales high and rose further towards the end of the year. The US Group sales in full year 2010 decreased by 7.5 percent and dollar appreciated against the euro during the first half. totaled EUR 1,546.3 million (1,671.3). Sales in Service While this development was reversed in the third quarter, increased by 6.1 percent, but decreased by 14.9 percent the dollar again strengthened against the euro during the in Equipment as a result of lower order book at the start of fourth quarter. the year. Acquisitions contributed about 2 percent to sales Note: Unless otherwise stated, the figures in brackets in in January-December. the sections below refer to the same period in the previous Fourth-quarter sales rose by 9.5 percent from the coryear. responding period in 2009 to EUR 469.4 million (428.9). Sales increased in Service by 24.0 percent and in EquipOrders received ment by 1.6 percent. In 2010, orders received rose by 13.9 percent to EUR In 2010, the regional breakdown was as follows: EMEA 1,536.0 million (1,348.9). Orders received rose in Ser53 (56), Americas 30 (29) and APAC 16 (16) percent. vice by 21.5 percent and in Equipment by 7.5 percent. Orders received rose in the Americas and Asia-Pacific, but Currency rate effect decreased in Europe-Middle East-Africa due to lower EquipIn a year-on-year comparison, the currency rates had a posiment orders in the region. tive effect on orders and sales in January-December. The In January-December, orders from emerging markets reported order intake rose by 13.9 percent and by 9.1 peraccounted for approximately 40 percent of total orders cent at comparable currency rates. Reported sales declined compared with more than 30 percent in 2009. Acquisitions by 7.5 percent and by 11.5 percent at comparable currency contributed about 3 percent to orders received in Januaryrates. In the fourth quarter, the reported order intake grew December. by 32.3 percent whereas the growth at comparable currenThe fourth quarter order intake increased by 32.3 percent cies was 25.5 percent. The reported sales increased by 9.5 from a year earlier and by 27.9 percent from the third quarpercent and by 3.3 percent at comparable currencies. ter to EUR 477.7 million (361.1). Order intake increased in In Service, the reported January-December order intake Service by 26.7 and in Equipment by 33.2 percent. Orders growth of 21.5 percent exceeded the growth of 15.1 perreceived rose in all geographic areas. Order growth was cent at comparable currencies. In Equipment, reported strongest in Asia-Pacific, followed by the Americas. orders grew by 7.5 percent and by 3.8 percent at comparable currencies. In the fourth quarter, Service orders grew by Order book 26.7 in reported terms and by 18.5 percent at comparable The value of the order book at year-end 2010 totaled EUR currencies. In Equipment, the corresponding figures were 756.2 million (607.0), which is 24.6 percent higher than 33.2 percent and 27.4 percent. at end 2009. The order book increased by 11.3 percent In 2010 and in the fourth quarter, the currency rates from the third quarter when it stood at EUR 679.7 million. had an insignificant impact on the Group’s operating margin compared with the same period a year earlier. 60 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors Financial result Cash flow and financing The consolidated operating profit in full year 2010 totaled Net cash from operating activities in full year 2010 was EUR 112.4 million (97.9), increasing in total by EUR 14.5 EUR 57.4 million (223.0), representing EUR 0.97 per share million. The operating profit includes restructuring costs of (3.79). In the fourth quarter, net cash flow from operating EUR 2.7 million (20.9) booked in the second quarter due activities was EUR 31.2 million (89.9). Cash flow before to the announced closure of the assembly plant in Windfinancing activities was EUR -7.5 million (181.8). Cash flow sor, WI, USA. The consolidated operating margin rose to 7.3 before financing activities in the fourth quarter was EUR percent (5.9). The operating margin improved in Service to 21.0 million (71.5). 8.8 percent (8.7) and in Equipment to 6.8 percent (5.2). Interest-bearing net debt was EUR -17.4 million (-77.7) Procurement cost savings and adjustment of production at the end of 2010. Solidity was 44.7 percent (45.1) and capacity more than offset the product price pressure. gearing -3.8 percent (-19.1). The consolidated operating profit in the fourth quarter The Group’s liquidity remained healthy. At the end of the totaled EUR 45.8 million (22.2). The comparison period fourth quarter, cash and cash equivalents amounted to EUR included restructuring costs of EUR 5.1 million. The con98.5 million (137.5). solidated operating margin in the fourth quarter rose to 9.8 Konecranes signed a new EUR 200 million five-year percent (5.2). The operating margin improved in Service to Revolving Credit Facility with its core relationship banks 10.5 percent (8.4) and in Equipment to 9.5 percent (4.1). in December. The loan will be used for general corporate Profitability improved on higher volume, successful execupurposes and it replaced the three-year EUR 200 million tion and procurement cost savings. facility signed in April 2009. Early refinancing enabled takIn 2010, depreciation and impairments totaled EUR ing advantage of the favorable market conditions and pro31.1 million (32.5). longing the maturity. None of the Group’s EUR 200 million In 2010, the share of the result of associated compacommitted back-up financing facility was in use at the end nies and joint ventures was EUR 2.5 million (–2.2). of the period. Net financial expenses in January-December totaled EUR Konecranes paid its shareholders dividends amounting 3.6 million (7.1). Net interest expenses accounted for EUR to EUR 53.0 million or EUR 0.90 per share in April 2010. 1.3 million (2.2) of this. The January-December profit before taxes was EUR Capital expenditure 111.3 million (88.6). In 2010, capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and Income taxes in January-December were EUR 33.1 milinvestments in associated companies amounted to EUR lion (26.1). The Group’s effective tax rate was 29.8 percent 22.3 million (25.7). This consisted mainly of replacement (29.5). or capacity expansion investments in machines, equipment The January-December net profit was EUR 78.2 million and information technology. Capital expenditure including (62.5). acquisitions was EUR 68.8 million (55.8). In 2010, basic earnings per share were EUR 1.35 (1.08) Fourth quarter capital expenditure excluding acquisitions and diluted earnings per share were EUR 1.34 (1.08). was EUR 11.0 million (11.8) and including acquisitions EUR In 2010, return on capital employed was 24.2 percent 22.4 million (30.7). (19.3) and return on equity 18.1 percent (15.5). Acquisitions Balance sheet In 2010, capital expenditure on acquisitions and investThe year-end 2010 consolidated balance sheet amounted ments in associated companies was EUR 46.5 million to EUR 1,175.5 million (1,060.4). Total equity at the end (30.1). During January–December, Konecranes made nine of the report period was EUR 456.2 million (407.1). Total small acquisitions, six of which related to the Machine equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Tool Service (MTS) business in Denmark, in the UK and in at year-end 2010 was EUR 450.5 million (402.5) or EUR the USA. Konecranes also acquired service companies in 7.64 per share (6.84). Morocco and in France. The net assets of the acquired comNet working capital at year-end 2010 totaled EUR 191.6 panies were recorded at EUR 9.9 million and goodwill of million, which was EUR 8.2 million more than at the end of EUR 9.6 million was booked from the acquisitions. the third quarter and EUR 52.8 million more than at yearKonecranes and the Japanese hoist, crane and mateend 2009. Advance payments received stayed at the prerial handling equipment company Kito Corporation (“Kito”) vious year’s level whereas work in progress and accounts entered into a strategic alliance. The alliance agreement receivable increased. KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors 61 was signed by representatives of the two companies on Personnel March 23, 2010. To fully utilize the global market potential In January–December, the Group employed an average of and mutually complement each other, Konecranes will sell 9,739 people (9,811). On 31 December, the headcount Kito manual products while Kito will sell wire rope hoists was 10,042 (9,782). At year-end 2010, the number of permade by Konecranes. sonnel by Business Area was as follows: Service 5,397 To reinforce the strategic alliance, Konecranes purchased employees (4,991), Equipment 4,600 employees (4,742) 29,750 shares (22.0 percent of the share capital and votand Group staff 45 (49). The Group had 5,751 employees ing rights) in Kito on March 24, 2010. The total value of the (5,533) working in EMEA, 2,259 (2,236) in the Americas stake purchased amounted to approximately JPY 3.3 biland 2,032 (2,013) in the APAC region. lion (EUR 27 million). Furthermore, Kito repurchased 10.0 Konecranes announced on June 3, 2010, that it will percent of the share capital on March 24, 2010. Post the close its assembly plant in Windsor, WI, USA by the end share purchase by Konecranes and the Kito share buyback, of October 2010. Of the 47 personnel in Windsor, 27 were Konecranes has approximately 24.4 percent of the voting transferred to positions in other locations and 20 positions rights in Kito. were eliminated. The shareholding has been included in investments During 2010, we continued to emphasize the importance accounted for using the equity method in the balance sheet of our people. We defined our people strategy called Lifting on March 31. Kito has been included in Konecranes’ statePeople, which focuses on good company culture, true leadment of income as an associated company during the third ership, performance management and ensuring competent quarter. resources. Our global job satisfaction survey, which is an As a part of the strategic alliance, Konecranes sold the important tool and indicator for us, was carried out globally assets relating to the hoist distribution business of the for the fourth time. Performance management, including Japanese subsidiary MHS Konecranes to Kito on November annual development discussions with every employee, is a 1, 2010. continuous process at Konecranes. On October 11, 2010, Konecranes announced that it has Competence development is a high priority for entered into an agreement to acquire the Indian crane comKonecranes and we have continued to invest in our people. pany WMI Cranes Ltd. (“WMI”). The company is one of the An important development area is leadership skills, which leading manufacturers of heavy-duty cranes in India. For the are developed continuously. Furthermore, we are focusing year ending March 31, 2010, WMI’s net sales amounted to on resource planning and target aligned training, which fill approximately EUR 30 million. The company has an order the competence gaps now and also in the future needs. book of more than EUR 50 million and its order intake prosIn 2010, the Group’s personnel expenses totaled EUR pects are good. WMI employs approximately 350 people 468.7 million (452.4). and an additionally contracted workforce of about 600 persons. Konecranes will acquire WMI’s shares in two phases. In the first phase Konecranes will acquire 51 percent of the shares for INR 1,690 million (EUR 28 million). In the second phase, estimated to take place later during 2011, Konecranes will purchase the remaining 49 percent of the shares. The sellers are entitled to a performance linked part of the purchase price and the total maximum price for 100 percent of the shares in WMI can amount to approximately INR 3,600 million (EUR 60 million). The acquisition is irrevocable. The purchase will be financed with existing cash reserves. WMI will be consolidated into Konecranes’ financial reporting once the regulatory approvals have been received. The approvals are expected to be received during the first quarter of 2011. 62 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors Business areas year ago in all regions and business units as a result of higher capacity utilization among customer industries. ComService pared to the previous quarters of 2010, demand in EMEA Full year 2010 orders received totaled EUR 605.7 million developed positively. Modernization orders were lower than (498.4), showing an increase of 21.5 percent. Demand in the earlier quarters of 2010. Fourth-quarter sales totaled for maintenance services grew in all regions. Order intake EUR 211.3 million (170.5), representing a year-over-year increased in all business units with particular strength in increase of 24.0 percent. Fourth quarter operating profit Modernization. Also, demand for spare parts was strong. was EUR 22.1 million (14.3), and the operating margin The order book rose to EUR 103.3 million (75.9) at year10.5 percent (8.4). The fourth quarter 2009 operating profit end, representing an increase of 36.0 percent. Sales rose included EUR 1.5 million restructuring costs. The operating by 6.1 percent to EUR 707.8 million (667.2). Sales growth profit increased on higher volume. was mainly attributable to favorable currency changes. OperThe annual value of the contract base increased to EUR ating profit was EUR 62.5 million (58.3) and the operating 145.7 million (122.3) at year-end 2010. Two-thirds of the margin 8.8 percent (8.7). Profitability was held back by the increase in the value of the contract base was organic while lack of organic sales growth at constant currencies and the rest was attributable to currency changes. At year-end higher business development costs including investments 2010, the total number of items of equipment included in in IT and new services. The January-December 2009 operthe maintenance contract base was 375,514 (362,996). ating profit included EUR 2.7 million restructuring costs. The number of service technicians at year-end 2010 was Fourth quarter order intake rose by 26.7 percent from 3,466, which is 244 or 7.6 percent more than at year-end the previous year and totaled EUR 154.4 million (121.8). 2009. Similar to the full year 2010, orders were higher than a Change Change Service 10–12/2010 10–12/2009 percent 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 percent Orders received, MEUR 154.4 121.8 26.7 605.7 498.4 21.5 Order book, MEUR 103.3 75.9 36.0 103.3 75.9 36.0 Contract base value, MEUR 145.7 122.3 19.1 145.7 122.3 19.1 Net sales, MEUR 211.3 170.5 24.0 707.8 667.2 6.1 EBITDA, MEUR 24.7 17.3 42.6 73.2 68.6 6.7 EBITDA, % 11.7% 10.2% 10.3% 10.3% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -2.6 -3.1 -14.6 -10.7 -10.3 4.0 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 22.1 14.3 54.9 62.5 58.3 7.2 Operating profit (EBIT), % 10.5% 8.4% 8.8% 8.7% Restructuring costs, MEUR 0.0 -1.5 0.0 -2.7 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 22.1 15.8 40.0 62.5 61.0 2.5 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 10.5% 9.3% 8.8% 9.1% Capital employed, MEUR 163.3 130.7 25.0 163.3 130.7 25.0 ROCE% 42.5% 43.8% Capital expenditure, MEUR 5.5 2.8 96.2 11.3 7.7 46.5 Personnel at the end of period 5,397 4,991 8.1 5,397 4,991 8.1 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors 63 Equipment The fourth quarter order intake rose by 33.2 percent and Full year 2010 orders received totaled EUR 1,004.9 million totaled EUR 349.2 million (262.2). Fourth quarter order (934.6), showing an increase of 7.5 percent. Order intake intake rose in all regions. Compared to the third quarter, rose in APAC and the Americas, but fell in EMEA. Orders order increase was strongest in EMEA. The value of new for Industrial Cranes accounted for approximately 45 perorders in Equipment was higher than a year ago in all busicent of the orders received and were above last year’s level. ness units except Lift Trucks, which experienced strong Components generated approximately 25 percent of the demand already in the comparison period. The fourth new orders and were above last year’s level. The combined quarter order intake included significant contracts for port orders for the other business units (Nuclear Cranes, Port cranes both in 2010 and in 2009. Fourth quarter sales Cranes and Lift Trucks) amounted to approximately 30 pertotaled EUR 288.5 million (284.0) and were 1.6 percent cent of the orders received and were higher compared to higher than a year ago. The fourth quarter operating profit the comparison period. was EUR 27.4 million (11.8), and the operating margin 9.5 The order book increased by 19.2 percent from a year percent (4.1). The operating profit increased from a year ago before to EUR 652.9 million (547.8). Sales decreased by due to achieved cost savings and a more favorable sales 14.9 percent to EUR 948.6 million (1,115.1). Operating mix. The fourth quarter 2009 operating profit included EUR profit before restructuring costs of EUR 2.7 million (18.2) 3.6 million restructuring costs. was EUR 67.4 million (76.7) and the operating margin 7.1 percent (6.9). Operating profit after restructuring costs was EUR 64.7 million (58.5) and 6.8 percent of sales (5.2). The under-absorption of the fixed costs was offset by improved sales mix and procurement cost savings. Change Change Equipment 10–12/2010 10–12/2009 percent 1–12/2010 1–12/2009 percent Orders received, MEUR 349.2 262.2 33.2 1,004.9 934.6 7.5 Order book, MEUR 652.9 547.8 19.2 652.9 547.8 19.2 Net sales, MEUR 288.5 284.0 1.6 948.6 1,115.1 -14.9 EBITDA, MEUR 32.8 20.2 62.0 84.7 79.5 6.6 EBITDA, % 11.4% 7.1% 8.9% 7.1% Depreciation and amortization, MEUR -5.3 -8.4 -36.8 -20.0 -21.0 -4.5 Operating profit (EBIT), MEUR 27.4 11.8 132.8 64.7 58.5 10.6 Operating profit (EBIT), % 9.5% 4.1% 6.8% 5.2% Restructuring costs, MEUR 0.0 -3.6 -2.7 -18.2 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, MEUR 27.4 15.4 78.2 67.4 76.7 -12.2 Operating profit (EBIT) excluding restructuring costs, % 9.5% 5.4% 7.1% 6.9% Capital employed, MEUR 243.1 208.7 16.5 243.1 208.7 16.5 ROCE% 28.6% 22.9% Capital expenditure, MEUR 5.5 8.9 -38.1 11.0 17.0 -35.1 Personnel at the end of period 4,600 4,742 -3.0 4,600 4,742 -3.0 64 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors Group overheads than until 24 September 2011. Through the acquisition of Unallocated Group overhead costs in 2010 were EUR 14.8 KCR Management Oy, announced on December 14, 2010, million (18.9), representing 1.0 percent of sales (1.1). Konecranes Plc received 517,696 own shares. The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on Administration the transfer of the Company’s own shares. The authorizaKonecranes Annual General Meeting was held March tion is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which 25, 2010. The meeting approved the company’s annual corresponds to approximately 9.7 percent of all of the accounts for the fiscal year 2009 and discharged the memshares in the Company. This authorization shall be effective bers of the Board of Directors and Managing Director from until the next AGM, however no longer than until 24 Sepliability. The AGM approved the Board’s proposal that a divitember 2011. Konecranes conveyed 12,000 own shares on dend of EUR 0.90 per share be paid from the distributable April 29, 2010 as sale against contribution in kind. In addiassets of the parent company. In addition, the AGM contion, Konecranes conveyed 5,840 own shares on August firmed the annual compensation to the Board members and 26, 2010 as the payment of Board remuneration. decided to amend Section 9 of the Articles of Association. The decisions are explained in more detail in the release The AGM approved the proposal of the Nomination and covering the resolutions of the AGM, which is available on Compensation Committee that eight (8) members of the the company’s website at www.konecranes.com. Board of Directors be elected. The previous Board memIn its first meeting held after the Annual General Meetbers i.e. Mr Svante Adde, Mr Tomas Billing, Mr Kim Gran, Mr ing, the Board of Directors elected Mr Stig Gustavson to Stig Gustavson, Mr Tapani Järvinen, Mr Matti Kavetvuo, Ms continue as Chairman. Mr Svante Adde was elected ChairMalin Persson and Mr Mikael Silvennoinen were re-elected. man of the Audit Committee, and Mr Kim Gran, Mr Tapani The AGM confirmed that Ernst & Young Oy will continue Järvinen and Mr Mikael Silvennoinen as Committee memas the Company’s external auditor. The AGM decided to bers. Mr Matti Kavetvuo was elected Chairman of the Nomigrant a donation to one or more Finnish Universities in the nation and Compensation Committee, and Mr Tomas Billamount of EUR 1,250,000 to thereby support education ing, Mr Stig Gustavson, and Ms Malin Persson were elected and research within the fields of technology, economy, or as Committee members. art. Equity reduced by EUR 0.9 million due to the paid donaWith the exception of Mr Stig Gustavson, the Board tion in the third quarter. members are deemed to be independent of the company The AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide under the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. All Board on the issuance of shares as well as on the issuance of members are independent of significant shareholders of special rights entitling to shares. The amount of shares the company. to be issued based on this authorization shall not exceed At the end of year 2010, Konecranes had a loan receiv9,000,000 shares, which corresponds to approximately able of EUR 211,736 from President & CEO Pekka Lundmark 14.5 percent of all of the shares in the Company. The authowith the interest rate of 2.544 percent. The loan relates to rization is effective until the end of the next AGM, however a tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed no longer than until 24 September 2011. to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pendKonecranes announced on December 14, 2010, that it ing against the imposed payment and the loan is effective had acquired all the shares in KCR Management Oy from until the appeal is concluded. the Group executives through a share swap. A total of Konecranes complies with the Finnish Corporate Gover281,007 new shares were subscribed in the share issue of nance Code 2010 approved by the Board of the Securities Konecranes Plc directed to the shareholders of KCR ManMarket Association. Konecranes has issued a Corporate agement Oy following the share swap. The new shares were Governance Statement based on the recommendation 54 entered into the Trade Register on January 13, 2011. of the Code, which can be reviewed on the corporate webThe AGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on site of Konecranes at www.konecranes.com. the repurchase of the Company’s own shares and/or on the acceptance as pledge of the Company’s own shares. Share capital and shares The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or The company’s registered share capital on December 31, accepted as pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares 2010 totaled EUR 30.1 million. On December 31, 2010, in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.7 percent the number of shares including treasury shares totaled of all of the shares in the Company. The authorization is 62,002,120. On December 31, 2010, Konecranes Plc effective until the end of the next AGM, however no longer was in possession of 2,524,760 own shares directly and KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors 65 517,696 own shares indirectly through KCR Management age daily trading volume was 349,257 shares, representing Oy, which corresponds to 4.9 percent of the total number of an average daily turnover of EUR 8.3 million. shares and which at that date had a market value of EUR On December 31, 2010, the total market capitalization 94.0 million. of Konecranes Plc’s shares was EUR 1,915 million includKonecranes conveyed 12,000 own shares on April 29, ing treasury shares. The market capitalization was EUR 2010 as sale against contribution in kind. In addition, 1,821 million excluding the treasury shares. Konecranes conveyed 5,840 own shares on August 26, 2010 as the payment of Board remuneration in accordance Flagging notifications with the resolution of the AGM held on March 25, 2010. On February 24, 2010, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed Konecranes announced on December 14, 2010, that it Konecranes that their holding had exceeded 5 percent. HTT acquires all the shares in KCR Management Oy from the 2 Holding Oy Ab held 3,129,500 shares, which was 5.06 Group executives through a share swap. Through the acquipercent of Konecranes’ shares and votes on February 23, sition of KCR Management Oy, Konecranes Plc received 2010. 517,696 own shares. On April 9, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes On December 31, 2010, Konecranes had a liability to that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. BlackRock, issue 281,007 new shares to the sellers of KCR ManageInc. held 6,228,000 shares, which was 10.05 percent of ment Oy. The new shares were entered into the Trade RegisKonecranes’ shares and votes on April 7, 2010. ter on January 13, 2011, which increased the total number On June 3, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes of shares in Konecranes Plc, including treasury shares, to that their holding had decreased below 10 percent. Black62,283,127. Rock, Inc. held 6,181,787 shares, which was 9.97 percent of Konecranes’ shares and votes on June 2, 2010. Shares subscribed under stock option rights On June 23, 2010, Konecranes received a disclosure Pursuant to Konecranes Plc’s stock option plans, 129,200 according to which the combined holding of HTT 2 Holding new shares were subscribed and registered in the Finnish Oy Ab, K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Trade Register in January-December. As a result of these Rönnäs Invest AG had exceeded 10 percent. The combined subscriptions, the total number of Konecranes Plc shares, ownership of the shareholders mentioned in the disclosure including treasury shares, rose to 62,002,120. amounted to 6,207,968 shares on June 23, 2010, which The stock options issued under Konecranes Plc’s is 10.01 percent of the shares and votes in Konecranes ongoing stock option plans (2007 and 2009) at endPlc. All the shareholders mentioned in the disclosure will in December 2010 entitle holders to subscribe to a total of practice cooperate in matters concerning their ownership in 3,370,000 shares, which would increase the total number Konecranes. HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Hartof Konecranes Plc shares, including treasury shares, to wall Capital Oy Ab. 65,372,120. The option programs include approximately On July 2, 2010, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed 200 key persons. Konecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. All shares carry one vote per share and equal rights to HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,215,568 shares, which was dividends. 10.02 percent of Konecranes’ shares and votes on July The terms and conditions of the stock option programs 2, 2010. K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab are available on Konecranes’ website at www.konecranes. and Rönnäs Invest AG, who will in practice cooperate with com. HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters concerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc, held 6,357,968 shares on July 2, Market capitalization and trading volume 2010, which is 10.25 percent of the shares and votes in The closing price for Konecranes Plc’s shares on the NASKonecranes Plc. DAQ OMX Helsinki on December 31, 2010 was EUR 30.89. On August 20, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed The volume-weighted average share price in January-DecemKonecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. ber was EUR 23.84, the highest price being EUR 32.04 in BlackRock held 6,200,223 Konecranes’ shares on August December and the lowest EUR 19.08 in January. In January– 19, 2010, which is 10.00 percent of Konecranes’ shares December, the trading volume on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki and votes. totaled 88.0 million Konecranes Plc shares, corresponding On August 30, 2010, Konecranes received a discloto a turnover of approximately EUR 2,098 million. The aversure according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes had decreased below 10 percent. BlackRock, 66 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors Inc. held 6,192,571 Konecranes’ shares on August 24, In CXT cranes, advanced features, like shockload pre2010, which is 9.99 percent of Konecranes’ shares and vention and minimum rope fleet angle hook block, were votes. adopted. On September 8, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed New electric chain hoist family was developed for emergKonecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. ing markets. BlackRock held 6,271,713 Konecranes’ shares on SeptemSafety enhancing features are important in material hanber 7, 2010, which is 10.12 percent of Konecranes’ shares dling equipment. A good example is the new RFID based and votes. NearGuard system for heavy lift trucks and reach stackOn November 29, 2010, Konecranes received a discloers, which alarms driver when there is a danger of colliding sure according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in with nearby obstacles. NearGuard won the IMHX Design 4 Konecranes had decreased below 10 percent. On NovemSafety award in UK. ber 26, was BlackRock Inc. in possession of 6,168,494 World’s most compact polar crane and cask transporter Konecranes shares. The holding corresponds 9.95 percent for spent fuel were developed for nuclear power plants. of Konecranes’ shares and votes. To complement the component offering of the branded On December 20, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed products, new heavier load (up to 160 tons) crane compoKonecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. nent package was developed. On December 17, was BlackRock Inc. in possession of Konecranes automation and software development unit 6,239,140 Konecranes shares. The holding corresponds was founded in order to even better utilize the scale and 10.06 percent of Konecranes’ shares and votes. further develop software products for all business lines. On December 21, 2010, Konecranes received a discloKonecranes continued its long-term efforts to increase sure according to which the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in the efficiency and quality in the front-line engineering operaKonecranes had decreased below 10 percent. On Decemtions. In-house-made software gives engineer unique capaber 20, was BlackRock Inc. in possession of 6,099,149 bilities in the daily crane specific engineering tasks. SoftKonecranes shares. The holding corresponds 9.84 percent ware is also integrated in the most important sales tools, of Konecranes’ shares and votes. giving sales force excellent capabilities to serve customers No other disclosures of changes in holdings were needs. received in 2010. Consistent look and feel is increasingly important also in industrial products. Entirely new cabin design with Research and development improved user experience and ergonomics was developed In 2010, Konecranes’ research and product development during 2010 and it will be launched in port and heavy-duty expenditure totaled EUR 21.5 (22.0) million, representing cranes in 2011. 1.4 (1.3) percent of sales. R&D expenditure includes prodDevelopment continued in remote services to fully supuct development projects aimed at improving the quality port Konecranes advanced maintenance concept globally. and cost efficiency of both products and services. By utilizing real-time equipment usage data, we can optiKonecranes continued to finalize the options and feamize and predict maintenance needs and give needed tures for SMARTON® crane. SMARTON is an industry shapexpert support to our customers from three different remote ing industrial crane. It can be used in industrial sectors such centers, located in Shanghai (China), Springfield (USA) and as steel handling and warehousing, automotive, general Hyvinkää (Finland). manufacturing, power, workshops, automatic storage systems and mining. Depending on the set up, SMARTON can Corporate responsibility lift loads ranging from 30 tons to more than 500 tons. The In the spring of 2010, the Group joined United Nations crane monitors its own condition and recommends when Global Compact sustainability initiative as expression of and what kinds of inspection or preventive maintenance its commitment to responsibility and support for the initiashould be performed. The crane can easily be updated with tive. During the year the Group also sharpened its overall smart solutions. SMARTON is compact in size. This enables approach towards corporate responsibility and via stakenew industrial halls, for example, to be smaller than before. holder dialogue defined five corporate responsibility focus The feed-back of the braking energy, a standard feature areas. These focus areas are safety, people, environment, in SMARTON, can reduce power consumption and energy fair play, and smarter offering. Even though there has been costs by up to one third. work ongoing in all of these areas already earlier, with clarified approach and defined focus areas with specific set KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors 67 objectives, the Group is able to communicate its progress Risks and uncertainties and efforts better. The Group’s principal short-term risks and uncertainties For example, safety and environmental networks includderive from a possible renewed downturn in the world econing promotion of best practices were further developed duromy due to the sovereign credit crisis, for example, or other ing 2010. Reporting and key performance indicators related unforeseen events. A decrease in demand for Konecranes’ to corporate responsibility and especially safety and enviproducts and services may have a negative effect on the ronment, were further improved during the year. Group’s pricing power, and result in decreasing profits, a possible impairment of goodwill and other assets, or invenOther important matters tory obsolescence. On October 8, 2010, Konecranes confirmed that it had A renewed shortage of credit may cause difficulties for approached Demag Cranes AG (“Demag Cranes”) on SepKonecranes’ customers, suppliers, and financial and other tember 8, 2010, to discuss a potential combination of the counterparties. The risk may be realized as a shortage of two companies. The management of Demag Cranes has supplies or defaulting liabilities. responded that Demag Cranes has no interest in engagThe supply chain has been downsized due to the low ing in any dialogue regarding such a potential combination. demand for products and it is possible that as demand Under these circumstances, we will not pursue the matter. picks up, Konecranes and its suppliers may not be able to respond to this instantly, which may result in delays of delivEvents after the end of the reporting period eries and increased costs as a consequence. In addition On January 5, 2011, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes to Konecranes’ own assembly operations, the lack of raw that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. On January 4, materials and components may cause bottlenecks. was BlackRock Inc. in possession of 6,441,109 shares in The economic growth, particularly in China, has had Konecranes Plc. The holding corresponds 10.39 percent of an inflationary impact on raw material prices, which may Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. affect Konecranes’ profits if product sales prices cannot be A total of 281,007 new shares subscribed in the share adjusted correspondingly due to intense competition, for issue of Konecranes Plc directed to the shareholders of example. On the other hand, Konecranes serves several KCR Management Oy following the share swap announced producers whose propensity to invest can increase due to on December 14, 2010, were entered into the Trade Regisimproved profitability on higher raw material prices. ter on January 13, 2011. After the Trade Register entry of Challenges in financing may force customers to postthe new shares, the number of the Company’s all shares is pone projects or even to cancel existing orders. A renewed 62,283,127 shares. downturn in the world economy would increase postponeOn January 13, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed ment of deliveries and cancellations of orders. Advance Konecranes that their holding had decreased below 10 payments are an integral part of Konecranes’ project busipercent. HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,215,568 shares in ness and they have played a crucial role in mitigating the Konecranes Plc on January 13, 2011, which is 9.98 percent adverse effects from postponements of certain deliveries of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy and minor cancellations. Konecranes intends to avoid incurAb, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, who will in ring costs of major projects under construction in excess of practice cooperate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters conadvance payments. Konecranes aims to continue a strict cerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc, held 6,347,968 policy in these regards. shares on January 13, 2011, which is 10.19 percent of the Currency rate fluctuations have increased and may sigshares and votes in Konecranes Plc. nificantly affect the company’s performance. The USD/EUR On January 14, 2011, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed exchange rate has the largest impact on financial perforKonecranes that their holding had exceeded 10 percent. mance through a combination of the translational effect HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,230,568 shares in Konecranes and transactional exposure. Plc on January 14, 2011, which is 10.00 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. K. Hartwall Invest Oy Litigation Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab and Ronnas Invest AG, who will in Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings are practice cooperate with HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters conpending against the Group in various countries. These cerning their ownership in Konecranes Plc, held 6,362,968 actions, claims and other proceedings are typical for this shares on January 14, 2011, which is 10.22 percent of the industry and consistent with a global business offering that shares and votes in Konecranes Plc. encompasses a wide range of products and services. These 68 KOnecranes 2010 Report of the Board of Directors matters involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, Financial guidance product liability (including design defects, manufacturing We forecast year 2011 sales and operating profit to be defects, failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, higher than in 2010. auto liability and other matters involving claims of general liability. Board of Directors’ proposal for disposal of While the final outcome of these proceedings cannot distributable funds be predicted with certainty, Konecranes is of the opinion, The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR based on the information available to date and considering 190,712,992.28 of which the net income for the year is the grounds presented for such claims, the available insurEUR 56,371,908.44. The Group’s non-restricted equity is ance coverage and the reserves made, that the outcome of EUR 380,422,000. such actions, claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributwould not have a material adverse impact on the financial able funds of the company are calculated based on the condition of the Group. parent company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of determining the amount of the dividend the Board of DirecMarket outlook tors has assessed the solvency of the parent company and The demand for maintenance services is expected to be the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial above last year’s level due to higher capacity utilization year end. within customer industries. The demand for new equipBased on such assessments the Board of Directors ment is expected to continue to grow in Asia-Pacific and in proposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend emerging markets in general. Also, customers in Western of EUR 1.00 be paid on each share and that the remaining Europe and North America are gradually gaining confidence non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. to increase their new equipment investments. Helsinki, February 3, 2011 Konecranes Plc Board of Directors KOnecranes 2010 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 69 Consolidated statement of income – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2010 2009 Note: 4, 6, 7 Sales 1,546,314 1,671,264 8 Other operating income 3,564 2,924 10 Depreciation and impairments -31,144 -32,503 11–13 Other operating expenses -1,406,328 -1,543,763 Operating profit 112,406 97,922 20 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result 2,526 -2,239 14 Financial income and expenses -3,593 -7,104 Profit before taxes 111,339 88,579 15 Taxes -33,138 -26,088 Net profit for the period 78,201 62,491 Net profit for the period attributable to Shareholders of the parent company 79,412 63,634 Non-controlling interest -1,211 -1,143 16 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.35 1.08 16 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.34 1.08 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2010 2009 Net profit for the period 78,201 62,491 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 19,395 -1,129 Cash flow hedges -2,399 1,896 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 624 -493 Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 17,620 274 Total comprehensive income for the period 95,821 62,765 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Shareholders of the parent company 96,590 63,983 Non-controlling interest -769 -1,218 70 KOnecranes 2010 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Note: Non-current assets 17 Goodwill 84,367 71,530 18 Other intangible assets 68,331 65,770 19 Property, plant and equipment 99,148 91,320 Advance payments and construction in progress 19,040 11,807 20 Investments accounted for using the equity method 31,927 4,547 21 Available-for-sale investments 1,382 1,785 Long-term loans receivable 255 2,708 32 Deferred tax assets 40,725 37,252 Total non-current assets 345,175 286,719 Current assets 22 Inventories 269,897 248,206 24 Accounts receivable 315,771 265,427 Loans receivable 1,804 2,928 25 Other receivables 28,774 23,494 26 Deferred assets 115,587 96,087 27 Cash and cash equivalents 98,453 137,540 Total current assets 830,286 773,682 TOTAL ASSETS 1,175,461 1,060,401 KOnecranes 2010 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS 71 Consolidated balance sheet – IFRS (1,000 EUR) EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Note: Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Share issue 8,739 0 38 Fair value reserves 542 2,317 Translation difference 516 -18,437 Paid in capital 10,473 9,039 Retained earnings 281,431 276,613 Net profit for the period 79,412 63,634 28 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 450,493 402,546 Non-controlling interest 5,722 4,569 Total equity 456,215 407,115 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 32,874 38,561 31 Other long-term liabilities 56,958 56,131 32 Deferred tax liabilities 18,089 18,642 Total non-current liabilities 107,921 113,334 33 Provisions 50,117 61,056 Current liabilities 30, 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 50,212 26,915 7 Advance payments received 154,018 156,731 Progress billings 24,945 18,939 Accounts payable 117,174 83,738 34 Other short-term liabilities (non-interest bearing) 23,166 13,837 34 Accruals 191,693 178,736 Total current liabilities 561,208 478,896 Total liabilities 719,246 653,286 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,175,461 1,060,401 72 KOnecranes 2010 Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS Consolidated statement of changes in equity – IFRS (1,000 EUR) Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company Share Cash Non-conShare premium Share flow Trans­lation Paid in Retained trolling Total capital account issue hedges difference capital earnings Total interest equity Balance at 1 January, 2010 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 2,317 -18,437 9,039 340,247 402,546 4,569 407,115 Options exercised 1,434 1,434 1,434 Share issue 149 149 149 Dividends paid to equity holders -53,018 -53,018 -53,018 Share based payments recognized against equity 3,565 3,565 3,565 Employee benefit scheme for executive management* 8,590 -7,800 790 -871 -81 Business combinations -638 -638 2,793 2,155 Donations*** -925 -925 -925 Total comprehensive income -1,775 18,953 79,412 96,590 -769 95,821 Balance at 31 December, 2010 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 8,739 542 516 10,473 360,843 450,493 5,722 456,215 Balance at 1 January, 2009 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 131 914 -17,383 7,258 338,503 398,803 1,893 400,696 Options exercised 1,781 1,781 1,781 Share issue -131 -131 -131 Dividends paid to equity holders -53,277 -53,277 -53,277 Share based payments recognized against equity 3,530 3,530 3,530 Employee benefit scheme for executive management* -8,403 -8,403 1,290 -7,113 Change of control in associated company** -3,740 -3,740 -3,740 Business combinations 0 2,604 2,604 Total comprehensive income 1,403 -1,054 63,634 63,983 -1,218 62,765 Balance at 31 December, 2009 (IFRS) 30,073 39,307 0 2,317 -18,437 9,039 340,247 402,546 4,569 407,115 * Consolidation of KCR Management Oy (incentive arrangement for Konecranes Group executive management) ** Increase of Konecranes’ influence in the management of associated company ZAO Zaporozhje Kran in Ukraine. *** Donations (after taxes) to Finnish Universities based on the decision made by AGM KOnecranes 2010 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 73 Consolidated cash flow statement – IFRS 1 Jan–31 Dec 1 Jan–31 Dec (1,000 EUR) 2010 2009 Note: Cash flow from operating activities Net income 78,201 62,491 Adjustments to net profit for the period Taxes 33,138 26,088 Financial income and expenses 3,794 7,488 Share of associates’ and joint ventures’ result -2,526 2,239 Dividends income -201 -384 Depreciation and impairments 31,144 32,503 Profits and losses on sale of fixed assets -646 645 Other adjustments 563 1,793 Operating income before change in net working capital 143,467 132,863 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -49,673 171,776 Change in inventories -7,198 94,949 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 10,809 -111,923 Change in net working capital -46,062 154,802 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 97,405 287,665 14 Interest received 2,094 1,151 14 Interest paid -5,774 -4,564 14 Other financial income and expenses -5,029 -1,605 15 Income taxes paid -31,250 -59,623 Financing items and taxes -39,959 -64,641 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 57,446 223,024 Cash flow from investing activities 5 Acquisition of Group companies, net of cash -11,481 -12,271 5 Divestment of Group companies, net of cash 920 -367 20 Acquisition of shares in associated company -26,969 0 Investments in other shares 0 -188 Capital expenditures -29,246 -29,714 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 1,582 942 15 Dividends received 201 384 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES -64,993 -41,214 Cash flow before financing activities -7,547 181,810 Cash flow from financing activities 28.1 Proceeds from options exercised and share issues 1,247 1,650 28.3 Purchase of treasury shares 0 0 Related Party net investment to Konecranes Plc shares 0 -7,113 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 316 132,574 Repayments of long-term borrowings -8,414 -207,175 Proceeds from (+), payments of (-) short-term borrowings 17,661 -8,413 Change in long-term receivables 1,431 -865 Change in short-term receivables -45 -2,575 Dividends paid to equity holders of the parent -53,018 -53,277 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -40,822 -145,194 Translation differences in cash 9,282 14 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -39,087 36,630 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 137,540 100,910 27 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 98,453 137,540 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS -39,087 36,630 The effect of changes in exchange rates has been eliminated by converting the beginning balance at the rates current on the last day of the year. 74 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION investments. Goodwill is not amortized. The Group’s share Konecranes Plc (“Konecranes Group” or “the Group”) is a of the results of operations of the associated companies Finnish public limited company organized under the laws of and joint ventures is shown in the consolidated statement Finland and domiciled in Hyvinkää. The company is listed of income as a separate item. on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. Non-controlling interest is presented separately under equity in the balance sheet. 2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES Intracorporate transactions and internal margins in 2.1 Basis of preparation inventories have been eliminated in the consolidated finanThe consolidated financial statements of Konecranes Plc cial statements. have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU. 2.2 Use of estimates The consolidated financial statements have been preThe preparation of the financial statements in accordance pared on a historical cost basis, except for derivative finanwith IFRS requires management to make estimates and cial instruments and available-for-sale investments that assumptions that affect the valuation of reported assets have been measured at fair value. The carrying values of and liabilities and other information, such as contingent recognized assets and liabilities that are hedged items in liabilities and recognition of income and expenses in the fair value hedges, and are otherwise carried at cost, are statement of income. Although these estimates are based adjusted to record changes in the fair values attributable to on the management’s best understanding of current events the risks that are being hedged. and circumstances, actual results may differ from the estiThe consolidated financial statements are presented in mates. thousands of euros; notes to the financial statements in millions of euros and all values are rounded to the nearest 2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies thousand (€000) except when otherwise indicated. Foreign currency items and exchange rate differences Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies have been valPrinciples of consolidation ued at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. The consolidated accounts include the parent company Realized exchange rate differences, as well as exchange Konecranes Plc and those companies in which the parent rate gains or losses resulting from the valuation of receivcompany holds directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of ables and liabilities, have been included in the Statement the voting power at the end of the year. of income. Unrealized exchange rate differences relating An associated company is a company in which the Group to hedging of future cash flows, for which hedge accountholds 20–50 percent of the voting power and has a particiing is applied, are recorded in the equity. In consolidation, pating interest of at least 20 percent considering also other the statements of income of foreign entities are translated criteria of obtaining control over the acquired entity. A joint into euros at the average exchange rate for the accountventure is a company where the group has a joint control ing period. The balance sheets of foreign entities are transover the entity. lated at the year-end exchange rate. Translation differences Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the resulting from converting the shareholders’ equity of foreign purchase method according to which the acquired compasubsidiaries have been included in equity. ny’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value on the date of acquisition. The Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting excess of the cost of the business combination over the Global operations expose the Group to currency risk and to acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable a less significant interest rate risk. assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recorded as The Group uses derivative financial instruments (primargoodwill. ily forward contracts) to hedge its risks associated with forInvestments in associated companies and joint veneign currency fluctuations relating to certain commitments tures have been accounted for in the consolidated financial and forecasted transactions. statements using the equity method. These interests are Derivative financial instruments are used for hedging consolidated in accordance with the equity method, under purposes in accordance with the Group’s hedging policy which they are carried at cost plus post-acquisition changes and not for speculative purposes. These instruments are in the Group’s share of the company’s net assets. Goodwill initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are arising on acquisition is included in the carrying amounts of re-measured to fair value based on the market value quoted the investments and tested for impairment as part of the at subsequent reporting dates. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 75 For certain large crane projects the Group applies hedge costs that it is intended to compensate. When the grant accounting compatible with IAS 39. Changes in the fair value relates to an asset, it is deducted from the acquisition cost of derivative financial instruments that are designated as of the asset. effective hedges of future cash flows are recognized directly as other comprehensive income in cash flow hedges, while Employee benefits (pensions) ineffective portion is recognized immediately in the income The Konecranes companies have various pension plans in statement. The Group’s policy with respect to hedging the accordance with local conditions and practices. Pensions foreign currency risk of a firm commitment and highly probare generally managed for the Group companies by outside able forecasted transaction is to designate it as a cash pension insurance companies or by similar arrangements. flow hedge. If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or Under defined contribution plans, expenses are rechighly probable forecasted transaction results in the recogognized for the period the contribution relates to. The nition of an asset or a liability, then, at the time the asset or Konecranes Group accounts for the Finnish system under liability is recognized, the associated gains or losses on the the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) within insurance sysderivative that had previously been recognized in the equity tem as a defined contribution plan. will be recorded to the statement of income. Under defined benefit plans, a liability recognized in the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging balance sheet equals to the net of the present value of instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or the defined benefit obligation less the fair value of the plan no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, for assets at the balance sheet date together with adjustments forecasted transactions, any cumulative gain or loss on for unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecogthe hedging instrument recognized in the equity is retained nized pension service costs. The Group has applied the IAS in the equity until the forecasted transaction occurs. If a 19 corridor approach to actuarial gains and losses. Actuhedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net arial gains or losses will be recognized in the statement cumulative gain or loss recognized in the equity will be of income during the expected average remaining working transferred to profit or loss for the period. lives of employees participating in the plan if they exceed Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instru10 percent of the greater of the fair value of the defined ments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recogbenefit plan assets or the present value of the defined bennized in the statement of income as they arise. efit obligation. If the defined benefit pension plan is closed, the actuarial gains and losses, which exceed the corridor, Revenue recognition are recognized in the statement of income. Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized after the risks and rewards connected with ownership of the goods sold Leases have been transferred to the customer. Normally, revenue Lease contracts, in which the Group assumes an essenrecognition takes place when the goods have been handed tial part of risk and rewards of ownership, are classified as over to the customer according to the contractual terms. finance leases. In finance leases, the assets and accumuRevenues from services are recognized when the serlated depreciation are recognized in fixed assets and the vices have been rendered. corresponding lease obligations are included in interestLarge crane projects revenue is recognized according bearing liabilities. to the percentage of the completion (POC) method. Most Other lease contracts are classified as operating leases significant projects relate to harbor and shipyard cranes. and the lease payments of these leases are recognized as The stage of completion of a contract is determined by the rental expenses in statement of income. proportion that the contract costs incurred for the work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs. Valuation of inventories Raw materials and supplies are valued at the acquisition Research and development costs cost or, if lower, at the likely net realizable value. Semi-manResearch and development costs are charged as expenses ufactured goods have been valued at variable production during the year in which they are incurred, since future costs with addition of allocated variable and fixed overpotential economic benefits of new products can only be heads. Work in progress of uncompleted orders includes proven after their introduction to the market. direct labor and material costs, as well as a proportion of overhead costs related to production and installation. Government grants Government grants are recognized when there is reasonable Goodwill and other intangible assets assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Goodwill arising from an acquisition represents the excess conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the idenan expense item, it is recognized as income over the period tifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the is tested for impairment annually. 76 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Other intangible assets include service contracts, patdance with the terms of the stock option programs. The fair ents and trademarks and software licenses. They are value of the stock options is measured at the grant date stated at cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over and the options are recorded as expense in the statement expected useful lives, which may vary from 4 to 20 years. of income during the vesting period in accordance with Intangible assets with indefinite useful life are not amorIFRS 2. The valuation of the options is based on the Black tized, but they are tested annually for impairment. & Scholes formula. When the options are exercised, the equity is increased Impairment testing of goodwill by the amount of the proceeds received. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is tested for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in cirProvisions cumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be Provisions are recognized in the balance sheet when the recoverable. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodGroup has a present legal or constructive obligation as a will is allocated to cash-generating units (CGU) by using result of a past event and it is considered certain or likely the Group’s management reporting structure. If the carryto occur. Provisions arise from restructuring plans, onerous ing amount for a CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an contracts, guarantee and claim works. Obligations arising impairment loss equal to the difference will be recognized. from restructuring plans are recognized when the detailed and formal restructuring plans have been established, the Property, plant and equipment personnel concerned have been informed and when there Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accuis a valid expectation that the plan will be implemented. mulated depreciation and any impairment losses. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the estimated Income tax useful economic life of the assets as follows: Taxes shown in the consolidated statement of income • Buildings 5–40 years include income taxes to be paid on the basis of local tax • Machinery and equipment 4–10 years legislations, tax adjustments from previous years as well as No depreciation is recorded for land. the effect of the annual change in the deferred tax liability and deferred tax assets. Impairment of assets subject Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are calto amortization and depreciation culated on all temporary differences arising between the The carrying values of intangible assets subject to amortax basis and the book value of assets and liabilities. The tization and property, plant and equipment is reviewed for main temporary differences arise from unused tax losses, impairment whenever events and changes in circumstances depreciation differences, provisions, defined benefit penindicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be sion plans, inter-company inventory margin and fair valuarecoverable. tion of derivative financial instruments. In connection with If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount of an acquisition, the Group records provisions for deferred the assets will be estimated. An impairment loss is rectaxes on the difference between the fair values of the net ognized in the statement of income when the recoverable assets acquired and their tax bases. A deferred tax asset amount of an asset is less than its carrying amount. is recognized to the extent that it is probable that it can be utilized. Account and other receivables Account and other receivables are initially recorded at cost. 2.4 Application of new and amended IFRS Provisions are made for doubtful receivables on individual standards and IFRIC interpretations assessment of potential risks, and are recognized in the The following published standards and interpretations statement of income. became effective in the year 2010: • IFRS 3, Business Combinations (Revised) Cash and cash equivalents • IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate Financial StateCash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and ments (Amendment) call deposits with banks and other liquid investments with • IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and Meamaturities of less than three months. Bank overdrafts are surement – Eligible hedged items (Amendment) included in short-term interest-bearing borrowings under • IFRIC 17, Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners current liabilities. In revised IFRS 3 the acquisition-related costs are expensed through statement of income at time that such services are Share-based payments received. This is a significant difference from previous pracThe Konecranes Group has issued equity-settled stock tice in which such costs were included in the cost of the options to its key personnel. The stock option holder is business combination and therefore included in the calculaentitled to subscribe shares in Konecranes Plc in accortion of goodwill. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 The other year 2010 standards have immaterial impact tions and in-depth records of activities and performance. on financial statements. The standard reporting is done on a weekly basis and it covers group-level commercial and financial cash flows, foreign The following new and amended standards and interpretacurrency transaction exposure, debt positions, portfolio of tions are effective in the year 2011: derivatives and counterparty credit exposure for financial • IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial transactions. In addition, all group companies participate in Reporting Standards – Limited Exemption from Comthe monthly managerial and statutory reporting. parative IFRS 7 Disclosures for First-time Adopters • IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures (Revised) Market risks – Currency rate risk • IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Presentation – ClassifiThe Group’s global business operations generate exchange cation of Right Issues (Amendment) rate risk. However, most of the business units only have • IFRIC 14, Prepayments of a Minimum Funding Requiretransactions in their own currency, i.e. these units have their ment (Amendment) sales & costs as well as internal funding from Konecranes • IFRIC 19, Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Finance Corporation in their local home currency. Only about Instruments 15 out of some 100 Group companies operate regularly in The year 2011 new and amended standards will have immaa foreign currency. These companies hedge their currency terial impact on future financial statements. rate risk with Group Treasury. Depending on the business area and the probability of the cash flows, the hedging cov3. Management of financial risks ers operative cash flows for the next 1–24 months and is The Group uses an approach in which most of the managedone by using internal foreign exchange forward contracts. ment of financial risks is centralized to Konecranes Group This way, Konecranes Finance Corporation can manage the Treasury. Group Treasury functions within the legal entity currency rate risk of the whole Group. The foreign currency Konecranes Finance Corporation, operating as a financial funding of the other Group companies and possibly some vehicle for the Group in Corporate Headquarters. With external foreign currency funding can net some of these forcentralization and netting of internal foreign currency cash eign currency items. The residual net exposure can be covflows, the external hedging needs can be minimized. ered with commercial banks using foreign exchange forward Konecranes Finance Corporation is not a profit center in contracts. Only the items belonging to hedge accounting the sense that it would pursue to maximize its profits. The cannot be netted out against other internal items. These company aims to service the operative companies of the instruments are used when the hedging effect cannot be Group in reducing their financial risks. obtained through internal netting and matching of cash The Group’s global business operations involve financial flows within the Group. risks in the form of market, credit and liquidity risks. The The business units’ commercial bids in a foreign curGroup’s objective is to increase the short-term stability of rency can be hedged by using currency options, but, in genthe financial environment for the business operations by eral, using currency clauses covers the risk. reducing the negative effects caused by price fluctuations For certain large crane projects, the Group applies hedge and other uncertainties in the financial markets. accounting compatible with IAS 39. Hedges are done by The responsibility of identifying, evaluating and controlusing foreign exchange forward contracts. Currently, only ling the financial risks arising from the Group’s global busiUSD denominated projects are included in the hedge ness operations is divided between the business units and accounting. At the end of 2010, the hedged cash flows Konecranes Finance Corporation. totaled USD 153 million (USD 88 million in 2009). Units hedge their risks internally with Group Treasury. As To hedge the transaction risk, the Group uses foreign a result of this, most of the financial risks of the Group are exchange forward contracts in AUD, CAD, CHF, GBP, INR, JPY, concentrated into one company, Konecranes Finance CorNOK, SEK, SGD, THB and USD. poration and can be evaluated and controlled in an efficient way. Almost all funding, cash management and foreign exchange with banks and other external counterparties are centralized to Konecranes Finance Corporation in accordance with the Group’s Treasury Policy. Only in a few special cases, when the local central bank regulation prohibits using group services in hedging and funding, this must be done directly between an operative company and a bank under the supervision of the Group Treasury. Konecranes Finance Corporation uses a treasury system, which enables practically a real-time processing of transac78 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements The following table shows the transaction exposure of the Group’s annual EBIT and equity (in EUR million, the USD Konecranes Finance Corporation as of December 31, 2010 effect simulated): and December 31, 2009 (in EUR millions): Change in 31.12.10 31.12.09 EUR/USD 31.12.10 31.12.10 31.12.09 31.12.09 AUD 2 2 rate EBIT Equity EBIT Equity CAD 1 2 +10% -9.7 -10.3 -11.4 -10.7 CHF 7 1 -10% +10.2 +10.8 +12.3 +14.1 GBP -13 -12 INR 2 1 The transaction position is estimated for the calendar year JPY 1 0 and the estimate of the effects is based on the assumpNOK 1 1 tion that foreign currency transactions are not hedged. The SEK -42 -19 profitability is affected by the portion of the Group’s EBIT SGD -2 2 generated in USD (translational effect) and by the USD THB 1 0 operations of the Group companies with euro as home curUSD 84 74 rency and generating EBIT in euros (transactional effect). The equity is affected by the change in EBIT and by the porCurrently, none of the non-euro denominated shareholders’ tion of the Group’s equity in USD. equity of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries (i.e., the translation exposure) is hedged. Market risks – Interest rate risk The following table shows the translation exposure of The Group’s interest rate risk relates mainly to funding. The the Group as of 31.12.2010 and 31.12.2009 (in EUR milcapital intensity of the business operations of the Group is lions): normally relatively low. As the gearing level is also normally fairly low, the overall importance of the interest rate risk is 31.12.10 31.12.09 small compared to the exchange rate risk. AED 4 3 Approximately 93% of the Group’s interest-bearing liabiliAUD 6 4 ties are denominated in euro (88% in 2009). Please see CAD 24 19 Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the CHF 1 1 currency split of outstanding debt. CLP 3 2 The Group’s funding is kept mainly in short periods CNY 69 41 (floating rate). For hedging purposes interest rate swaps, DKK 0 1 forward rate agreements, interest rate futures and interest GBP 8 4 rate options can be used. HUF 1 1 An increase of one percentage point in the level of interJPY 0 1 est rates at the end of 2010 would have lowered the marMXN 3 3 ket value of the long-term loan portfolio by EUR 0.3 million MYR 3 2 (EUR 0.4 million in 2009). The proportion of fixed interest PLN 1 0 loans in the loan portfolio can be increased by means of RON 1 1 interest rate derivatives. As a consequence of this treasury RUB 3 3 policy, the Group’s average interest rate level, in general, SGD 19 7 can be higher than the market level of short-term interest TRY 4 3 rates when low rates prevail and, on the other hand, lower USD 101 78 than the market level when high rates prevail. Please see ZAR 1 1 Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statement for sensitivity analysis of the Group’s interest rate risk. Please see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the notional and fair values of derivative financial Market risks – Energy price risk instruments. By using electricity derivatives, the Group strives to reduce Changes in currency rates can affect the profitability and the negative effect caused by electricity price fluctuation. equity of the Group. The U.S. dollar has clearly the biggest The overall importance of the energy price risk is small comimpact, as many of large crane projects are denominated in pared to the exchange rate risk and cannot be described as USD and the Group has a lot of local business operations significant. in the United States. A depreciation of the USD has a negaPlease see Note 37 of the Consolidated Financial Statetive impact. ments for the notional and fair values of derivative financial The following table shows the magnitude of the effects instruments (including electricity forwards). that changes in the EUR/USD exchange rate would have on KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 Market risks – Steel price risk For managing the liquidity risks, the Group has estabSteel prices are fixed as a normal part of the procurement lished a EUR 200 million committed revolving credit facilprocess. Price changes naturally affect the future procureity with an international loan syndication (2010–2015). To ment, but these changes can be taken into consideration in cover the short-term funding needs, Konecranes Finance the price quotes to the end customers. Corporation can borrow from institutional investors through In large crane projects, the steel structures are sub-consix domestic commercial paper programs (totaling EUR 480 tracted and as a normal part of the sub-contracting process, million). In addition, business units around the world have the steel is included in the price of the sub-contracting (i.e., overdraft facilities totaling EUR 29 million to cover the daythe price is fixed with the sub-contractor). to-day funding needs. The Group procures steel and steel components and It is the Group’s policy to keep minimum amount of cash thus has an inventory of those. Market price fluctuation of in the balance sheet as deposits or any other liquid assets steel can impact the profitability of customer projects or to maximize the return of capital employed. Cash and cash cause inventory obsolescence. equivalents totaled EUR 98.5 million at the end of 2010 (EUR 137.5 in 2009). Credit and counterparty risks See Note 30.3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements Credit risk arises from the potential failure of a commercial for the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities. counterparty to meet its commercial payment obligations. Counterparty risk arises from the potential failure of a finanCapital management cial institution to meet its payment obligations regarding The primary objective of the Group’s capital management hedging instruments. is to ensure that it maintains a good credit risk status and The business units manage all credit risks related to a healthy capital ratio to support its business operations. their commercial flows. There is currently no concentration At the same time, the Group also aims to maximize shareof credit risk regarding the commercial activities, as the holder value by effective use of capital. number of customers is very high and their geographic disThe Group manages its capital structure and fine-tunes tribution is very wide. It is the Group’s policy not to fund its it to adjust to probable changes in economic conditions. customers beyond regular payment terms. Please see Note These actions may include adjusting the dividend payment 24 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for a table of to shareholders, buying back own shares or issuing new an aging analysis of accounts receivable. The total amount shares. represents the theoretical maximum credit exposure. In The Group monitors its capital structure using gearing practice, however, the individual account receivables are ratio. This is calculated as a ratio of interest-bearing liabilismall in value. There are also some additional receivables, ties less liquid assets less loans receivable to total equity. which relate to the percentage of the completion revenue At the end of 2010, the gearing ratio was -3.8% (-19.1% in method used in long-term projects, but these are mainly 2009). covered by advance payments. Please see Note 7 of the The Group has no quantitative targets for the capital Consolidated Financial Statements for details. structure but the optimal long-term gearing ratio is in the All credit risks related to other financial instruments range of 50–80%. However, in the short term, the gearing than the regular accounts receivable are managed by can also be significantly higher or lower than this range. Konecranes Group Treasury. There is no concentration of The Group decides on the split between long-term and credit risk regarding the financial instruments, since investshort-term debt in relation to the gearing ratio level. The ments are rare and hedging instruments are done with a following table shows the rough guidelines for the portion number of banks, not just one or two. However, counterparof long–term debt of total debt under different gearing ratio ties are limited to the core banks of the Group. These are levels: all major banks with good credit ratings. The majority of all financial instruments are of short-term nature, with matuGearing ratio Portion of long–term rity of less than one year. There are no significant deposits level of total debt or loans granted with external counterparties, except a few Under 50% Under 1/3 small loans with companies, which the Group has a minority Between 50–80% Between 1/3 and 2/3 interest in. These loans totaled EUR 2.1 million at the end Over 80% Over 2/3 of 2010 (EUR 5.6 million in 2009). Liquidity risks The Group monitors the gearing ratio level on a weekly Liquidity risks concern the availability of liquid assets or basis. During 2010 or 2009, no changes have been made funding. Lack of funding might jeopardize normal business in the objectives, policies or processes. The objectives of operations and eventually might endanger the ability to fulthe Group’s capital management have been met in recent fill daily payment obligations. years. 80 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements All figures are in millions of euros unless otherwise inditransparency. The comparison figures for year 2009 have cated. been revised accordingly. The assets and liabilities of the business areas include only items directly connected with the business as well as 4. Segment information the goodwill related to them. Unallocated items, including Konecranes changed its structure from the beginning of Group Headquarters, include tax and financial income and 2010 so that Business Areas Standard Lifiting and Heavy expenses, which are managed on group level, as well as Lifting were merged into one Business Area; Equipment. items which can not be allocated to the business areas. Primary business segment reporting was also changed As its secondary segments, Konecranes Group reports to match with this operational change. Thus from 2010 three geographical areas, which are the main market areas: onwards Konecranes reports two Business Areas: Service EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa), AME (Americas) and Equipment as its primary business segments. The busiand APAC (Asia-Pacific). Sales are reported by the customer ness areas are based on the Group’s managerial reporting location and assets and capital expenditure by the location and organizational structure. More information than before of the assets. is provided for each segment, and the allocation of Group Intracorporate transfer prices are based primarily on the costs into the segments has been redefined to improve market prices. 4.1. Business segments Unallocated Elimina2010 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 605.7 1,004.9 -74.6 1,536.0 Order book 103.3 652.9 756.2 Sales to external customers 668.0 878.3 1,546.3 Inter-segment sales 39.8 70.3 -110.1 0.0 Total net sales 707.8 948.6 -110.1 1,546.3 EBITDA 73.2 84.7 -14.1 -0.3 143.6 EBITDA, % 10.3% 8.9% 9.3% Depreciation and amortization 10.6 19.4 0.4 30.4 Impairment of assets 0.1 0.6 0.8 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 62.5 67.4 -14.5 -0.3 115.1 % of net sales 8.8% 7.1% 7.4% Operating profit including restructuring costs 62.5 64.7 -14.5 -0.3 112.4 % of net sales 8.8% 6.8% 7.3% Assets 310.2 647.0 218.3 1,175.5 Liabilities 146.9 403.9 168.4 719.2 ROCE% 42.5% 28.6% 24.2% Capital expenditure 11.3 11.0 22.3 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 2.5 2.5 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 31.9 31.9 Personnel 5,397 4,600 45 10,042 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 81 Unallocated Elimina2009 Service Equipment items tions Total Orders received 498.4 934.6 -84.1 1,348.9 Order book 75.9 547.8 -16.8 607.0 Sales to external customers 631.9 1,039.4 1,671.3 Inter-segment sales 35.3 75.8 -111.1 0.0 Total net sales 667.2 1,115.2 -111.1 1,671.3 EBITDA 68.6 79.5 -17.4 -0.2 130.4 EBITDA, % 10.3% 7.1% 7.8% Depreciation and amortization 9.7 17.4 1.3 28.3 Impairment of assets 0.6 3.6 4.2 Operating profit excluding restructuring costs 61.0 76.7 -18.7 -0.2 118.8 % of net sales 9.1% 6.9% 7.1% Operating profit including restructuring costs 58.3 58.5 -18.7 -0.2 97.9 % of net sales 8.7% 5.2% 5.9% Assets 240.7 598.1 221.6 1,060.4 Liabilities 110.0 389.4 153.9 653.3 ROCE% 43.8% 22.9% 19.3% Capital expenditure 7.7 17.0 1.0 25.7 Share of result of associates and joint ventures 0.0 -2.2 -2.2 Investment in associates and joint ventures 0.0 4.5 4.5 Personnel 4,991 4,742 49 9,782 4.2. Geographical segments 2010 EMEA AME APAC Total External sales 823.2 468.2 254.8 1,546.3 Assets 640.4 306.8 228.2 1,175.5 Capital expenditure 13.4 2.2 6.7 22.3 Personnel 5,751 2,259 2,032 10,042 2009 EMEA AME APAC Total External sales 928.0 479.5 263.8 1,671.3 Assets 657.4 220.7 182.3 1,060.4 Capital expenditure 18.9 5.0 1.7 25.7 Personnel 5,533 2,236 2,013 9,782 82 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 5. Acquisitions niplus has 120 employees and net sales of EUR 7 million Acquisitions in 2010 (2009). During January–December, Konecranes made altogether During October and November Konecranes increased its nine acquistions. Six of these were small acquisitions ownership in Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy from 16 percent to related to machine tool service (MTS) business in Denmark, 93 percent. Company develops material handling solutions the United Kingdom and the United States. and employs 22 people. In July 2010 Konecranes acquired the service company From the date of acquisitions the acquired companies Bouyer Manutention (BM) based in Tours, France. BM has have contributed EUR 8.1 million of sales and EUR 0.2 mil38 employees and net sales of approximately EUR 5 million lion EBIT. If the combinations had taken place at the begin(2009). ning of the year, Konecranes Group’s 2010 sales would have In October 2010 Konecranes expanded in Africa by been EUR 1,556.8 million and EBIT EUR 112.6 million. acquiring 100 percent of the shares in crane service and The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities modernization company Techniplus S.A.R.L. in Morocco. of the acquired businesses at date of acquisitions are sumThis is Konecranes’ first acquisition in North Africa. Techmarized below. 2010 2010 2010 Recognized Fair value Acquired on acquisition adjustments carrying value Intangible assets Clientele 6.2 6.2 0.0 Technology 3.3 -2.4 5.7 Other intangible assets 0.3 0.2 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.2 0.9 Inventories 0.8 0.2 0.6 Account receivables and other assets 4.6 0.0 4.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2.4 0.0 2.4 Total assets 18.7 4.5 14.2 Deferred tax liabilities 0.9 0.9 0.0 Longand short-term interest bearing debts 1.8 0.0 1.8 Account payables 3.4 0.0 3.4 Other liabilities 2.7 0.0 2.7 Non-controlling interest 0.1 0.1 0.0 Total liabilities 8.8 1.0 7.9 Net assets 9.9 3.5 6.4 Purchase consideration transferred 19.5 Goodwill 9.6 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 83 Cash outflow on acquisition Purchase consideration, paid in cash 13.2 Transactions costs* 0.4 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies -2.4 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 11.3 Purchase consideration: Purchase consideration, paid in cash 13.2 Purchase consideration, liabilities assumed 3.3 Contingent consideration liability 3.0 Total purchase consideration 19.5 *Transaction costs of EUR 0.4 million have been expensed and are included in other operating expenses. Acquisition of associated company: On March 23, 2010 Konecranes purchased 29,750 shares (22.0% of the share capital and voting rights) in the Japanese hoist, crane and material handling equipment company Kito Corporation (“Kito”). The purchase price for the shares in Kito was JPY 111,800 per share. The total value of the stake purchased amounted to approximately JPY 3.3 billion (EUR 27 million). The purchase was financed with existing cash reserves. Furthermore, Kito repurchased 10.0% of the share capital on March 24, 2010. Post the share purchase by Konecranes and the Kito share buyback, Konecranes has approximately 24.4% of the voting rights in Kito. Increase in ownership interest of a subsidiary: In June 04, 2010 Konecranes finalized the agreement to increase its ownership in Japanese company MHS Konecranes Co., Ltd. to 100% by acquiring the remaining 35% stake from Meidensha Corporation. The purchase price was recognized as decrease of non-controlling interest and retained earnings. Divestments 2010 During the fourth quarter of 2010 Konecranes sold the hoist distribution business of Japanese subsidiary MHS Konecranes Co.,Ltd. to Kito Corporation. 84 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Acquisitions in 2009 2009 2009 During January–December, Konecranes made ten acquisiRecognized Carrying tions, and sold one minor operation in Austria. In July 2009, on acquisition value Konecranes entered to new business segment by making Intangible assets 14.1 1.9 two acquisitions for load-handling solutions with aluminum Tangible assets 10.6 10.6 rail systems and manipulators. Konecranes increased its Deferred tax assets 0.9 0.9 ownership in the Austrian Konecranes Lifting Systems Inventories 7.3 5.9 GmbH (former ACS Technologies GmbH) from 49.9% to 80% Accounts receivable and at the same time acquired the assets of the German and other assets 15.0 11.6 company Knight Europe GmbH & Co. KG. The two acquired Cash and bank 3.7 3.7 companies’ combined net sales were in 2008 approximately Total assets 51.6 34.5 EUR 15 million and they employed about 100 people. During the last quarter in 2009 Konecranes finalized the acquisition of a majority holding (65%) in Jiangsu Three Deferred tax liabilities 2.2 0.7 Horses Crane Manufacture Co. Ltd. (SANMA) based in Longand short-term Jingjiang, China. The company is a nationwide supplier of interest bearing debts 15.5 15.5 wire rope hoists in China and a crane supplier in Jiangsu Accounts payable 8.2 8.2 and the neighboring provinces. The letter of intent was Other liabilities 7.2 7.2 signed and published in November 2008 and the contract Non-controlling interest 5.0 2.7 was signed in April 2009. The company’s net sales were Total liabilities 38.2 34.3 approximately EUR 18 million in 2008 and it has more than 500 employees. During 2009 Konecranes acquired also the remaining Net assets 13.4 0.2 80,5% of the share capital in the leading crane and service company Dynamic Cranes Systems Ltd in South Africa. Acquisition costs 30.1 DCS had annual net sales of approximately EUR 8 million in Goodwill 16.7 2008 and about 70 employees. Four of the acquisitions related to the machine tool service (MTS) business in Scandinavia and USA, of which the The total cost of the combination was EUR 30.1 million and biggest was the company Machine Tool Solutions Unlimited comprised cash paid EUR 18.3 million, of which cash flow in Cincinnati, Ohio. The annual net sales of the company in of earlier interests is EUR 3.8 million, liabilities assumed 2008 were approximately EUR 3.5 million and the company EUR 10.4 million and cost directly attributable to the combihas 18 employees. nation EUR 1.4 million. Acquisitions contributed about 1 percent to sales in full year 2009. Cash outflow on acquisition The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired businesses at date of acquisitions are sumAcquisition costs 30.1 marized below. Cash flow of earlier interests in acquired businesses -3.8 Liabilities assumed -10.4 Acquisition costs paid in cash 15.9 Cash and cash equivalents of acquired companies -3.7 Net cash flow arising on acquisition 12.2 Divestments 2009 During the second quarter of 2009 Konecranes sold its small Austrian subsidiary STAHL CraneSystems Ges.m.b.H. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 85 6. Distribution of sales 10. Depreciation, amortization 2010 2009 and impairments Sale of goods 1,017.9 1,146.7 10.1. Depreciation and amortization 2010 2009 Rendering of services 528.2 524.1 Intangible assets 13.4 11.9 Royalties 0.3 0.4 Buildings 2.1 1.5 Total 1,546.3 1,671.3 Machinery and equipment 14.9 15.0 Total 30.4 28.3 7. Percentage of completion method and advances received 7.1. Percentage 10.2. Impairments 2010 2009 of completion method 2010 2009 Machinery and equipment 0.6 0.1 The cumulative revenues of Intangible rights 0.1 0.3 non-delivered projects 145.9 205.0 Goodwill 0.0 3.7 Advance received from percentage of completion method 133.7 203.3 Total 0.8 4.2 Receivables from the revenue recognition netted with the 11. Other operating expenses advances received 87.9 156.6 2010 2009 Change in work in progress -18.4 57.9 7.2. Advance Production for own use -0.5 -0.8 payments received 2010 2009 Material and supplies 578.1 632.7 Advance received from percentage Subcontracting 120.2 155.9 of completion method (netted) 45.7 46.7 Wages and salaries 371.3 351.2 Other advance received from customers 108.3 110.0 Pension costs 31.2 31.2 Total 154.0 156.7 Other personnel expenses 66.2 70.1 Other operating expenses 258.2 245.7 8. Other operating income Total 1,406.3 1,543.8 2010 2009 Profit of disposal of fixed assets 0.6 0.5 12. Personnel expenses and number of personnel Rental income 0.9 0.9 12.1. Personnel expenses 2010 2009 Indemnities 0.9 0.2 Wages and salaries 371.3 351.2 Other 1.1 1.4 Pension costs: Total 3.6 2.9 Defined benefit plans 5.3 4.6 Pension costs: 9. Government grants Defined contribution plans 25.8 26.6 2010 2009 Other personnel expenses 66.2 70.1 Investment grants in building, Total 468.7 452.4 machinery and employment grants 0.2 0.2 Grants for research 12.2. Average personnel 2010 2009 and development 0.4 0.7 The average number of personnel 9,739 9,811 Total 0.5 0.9 Personnel 31 December, 10,042 9,782 of which in Finland 1,800 1,746 12.3. Personnel by Business Area at end of period 2010 2009 Service 5,397 4,991 Equipment 4,600 4,742 Group Staff 45 49 Total 10,042 9,782 86 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 13. Management compensation for attendance at Board committee meetings (2009: EUR Board of Directors 1,500). The remuneration packages for Board members are Approximately 40 percent of the annual remuneration resolved by the Annual General Meeting on proposal by the will be paid in Konecranes’s shares purchased from the Nomination and Compensation Committee. The AGM 2010 market. The remuneration may be paid also by transferring confirmed an annual fee of EUR 100,000 for the Chairman company’s own shares based on the authorization given to of the Board (2009: EUR 100,000), EUR 64,000 for the the Board of Directors. In case the purchase of shares canVice Chairman of the Board (2009: EUR 64,000), and EUR not be carried out due to reasons related to either the com40,000 for other Board members (2009: EUR 40,000). pany or the Board member, the annual remuneration shall In addition, compensation of EUR 1,500 was approved be paid fully in cash. 2010 2010 2009 2009 Total Number Total Number Total compensation compen­sation, of shares as part compen­sation, of shares as part to the Board of Directors EUR of com­pensation EUR of com­pensation Chairman of the Board 104,500 1,718 116,600 2,402 Vice Chairman of the Board* 0 0 9,600 0 Board members 316,000 4,122 338,700 3,844 Total 420,500 5,840 464,900 6,246 * Vice Chairman of the Board until 12.3.2009 President and CEO At the end of year 2010 , Konecranes had a loan receivable The Nomination and Compensation Committee reviews the of EUR 211,736 from President & CEO Pekka Lundmark President and CEO’s performance. Based on this review with the interest rate of 2.544 percent. The loan relates to and relevant facts, the Board sets the total compensation a tax payment resulting from the incentive scheme directed package for the President and CEO. to the President & CEO in 2006. There is a tax appeal pending against the imposed payment and the loan is effective 2010 2009 until the appeal is concluded. Salary and benefits, EUR 402,022 382,938 Bonus, EUR 176,880 198,000 Group Executive Board & Extended Management Team Total compensation, EUR 578,902 580,938 Konecranes has a two-tiered management structure. The structure consists of the Group Executive Board and the Extended Management Team. The Group Executive Board Shares owned (number of shares) 180,000 180,000 comprises President and CEO, and Chairman of the Group Shares owned through KCR Executive Board; Executive Vice President and Head of Management Oy (number of shares)* 0 144,437 Business Area Service; Executive Vice President and Head Shareholding in Konecranes Plc of Business Area Equipment; Executive Vice President and through the Share Swap (number of shares)* 83,606 0 Head of Market Operations; Chief Financial Officer; Chief Procurement Officer and Chief Technology Officer. Total shares owned (number of shares) 263,606 324,437 In addition to the Group Executive Board members, the members of the Extended Management Team include the Senior Vice Presidents of the regional organization (4 perOption rights owned sons); Vice President, General Counsel; Vice President, (number of options) 194,000 154,000 Human Recourses; Vice President, Marketing and CommuShare-based payments costs nications; and the Chief Information Officer. (options), EUR 424,136 390,202 At the end of 2010, Extended Management Team consisted of totally 15 persons (16 persons at the end of Retirement age 60 years 60 years 2009). The Nomination and Compensation Committee of Pension target level 60% 60% the Board reviews Group compensation policies and issues Period of notice 6 months guidelines for the same. In accordance with these guide18 months salary lines, the Nomination and Compensation Committee conSeverance payment and fringe benefits firms compensation packages for those Group Executive KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 87 Board members who report directly to the President and tion determined by the Board of Directors in May 2009 and CEO. For other Extended Management Team members, the expiring on 1 November 2012. compensation packages are confirmed by the President The new shares have been registered on the subscriband CEO. er’s book-entry accounts and entered into the Trade Register on January 13, 2011 and are subject for public trading Extended Management Team on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy from January 14, 2011. excluding the President and CEO 2010 2009 There were no loans to the Extended Management Team Salary and benefits, EUR 2,986,504 2,557,089 (excluding the president and CEO) at end of the period Bonuses, EUR 396,534 649,355 2010 and 2009. Total compensation, EUR 3,383,038 3,206,444 There are no guarantees on behalf of the Extended Management Team in year 2010 and 2009. Shareholding in Konecranes Plc (number of shares) 256,218 276,018 14. Financial income and expenses Shareholding in Konecranes Plc 14.1. Financial income 2010 2009 through KCR Management Oy Dividend income on available-for-sale (number of shares)* 0 373,259 investments 0.2 0.4 Shareholding in Konecranes Plc Interest income on bank through the Share Swap (number deposits and loans 3.6 1.8 of shares)* 183,467 0 Fair value gain on derivative Total Shareholding in Konecranes financial instruments 1.4 0.0 Plc (number of shares) 439,685 649,277 Exchange rate gains on interest bearing assets and liabilities 5.2 1.8 Option rights owned Other financial income 0.1 0.1 (number of options) 957,000 964,200 Total 10.5 4.1 Share-based payments costs, EUR 1,210,648 1,147,120 14.2. Financial expenses 2010 2009 Interest expenses on liabilities 6.1 4.0 *The Konecranes Group executives established a company Fair value loss on derivative named KCR Management Oy in May 2009. KCR Managefinancial instruments 2.5 0.7 ment Oy acquired 517,696 Konecranes Plc shares from the Exchange rate loss on interest market. The acquisition was financed by capital investments bearing assets and liabilities 0.7 3.8 by the executives, in the total approximate amount of EUR Other financial expenses 4.8 2.7 1.3 million, as well as by a loan in the approximate amount Total 14.1 11.2 of EUR 7.1 million provided by Konecranes Plc. KCR Management Oy was owned by the executives who belonged to the Group Extended Management Team upon the establishFinancial income ment of KCR Management Oy. and expenses net -3.6 -7.1 According to the agreements governing KCR Management Oy, KCR Management Oy had an obligation to repay The company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used the loan granted by Konecranes Plc prematurely in case to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. The the share price of Konecranes Plc other than temporarily cash flow hedges of the expected future cash flows are exceeds a certain level determined in the agreements. This assessed to be highly effective and a net unrealized effect condition was met in December 2010. The Board of Direcof EUR -2.4 million (2009: EUR 1.9 million) with deferred tors of Konecranes Plc decided that the loan will be repaid taxes of EUR 0.6 million (2009: EUR -0.5 million) relating through a share swap whereby Konecranes Plc acquires all to the hedging instruments is included in the equity. The the shares in KCR Management Oy. To implement the share hedged operative cash flows are expected to occur during swap, the Board of Directors of Konecranes Plc decided the next 3–18 months. on a directed share issue in which the Company offers, in derogation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive subscription rights, a total of 281,007 new Konecranes shares to the shareholders of KCR Management Oy against share consideration (Share Swap). In the Share Swap, the shareholders of KCR Management Oy conveyed the KCR Management Oy shares they hold and received new Konecranes Plc shares in return. The new shares are subject to the transfer restric88 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 15. Income taxes 17. Goodwill and goodwill 15.1. Taxes in statement of Income 2010 2009 impairment testing Local income taxes of group General principles companies 37.5 31.8 The goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs) Taxes from previous years -1.2 0.3 by using the Group’s operative management reporting Change in deferred taxes -3.1 -6.1 structure. The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are deterTotal 33.1 26.1 mined based on value in use calculations, except for AH Maskinservice, Axis Machine tool, Bouyer Manutention S.A., 15.2. Reconciliation of income Techiplus S.A.R.L and Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy which were before taxes with total income taxes 2010 2009 acquired during the year 2010 and for which the recoverProfit before taxes 111.3 88.6 able amount is based on fair value less cost to sell, based on the recent purchase prices paid for the entities. The Tax calculated at the domestic corporation tax rate of 26% (2009: 26%) 28.9 23.0 forecasting period of cash flows is five years and it is based on financial forecasts of each CGU’s management, adjusted Effect of different tax rates of foreign subsidiaries 2.9 -0.3 by Group management if needed. The forecasts have been Taxes from previous years -1.2 0.3 made by using the company specific historical data and general market and industry specific information of the Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and tax-exempt income 1.2 2.9 future growth possibilities. The calculated cash flows after the five-year forecasting period are based on a zero percent Tax effect of unrecognized tax losses of the current year 4.5 4.7 growth estimate on sales and operating margin. Calculations are prepared during the fourth quarter of the year. Tax effect of recognition of previously unrecognized tax losses -0.4 -4.3 The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is the weighted average (pre-tax) cost of capital and is based Tax effect of utilization of previously unrecognized tax losses -1.9 -0.3 on risk free long term government bond rates and market and industry specific risk premiums. These risk premiums Tax effect of tax rate change -0.2 0.0 are derived based on the business portfolio of companies Other items -0.7 0.0 which operate in a similar geographic region and in a simiTotal 33.1 26.1 lar industry as the CGUs. The discount rate used in 2010 varied mainly in a range of 11–14 percent. In 2009, the preEffective tax rate % 29.8% 29.5% tax discount rate used were between 12–14 percent. The geographical and business risk distributions of the tested CGUs were considered when determining the the discount 16. Earnings per share rate in use and the discount rates account for the average Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net cost of capital for all CGUs. income attributable to the shareholders of the parent company by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of shares with the stock options outstanding per December 31. 2010 2009 Net profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company 79.4 63.6 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 58,922 58,922 Effect of issued share options (1,000 pcs) 352 164 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding (1,000 pcs) 59,274 59,086 Earnings per share, basic (EUR) 1.35 1.08 Earnings per share, diluted (EUR) 1.34 1.08 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 89 Goodwill allocation to main cash-generating Units For almost all CGU’s the sensitivity analysis was performed (CGUs) and business segments: using latest forecasts of 2010 as a base. For the year The Group’s total goodwill is allocated to the business seg2011, sales and variable costs (volumes) were lowered by ments as following. In the table there are also goodwill allo10% compared to the year 2010 forecast. Meanwhile the cations of the individual CGUs , which can be considered fixed costs stayed on the same level as in the year 2010. significant in comparison with the Group’s total carrying For the year 2012 volumes and fixed costs remained amount of goodwill. at the same level as in 2010. During 2013 the volumes were increased by 10%, in 2014 by 20% and in 2015 by 2010 2009 30% compared to the year 2010 forecast. Fixed costs for Konecranes GmbH, Germany 1.5 1.5 2013–2015 were taken from the value in use calculations Konecranes Lifttrucks AB, Sweden 13.0 11.4 and they were thus higher than in the 2010 forecast. As STAHL Konecranes GmbH, Germany 20.4 20.4 the sensitivity analysis described above is not applicable for all CGU’s, alternative ways for sensitivity analysis were Goodwill allocations of other companies in Equipment 21.8 19.2 used for some units. Based on these alternative calculations, there are some units whose future cash flow genGoodwill in Equipment total 56.7 52.5 erating ability requires more constant than yearly review. A discount rate sensitivity analysis was also performed. If Konecranes GmbH, Germany 12.6 12.6 discount rate was increased by 5 percentage points, there Goodwill allocations of other would not have been any reason to make impairment in any companies in Service 15.0 6.4 goodwill unit. Goodwill in Service total 27.7 19.0 As a result of the annual impairment test in 2010, no goodwill was written off. Total Goodwill in Business As a result of the annual impairment test in 2009, the Segments as of 31 December 84.4 71.5 goodwill of Morris Material Handling Ltd in the UK, EUR 1,1 million, was written off. Manufacturing and sales under Morris brand were discontinued due to the restructuring In Group’s assets, there is also included EUR 10,4 million of the business and merger of the legal entity with other intangible assets with indefinite useful life arising from the Konecranes units in the United Kingdom. Also the goodacquisition of R. Stahl AG’s material handling division, which will in Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH in Austria was consists of the trademark of the brand name ‘Stahl’. The impaired by EUR 2,5 million in 2009. In this business the carrying amount of this asset is tested on a yearly basis by cash flow estimates for the next couple of years are lower using a similar kind of impairment testing method as the than earlier forecasted due to integrating the manipulator goodwill. product offering into Konecranes distribution network takThe recoverable amounts of each CGU are determined ing longer than estimated and unexpected postponements based on the above-mentioned general principles. The of certain programs. Both Morris Material Handling and major variables used in the value in use calculations have Konecranes Lifting Systems belong to the Business Area been the sales growth rate and the operating income perEquipment. Various small other goodwill items, total of EUR cent. The average growth rate percent used in the first five0,1 million, were impaired as well during 2009. year cash flow forecasts varied between 4 percent and 15 percent (in 2009: -5 percent and 15 percent), and the averGoodwill 2010 2009 age estimated growth rate of all CGUs was more than 8 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 71.5 57.8 percent (in 2009: close to 7 percent) annually. The growth Increase 10.0 16.7 rates used in the calculations are based on the manageDecrease 0.0 -0.9 ment’s view of future growth possibilities of each company, Translation difference 2.9 1.6 taken into account the company specific historical data and Impairments 0.0 -3.7 future growth possibilities, in which the company specific and industry related variables are both considered. The Total as of 31 December 84.4 71.5 operating profit margins are based on actual operating profits from previous years or on management view on the future success of the business. These value in use calculations suggested no need for impairments. The calculations were also performed by using the sensitivity analysis with lower sales and operating margin levels. 90 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 18. Other intangible assets 18.3. Other intangible assets total 2010 2009 18.1. Patents and trademarks 2010 2009 Acquisition costs as of January 1 124.9 110.3 Acquisition costs as of January 1 27.1 27.0 Increase 3.9 1.3 Company acquisitions 0.3 0.8 Decrease -1.8 -0.6 Transfer within assets 0.5 0.0 Company acquisitions 13.3 12.0 Translation difference 0.8 -0.7 Transfer within assets 0.7 0.6 Acquisition costs as of December 31 28.8 27.1 Impairment -0.1 0.0 Accumulated amortization January 1 -8.7 -7.4 Translation difference -0.3 1.3 Amortization for financial year -1.5 -1.3 Acquisition costs as of December 31 140.6 124.8 Total as of December 31 18.6 18.4 Accumulated amortization as of January 1 -59.7 -47.8 18.2. Other (including service Accumulated depreciation relating contracts, software) 2010 2009 to disposals 0.8 0.6 Acquisition costs as of January 1 97.8 83.3 Amortization for financial year -13.4 -11.9 Increase 3.9 1.3 Total as of December 31 68.3 65.8 Decrease -1.8 -0.6 Company acquisitions 12.9 11.2 Other intangible assets include service contracts, patents Transfer within assets 0.2 0.6 and trademarks and software licenses. They are stated Impairment -0.1 0.0 at cost and amortized on the straight-line basis over their Translation difference -1.1 2.0 expected useful lives. The normal amortization period varies Acquisition costs as of December 31 111.8 97.8 from 4 to 20 years. Intangible assets having an indefinite Accumulated amortization January 1 -51.0 -40.4 useful life are tested for impairment annually. On December Accumulated depreciation relating 31, 2010, the intangible assets having indefinite useful life to disposals 0.8 0.6 consisted of the Stahl trademark, totally EUR 10.4 million. Amortization for financial year -11.9 -10.6 As there is no foreseeable limit on the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inflows for the Total as of December 31 49.7 47.4 entity, it is classified as intangible assets having indefinite useful life. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 91 19. Property, plant and equipment 19.4. Property, plant and 19.1. Land 2010 2009 equipment total 2010 2009 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 2.5 3.2 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 213.6 184.8 Decrease 0.0 -0.7 Increase 22.7 25.9 Translation difference 0.1 0.0 Decrease -20.0 -11.9 Total as of 31 December 2.6 2.5 Company acquisitions 1.3 15.3 Transfer within assets -0.1 0.3 Impairment -0.7 -0.1 19.2. Buildings 2010 2009 Translation difference 13.9 -0.6 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 29.6 13.4 Acquisition costs as of 31 December 230.7 213.6 Increase 4.3 6.4 Accumulated depreciation 1 January -131.6 -115.2 Decrease -0.8 0.0 Accumulated depreciation Company acquisitions 0.0 9.9 relating to disposals 17.2 9.3 Translation difference 1.8 -0.2 Depreciation for financial year -17.2 -16.4 Acquisition costs as of 31 December 35.0 29.6 Total as of 31 December 99.1 91.3 Accumulated depreciation 1 January -3.0 -1.5 Accumulated depreciation 20. Investments accounted for relating to disposals 0.3 0.0 using the equity method 2010 2009 Depreciation for financial year -2.1 -1.5 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 4.5 7.4 Total as of 31 December 30.2 26.6 Share of associated companies result after taxes 1.4 -2.2 The balance value of buildings which belong to finance Dividends received -2.1 -0.9 lease was EUR 0.0 million in the year 2010 (EUR 0.6 milAcquisitions 27.0 0.0 lion in 2009). Translation difference 0.0 0.0 Decrease in purchase price allocation 1.1 0.0 19.3. Machinery and equipment 2010 2009 Transferred to subsidiary shares 0.0 0.2 Acquisition costs as of January 1 181.5 168.1 Total as of 31 December 31.9 4.5 Increase 18.3 19.4 Decrease -19.2 -11.2 Company acquisitions 1.3 5.4 Transfer within assets -0.1 0.3 Impairment -0.7 -0.1 Translation difference 12.0 -0.4 Acquisition costs as of December 31 193.1 181.5 Accumulated depreciation as of January 1 -128.6 -113.7 Accumulated depreciation relating to disposals 16.8 9.3 Depreciation for financial year -15.1 -14.9 Total as of December 31 66.3 62.2 The balance value of machinery and equipments which belong to finance lease is EUR 8.6 million in the year 2010 (EUR 7.6 million in 2009). 92 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 20.1. Investments accounted for using the equity method by companies Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2010 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.5 2.0 1.4 1.0 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.3 1.1 0.7 0.9 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 1.0 3.2 2.4 4.4 0.4 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.8 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 0.8 3.5 2.1 4.2 0.5 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Kito Corporation 27.6 57.7 22.3 53.0 0.1 Crane Industrial Services LLC 0.9 1.4 0.6 2.8 0.4 Translation difference -0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 31.9 70.5 30.2 69.5 1.4 Carrying amount of the Total asset Total liability 2009 investment value 1) value 1) Revenue 1) Profit/loss 1) ACS Technologies GmbH 2) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.7 -1.6 Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd. 0.5 1.5 1.1 1.3 0.0 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 0.3 1.1 0.9 1.4 0.0 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Company, Ltd. 0.7 2.9 2.2 3.4 0.2 Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.9 0.0 Levelec S.A. 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.7 0.0 Manelec S.a.r.l. 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.0 Manulec S.A. 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.9 0.0 Sere Maintenance S.A. 0.1 0.4 0.3 0.9 0.0 Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 0.8 2.8 1.5 6.2 0.7 Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ZAO Zaporozhje Kran Holding 2) 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.8 -2.2 Crane Industrial Services LLC 1.1 1.3 0.4 2.8 0.6 Translation difference 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 4.5 11.8 7.2 21.3 -2.2 The investment value of the shares in the associated companies consists of the Group’s proportion of the associated companies at the acquisition date, adjusted by any variation in the shareholders’ equity after the acquisition. See also the Company list for listing the ownership of the associated companies and joint venture. 1) Total asset and liability value, revenue and profit/loss represent the Group’s share of these investments according to the latest published financial information. 2) ACS Technologies GmbH and ZAO Zaporozhje Kran Holding consolidated as subsidiaries from 1.7.2009. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 93 21. Available-for-sale investments 2010 2009 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 1.8 1.9 Transferred to subsidiary and associated company shares -0.2 -0.3 Transfer within assets -0.2 0.0 Increase 0.0 0.2 Total as of 31 December 1.4 1.8 Investments for available-for-sale investments consist of shares in unlisted companies and are measured at cost, because the range of reasonable fair value estimates is significant and the probabilities of the various estimates cannot be reasonably assessed. See also Company list for detailed list of available-for-sale investments. 22. Inventories 2010 2009 Raw materials and semi-manufactured goods 105.5 108.3 Work in progress 139.0 114.3 Finished goods 15.0 16.7 Advance payments 10.3 8.9 Total 269.9 248.2 23. Valuation and qualifying accounts Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2010 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 20.3 1.2 4.7 6.3 5.4 15.8 Provision for obsolete inventory 14.4 0.7 2.5 0.1 6.9 19.4 Balance at the Trans­ Utilized Provision Balance beginning lation during the not at the end 2009 of the year difference period needed Additions of the year Provision for doubtful accounts 16.4 0.1 3.5 2.0 9.3 20.3 Provision for obsolete inventory 9.8 0.8 1.6 0.2 5.5 14.4 24. Ageing analysis of Accounts receivable are initially measured at cost (book accounts receivable values represent their fair values). Accounts receivable are 2010 2009 subject to only minor credit risk concentrations due to the Undue accounts receivable 207.3 185.2 Group’s extensive customer portfolio. Credit losses recogAccounts receivable nized for the financial year totaled EUR 4.8 million (EUR 5.3 1–30 days overdue 51.9 44.7 million in 2009). Accounts receivable 31–60 days overdue 21.2 18.4 25. Other receivables Accounts receivable 2010 2009 61–90 days overdue 15.9 8.9 Bills receivable 10.4 3.7 Accounts receivable more Value added tax 18.3 19.7 than 91 days overdue 19.4 8.2 Total 28.8 23.5 Total 315.8 265.4 94 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 26. Deferred assets 27. Cash and cash equivalents 2010 2009 2010 2009 Corporate income taxes 10.6 11.5 Cash in hand and at bank 23.0 19.0 Interest 2.1 0.9 Short-term deposits 75.4 118.5 Receivable arising from percentage Total 98.5 137.5 of the completion method 55.3 45.5 Prepaid expenses 9.8 11.1 Short-term deposits are with a maturity of less than three Other 37.8 27.1 months. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at nominal Total 115.6 96.1 value, which corresponds to their fair value. 28. Equity Number of Share Share Paid in 28.1. Shareholders’ equity shares capital premium capital 1 January 2009 59,069,720 30.1 39.3 7.3 Share subscriptions with options 260,600 0.0 0.0 1.8 Incentive arrangement for Konecranes Group executive management (KCR Management Oy) -517,696 0.0 0.0 0.0 31 December 2009 58,812,624 30.1 39.3 9.0 Share subscriptions with options and transfer of own shares 147,040 0.0 0.0 1.4 31 December 2010 58,959,664 30.1 39.3 10.5 The total shareholders’ equity consists of share capital, paid-in capital includes also the possible amount of share share premium account, share issue, fair value reserves, capital decrease, which is not netted against accumulated translation difference, paid in capital and retained earnings. losses or is not distributed to shareholders. Konecranes’ share has no nominal value. The company has one series of shares. All issued shares are fully paid. The 28.2. Distributable earnings See page 120 / Board of Director’s Proposal to the Annual share premium account includes the value of shares, which General Meeting. exceeds the accounting par value of the shares, for shares issued before September 1, 2006. Fair value reserves 2010 2009 include changes in the fair values of derivative financial Number of Number of instruments used to hedge operational cash flows. Transla28.3. Treasury shares shares shares tion differences comprise the differences arising from the As of 1 January 3,060,296 2,542,600 elimination of net investments in non-euro foreign subsidDecrease -17,840 0 iaries. The paid-in capital includes the portion of shares’ Incentive arrangement subscription price, which is not recorded to share capital or for Konecranes Group according to IFRS to liabilities. The paid-in capital includes executive management also other capital contributions to the Group, which are (KCR Management Oy) 0 517,696 not recorded to some other reserve within the equity. The Total as of 31 December 3,042,456 3,060,296 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 95 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the 29. Option rights and other Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase and/ share-based payments or on the acceptance as pledge of the company’s own The Annual General Meeting on March 6, 2007 approved the shares: Board’s proposal that the key employees of the Konecranes The AGM on March 25, 2010 authorized the Board of DirecGroup are granted the maximum of 3 million option rights. tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance The option rights entitle to an aggregate 3 million Company as pledge of the company’s own shares as follows: shares. The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or Option rights are divided into three series (2007A, accepted as pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares 2007B and 2007C), whose subscription periods are stagin total, which corresponds to approximately 9.7% of all of gered so that the share subscription period for the option the shares in the Company. However, the Company together rights of the first series begins on May 2, 2009 and ends with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or for the option rights of the last series on April 30, 2013. hold as pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in The subscription price of shares for all 2007 series is the Company. Only the unrestricted equity of the Company at least EUR 25.72 which was the volume-weighted avercan be used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the age price of the Konecranes share in the Helsinki Stock authorization. Exchange between April 1–April 30, 2007. The Board may Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in decide to increase the subscription price of the shares from public trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at above for option rights series 2007B and 2007C before a price formed on the market. such options rights are allocated to the option right holdThe Board of Directors decides how own shares will be ers. For series 2007B, the subscription price was the repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can same EUR 25.72 when series 2007B was granted to the be repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares key employees on June 12, 2008. The series 2007C was can be repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the not allocated during the year 2009 and the allocation time shareholdings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). expired 31.12.2009. At the end of 2010 no shares had Own shares can be repurchased to limit the dilutive been subscribed for the stock options pursuant to the effects of share issues carried out in connection with pos2007A and 2007B stock option plans. sible acquisitions, to develop the company’s capital strucThe Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of ture, to be transferred in connection with possible acquiKonecranes Plc has on March 12, 2009 accepted the issue sitions, to pay remuneration to Board members or to be of stock options to the key personnel of Konecranes Plc cancelled, provided that the repurchase is in the interest of (Company) and its subsidiaries. The maximum total number the company and its shareholders. of stock options issued is 2,250,000, and they entitle their The authorization is effective until the end of the next owners to subscribe for a maximum total of 2,250,000 Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 24 new shares in the Company or existing shares held by the September 2011. Company. The Board of Directors shall resolve whether new shares in the Company or existing shares held by the Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the Company are given to the subscriber. Of the stock options, Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of the 750,000 are marked with the symbol 2009A, 750,000 are company’s own shares: marked with the symbol 2009B and 750,000 are marked The EGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the the with the symbol 2009C. The period for the option rights transfer of the company’s own shares as follows: of the first series begins on April 1, 2012 and ends for the The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 option rights of the last series on April 30, 2016. shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.7% of all of The share subscription price for stock options will be the shares in the Company. based on the prevailing market price of the Konecranes Plc The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of share on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. in April 2009, April the transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be 2010 and April 2011. carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive Should the Company distribute dividends, from the share rights (directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use subscription price of the stock options, shall be deducted this authorization to grant special rights concerning the the amount of the dividend decided after the beginning of Company’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the the period for determination of the share subscription price Companies Act. However, the authorization cannot be used but before share subscription, as per the dividend record for incentive arrangements. date. The subscription prices were for series 2009A EUR This authorization shall be effective until the next Annual 14.55 (after 2009 dividend distribution EUR 13.65) and for General Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than series 2009B EUR 23.79. until 24 September 2011. 96 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 29.1.Summary of the Konecranes Plc’ Option Plans Maximum number Maximum number of shares the stock of shares Share option plan entitles Subscription that still can be subscription Stock Option to subscribe for price/ share (EUR) subscribed period 2007A 1,000,000 25.72 958 000 2.5.2009–30.4.2011 2007B 1,000,000 25.72 941 000 2.5.2010–30.4.2012 2009A 750,000 13.65* 739 000 1.4.2012–30.4.2014 2009B 750,000 23.79 732 000 1.4.2013–30.4.2015 Total 3,500,000 3 370 000 *The original subscription price was EUR 14.55 29.2. Changes in the number of shares of option rights outstanding 2010 2009 Number of shares of option rights outstanding as of 1 January 2,773,400 2,368,200 Granted during the year 776,000 735,000 Forfeited during the year -47,000 -69,200 Exercised during the year -129,200 -260,600 Expired during the year -3,200 0 Total number of shares of option rights outstanding as of 31 December 3,370,000 2,773,400 The total cost of the option programs for the financial year 2010 was 3.6 MEUR (2009: 3.5 MEUR). Option program costs are included in personnel expenses and credited to the shareholders’ equity. 29.3. Assumptions made in determining the fair value of stock options The fair values for the options have been determined using the Black & Scholes method. The fair values for stock options have been calculated on the basis of the following assumptions: Pekka Lund­Pekka Lund­mark’s incenmark’s incentive scheme tive scheme 2007A 2007B 2009A 2009B 2006 2007 Subscription price of the share, EUR 25.72 25.72 13.65* 23.79 12.00 12.00 Fair market value of the share, EUR 25.55 26.47 17.65 24.22 21.16 24.74 Expected volatility, % 18% 18% 25% 23% 18% 18% Risk-free interest rate, % 4.2% 4.7% 3.3% 2.2% 3.7% 4.0% Expected contractual life in years 0.3 1.3 3.3 4.3 1.0 1.1 Grant date fair value of the stock options, EUR 2.80 3.63 6.52 6.19 9.36 11.31 The above calculations are based on the 4–6 year implied volatility of the Konecranes Plc share price estimated by a market participant who actively trades stock options. *The original subscription price was EUR 14.5 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 97 30. Interest-bearing liabilities 2010 2010 2009 2009 Carrying Carrying 30.1. Non-current amount Fair value amount Fair value Loans from financial institutions 7.5 7.5 7.3 7.3 Pension loans 18.9 18.9 25.3 25.3 Finance lease liabilities 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.4 Other long-term loans 1.2 1.2 0.5 0.5 Total 32.9 32.9 38.6 38.6 2010 2010 2009 2009 Carrying Carrying 30.2. Current amount Fair value amount Fair value Loans from financial institutions 0.0 0.0 6.0 6.0 Pension loans 3.8 3.8 1.2 1.2 Finance lease liabilities 3.3 3.3 2.5 2.5 Commercial papers 26.0 26.0 0.0 0.0 Other short-term loans 0.7 0.7 0.5 0.5 Overdraft 16.4 16.4 16.7 16.7 Total 50.2 50.2 26.9 26.9 The average interest rate of the non-current liabilities portfolio on December 31, 2010 was 3.81% (2009: 3.51%) and that on current liabilities was 3.19% (2009: 3.62%). The effective interest rate for EUR-loans varied between 1.14%–6.95% (2009: 2.61%–3.70%). 30.3. Currency split and repricing schedule of outstanding debt including hedges 2010 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015EUR 72.0 2.1 years 3.34 0.7 46.5 9.0 4.5 4.2 7.9 CLP 0.4 1.0 years 6.17 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 CNY 0.2 0.3 years 5.35 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 USD 10.3 1.1 years 4.67 0.1 3.0 1.5 0.8 1.2 3.9 GBP 0.1 2.0 years 2.68 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 PLN 0.1 1.0 years 5.19 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 SGD 0.0 1.5 years 1.78 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ZAR 0.0 1.5 years 7.42 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 83.1 3.53 0.8 50.2 10.6 5.2 5.4 11.8 2009 Debt repricing in period Amount Avg Avg Rate Currency MEUR duration rate % sensi­tivity1) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014EUR 57.7 1.9 years 3.51 0.6 20.7 7.7 5.0 5.4 18.9 CNY 5.9 0.3 years 4.37 0.1 5.4 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 USD 1.0 1.0 years 3.19 0.0 0.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 JPY 0.5 0.5 years 1.40 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 GBP 0.3 0.8 years 2.11 0.0 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 65.5 3.56 0.7 26.9 9.3 5.0 5.4 18.9 1) Effect of one percent rise in market interest rates on the Group’s net interest expenses over the following 12 months. There would be no effect in the equity, as there were no open interest derivatives at the end of 2010 (or 2009). All other variables have been assumed constant. 98 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 30.4. Maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities 2010 Maturity of financial liabilities Amoun Debt type drawn 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 7.5 0.0 1.7 0.8 1.2 1.2 2.7 Finance lease liabilities 8.5 3.3 4.7 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 Commercial paper program 26.0 26.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 22.8 3.8 3.8 3.9 3.8 3.8 3.8 Other long-term debt 1.8 0.7 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 Overdraft 16.4 16.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 83.1 50.2 10.6 5.2 5.4 5.2 6.6 2009 Maturity of financial liabilities Amoun Debt type drawn 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Later Committed revolving facilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Loans from financial institutions 13.2 6.0 3.9 0.1 0.5 2.8 0.0 Finance lease liabilities 7.9 2.5 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 Commercial paper program 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Pension loans 26.5 1.2 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.8 10.1 Other long-term debt 1.1 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Overdraft 16.7 16.7 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 65.5 26.9 9.3 5.0 5.4 7.7 11.2 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 99 30.5. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities classified based on IAS 39 2010 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 0.3 0.3 0.3 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 37.2 Other financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 1.8 1.8 1.8 Account and other receivables 344.5 344.5 344.5 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 8.6 8.6 8.6 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 98.5 98.5 98.5 27 Total 9.2 445.1 1.4 455.1 455.1 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 32.9 32.9 32.9 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 50.2 50.2 50.2 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 6.2 6.2 6.2 37.2 Account and other payables 140.3 140.3 140.3 34.2 Total 6.7 223.4 229.6 229.6 2009 Financial assets/ Financial assets/ Availableliabilities Carrying liabilities at fair Loans for-sale measured amounts value through and financial at amorby balance Fair Financial assets income statement receivables assets tized cost sheet item value Note Non-current financial assets Long-term interest-bearing receivables 2.7 2.7 2.7 Derivative financial instruments 37.2 Other financial assets 1.8 1.8 1.8 21 Current financial assets Short-term interest-bearing receivables 2.9 2.9 2.9 Account and other receivables 288.9 288.9 288.9 24, 25 Derivative financial instruments 4.0 4.0 4.0 37.2 Cash and cash equivalents 137.5 137.5 137.5 27 Total 4.0 432.1 1.8 437.9 437.9 Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 38.6 38.6 38.6 30.1 Derivative financial instruments 37.2 Current financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 26.9 26.9 26.9 30.2 Derivative financial instruments 0.9 0.9 0.9 37.2 Account and other payables 97.6 97.6 97.6 34.2 Total 0.9 163.1 164.0 164.0 100 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 31. Employee Benefits 31.3. Movements of the present The Konecranes Group companies have various pension value of defined benefit obligation 2010 2009 plans in accordance with local conditions and practices. Obligation as of January 1 88.3 77.2 The pension plans are classified as either defined contribuTranslation difference 1.7 2.3 tion plans or defined benefit plans. The Group has a sigReclassification of pension liabilities 0.8 0.0 nificant defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom Past service cost 0.4 0.0 and Germany. The Konecranes Group accounts for the FinnSettlements and curtailments -0.9 0.0 ish system under the Employees’ Pensions Act (TyEL) as a Current service cost 1.9 2.2 defined contribution plan. Interest cost 5.0 4.4 31.1. Amounts recognized Actuarial gains (-) / losses (+) 9.6 7.2 in the balance sheet 2010 2009 Benefits paid (-) -5.0 -5.1 Present value of obligation wholly Obligation as of 31 December 101.7 88.3 unfunded 58.5 47.6 Present value of obligation wholly 31.4. Movements of the fair value of or partly funded 43.2 40.7 plan assets 2010 2009 Defined benefit plan obligations 101.7 88.3 Fair value of plan assets as of 1 Fair value of plan assets -39.1 -33.9 January 33.9 27.9 Deficit (+) / Surplus (-) 62.6 54.4 Translation difference 1.1 2.0 Unrecognized net actuarial Expected return on plan assets 2.2 1.9 gain (+)/loss (-) -5.6 1.8 Employer contributions 2.6 2.0 Total 57.0 56.1 Settlements and curtailments -0.5 0.0 Actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) 2.0 2.8 31.2. Components of defined benefit plan recognized in statement of Benefits paid (-) -2.1 -2.5 income 2010 2009 Fair value of plan assets as of 31 Current service cost 1.9 2.2 December 39.1 33.9 Interest cost 5.0 4.4 31.5. Defined benefit plan: Expected return on plan assets -2.2 -1.9 the main actuarial assumptions 2010 2009 Past service cost 0.4 0.0 Discount rate % 3.10–8.25 2.30–6.00 Settlements and curtailments -0.4 0.0 Expected return on plan assets % 6.30–8.00 2.30–3.50 Net actuarial gain (-)/loss (+) Future salary increase % 2.50–6.00 2.50–3.50 recognized in year 0.7 -0.1 Future pension payment Total 5.3 4.6 increase % 1.50–3.50 1.50–3.50 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 101 32. Deferred tax assets and liabilities losses, for which no deferred tax assets are recognized due 32.1. Deferred tax assets 2010 2009 to the uncertainty of the utilization of the losses, amounted Employee benefits 8.5 8.1 to EUR 83.7 million in the year 2010 (EUR 66.3 million in Provisions 12.7 12.1 2009). The main portion of carry-forward losses relates to MorUnused tax losses 12.5 12.5 ris Material Handling, Inc., USA, which was acquired in Other temporary difference 7.0 4.6 2006. The overall losses of Morris Material Handling, Inc. Total 40.7 37.2 amounted to EUR 62.9 million (EUR 62.8 million in 2009). The company has recorded a deferred tax asset amounting 32.2. Deferred tax liabilities 2010 2009 to EUR 9.7 million (EUR 9.6 million in 2009) based on the Intangible and tangible assets 16.0 16.2 tax losses estimated to be utilized during the years 2011– Other temporary difference 2.1 2.5 2013 amounting to EUR 26.0 million. For the amount of Total 18.1 18.6 EUR 36.9 million tax loss carry-forwards deductible over the period 2014–2031 no deferred tax asset has been recognized due to uncertainties and limitations on deductible 32.3. Tax losses carried forward annual amounts. At the end of year 2010, Konecranes recorded a deferred Tax losses carried forward and related deferred tax tax asset of EUR 12.5 million (EUR 12.5 million in 2009) assets on December 31 by the most significant countries on the carry-forward losses totally amounting to EUR 121.1 as following: million (EUR 101.5 million in 2009). The carry-forward Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2010 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 62.9 23.9 14.0 9.7 Germany 8.9 2.3 2.3 0.0 The Netherlands 9.0 2.3 0.7 1.6 Austria 14.0 3.5 2.5 1.0 Spain 8.2 2.5 2.5 0.0 Italy 3.4 1.2 1.2 0.0 Finland 1.7 0.5 0.5 0.0 Other 13.0 4.5 4.3 0.2 Total 121.1 40.7 28.0 12.5 Potential Deferred Tax losses deferred tax assets Deferred 2009 carried forward tax assets not recorded tax assets USA 62.8 25.1 15.5 9.6 Germany 5.7 1.3 1.3 0.0 The Netherlands 7.1 1.8 0.2 1.6 Austria 11.6 2.9 1.9 1.0 Spain 5.9 1.8 1.8 0.0 Italy 2.4 0.8 0.8 0.0 Other 6.0 2.3 2.0 0.3 Total 101.5 36.0 23.5 12.5 102 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 33. Provisions Pension Restructurcommit2010 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of 1 January 26.1 16.7 3.9 14.4 61.1 Translation difference 0.6 0.1 0.3 0.7 1.7 Increase through business combination 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Additional provision in the period 9.4 3.4 0.7 5.6 19.0 Utilization of provision 8.0 11.6 0.4 5.1 25.2 Unused amounts reversed 3.5 1.1 0.0 2.0 6.6 Total provisions as of 31 December 24.7 7.4 4.4 13.6 50.1 Pension Restructurcommit2009 Warranty ing ments Other Total Total provisions as of 1 January 23.5 2.1 3.1 18.2 46.8 Translation difference -0.4 -0.2 -0.1 0.4 -0.3 Increase through business combination 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.4 1.4 Additional provision in the period 12.6 16.6 1.0 8.1 38.3 Utilization of provision 6.7 1.7 0.0 4.9 13.3 Unused amounts reversed 2.9 0.1 0.0 8.8 11.8 Total provisions as of 31 December 26.1 16.7 3.9 14.4 61.1 The provision for warranties covers the expenses due to warranty could be up to two years. The restructuring provithe repair or replacement of products during their warranty sion is recognized when the Group has prepared a detailed period. The warranty liability is based on historical realized reorganization plan and begun implementation of the plan warranty costs for deliveries of standard products and seror announced the matter. Pension commitments include vices. The usual warranty period is 12 months. For more provisions for local pension schemes. complex contracts, mainly including long-term projects , the Other provisions include provisions for claims, litigations warranty reserve is calculated contract by contract and the and loss contracts. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 103 34. Current liabilities The Konecranes Group has major operating lease agree34.1. Accruals 2010 2009 ments of factory and office buildings in Hyvinkää and Corporate income taxes 14.1 9.9 Hämeenlinna, Finland. They are valid for 10–12 years, Wages, salaries and unless the lessee extends the lease period by five years. personnel expenses 46.8 52.7 The lessee is entitled to exercise the 5-year extending Pension costs 3.8 3.2 option three consecutive times. The Group has various Interest 1.0 0.5 other operating leases for office equipments, vehicles and Late cost reservations 83.9 80.2 premises with varying terms and renewal rights. Other items 42.1 32.2 36. Contingent liabilities Total 191.7 178.7 and pledged assets 2010 2009 34.2. Other current liabilities For own commercial obligations (non-interest bearing) 2010 2009 Guarantees 347.2 212.0 Bills payable 1.0 0.7 Leasing liabilities 100.0 99.0 Value added tax 11.7 8.5 Other 0.1 0.1 Other short-term liabilities 10.5 4.6 Total 447.3 311.1 Total 23.2 13.8 Leasing contracts comply with normal practices in the coun35. Lease liabilities tries concerned. 35.1. Finance lease 2010 2009 Minimum lease payments Contingent liabilities relating to litigation within 1 year 2.9 2.6 Various legal actions, claims and other proceedings pend 1–5 years 5.9 7.7 against the Group in various countries. These actions, over 5 years 0.0 0.2 claims and other proceedings are typical of this industry Total 8.8 10.5 and consistent with a global business offering that encompasses a wide range of products and services. These matPresent value of finance lease ters involve contractual disputes, warranty claims, product liability (including design defects, manufacturing defects, within 1 year 2.8 2.7 failure to warn and asbestos legacy), employment, vehicles 1–5 years 5.3 5.5 and other matters involving claims of general liability. over 5 years 0.0 0.2 While the final outcome of these matters cannot be preTotal 8.1 8.3 dicted with certainty, Konecranes has the opinion, based on the information available to date and considering the Konecranes Group has finance leases mainly for vehicles grounds presented for such claims, the available insurance with an average of four years leasing time. coverage and the reserves made, that the outcome of such actions, claims and other proceedings, if unfavorable, would 35.2. Operating leases 2010 2009 not have a material, adverse impact on the financial condiMinimum lease payments tion of the Group. within 1 year 30.3 27.7 1–5 years 56.8 55.4 over 5 years 12.9 15.9 Total 100.0 99.0 Operative rental expenses during the year 29.2 23.0 104 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 37. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2010 2010 2009 2009 Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Fair value Foreign exchange forward contracts 397.2 2.1 129.5 2.6 Electricity forward contracts 2.4 0.4 2.1 -0.2 Total 399.6 2.5 131.6 2.5 Derivatives are used for hedging currency and interest rate risks as well as risk of price fluctuation of electricity. Company applies hedge accounting on derivatives used to hedge cash flows in certain large crane projects. IFRS 7 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive the fair value. This classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: • Level 1 – quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments • Level 2 – inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the financial instrument, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) • Level 3 – inputs for the financial instrument that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) Classification of financial instruments within the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: level 2 for all values as at 31 Dec 2010. 37.1. Breakdown of nominal values of derivative financial instruments Remaining maturities 2010 Remaining maturities 2009 Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 79.4 60.9 140.3 64.7 0.0 64.7 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 79.4 60.9 140.3 64.7 0.0 64.7 Remaining maturities 2010 Remaining maturities 2009 Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Foreign exchange forward contracts 254.4 2.5 256.9 64.7 0.0 64.7 Electricity forward contracts 1.2 1.3 2.4 1.4 0.7 2.1 Total 255.6 3.7 259.3 66.1 0.7 66.8 Remaining maturities 2010 Remaining maturities 2009 Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years Total < 1 year 1–6 years Total Total foreign exchange forward contracts 333.9 63.3 397.2 129.5 0.0 129.5 Total electricity forward contracts 1.2 1.3 2.4 1.4 0.7 2.1 Total 335.0 64.6 399.6 130.9 0.7 131.6 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 105 37.2. Breakdown of fair values of derivative financial instruments 2010 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.9 0.3 -0.3 -0.1 0.9 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 0.9 0.3 -0.3 -0.1 0.9 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 7.0 0.0 -5.3 -0.4 1.2 Electricity forward contracts 0.7 0.2 -0.5 0.0 0.4 Total 7.7 0.2 -5.9 -0.5 1.6 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Total foreign exchange forward contracts 7.9 0.3 -5.6 -0.5 2.1 Total electricity forward contracts 0.7 0.2 -0.5 0.0 0.4 Total 8.6 0.5 -6.2 -0.5 2.5 2009 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.6 0.0 -0.2 0.0 3.5 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total 3.6 0.0 -0.2 0.0 3.5 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Non-hedging derivative financial instruments < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.4 0.0 -1.2 0.0 -0.8 Electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 0.4 0.0 -1.3 -0.1 -1.0 Positive fair values Negative fair values Net fair Derivative financial instruments total < 1 year 1–6 years < 1 year 1–6 years values Total foreign exchange forward contracts 4.0 0.0 -1.4 0.0 2.6 Total electricity forward contracts 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Total 4.0 0.0 -1.5 -0.1 2.5 106 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 38. Hedge reserve of cash flow hedges 39. Related party transactions 2010 2009 The related parties of Konecranes are associated compaBalance as of 1 January 2.3 0.9 nies and joint ventures, the Board of Directors, the CEO and Gains and losses deferred to equity the Group Executive Board. (fair value reserve) -2.4 1.9 Transactions with associated Change in deferred taxes 0.6 -0.5 companies and joint ventures 2010 2009 Balance as of 31 December 0.5 2.3 Sales of goods and services with associated companies The Group applies hedge accounting to certain large crane and joint ventures 8.5 8.3 projects in which expected cash flows are highly probable. Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 5.6 7.1 Purchases of goods and services from associated companies and joint ventures 0.9 8.5 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 0.0 1.3 Sales to and purchases from related parties are made at the normal market price. Key management compensation The Board of Directors, the CEO and Extended Management Team. See Note 13. of the Consolidated Financial Statements. KOnecranes 2010 Konecranes Group 2006–2010 107 Konecranes Group 2006–2010 Business development 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Orders received MEUR 1,536.0 1,348.9 2,067.1 1,872.0 1,472.8 Order book MEUR 756.2 607.0 836.3 757.9 571.6 Net sales MEUR 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 1,749.7 1,482.5 of which outside Finland MEUR 1,457.4 1,575.1 1,979.6 1,652.2 1,396.0 Export from Finland MEUR 427.2 488.4 700.1 579.8 519.6 Personnel on average 9,739 9,811 9,222 8,005 6,859 Personnel on 31 December 10,042 9,782 9,904 8,404 7,549 Capital expenditure MEUR 22.3 25.7 22.3 25.2 16.3 as a percentage of net sales % 1.4% 1.5% 1.1% 1.4% 1.1% Research and development costs MEUR 21.5 22.0 19.0 16.2 12.5 as % of Group net sales % 1.4% 1.3% 0.9% 0.9% 0.8% Profitability Net sales MEUR 1,546.3 1,671.3 2,102.5 1,749.7 1,482.5 Operating profit (including restructuring costs) MEUR 112.4 97.9 248.7 192.3 105.5 as percentage of net sales % 7.3% 5.9% 11.8% 11.0% 7.1% Income before taxes MEUR 111.3 88.6 236.2 178.8 95.1 as percentage of net sales % 7.2% 5.3% 11.2% 10.2% 6.4% Net income (incl. minority) MEUR 78.2 62.5 166.6 129.2 68.6 as percentage of net sales % 5.1% 3.7% 7.9% 7.4% 4.6% Key figures and balance sheet Equity (incl. minority) MEUR 456.2 407.1 400.7 280.8 223.7 Balance Sheet MEUR 1,175.5 1,060.4 1,205.4 956.9 919.0 Return on equity % 18.1 15.5 48.9 51.2 36.5 Return on capital employed % 24.2 19.3 56.3 50.4 29.5 Current ratio 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.3 1.4 Solidity % 44.7 45.1 39.9 36.1 28.3 Gearing % -3.8 -19.1 2.8 7.0 57.3 Shares in figures Earnings per share, basic EUR 1.35 1.08 2.83 2.17 1.17 Earnings per share, diluted EUR 1.34 1.08 2.82 2.13 1.15 Equity per share EUR 7.64 6.84 6.75 4.80 3.77 Cash flow per share EUR 0.97 3.79 1.82 3.08 1.39 Dividend per share EUR 1.00* 0.90 0.90 0.80 0.45 Dividend / earnings % 74.1 83.3 31.8 36.9 38.5 Effective dividend yield % 3.2 4.7 7.5 3.4 2.0 Price / earnings 22.9 17.7 4.3 10.9 19.1 Trading low / high EUR 19.08/32.04 10.61/22.04 9.90/32.50 20.68/34.90 10.23/22.33 Average share price EUR 23.84 16.66 21.05 27.41 15.04 Share price on 31 December EUR 30.89 19.08 12.08 23.58 22.30 Year-end market capitalization MEUR 1,821.3 1,122.1 713.6 1,379.6 1,322.0 Number traded (1,000) 88,013 113,270 171,519 128,266 114,023 Stock turnover % 149.3 192.6 290.4 219.2 192.3 Average number of shares outstanding, basic (1,000) 58,922 58,922 58,726 59,609 58,383 Average number of shares outstanding, diluted (1,000) 59,274 59,086 58,987 60,507 59,736 Number of shares outstanding, at end of the period (1,000) 58,960 58,813 59,070 58,506 59,285 * The Board’s proposal to the AGM 108 KOnecranes 2010 Calculation of key figures Calculation of key figures Net profit for the period Return on equity (%): X 100 Total equity (average during the period) Income before taxes + interest paid + other financing cost Return on capital employed (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities non-interest bearing debts (average during the period) Current assets Current ratio: Current liabilities Shareholders’ equity Solidity (%): X 100 Total amount of equity and liabilities advance payment received Interest-bearing liabilities liquid assets loans receivable Gearing (%): X 100 Total equity Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share: Average number of shares outstanding Net profit for the shareholders of the parent company Earnings per share, diluted: Average fully diluted number of shares outstanding Equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent company Equity per share: Number of shares outstanding Net cash flow from operating activities Cash flow per share: Average number of shares outstanding Dividend per share Effective dividend yield (%): X 100 Share price at the end of financial year Share price at the end of financial year Price per earnings: Earnings per share Year-end market capitalization: Number of shares outstanding multiplied by the share price at the end of year Average number of personnel: Calculated as average of number of personnel in quarters Number of shares outstanding: Total number of shares treasury shares shares owned by KCR Management Oy KOnecranes 2010 Company list 109 Company list Subsidiaries owned by the parent company Parent Book value company’s Group’s (1,000 EUR) of shares share % share % Finland: KCR Management Oy 8,671 100 100 Konecranes Finance Corporation 46,448 100 100 Konecranes Finland Oy 14,628 28 100 Subsidiaries owned by the group Book value Group’s of shares share % Australia: Konecranes Pty Ltd. 165 100 Austria: Konecranes Ges.m.b.H 218 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 16,833 100 Belgium: S.A. Konecranes N.V. 0 100 Brazil: Konecranes Talhas, Pontes Rolantes e Serviços Ltda. 1 100 Canada: 3016117 Nova Scotia ULC 0 100 Hydramach ULC 0 100 Kaverit Cranes and Service ULC 0 100 Konecranes Canada Inc. 893 100 MHE Canada ULC 0 100 Overhead Crane Ltd. 0 100 Cayman Islands: Morris Middle East Ltd. 0 100 Chile: Konecranes Chile SpA 0 100 Morris Material Handling Chile S.A. 0 100 China: Dalian Konecranes Company Ltd. 1,802 100 Jiangsu Three Horses Crane Manufacture Co. Ltd. 16,793 65 Konecranes (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 3,754 100 Konecranes Port Machinery (Shanghai) Co Ltd 1,834 100 Stahl CraneSystems Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd. 179 100 SWF Hoist (Shanghai) Company Ltd. 591 100 Czech Republic: Konecranes CZ s.r.o. 55 100 Denmark: Aarhus Maskinfabrik A/S 1,744 100 Konecranes A/S 75 100 Estonia: Konecranes Oü 0 100 Finland: Konecranes Service Corporation 2,615 100 Konecranes Software Products Oy 1,014 100 Konecranes Yard IT Oy 4,935 100 Nosturiexpertit Oy 10 100 Permeco Oy 113 100 Suomen Teollisuusosa Oy 3,665 93 France: Bouyer GCP S.A.S. 3,261 100 Bouyer Manutention S.A. 1,516 100 CGP-Konecranes S.A. 1,212 100 KCI Holding France S.A. 461 100 Konecranes (France) S.A. 0 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.A.S. 239 100 Verlinde S.A. 2,782 99.6 Germany: Eurofactory GmbH 1,239 100 Konecranes Holding GmbH 15,262 100 Konecranes Lifting Systems GmbH 804 100 Stahl CraneSystems GmbH 30,776 100 Konecranes GmbH 4,300 100 Konecranes Heavy Lifting GmbH 2,696 100 SWF Krantechnik GmbH 15,500 100 110 KOnecranes 2010 Company list Book value Group’s of shares share % Hungary: Konecranes Kft. 792 100 India: Konecranes India Private Ltd. 435 100 Stahl CraneSystems (India) Pvt. Ltd. 0 100 Indonesia: Pt. Konecranes 139 100 Italy: Konecranes S.r.l. 4,390 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.r.l. 110 100 Japan: Konecranes Company Ltd. 5,141 100 Latvia: SIA Konecranes Latvija 2 100 Lithuania: UAB Konecranes 52 100 Luxembourg: Materials Handling International S.A. 300 100 Malaysia: Konecranes Sdn. Bhd. 701 100 Mexico: Konecranes Mexico SA de CV 2,185 100 Morocco: Techniplus S.A. 2,850 99.9 The Netherlands: Konecranes BV 18 100 Konecranes Holding BV 13,851 100 Norway: EM Automation AS 1,943 100 Konecranes A/S 8,534 100 Konecranes Norway Holding A/S 3,588 100 Poland: Konecranes Sp. z o.o. 810 100 Portugal: Ferrometal Lda. 1,556 100 Romania: Konecranes S.A. 98 100 Russia: ZAO Konecranes 7 100 Singapore: KCI Cranes Holding (Singapore) Pte Ltd 49,117 100 Konecranes Pte Ltd 1,811 100 Morris Material Handling Pte Ltd. 252 100 Stahl CraneSystems Pte. Ltd. 2 100 Slovakia: Konecranes Slovakia s.r.o. 200 100 Slovenia: Konecranes, d.o.o. 200 100 South Africa: Konecranes Pty Ltd 3,355 100 Spain: Konecranes Ausió S.L. 16,299 100 Stahl CraneSystems S.L. 0 100 Sweden: Konecranes AB 1,525 100 Konecranes Lifttrucks AB 25,917 100 Konecranes Sweden Holding AB 1,682 100 Switzerland: Stahl CraneSystems AG 404 100 Thailand: Konecranes (Thailand) Ltd. 99 49 Turkey: Konecranes Ticaret Ve Servis Limited Sirketi 53 100 Ukraine: LLC Firm Kranservice 3 100 JSC Craneservice Ukraine 2,183 100 Konecranes Ukraine JSC 2,048 100 ZAO Zaporozhje Kran Holding 1,042 49 ZAO Zaporozhkij Zavod Tjazhelogo Kranostorenia 459 43.05 United Arab Emirates: Stahl CraneSystems FZE 221 100 Konecranes Middle East FZE 1,774 100 United Kingdom: Axis Machine Tool Engineering Limited 0 100 Bond Engineering (Maintenance) Ltd. 0 100 Electron Services Ltd. 0 100 Konecranes Machine Tool Service Ltd. 2,836 100 K&B Machine Tool Services Ltd. 0 100 KCI Holding U.K. Ltd. 6,821 100 Konecranes (U.K.) Ltd. 7,749 100 Lloyds Konecranes Pension Trustees Ltd. 0 100 Morris Material Handling Ltd. 6,229 100 Stahl CraneSystems Ltd. 0 100 KOnecranes 2010 Company list 111 Book value Group’s of shares share % U.S.A. KCI Holding USA, Inc. 53,901 100 Konecranes, Inc. 39,882 100 Konecranes Nuclear Equipment & Services, LLC 0 100 KPAC, Inc. 1 100 Merwin, LLC 0 100 MMH Americas, Inc. 0 100 MMH Holdings, Inc. 0 100 Morris Material Handling, Inc. 53,464 100 PHMH Holding Company 0 100 R&M Materials Handling, Inc. 6,137 100 Stahl CraneSystems Inc. 0 100 Investments accounted for using the equity method Assets Group’s value share % China: Guangzhou Technocranes Company Ltd 502 25 Jiangyin Dingli Shengsai High Tech Industrial Crane Company Ltd. 313 30 Shanghai High Tech Industrial Crane Company, Ltd. 1,047 28 France: Boutonnier Adt Levage S.A. 296 25 Levelec S.A. 172 20 Manulec S.A. 302 25 Manelec S.a.r.l. 71 25 Sere Maintenance S.A. 49 25 Japan: KITO Corporation 27,630 24.4 Saudi Arabia: Eastern Morris Cranes Limited 758 49 Thailand: Morris Material Handling (Thailand) Ltd. 0 49 Morris Thailand Co. Ltd. 0 49 United Arab Emirates: Crane Industrial Services LLC 888 49 Available-for-sale investments Book value Group’s of shares share % Estonia: AS Konesko 498 19 Finland: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 50 5.26 Fimecc Oy 120 5.69 Levator Oy 34 19 Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 345 3.3 France: Heripret Holding SAS 53 19 Societe d'entretrien et de transformation d'engins mecaniques 0 19 Indonesia: Pt Technocranes International Ltd. 3 15 Malaysia: Kone Products & Engineering Sdn. Bhd. 10 10 Venezuela: Gruas Konecranes CA 4 10 Others: 265 Total: 1,382 112 KOnecranes 2010 Parent company statement of income – FAS Parent company statement of income – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2010 1 Jan–31 Dec 2009 Note: 4 Sales 55,951 47,934 5 Depreciation and reduction in value -1,872 -2,259 6 Other operating expenses -57,754 -42,899 Operating profit -3,676 2,776 7 Financial income and expenses 25,974 2,341 Income before extraordinary items 22,299 5,117 8 Extraordinary items 44,130 47,980 Income before appropriations and taxes 66,429 53,097 9 Income taxes -10,057 -14,365 Net income 56,372 38,732 KOnecranes 2010 Parent company cash flow – FAS 113 Parent company cash flow – FAS (1,000 EUR) 1 Jan–31 Dec 2010 1 Jan–31 Dec 2009 Cash flow from operating activities Operating income -3,676 2,776 Adjustments to operating profit Depreciation and impairments 1,872 2,259 Extraordinary income 47,980 116,295 Other adjustments 136 0 Operating income before changes in net working capital 46,312 121,330 Change in interest-free short-term receivables -11,684 -143,659 Change in interest-free short-term liabilities 8,039 -725 Change in net working capital -3,645 -144,384 Cash flow from operations before financing items and taxes 42,667 -23,054 Interest received 1,539 2,456 Interest paid -230 -100 Other financial income and expenses -96 29 Income taxes paid -8,087 -22,022 Financing items and taxes -6,874 -19,637 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 35,793 -42,691 Cash flow from investing activities Investments in other shares -81 0 Capital expenditure to tangible assets -206 -279 Capital expenditure and advance payments to intangible assets -7,543 -433 Proceeds from sale of fixed assets 0 25 Dividends received 24,300 100,498 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 16,470 99,811 Cash flow before financing activities 52,263 57,120 Cash flow from financing activities Proceeds from options excercised and share issues 1,247 1,650 Repayments of long-term borrowings 0 -5,494 Dividends paid -53,484 -53,277 NET CASH USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES -52,237 -57,121 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 26 -1 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1 2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 27 1 CHANGE OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 26 -1 114 KOnecranes 2010 Parent company balance sheet – FAS Parent company balance sheet – FAS (1,000 EUR) ASSETS 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Note: NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 10 Intangible rights 3,670 3,256 Advance payments 5,864 0 9,534 3,256 Tangible assets 11 Machinery and equipment 795 1,196 795 1,196 12 Investments Investments in Group companies 50,731 50,449 Other shares and similar rights of ownership 515 515 51,246 50,964 Total non-current assets 61,575 55,417 CURRENT ASSETS Long-term receivables Loans receivable 0 7,130 Loans receivable from Group companies 152,646 135,095 152,646 142,225 Short-term receivables Accounts receivable 1,981 107 Amounts owed by Group companies Accounts receivable 15,765 18,055 Advance payments paid 160 0 Other receivable 4 2 14 Deferred assets 44,530 48,129 Other receivables 1,435 485 14 Deferred assets 3,529 3,138 67,403 69,917 Cash in hand and at banks 27 1 Total current assets 220,077 212,143 TOTAL ASSETS 281,651 267,560 KOnecranes 2010 Parent company balance sheet – FAS 115 (1,000 EUR) SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2009 Note: 15 EQUITY Share capital 30,073 30,073 Share premium account 39,307 39,307 Share issue 149 0 Paid in capital 10,473 9,039 Retained earnings 123,868 138,620 Net income for the period 56,372 38,732 260,242 255,770 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Accounts payable 4,521 2,974 Liabilities owed to Group companies Accounts payable 3,365 823 16 Accruals 191 307 Other short-term liabilities 414 374 16 Accruals 12,919 7,312 21,410 11,790 Total liabilities 21,410 11,790 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 281,651 267,560 116 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 1. Accounting principles 6. Other operating expenses The financial statements of the company have been preand personnel Costs and expenses in the Statepared in euro and in accordance with accounting principles ment of Income were as follows: 2010 2009 generally accepted in Finland. Wages and salaries 14.0 11.7 2. Extraordinary items Pension costs 2.5 2.3 The extraordinary items in the financial statements include Other personnel expenses 0.7 1.0 received group contributions. Other operating expenses 40.6 27.9 Total 57.8 42.9 3. Research and development costs Research and development costs are expensed as Wages and salaries in accordance incurred. with the Statement of Income Remuneration to Board 0.4 0.5 Other wages and salaries 13.6 11.2 STATEMENT OF INCOME Total 14.0 11.7 4. Sales In the parent company the sales to subsidiaries totaled The average number of personnel 190 169 EUR 56.0 million (EUR 47.9 million in 2009) corresponding to a share of 100% (100% in 2009) of net sales. Auditors fees Audit 0.1 0.1 5. Depreciation and reduction in value Other services 0.3 0.2 2010 2009 Total 0.4 0.3 Intangible rights 1.3 1.5 Machinery and equipment 0.6 0.7 Total 1.9 2.3 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 117 7. Financial income and expenses BALANCE SHEET 2010 2009 Financial income from long-term 10. Intangible rights investments: 2010 2009 Dividend income from group Acquisition costs as of 1 January 11.4 11.0 companies 24.3 0.0 Increase 1.7 0.4 Dividend income total 24.3 0.0 Decrease -0.5 0.0 Interest income from long-term Acquisition costs as of 31 December 12.6 11.4 receivables: Accumulated depreciation 1 January -8.2 -6.7 From group companies 1.6 2.6 Accumulated depreciation Other interest income 0.0 0.2 relating to disposals 0.5 0.0 Interest income from long-term Accumulated depreciation -1.3 -1.5 receivables total 1.6 2.8 Total as of 31 December 3.7 3.3 Financial income from 11. Machinery and equipment long-term investments total 25.9 2.8 2010 2009 Acquisition costs as of 1 January 4.8 5.4 Interest and other financial income 0.2 0.1 Increase 0.2 0.3 Interest and other financial income total 0.2 0.1 Decrease -0.1 -0.9 Interest expenses and other Acquisition costs as of 31 December 4.8 4.8 financial expenses: Accumulated depreciation 1 January -3.6 -3.7 Other financial expenses 0.1 0.5 Accumulated depreciation Interest expenses and other relating to disposals 0.1 0.9 financial expenses total 0.1 0.5 Accumulated depreciation -0.6 -0.7 Financial income and expenses total 26.0 2.3 Total as of 31 December 0.8 1.2 8. Extraordinary items 2010 2009 Group contributions received from subsidiaries 44.1 48.0 Total 44.1 48.0 9. Income taxes 2010 2009 Taxes on extraordinary items 11.5 12.5 Taxes on ordinary operations -0.4 1.4 Taxes from previous years -1.0 0.5 Total 10.1 14.4 118 KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 12. Investments The Board of Directors decides how own shares will be 2010 2009 repurchased and/or accepted as pledge. Own shares can Acquisition costs as of 1 January 51.0 51.0 be repurchased using, inter alia, derivatives. Own shares Increase 0.3 0.0 can be repurchased otherwise than in proportion to the Total as of 31 December 51.2 51.0 shareholdings of the shareholders (directed repurchase). Own shares can be repurchased to limit the dilutive effects of share issues carried out in connection with pos2010 2009 sible acquisitions, to develop the company’s capital strucInvestments in Book Book ture, to be transferred in connection with possible acquiGroup companies Domicile value value sitions, to pay remuneration to Board members or to be Konecranes Finance Corp. Hyvinkää 46.4 46.2 cancelled, provided that the repurchase is in the interest of Konecranes Heavy Lifting the company and its shareholders. Corp. Hyvinkää 4.2 4.2 The authorization is effective until the end of the next KCR Management Oy Hyvinkää 0.1 0.0 Annual General Meeting, however no longer than until 24 September 2011. Total 50.7 50.4 Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the Other shares and similar rights of ownership 2010 2009 Board of Directors to decide on the transfer of the Vierumäen Kuntorinne Oy 0.3 0.3 company’s own shares: The EGM authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the Pärjä Oy 0.0 0.0 transfer of the company’s own shares as follows: East Office of Finnish Industries Oy 0.1 0.1 The authorization is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 Fimecc Oy 0.1 0.1 shares, which corresponds to approximately 9.7% of all of Total 0.5 0.5 the shares in the Company. The Board of Directors decides on all the conditions of 13. Treasury shares the transfer of own shares. The transfer of shares may be 2010 2009 carried out in deviation from the shareholders’ pre-emptive Number of shares as of 1 January 2,542,600 2,542,600 rights (directed issue). The Board of Directors can also use Decrease -17,840 0 this authorization to grant special rights concerning the Company’s own shares, referred to in Chapter 10 of the Number of shares as of 31 December 2,524,760 2,542,600 Companies Act. However, the authorization cannot be used for incentive arrangements. This authorization shall be effective until the next Annual Proposal by the Board of Directors to authorize the General Meeting of Shareholders, however no longer than Board of Directors to decide on the repurchase and/ until 24 September 2011. or on the acceptance as pledge of the company’s own shares: The AGM on March 25, 2010 authorized the Board of Direc14. Deferred assets tors to decide on the repurchase and/or on the acceptance 2010 2009 as pledge of the company’s own shares as follows: Group contributions 44.1 48.0 The amount of own shares to be repurchased and/or Payments which will be realized accepted as pledge shall not exceed 6,000,000 shares during the next financial year 3.5 2.9 in total, which corresponds to approximately 9.7% of all of Pension costs 0.1 0.0 the shares in the Company. However, the Company together Interest 0.4 0.3 with its subsidiaries cannot at any moment own and/or Total 48.1 51.3 hold as pledge more than 10 per cent of all the shares in the Company. Only the unrestricted equity of the Company can be used to repurchase own shares on the basis of the authorization. Own shares can be repurchased at a price formed in public trading on the date of the repurchase or otherwise at a price formed on the market. KOnecranes 2010 Notes to the parent company’s financial statement 119 15. Equity 16. Accruals 2010 2009 2010 2009 Share capital as of 1 January 30.1 30.1 Income taxes 3.9 2.4 New issue 0.0 0.0 Wages, salaries and personnel Share capital as of 31 December 30.1 30.1 expenses 5.0 3.7 Interest 0.0 0.2 Share premium account 1 January 39.3 39.3 Other items 4.2 1.3 New issue 0.0 0.0 Total 13.1 7.6 Share premium account as of 31 December 39.3 39.3 17. Contingent liabilities and pledged assets 2010 2009 Share issue 1 January 0.0 0.1 Contingent liabilities Increase 1.2 1.6 For obligations of subsidiaries Decrease -1.1 -1.8 Group guarantees 81.4 97.4 Share issue 31 December 0.1 0.0 Other contingent and financial liabilities Paid in capital 1 January 9.0 7.3 Leasing liabilities Increase 1.4 1.8 Next year 1.3 1.2 Decrease 0.0 0.0 Later on 1.0 1.4 Paid in capital as of 31 December 10.5 9.0 Leasing contracts are valid in principle three years and they have no terms of redemption. Retained earnings as of 1 January 177.4 191.9 Dividend paid -53.5 -53.3 Other liabilities 0.1 0.1 Retained earnings as of 31 December 123.9 138.6 Total by category Net income for the period 56.4 38.7 Guarantees 81.4 97.4 Shareholders’ equity as of Other liabilities 2.4 2.7 31 December 260.2 255.8 Total 83.7 100.1 Distributable equity Paid in capital as of 31 December 10.5 9.0 Retained earnings as of 31 December 123.9 138.6 Net income for the period 56.4 38.7 Total 190.7 186.4 18. Nominal and fair values of derivative financial instruments 2010 2010 2009 2009 Fair value Nominal value Fair value Nominal value Foreign exchange forward contracts 0.0 14.2 -0.2 10.0 Derivatives are used for currency rate hedging only. 120 KOnecranes 2010 Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting Board of Directors’ proposal to the annual general meeting The parent company’s non-restricted equity is EUR tors has assessed the solvency of the parent company and 190,712,992.28 of which the net income for the year is the economic circumstances subsequent to the financial EUR 56,371,908.44. year-end. The Group’s non-restricted equity is EUR 380,422,000. Based on such assessments the Board of Directors According to the Finnish Companies Act, the distributproposes to the Annual General Meeting that a dividend of able funds of the company are calculated based on the EUR 1.00 will be paid on each share and that the remaining parent company’s non-restricted equity. For the purpose of non-restricted equity is retained in shareholders’ equity. determining the amount of the dividend the Board of DirecHelsinki, February 3, 2011 Stig Gustavson Svante Adde Tomas Billing Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Kim Gran Tapani Järvinen Matti Kavetvuo Board member Board member Board member Malin Persson Mikael Silvennoinen Pekka Lundmark Board member Board member President and CEO KOnecranes 2010 Auditor’s report 121 Auditor’s report To the Annual General Meeting of Konecranes Plc assessments, the auditor considers internal control relWe have audited the accounting records, the financial evant to the entity’s preparation of financial statements and statements, the report of the Board of Directors, and the report of the Board of Directors that give a true and fair view administration of Konecranes Plc for the financial period in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 1.1.–31.12.2010. The financial statements comprise the the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing consolidated statement of financial position, income statean opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal ment, statement of comprehensive income, statement of control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriatechanges in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes ness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness to the consolidated financial statements, as well as the parof accounting estimates made by management, as well as ent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statestatement and notes to the financial statements. ments and the report of the Board of Directors. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is Responsibility of the Board of Directors and the sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit Managing Director opinion. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial Opinion on the consolidated financial statements statements that give a true and fair view in accordance In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as a true and fair view of the financial position, financial adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of finanperformance, and cash flows of the group in accordance cial statements and the report of the Board of Directors with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws adopted by the EU. and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in FinOpinion on the company’s financial statements and land. The Board of Directors is responsible for the approprithe report of the Board of Directors ate arrangement of the control of the company’s accounts In our opinion, the financial statements and the report of and finances, and the Managing Director shall see to it that the Board of Directors give a true and fair view of both the the accounts of the company are in compliance with the consolidated and the parent company’s financial perforlaw and that its financial affairs have been arranged in a mance and financial position in accordance with the laws reliable manner. and regulations governing the preparation of the financial statements and the report of the Board of Directors in FinAuditor’s Responsibility land. The information in the report of the Board of DirecOur responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial tors is consistent with the information in the financial statestatements, on the consolidated financial statements and ments. on the report of the Board of Directors based on our audit. The Auditing Act requires that we comply with the requireOpinions based on assignment of the Audit ments of professional ethics. We conducted our audit in Committee accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Good We support that the financial statements should be auditing practice requires that we plan and perform the adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the the use of the distributable equity shown in the balance financial statements and the report of the Board of Direcsheet for the parent company is in compliance with the Limtors are free from material misstatement, and whether the ited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Members members of the Board of Directors of the parent company of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the and the Managing Director are guilty of an act or negligence parent company should be discharged from liability for the which may result in liability in damages towards the comfinancial period audited by us. pany or violated the Limited Liability Companies Act or the articles of association of the company. Helsinki, February 3, 2011 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the finanErnst & Young Oy cial statements and the report of the Board of Directors. Authorized Public Accountant Firm The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstateRoger Rejström ment, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk Authorized Public Accountant 122 KOnecranes 2010 Investor information Investor information Shares and shareholders Market capitalization and share trading As of the end of 2010, the total market capitalization of Shares and share capital Konecranes Plc on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki was EUR 1,821 As of December 31, 2010, Konecranes Plc’s fully paidmillion, excluding treasury shares (EUR 1,122 million at up share capital entered in the Trade Register was EUR year-end 2009). 30,072,660, divided into 62,002,120 shares. Konecranes The traded volume of Konecranes’ shares totaled some has one class of shares and each share entitles its holder 88.0 million, which represents 149 percent of the Compato one vote at the Annual General Meeting and an equal ny’s total outstanding shares at the end of 2010. In mondividend. Konecranes’ shares are registered in the Finnish etary terms, this was valued at EUR 2,098 million. The daily book-entry system. average trading volume was 349,257 shares, representing a daily average turnover of EUR 8.3 million. Treasury shares Konecranes’ shares closed the year at EUR 30.89 (EUR As of the end of the year, Konecranes Plc was in possession 19.08 at year-end 2009). The volume-weighted average of 2,524,760 own shares directly (2,542,600 in 2009) and trading price for the year was EUR 23.84. The highest quo517,696 own shares indirectly through KCR Management tation for the Konecranes share was EUR 32.04 in DecemOy, which corresponds to 4.9 percent of the total number of ber, and the lowest was EUR 19.08 in January. shares and which at that date had a market value of EUR 94.0 million. Board authorizations Konecranes conveyed 12,000 Company shares on April The Annual General Meeting held on March 25, 2010 29, 2010 in the form of a sale against contribution in kind. authorized the Board of Directors to decide on the issuance In addition, Konecranes conveyed 5,840 Company shares of shares and the issuance of special rights entitling holdon August 26, 2010 as payment for Board remuneration, in ers to shares. The amount of shares to be issued based accordance with a resolution of the Annual General Meeting on this authorization shall not exceed 9,000,000 shares, held on March 25, 2010. which corresponds to approximately 14.5 percent of all Konecranes announced on December 14, 2010, that it Company shares. The authorization is effective until the acquires all the shares in KCR Management Oy from the end of the next AGM, however no longer than until SeptemGroup executives through a share swap. Through the acquiber 24, 2011. sition of KCR Management Oy, Konecranes Plc received The AGM also authorized the Board of Directors to decide 517,696 own shares. on the repurchase and/or the acceptance as a pledge of Monthly PRICE AND volume on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2006–2010 EUR Number of shares, million 35 25 30 20 25 20 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 06 07 08 09 10 Konecranes OMX Helsinki Industrials Index OMX Helsinki Cap Index Monthly trading volume KOnecranes 2010 Investor information 123 Changes in the share capital Change in number Total number Change in Share capital and the number of shares of shares of shares share capital EUR 1999 March 11, Conversion of share capital into EUR 15,000,000 30,000,000 2002 December 20, invalidation of shares held by the company and reduction of share capital -691,370 14,308,630 -1,382,740 28,617,260 2004 New shares subscribed for with the 1997 stock options 1,400 14,310,030 2,800 28,620,060 2005 New shares subscribed for with the 1997, 1999A, 1999B, 2001A and 2003A stock options 176,000 14,486,030 352,000 28,972,060 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A pre-split and 2003A stock options 286,700 14,772,730 573,400 29,545,460 2006 March 17, 2006 Share split 1:4 44,318,190 59,090,920 0 29,545,460 2006 New shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, post-split 2003A and 2003B series stock options 986,800 60,077,720 493,400 30,038,860 2007 February, new shares subscribed for with 2003B stock options 67,600 60,145,320 33,800 30,072,660 2007 March–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001A, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 833,460 60,978,780 0 30,072,660 2008 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 1997, 1999B, 2001B, 2003B and 2003C stock options 633,540 61,612,320 0 30,072,660 2009 February–December, new shares subscribed for with 2001B and 2003C stock options 260,600 61,872,920 0 30,072,660 2010 February-May, new shares subscribed for with 2001B stock options 129,200 62,002,120 0 30,072,660 the Company’s shares. The amount of Company shares Flagging notifications to be repurchased and/or accepted as a pledge shall not On February 24, 2010, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed exceed 6,000,000 shares in total, which corresponds to Konecranes that its holding had exceeded 5 percent, as HTT approximately 9.7 percent of all Company shares. However, 2 Holding Oy Ab held 3,129,500 shares, or 5.06 percent of the Company, together with its subsidiaries, may not own Konecranes’ shares and votes, on February 23, 2010. and/or hold as a pledge more than 10 percent of the ComOn April 9, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes pany’s shares at any one time. This authorization is effecthat its holding had exceeded 10 percent, as BlackRock, Inc. tive until the end of the next AGM, however no longer than held 6,228,000 shares, or 10.05 percent of Konecranes’ until September 24, 2011. shares and votes, on April 7, 2010. The AGM also authorized the Board of Directors to On June 3, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Konecranes decide on the transfer of Company shares. This authorizathat its holding had decreased below 10 percent, as Blacktion is limited to a maximum of 6,000,000 shares, which Rock, Inc. held 6,181,787 shares, or 9.97 percent of corresponds to approximately 9.7 percent of all Company Konecranes’ shares and votes, on June 2, 2010. shares. This authorization shall be effective until the next On June 23, 2010, Konecranes received a disclosure AGM, however no longer than until September 24, 2011. stating that the combined holdings of HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab, These authorizations are explained in more detail in K. Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab, and Rönthe release covering the resolutions of the 2010 AGM, näs Invest AG had exceeded 10 percent. The combined which can be consulted at the Company’s Web site at www. ownership of the shareholders mentioned in the disclokonecranes.com > Investors > Corporate governance > sure amounted to 6,207,968 shares on June 23, 2010, General meeting > Materials and information on general or 10.01 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares and votes. All meetings > 2010. the shareholders mentioned in the disclosure have stated 124 KOnecranes 2010 Investor information that they will cooperate in matters concerning their holdStock option plans ings in Konecranes. HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab is a subsidiary of Konecranes has two ongoing stock option plans (2007 and Hartwall Capital Oy Ab. 2009) for its key employees, including top and middle manOn July 2, 2010, HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab informed agement, and employees in certain expert positions. Under Konecranes that its holding had exceeded 10 percent, as these plans, 129,200 new shares were subscribed for and HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab held 6,215,568 shares, or 10.02 perregistered in the Finnish Trade Register during 2010. cent of Konecranes’ shares and votes, on July 2, 2010. K. As of the end of 2010, the stock options issued under Hartwall Invest Oy Ab, Fyrklöver-Invest Oy Ab, and Rönnäs Konecranes Plc’s ongoing stock option plans entitle option Invest AG, which have stated that they will cooperate with holders to subscribe for a total of 3,370,000 shares. The HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab in matters concerning their holdings in option programs include approximately 200 key personnel. Konecranes Plc, held 6,357,968 shares on July 2, 2010, For a more detailed description of the option plans, see equivalent to 10.25 percent of Konecranes Plc’s shares Note 29 on Page 95 of the Financial Statements. The terms and votes. and conditions of the stock option plans can also be conOn August 20, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed sulted at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Share inforKonecranes that its holding had exceeded 10 percent, mation > Stock option plans. as BlackRock, Inc. held 6,200,223 Konecranes shares on August 19, 2010, equivalent to 10.00 percent of Shareholders Konecranes’ shares and votes. Konecranes had 12,264 shareholders on December 31, On August 30, 2010, Konecranes received a disclosure 2010, compared to 12,038 at the end of 2009. 44.8 perstating that the holdings of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes cent of the Company’s shares were nominee-registered had decreased below 10 percent, as BlackRock, Inc. held compared to 49.1 percent at the end of 2009. 6,192,571 Konecranes shares on August 24, 2010, equivMore information on the breakdown of share ownership alent to 9.99 percent of Konecranes’ shares and votes. and Board and Management interests can be found in the On September 8, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Shares and Shareholders section on Page 125 of the FinanKonecranes that its holding had exceeded 10 percent, as cial Statements. BlackRock held 6,271,713 Konecranes shares on September 7, 2010, equivalent to 10.12 percent of Konecranes Share trading information shares and votes. Date of listing on NASDAQ OMX Helsinki: March 27, 1996 On November 29, 2010, Konecranes received a disSector: Industrials, Industrial Machinery closure stating that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Segment: Large Cap Konecranes had decreased below 10 percent, as BlackGICS: 20106020 Rock, Inc. held 6,168,494 Konecranes shares on NovemISIN code: FI0009005870 ber 26, 2010, equivalent to 9.95 percent of Konecranes’ Trading code: KCR1V shares and votes. Reuters ticker: KCR1V.HE On December 20, 2010, BlackRock, Inc. informed Bloomberg ticker: KCR1V FH Konecranes that its holding had exceeded 10 percent, as BlackRock held 6,239,140 Konecranes shares on December 17, 2010, equivalent to 10.06 percent of Konecranes shares and votes. On December 21, 2010, Konecranes received a disclosure stating that the holding of BlackRock, Inc. in Konecranes had decreased below 10 percent, as BlackRock, Inc. held 6,099,149 Konecranes shares on December 20, 2010, equivalent to 9.84 percent of Konecranes’ shares and votes. KOnecranes 2010 Investor information 125 Shares and shareholders According to the register of Konecranes Plc’s shareholders kept by Euroclear Finland Oy, there were 12,264 (2009: 12,038) shareholders at the end of the 2010. Largest shareholders according to the share register on December 31, 2010 Number of shares % of shares and votes 1 HTT 2 Holding Oy Ab 6,215,568 10.0% 2 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,074,522 3.4% 3 Gustavson Stig, Chairman of the Board of Konecranes 2,038,490 3.3% 4 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 2,005,275 3.2% 5 Nordstjernan Ab 1,380,024 2.2% 6 Nordea Investment Management 893,213 1.4% 7 Sigrid Juselius Foundation 638,500 1.0% 8 SEB Gyllenberg Funds 604,317 1.0% 9 Handelsbanken Funds 548,310 0.9% 10 Folkhälsan non-governmental organization svenska Finland rf 535,600 0.9% Ten largest registered owners' total holding 16,933,819 27.3% Nominee Registered Shares 27,783,495 44.8% Other shareholders 14,242,350 23.0% Shares held by Konecranes Plc* 3,042,456 4.9% Total 62,002,120 100.0% *) Konecranes Plc is in possession of 2,524,760 own shares directly and 517,696 own shares indirectly through KCR Management Oy. Shares and options owned by the members of the Board of Change in Option Directors and of the Extended Change in Number option ownership Management Team on shareholding of shares % of shares holdings in December % of shares December 31, 2010 in 2010 owned* and votes 2010** 31, 2010** and votes Board of Directors 5,153 2,069,774 3.3% 0 0 0.0% Extended Management Team -270,423 703,291 1.1% 32,800 1,151,000 1.9% Total -265,270 2,773,065 4.5% 32,800 1,151,000 1.9% * Including also the Extended Management Team members’ shareholding in Konecranes Plc after the Share Swap. The new shares have been entered into the Trade Register on January 13, 2011. ** Option holdings are reported as the number of shares that they entitle to subscribe for. Breakdown of share ownership Breakdown of share ownership by the number of shares by shareholder category on owned on December 31, 2010 December 31, 2010 Number of % of Total number of % of shares % of shares and votes Shares shareholders shareholders shares and votes and votes Finnish companies 17.9 1–100 4,558 37.2% 276,503 0.4% Finnish financial institutions 4.4 101–1,000 6,321 51.5% 2,424,406 3.9% Finnish public institutions 9.2 1,001–10,000 1,191 9.7% 3,380,401 5.5% Finnish non-profit institutions 6.0 10,001–100,000 151 1.2% 4,029,703 6.5% Finnish private investors 13.2 100,001–1,000,000 34 0.3% 8,218,209 13.3% Nominee registered shares 44.8 Over 1,000,001 9 0.1% 43,672,898 70.4% Non-Finnish holders 4.4 Total 12,264 100% 62,002,120 100.0% Total 100.0 Source: Euroclear Finland Oy, December 31, 2010. 126 KOnecranes 2010 Investor information Investor Relations IR principles Equity research The main objective of Konecranes’ Investor Relations The following banks, investment banks, and equity research Department is to assist in the correct valuation of the providers cover Konecranes: Company’s share by providing capital markets with information regarding Konecranes’ operations and financial posiABG Sundal Collier tion. Konecranes pursues an open, reliable, and up-to-date CA Cheuvreux disclosure policy, aimed at giving all market participants Carnegie Investment Bank access to correct and consistent information regularly and Danske Markets equitably. Deutsche Bank Konecranes’ Investor Relations Department is responEvli Bank sible for investor communications and daily contacts. The E. Öhman J:or Securities President and CEO, together with the Chief Financial OffiFIM cer, participate in IR activities and are regularly available for Goldman Sachs meetings with capital market representatives. Handelsbanken Capital Markets Inderes Silent period Nordea Bank Konecranes observes a silent period prior to the publicaPohjola Bank tion of its financial statements and interim reports startSEB Enskilda ing at the end of the quarter in question. During this time, UBS Company representatives do not comment on Konecranes’ Ålandsbanken financial position. Konecranes takes no responsibility for the opinions Investor relations in 2010 expressed by analysts. More information on Konecranes Konecranes participated in 6 investor seminars, held 14 as an investment can be found at www.konecranes.com > roadshow days, and took part in over 150 investor meetInvestors. ings in Amsterdam, Dublin, Frankfurt, Helsinki, London, New York, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm, Toronto, and Zurich during 2010. Konecranes organized a Capital Markets Day in Hyvinkää, Finland, on November 23, attended by 60 analysts and institutional investors. Investor contacts Miikka Kinnunen, Director, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2050 E-mail: miikka.kinnunen@konecranes.com Anna-Mari Kautto, Assistant, Investor Relations Tel: +358 20 427 2960 E-mail: anna-mari.kautto@konecranes.com KOnecranes 2010 Investor information 127 Information to shareholders Annual General Meeting Financial reports in 2011 Konecranes’ next Annual General Meeting will be held on Financial Statements for 2010: February 3, 2011 Thursday, March 31, 2011 at 10 a.m. at Hyvinkääsali, Interim report, January–March: April 28, 2011 Jussinkuja 1, 05800 Hyvinkää, Finland. Interim report, January–June: July 21, 2011 Shareholders registered no later than March 21, 2011 Interim report, January–September: October 20, 2011 in the Company’s list of shareholders maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. are entitled to attend the AGM. Konecranes’ annual and interim reports are published in Holders of nominee-registered shares intending to English, Finnish, and Swedish. The Annual Report is availparticipate in the AGM shall notify their custodian well in able in pdf format on the Company Web site and in print advance of their intention and comply with the instructions form. Copies are mailed to shareholders on request; orders provided by the custodian. can be placed through the Company web site. A shareholder wishing to participate in the AGM must All press and stock exchange releases can be connotify the Company (Ms. Laura Kiiski) of his/her participasulted at the Company’s Web site (www.konecranes. tion no later than March 28, 2011: com) and can be received by e-mail by subscribing at www.konecranes.com > Investors > Releases > Order Internet: www.konecranes.com/agm2011 releases. The Annual Report can also be ordered from: E-mail: agm2011@konecranes.com Fax: +358 20 427 2105 (from abroad) Konecranes Plc or 020 427 2105 (Finland) Investor Relations Phone: +358 20 427 2017 (from abroad) or P.O. Box 661 020 427 2017 (Finland) FI-05801 Hyvinkää Mail: Konecranes Plc, Laura Kiiski, P.O. Box 661, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland Phone: +358 20 427 2960 Fax: +358 20 427 2089 Shareholders are requested to inform the Company of any Web: www.konecranes.com > Investors > Reports and proxies for the AGM in connection with their registration. result presentations > Order annual report A sample proxy can be found at the Company’s Web site. Shareholder register Payment of dividend Konecranes shares are covered by the Finnish Book Entry The Board of Directors will propose to the Annual General Securities System. Shareholders should notify the relevant Meeting of Shareholders that a dividend of EUR 1.00 should holder of their book entry account about changes in address be paid for 2010. The dividend will be paid to shareholders or account numbers for the payment of dividends and other who are registered on the record date as shareholders in matters related to their holdings. the Company’s shareholders’ register maintained by Euroclear Finland Ltd. Record date: April 5, 2011 Date of dividend payment: April 13, 2011 Important dates Registration of the AGM opens: February 16, 2011 Record date of the AGM: March 21, 2011 Registration of the AGM closes: March 28, 2011 The AGM: March 31, 2011 Dividend ex-date: April 1, 2011 Dividend record date: April 5, 2011 Dividend payment date: April 13, 2011 128 KOnecranes 2010 Contact details Contact details Konecranes is a world-leading group of Lifting Businesses™, serving a broad range of customers, including manufacturing and process industries, shipyards, ports and terminals. Konecranes provides productivity-enhancing lifting solutions as well as services for lifting equipment and machine tools of all makes. In 2010, Group sales totaled EUR 1,546 million. The Group has 10,000 employees at 578 locations in 46 countries. Konecranes is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki (symbol: KCR1V). Corporate HQ Main production sites Sales and service locations Corporate Headquarters Konecranes plc p.o. Box 661 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 2099 Global Business Area Headquarters Service Equipment Konecranes Service Corporation Konecranes Finland Corporation p.o. Box 135 (Koneenkatu 8) p.o. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland tel +358 20 427 11 tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +358 20 427 4099 Fax +358 20 427 3009 regional Headquarters Americas Nordic, Eastern Europe and India Konecranes, Inc. Konecranes region NeI 4401 Gateway Blvd. p.o. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) Springfield, oH 45502, USA FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland tel +1 937 525 5533 tel +358 20 427 11 Fax +1 937 325 8945 Fax +358 20 427 3009 Western Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia-Pacific Konecranes region WeMeA Konecranes (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. p.o. Box 662 (Koneenkatu 8) No. 789 Suide road FI-05801 Hyvinkää, Finland putuo District tel +358 20 427 11 Shanghai, 200331, China Fax +358 20 427 2299 tel +86 21 6662 9999 Fax +86 21 6363 6145 Corporate responsibility For corporate responsibility matters please contact corporate-responsibility@konecranes.com this publication is for general informational purposes only. Konecranes reserves the right at any time, without notice, to alter or discontinue the products and/or specifications referenced herein. this publication creates no warranty on the part of Konecranes, express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranty or merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. © 2011 Konecranes. All rights reserved. www.konecranes.com
