UN Global Compact Communication of Progress Report by Unilever South Africa May 2011 INTRODUCTION Unilever has been a global signatory to the UN SecretaryEnvironmental Policies General’s nine principles of the Global Compact since Businesses are asked to: January 1999. The principles have since grown to 10 to Principle 7: support a precautionary approach to include Anti-Corruption. Every year, Unilever has been environmental challenges; using its Sustainable Development Report as its Communication of Progress. Principle 8: undertake initiatives that promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of With the establishment of the local UN Global Compact environmentally friendly technologies. network in South Africa under the National Business Initiative, it has become necessary to demonstrate support for the 10 principles from a local reporting perspective. Anti-Corruption This is the second report that Unilever will be submitting. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption The report will show how we are implementing the in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. principles in the South African business. The UN Secretary-General has sought adherence by business to the principles as follows: Human Rights Principle 1: support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. The United Nations Labour Rights Business is to uphold the following labour principles: Principle 3: the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: he effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 2 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT ON UNILEVER SOUTH AFRICA’S COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS Unilever is one of the largest consumer goods companies in the world. For over 100 years now, our brands have been a part of the South African home and we identify the local needs and aspirations of South Africa as our own. It is based on this relationship, and our loyalty to our consumers, that we conduct our business in a sustainable manner. To this end, we have partnered with industry bodies, government, NGOs, educational institutions and local communities to ensure that our small actions together translate into a big difference for our consumers and for the world at large. This report will highlight our efforts in this regard. Our continued submission of the Communication of Progress from Unilever South Africa is intended not only to comply with the UN Global Compact requirement for an annual report, but also to serve as an engagement tool for all of our stakeholders. Our efforts within the ambit of operating as a responsible company have been further defined through the launch of our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. To give impetus to our Sustainable Living Plan, we have set targets for various initiatives, initiatives that strongly echo the principles set out within the UN Global Compact Report. Being a responsible corporate citizen has been strongly embedded into the DNA of Unilever and we are confident that through continued efforts we will be able to increase the scale of impact that Unilever South Africa will be able to deliver. Together with the continued submission of reports of this nature coupled with the right mindset from an internal perspective, Unilever South Africa will undoubtedly be contributing towards improving the lives of South African citizens. Marijn van Tiggelen Chairman, Unilever South Africa 3 our support for human rights Unilever has consistently demonstrated, both on a complaints fairly and speedily without undue cost or national and local South African scale, that day to day burden to them. business processes are very much in accordance with Our corporate vision serves to further validate the legislation that seeks to protect individual human rights. inherent culture that can be found throughout the Stringent adherence is exercised with regard to global organisation: standards and this commitment is solidified within The Unilever Code of Business Principles. We work to create a better future every day The Unilever Code of Business Principles demands an annual sign off and commitment by all employees to work with honesty, integrity and respect for others. It is part of the annual positive assurance that is expected of We help people feel good, look good and get more all heads of business units. It encourages high standards out of life with brands and services that are good of personal behaviour from all employees in their for them and good for others. We will inspire relationships with colleagues, dealings with suppliers, people to take small everyday actions that can add customers, consumers, shareholders and other third up to a big difference for the world. We will parties, and also in the use of Unilever resources. develop new ways of doing business that will allow us to double the size of our company while Unilever South Africa boasts a richly diverse workforce. reducing our environmental impacts. We continue to recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities needed for the work to be performed. These corporate values that have been expressed in the above vision are brought to life through the recently In line with the principles, we do not use any form of launched Unilever Sustainable Living Plan. Included in this child, forced or compulsory labour. Through the Unilever plan are the focus areas of Enhancing Livelihoods and Business Partner code we demand a similar commitment Improving Health and Well-being that position Unilever from all our suppliers and service providers. We also very much at the forefront of corporate responsibility. expect managers to be mindful of ways to support We have realised our efforts to enhance livelihoods employees to fulfil their family and other personal through the establishment of strategic partnerships across responsibilities. Where it is stipulated, the national our Supply Chain where we contribute to the minimum age for work is observed. development of small enterprises around South Africa and in so doing ensure that the livelihoods of South All forms of harassment whether individual or collective African’s are enhanced. and whether based on sex, race, position in the organisation or otherwise are unacceptable and treated In partnership with the Development Bank of Southern as a serious disciplinary offence. Africa (DBSA) and the Accelerated Shared Growth Initiative of South Africa – Eastern Cape (ASGISA-EC) we We recognise the right of our employees to join or not to have established a small holder farming initiative to grow join a trade union. In all of our operations, we seek to and procure paprika for our Robertson’s Spice brand. engage in constructive relationships with recognised Based in Keiskammahoek in the Eastern Cape, an area trade unions and other employee representatives. As per which has an 87% unemployment rate, the programme the country’s labour laws we recognise and negotiate has successfully completed two production cycles and has with local trade unions legally elected by employees on all provided employment to over 200 community members. matters affecting their well-being and labour rights. Unilever South Africa is committed to supporting this In the case of consumers, we have transparent and initiative to make this a sustainable and commercially well-tested procedures in place to address their viable agricultural model thereby increasing the benefit to the wider community. 4 For over ten years Unilever South Africa has worked with Through our work with Government and other Smollan’s to deliver the Unilever Trade Development stakeholders we have helped improve the health and Programme. 4,700 Small general traders around South well-being of South African citizens. We have improved Africa receive regular on-the-job business development, the quality of life by educating communities on the pricing advice and in-store layout guidance to ensure that importance of simple hygiene procedures. Issues their business becomes successful and sustainable. The pertaining to personal hygiene have been addressed by traders also receive a quarterly Trader Value Club Lifebuoy through the Wash Project and Global Hand magazine which ensures the further transfer of skills. Wash Day initiative. We have targeted rural and urban We also recognise the value of partnering with bodies women in South Africa with an educational programme that will enable us to increase the overall scale of our designed to improve their knowledge and understanding impact within South Africa. Unilever South Africa is a of basic hygiene. In 2010 Lifebuoy managed to reach the founding member of the South African Diversity Council following groups with their campaign: (SASDC), part of the National Business Initiative (NBI), 12 230 Schools which has been established to promote black suppliers 5 503 500 Children through the sharing of knowledge, experience and best 253 Paediatricians practice in supplier diversity. We also support SASDC 75 900 Patients member commitments to increase procurement and development opportunities for black-owned suppliers. Below are other organisation that we share partnerships Domestos has also established a community based with in a combined effort to address the national agenda programme in partnership with the Department of Health on various socio and economic issues: and the World Toilet Organisation. Through the World Toilet Day initiative we have gone into areas of high risk in 1. BUSA (Business Unity South Africa) South Africa where diarrhoeal disease is endemic in certain months of the year. To further amplify the Acting as the principal message, Domestos has gone into a school, Sapebusi representative of South African Primary School in Orlando West, Gauteng and refurbished business, BUSA provides expert their ablution facilities. comment to government on the economy, transformation, the national budget and various pieces of legislation. Significant in the past year are the relevant comments Enhancing the quality of peoples’ diets to help improve made on the Consumer Protection Bill, which aims to heart health and tackle both over and under-nutrition is promote fair business practices. key to the work that we have done around nutrition. We have worked with the Heart and Stroke Foundation of 2. Business Trust South Africa to raise awareness of Cardiovascular Disease The Business Trust implements (CVD) and the importance of a healthy diet and lifestyle in programmes and projects in reducing CVD risk factors through our Flora ‘Test the partnership with government to Nation’ campaign. In 2010 we tested the cholesterol levels promote growth, capacity, employment and investment in of approximately 22,000 people across the country. Flora key areas of the economy to combat poverty. has also demonstrated their commitment to a healthier lifestyle by being the main sponsor of the Comrades Marathon. 3. NBI (National Business Initiative) Through our association with the NBI we are able to be at the forefront of aligning All the initiatives we support are intended to entrench the our efforts to deliver against our country’s Human Rights from a broad perspective enshrined in the national agenda. We also have provincial Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. board representation. 5 our support for human rights Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) d) Unilever’s Industrial Relations Strategy, which explains and Diversity the company’s intent to promote good relations between We consider Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment itself and trade unions. an imperative for growth in the economy and within .The objective of good relations with trade unions is a Unilever itself. To this end, the implementation of BBBEE is matter of enlightened self interest. We would like to based on our our commitment, principles and targets to ensure that work disruptions are minimised, management achieve the objectives of the legislation. Based on a is able to run our businesses cost effectively and foundation of years of equal opportunity recruitment, competitively and that all parties comply with ethical diversity programmes, skills development, training and conduct and fair labour practices. Disciplinary and mentorship of employees. In 2010 we achieved a BEE level grievance procedures as sanctions for poor performance 6 verification certificate. would be greatly undermined if there were no good relations between the company and the trade unions. We are dedicated to creating a working environment that We have successfully step changed the level of enables all people, especially women, to become future engagement with all trade unions represented on all of leaders and role models. Our gender representation levels our sites. We have, where possible, influenced bargaining are ahead of industry norms, particularly at senior levels to take place at an enterprise level rather than at a within the organisation, compared with local (JSE listed) sectoral/chamber level. Amongst othnts to maximise the and state-owned enterprises. Since 2005, Unilever South benefits of strong industrial relations, mechanisms to Africa has partnered with SA WomEng, a non-profit settle wage negotiations within mandates and without organisation, which seeks to address the issue of gender work disruptions have been implemented and hopefully inequity in the South African engineering field. will be mutually beneficial to all parties. Upholding the Rights of Workers Our strategic intent as contained in our IR (Industrial Relations) strategy is to build constructive and meaningful trade union relationships and to ensure fair labour practice and compliance The following source documents remain the basis of our industrial relations strategy: a) Basic Conditions of Employment Act where we strive to do better than the minimum requirement of the legislation. b) Sections 23 (1) to (4) of the Bill of Rights in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, which outlines the rights of employers and workers. c) Unilever Business Code of Business Principles, which we get our contractors to sign off, to ensure that they too are compliant with worker rights. 6 7 our APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENT Working across all of our operations and activities and in Some examples of this are: we replaced detergent cartons partnership with government, other stakeholders and the with flexible block bottom pouches. This has removed people who use our products, we continue to do work 4,457 tons of material from the waste stream annually. that seeks to reduce our overall environmental impact in We light weighted our deodorant roll-on caps resulting in the areas of greenhouse gases, water and waste. a polypropylene waste stream reduction of approximately 120 tons per annum. We have introduced plans into each of our manufacturing sites to reduce Co2 emissions from energy alone by 12% by 2015 vs. a 2009 baseline: We moved Omo and Skip 9kg plastic buckets to PET/Pe From a manufacturing perspective we have saved 2,352 flexi-bags which has removed 85 tons of packaging tons of Co2 from waste disposal via our recycling material per annum from the waste stream. We have also initiatives from January 2009 to April 2010. light weighted the Dawn lotion closures saving 13.5 tons of packaging material annually. We have installed energy efficient motors and variable speed drives for our manufacturing equipment in two of We have provided consumers with refills to make it our factory sites which will significantly reduce energy possible to reuse the primary pack, for example: we consumption. In 2010 we installed solar panels at our launched pouch refills for our Sunlight 750ml bottles. This Boksburg manufacturing sites. has removed 37.5 tons of packaging from the waste stream. Refills were launched for our Lifebuoy hand wash liquid which saved 8 tons of packaging. Where possible In addition, 36% of our Ola Cabinets currently installed in our packs have been designed for reuse by consumers. our Ola ice-Cream distributors are climate-friendly (hydrocarbon) cabinets. These new refrigerants are not only better for the environment but last longer and Case Study: Wildlands maintain colder temperatures for longer. Through an existing partnership with the Wildlands Conservation Trust, we have initiated a recycling We are continuously decreasing water usage in our programme that commenced in March 2010. This manufacturing process to meet a 15% reduction target by project encourages communities within rural areas 2015. We have also supported work towards the to collect recyclable goods to be bartered for basic improvement of water quality on a national level. day to day commodities. Through our partnership with the Institute of Water Research at Rhodes University, the Unilever Centre of The projects statastics to date for 2010 are as Environmental Water Quality (established in 2000) aims to follows: leverage government and relevant stakeholders to • Total recyclables collected : 889 850 kg monitor and put in place programmes that improve the • Projected value of recyclable material: R336 707 quality of South Africa’s water. A key initiative that has been borne out of this project is the work that we are • Projected avoided emission impact: 1017 tCO2e currently doing at Boksburg Lake within the Ekhuruleni Municipality. The Centre and Unilever have partnered with Below are the numbers of stakeholders that have the local municipality, community and industry at large to participated in this project: restore Boksburg Lake to its former glory. This year we • Schools: 45 saw the second Boksburg Lake Day take place. It was • Businesses: 62 attended by just over 230 scholars from nine schools in • Waste-preneur communities: 7 the Gauteng area. • Government Departments: 3 • Charities: 3 Unilever South Africa has been reducing the packaging • Residential Areas: 21 material of its brands in a number of different ways. 8 Summary of our Environmental Statistics for 2010 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Employees are required by Compliance Management to The annual Positive Assurance exercise, which is sign off on the policy and to commit that any demand for, monitored by the global Corporate Risk Management or offer of, a bribe or improper advantage must be Office, requires heads of businesses to confirm in writing immediately rejected and reported to management. The compliance, breaches and exceptions to policy that have policy also stipulates that no gifts or other benefits occurred within the year of reporting. including entertaining may be offered to government officials or others of whom we require services, or with Below are statastics from 2010 illustrating our whom we do business, which could reasonably be vigilance within this area of business focus: expected to render advantage to Unilever. The Company Chairman reviews and sets clear limits as to what gifts can be made, taking into account local social custom. All such gifts have to be properly accounted for, recorded and approved by local management. Employees are advised not to expose themselves to a potential conflict of interest by accepting benefits, gifts, favours or entertainment offered by a supplier, customer or other contact which exceeds the common practice associated with usual business conduct. Improper benefits include, among other things, loans, consulting fees, guarantees or any other granting of credit. Any benefit offered on behalf of Unilever to third parties must conform to the Anti-corruption Policy which forbids any form of bribery. The gifts and entertainment policy gives the following guidance to employees: “The issue of gifts is sensitive. Gifts can be seen as bribes. They may be intended to influence decision-makers, or to build reciprocal obligations. Any employee who accepts money, gifts, favour or benefits for an inappropriate purpose or of an inappropriate monetary value will be liable to disciplinary action which in serious cases could result in immediate dismissal on the grounds of serious misconduct or be subject to criminal prosecution under relevant laws.” Case Study: COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Annually we run a volunteer week which enables employees to have one day’s paid leave to spend doing volunteer work in communities. Since we started the programme in 2008, 52 charitable organisations, reaching thousands of disadvantaged individuals, have been touched by this initiative. As part of our charitable giving programme we distribute all of our good obsolete food, products through Foodbank South Africa and our home and personal care products through Gift of the Givers. In 2010 we donated the equivalent of R10 million worth of products and Foodbank SA and Gift of the Gives saw that it reached deserving beneficiaries across the country. Our partnership with the Wildlands Conservation Trust also extends into the realm of community involvement through a project aligned with environmental conservation. This project aims to educate and provide poor children and parents with the tools to grow indigenous trees which are then bartered for goods such as bicycles, school uniforms, school fees, food and clothes. Currently this project spans over 8 communities. During 2010 there were 1,167 individuals growing trees. 195 267 trees were bartered to the value of R1 070 661. Dimensions of Reputation Ratings for Unilever 2010 The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Case Study: THOKOMALA oversees Unilever’s conduct as a responsible multinational business. It is also charged with ensuring that Unilever’s In 2002 Unilever launched THOKOMALA as a reputation is protected and enhanced. Inherent in this is meaningful and holistic response to the plight of the need to identify any external developments which are children left without parents because of the HIV/ likely to have an influence upon Unilever’s standing in Aids pandemic by setting up a community family society and to bring these to the attention of the Board. home housing six children, cared for by a foster mother. This unique, independent and professionally managed orphan care programme The Chief Legal Officer and external counsel report to the was registered as a Section 21 company in 2005 in Committee in this regard and matters are then considered order to leverage partnerships with community by the full Board. The Committee comprises four organisations, government, donors and donor independent Non-Executive Directors: Leon Brittan organizations. THOKOMALA now operates 20 (Chairman), Hixonia Nyasulu, Narayana Murthy and Louise community family homes in six of South Africa’s Fresco. provinces. THOKOMALA which means “warmth” or care” in isiZulu gives orphans of HIV and AIDS and other vulnerable children quality care: A better life, To ensure that it is kept up to date with current and free from the stigma and discrimination emerging sustainability issues, the Committee benefits surrounding HIV infection; and at the same time, from the insights of two groups. The first is the Unilever providing much needed support to counteract the Sustainable Development Group (USDG) – five experts emotional and social scars caused by losing one’s from outside the Group who advise on Unilever’s parents. sustainability strategy. The second is CRISP, the Corporate Responsibility, Issues, Sustainability and Partnerships THOKOMALA is a holistic model in that it not only group of senior executives from across the business. offers shelter, food and care but also the love and nurturing of a normal family environment, essential to raise children to become healthy and The Committee’s terms of reference and details of the emotionally balanced adults. In partnership with Unilever Sustainable Development Group are available on Child Welfare South Africa, other NGOs and local our website at www.unilever.com and international funders the programme aims to provide HIV/Aids infected and affected children with the best possible chance of leading a normal family life. 11 Unilever South Africa : Global Compact Progress Report, May 2010 Unilever South Africa 15 Nollsworth Crescent La Lucia Ridge Office Estate Durban KwaZulu Natal South Africa 4051 Tel: +27 31 570 2000 Website: www.unilever.co.za
