Cooperate Social 2011 Responsibilities MEGA CORP INTERNATIONAL 2010 2011 FOREWORD: Directors’ Statement We are making progress, but not enough. “Learning from our past successes and failures in development co-operation and building, we adopted an ambitious set of reforms: we agreed to develop a genuine partnership, with developed partners in charge of their own developed businesses. We also agreed to hold each other accountable for achieving concrete development results. One year later, we are recovering to review progress and address the challenges that now face us” Ms. Genevieve A. Oluoch Director & CEO. MCI / FED is committed to the principles of Global Compact and Social Responsibility, which has been embedded in our business strategy and reflected in our daily decision making, taking into account the economic, social and environmental considerations: We Support UNGC MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 2 Building Effective and Inclusive Partnerships for Development! Mega Corp Mission Statement: Our aim is to facilitate trade related services worldwide. It is of paramount importance that our services are rendered in a way that our clients can be assured that the safety, speed and cost of any such operation will be to their utmost satisfaction. MCI makes sure that our client’s interests are well served as we are not only their entrusted agents but also their strategic partners. CSR Policy: As a responsible corporate citizen, Mega Corp makes efforts to positively impact the lives of Kenyans. The firm’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy statement and guidelines provide the framework through which it gives to various worthy community causes. Mega Corp’s CSR programmes are premised on the need to conduct business in a socially acceptable and sustainable manner while taking into account the needs of stakeholders and the society at large. The policy focuses on improvement of quality of life, particularly through promotion of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and seeks to improve the quality of its products and services while running an administration striving for excellence with sustainability. In 2002, the Company became a member of the local Chamber of Commerce and the USA Commercial Service, a parameter for investors to analyze the economic, environmental and social aspects. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 3 QUALITY POLICY STATEMENT & PARTNERSHIP TO UN: “Mega Corp International is a member of the United Nation Global Compact and commit to making its principles part of our strategy, culture and day-today operations of our organization and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment both to our members, partners, and collaborators and to the public. We support public accountability and transparency and will report on progress made in a public manner”. DIVERSITY & SUSTAINABILITY: Sustainability means going beyond the norm in committing yourself to the cause at work and in your free time. This is always done with a great deal of creativity, high investment of energy and often has a scant reward. For that reason we have maintained membership in various professional programsspecific Organizations for experiential learning and exposure; introduced innovative concepts with the aim of implementing sustainable development within the company. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: MCI has invested in programmes underpinned by CSR principles, which largely involve investment in and giving back to the communities in which we operate. Besides offering employment to neighboring communities, MCI have gone an extra mile to identify areas and projects where they can partner to uplift the livelihoods of their neighbors. MCI’s corporate and community affairs department is coordinated by its foundation charged with the responsibility of coordinating CRS programmes. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 4 Private Partnership Forum in Kenya: Aid is about building partnerships for development. Such partnerships are most effective when they fully harness the energy, skills and experience of all development actors – bilateral and multilateral donors, global funds, CSOs, and the private sector. MCI resolved to partner with developed partners for support. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 5 FOUNDATION FOR ECO DIVERSITY (FED) Foundation for Eco Diversity is an initiative advocating for change and knowledge, experience and resources to help communities build a better life, with strong commitment to Environmental Conservation and Sustainable Community Development. The Foundation aspires to establish itself as a Regional Environmental Educational Facility. Its objective is to promote sustainable local development and to improve the access of the poor to basic infrastructure and social services. FED is an initiative of Mega Corp International; FED aims at: Promoting initiatives that integrate sound environmental management practices into the national and local development agenda.  Developing capacities of local and national level stakeholders to engage in effective management of the natural resource base.  Supporting community driven initiatives that reduce poverty while promoting sound environmental management.  Supporting initiatives that reduce conflicts and threats to the environment. The support has taken the form of; Initiation of Water and Sanitation Programmes  Active participation in Tree Planting. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 6 MCI /FED lives up to its objective of “Making a Difference”, playing a proactive role in the socio – economic development of communities, in giving back to the community. Although these do not form part of the core businesses of MCI, they have helped in building healthy relationships between the company and our stakeholders as well as helping care for the environment. To do this effectively, MCI/FED reports details of what the company has accomplished in areas of community services. The reports are based on the ethics of good corporate citizenship that demand that company activities comply with the laws and regulations of the land and that its operations do not interfere with the environment and good employment practices. MCI / FED’s driving force is its commitment to enriching and improving the livelihoods of the disadvantaged in society. Over the past five years, UNDP, UNGC, Oceanography, UNEP / UNESCO and UNCTAD including WWF and IUCN has recognized our contribution to society. MCI / FED social agenda is evident in its initiatives of deserving projects as in the “Environmental Conservation and Community Development” issues, encompassing but not limited to:  Organic Agriculture  Renewable energy ( Jatropha Carcus farming)  A forestation  Water and Sanitation  Education – Community Capacity building.  Environmental conservation.  Eco – tourism including income generating activities which address the economic needs of local populations and reduce pressure on natural resources, promotion of sustainable production of non-timber forest products (NTFPs). MCIs CODE OF ETHICS: We are committed to ensuring that our business is conducted in all respects according to rigorous ethical, professional and legal standards. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 7 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT: HUMAN RIGHTS: Principal One: The company has invested in Social Responsibility (SR).Through community sustainable projects that promote diversity and inclusion; to reduce poverty, and advocating against child labour and drug abuse. Principle Two: The company is committed to recruit, develop and retain competent human capital. MCI’s concern with human rights has it committed to supporting and respecting the protection of human rights within its sphere of influence as stated in the Global Compact. Civic Education forum LABOUR: Principle 3: The company respects and applies fair labour practices in accordance with the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization Conventions and other International Standards. We respect the right of all unionisable employees and encourage collective bargaining. To achieve this harmony, MCI has adopted a positive approach towards the activities of trade unions and an open attitude towards their organizational activities MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 8 Principle 4: MCI is a member of notable business forums and encourages its employees to free expression and to trade unions membership. We also promote on merit and encourage treatment of one another with mutual respect and human dignity. It is against the company’s code of ethics to engage in any unfair competition, Child or compulsory labour. The standard also regulates our relationship with clients. Principle 5: The company forbids engagement of children or underage persons or exposure to situations in or outside the work place that are hazardous, unfair or unhealthy. MCI’s deep concern for diversity has developed and participates in and contributes to policies and programmes, which provide for the remediation of children found to be engaged in child labour. Principle 6: MCI is committed to protecting the health & safety and welfare of its employees, contractors and the public and promotes responsible environmental practices. The company does not engage in or tolerate unlawful workplace conduct, including discrimination, intimidation or harassment. ENVIRONMENT: Principle 7: MCI has set a five year strategic goals in its commitment to improve environmental aspects locally and nationally, through sustainable development and project sponsorship. MCI is committed to rehabilitating the natural environment where the operations of the community have negatively impacted on it. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 9 Principle 8: The company conforms to national and international legislation regarding the use and protection of natural resources and other eco-diversity systems of high ecological value. Major achievements in this area have been the reforestation, Water & Sanitation and Sustainable Poverty Reduction Community Projects initiated and running. MCI has also set an investment of US$350,000 for its Alternative Energy Project. We have acquired 300 Ha of which 100 Ha has been set for Biodiesel project and the rest for its other commercial and community based projects. ALTERNATIVE ENERGIES: The company is developing more than 100 ha of Bio – Diesel Plants (Jatropha Curcas) as a pilot project. The company intends to realise1,000 liters daily of Bio-diesel as we start harvesting very soon. We shall be happy to partner with interested parties to realize this dream. Principle 9: In 2007, MCI / FED entered into a Partnership with Arcilla Research of Netherlands to transfer new technology to Kenya for the benefit of the people; to provide low cost housing materials and innovative technologies; based on the utilization of locally-available secondary and renewable resources, resulting in a system that is friendly to the environment (zero carbon and wood-free) and the pocketbook. MCI is engaged and has invested US$ 18,000 in the promotion of transfer of these environmentally sound technologies and is well-positioned to provide targeted support services by reorienting their activities towards targeted interventions of sustainable development that benefits the people. MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 10 TRANSPARENCY: Principle 10: The organization is committed to the principles of good governance and shall ensure that policies, programmes and practices to manage corporate governance are in place to result in compliance. MCI is committed to maintaining the highest standards of integrity & corporate governance practices so as to maintain excellence in its daily business activities that promote ethical and a sustainable business practices. =============================================== =============================================== We Are Committed to UNGC Principles MCI / FED – COP 2010 – 2011 Page 11
