What makes Deloitte different? Deloitte Serbia: UNGC Communication on Progress Report for 2010 1 Contents 3 Basic data; Brief description of nature of business 4 Statement of continued support to UNGC 5 Principles 1 and 2 7 Principles 3, 4 and 5 9 Principle 6 11 Principle 11 12 Principle 8 13 Principle 9 14 Principle 10 15 Availability of Communication on Progress 2 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Basic data Company: Deloitte Serbia Address: Terazije 8, 11 000 Belgrade; Country: Serbia; Contacts: Aleksandra Gregović, MCBD Manager; E-mail: agregovic@deloittece.com; Phone: +381 (0) 11 3812-180; Aleksandra Kolaric , PannonAdria MCBD Director E-mail: akolaric@deloittece.com Number of employees: 150; Sector: Professional services. Date of submission of COP: 21th March 2011 Brief description of nature of business Deloitte is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management and tax services to selected clients. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 3 Statement of continued support for the UN Global Compact As Partners in Deloitte Serbia, we hereby confirm our continued support for the Global Compact. We find the Global Compact to be a valuable tool when working towards upholding social and environmental ethics throughout all links of our work. Signature: For Deloitte Dragana Stanojevic 4 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our commitment or policy Deloitte recognizes that we have a responsibility to uphold human rights in the workplace and to use our influence and reach to foster support for human rights more broadly within society at large. We work to address human rights issues within our community. In the workplace, human rights take the form on non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, professional development that aids employability, and worklife balance. Recruiting and retaining activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 5 Impact day Wishing to demonstrate their commitment to local communities, many Deloitte member firms each year choose a day of the positive impact to the communities where their experts live and work. This is Deloitte’s IMPACT Day, usually organized in October. Activities are defined and organized locally, in order to suit the needs of the local communities. Leaving the office, conference calls and emails behind, Deloitte employees put their passion, determination and skills to use in many different volunteering activities aimed at improving the quality of life in local communities. They take part in a variety of community investment activities: teaching school children, students and unemployed, cleaning public facilities, gardening, providing companionship to the older citizen and like. 6 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Our commitment or policy Deloitte Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 7 Actions implemented CSR Champions The on-going initiative “Corporate Social Responsibility Champions” was started in 2008. CSR Champions are a group of volunteers from every department in Deloitte Serbia office, devoted to developing and implementing CSRrelated activities. People survey Deloitte Serbia, in accordance to global DTT policy, regularly conducts anonymous people commitment surveys to lend a voice to employees through which to communicate with leadership. The people commitment survey gives the employees a chance to state their opinion on various internal and external business issues. Results are collected, analyzed and followed up in each department and problems are addressed in a constructive manner. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants CSR champions On-going 5% People survey Yearly survey (2010) 46% 8 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Principle 6 Business should support the elimination and discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our commitment or policy A part of Deloitte’s global vision – being the Standard of Excellence – is desire to become the employer of choice for the most talented experts around the world. Women make up to 46 percent of total global Deloitte population. Our global goal is to increase the percentage of women among directors and partners. Deloitte is committed to establishing programs in order to develop, mentor and prepare women to be the next generation of global leaders. Elements of future programs will include: • Learning and leadership development opportunities designed specifically for women • Building global networks both internally and externally • More consistent and comprehensive work/life balance structure Deloitte Serbia currently employs approximately 50 percent of women on Manager and Senior Manager Positions. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 9 The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women Deloitte Serbia increased awareness of the principle that Business should support the elimination and discrimination , through the press release The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women. The full report was published on the local web page while the press release was put on the office news board. The Gender Dividend: Making the Business Case for Investing in Women, the first in a series, is a road map for constructing the business case for smarter investments in women. The report lays out the core rationale for why governments and organizations must look to women as key to their economic growth. 10 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Green frog award In order to promote environmental responsibility Deloitte Serbia is trying to increase awareness of environmental reporting by giving an annual award called Green frog. The award is given to a company which has the best annual environmental or sustainability report prepared. We hope that the Green Frog Award will become a symbol of promoting environmental culture among companies in the region. According to Deloitte, annual financial statements of the companies in the region would not be solely limited to the financial implications of the companies' business, although companies prepare environmental and sustainability reports on voluntary basis. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 11 Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Actions implemented Green 4 The Big 4, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Ernst & Young and Deloitte organized a joint volunteer event for introducing greenery and foresting into Ada Huja. Over 100 employees from those 4 companies, together with 15 young researchers, planted 300 seedlings of climbing roses and 20 ash and maple trees. We jointly assumed the motto Green Four wishing to make contribution to the community in which we operate. By means of this joint action of decorating environment, Deloitte intend to provide an example that, despite competition, attaining higher “green goals” could be achieved through joint efforts of market leaders. Measurable results or outcomes Date of completion Percentage of Activity participants Green 4 April 2010 16 % 12 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our commitment or policy We think that each company has a responsibility to minimize the impact of its business on the environment. Therefore, Deloitte Serbia carries out and plans several actions in the “Green dot” programme, aimed at improving our relationship to the environment “Green dot” programme The activities implemented as part of the “Green dot” programme include: • Bins for collecting waste paper in all Copy rooms and open office spaces • Sorting recyclable materials: paper, glass, PET, toners; 2 special bins • Recycling printer toners • Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mail signatures Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Waste paper bins On-going 15 collection units Sorting recyclable materials On-going 100% Toner recycling On-going 100% “Green” e-mail message On-going 75% On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 13 Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Educational programme on the Ethical Anti money laundering Principles of the Member Firms of Deloitte Anti money laundering training is obligatory for all employees. Educational programme on the Ethical Principles is mandatory for all our employees. It is an onOur commitment or policy line education that uses examples and scenarios from the real life, as well as the resource on At the heart of our business culture are the ethical business that can be used by our experts Ethical Principles, adopted by each of Deloitte’s around the clock. Deloitte also provides the member firms and linking directly to our Global independence and compliance surveys, insuring Shared Values. These nine principles define the that our business practice is according to the accepted rules and procedures. standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people of DTT’s member firms. In particular, the In June, the ethics workshop was organized for principles offer guidance about appropriate all employees in order to understand and stay ethical and professional conduct covering areas committed to Ethics. that are critically important to the member firms’ clients, their people and society. The principles All employees were invited to participate in an are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical Behaviour; ethics survey which helped our DTT member firm measure the effectiveness of our ethics Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair program. Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decision-making. Independence compliance confirmation Maintaining compliance with the company’s independence policies is an important part of our professional responsibilities. We take this seriously and are required to confirm annually to DTT that we have complied with all independence policies. Measurable results or outcomes Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Ethics education December 2009 100% New Independence training March 2010 90% Anti money laundering December 20010 100% Ethics survey June 2010 16% 14 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 Availability of COP How does Deloitte Serbia intend to make this Communication on Progress available to the stakeholders? About Deloitte Deloitte is one of the world’s largest professional services organizations, offering a wide range of world-class audit, tax, consulting, and financial advisory services. Our firm is singularly positioned with the scale, scope, and multidisciplinary capabilities necessary to address the most complex business challenges. About Deloitte Central Centr al Europe Deloitte Central Europe is a regional organization of entities organized under the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, the member firm in Central Europe of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu. Services are provided by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Internal and external stakeholders Limited which are separate and independent legal entities. The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Communication on progress will be available on Central Europe Holdings Limited are among the Deloitte Serbia website. region’s leading professional services firms, providing services through more than 3,500 people www.deloitte.com/rs in more than 30 offices in 17 countries. About Deloitte Serbia Internal stakeholders In the Republic of Serbia, Deloitte doo affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte The submission of Communication on progress Serbia is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in will be communicated in internal newsletter four professional areas — audit, tax, consulting, PannonAdria Express and intranet. and financial advisory services — through more than 150 national and specialized expatriate professionals. On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 15 Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/rs/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its Member Firms. © 2011 Deloitte Serbia. All rights reserved. 16 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 On the right course Deloitte Serbia UNGC Communication on Progress Report 2010 17
