Reaching out and touching hearts 2010 Sustainability Report www.kbstar.com About This Report Overview With this, its second sustainability report, KB Kookmin Bank, a leading bank in the Korean financial market, reports to stakeholders on the activities and performance of its sustainability management in economy, society, and environment. By publishing this report annually, KB Kookmin Bank demonstrates its commitment to the active pursuit of sustainable growth with its stakeholders. This report addresses key issues, activities, and core topics of the Bank’s sustainability management. Core topics are selected based on the results of a materiality test, which summarizes opinions gathered from a broad range of stakeholders. This report is provided so that stakeholders may better understand the Bank’s sustainability management. The matters excluded from the key issues are presented in the Sustainability Performance section. Reporting Standards, Period, and Scope This report complies with the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as follows: 1. Materiality 2. Inclusiveness 3. Sustainability Context 4. Completeness This report addresses the major The report identifies the The report outlines the The report reflects economic, issues of economy, environstakeholders and states how background of activities and environmental, and social efment, and society, while includthe Bank responds to their performance in terms of susfects in key sustainability issues ing matters that are crucial to expectations and interests. tainability management. and indicators and is written so stakeholders for evaluation and that stakeholders may underdecision-making. stand the Bank’s performance. The scope of this report is limited to data collected from domestic head offices and branch offices performing major business activities in Korea. Data collected from overseas branches is indicated as such. All descriptions of corporate activity in this report are based on data collected between January 1 and December 31, 2010. So that readers can compare performance across years, the report includes data from 2008 and 2010, as well. Standards of Credibility & Inquiries Content and data verification was performed by an independent agency based on AA1000AS and AA1000APS standards for reporting. The results of this verification process are available on page 60. This report meets the requirements of the writing guidelines of the GRI. GRI Application Levels For more information about this report, visit the website of KB Kookmin Bank (http://www.kbstar. com) and the Data Analysis, Retrieval and Transfer System (http://dart.fss.or.kr), or check the annual reports of KB Kookmin Bank. For inquiries about this report, please contact: Green Business Department, KB Kookmin Bank 10 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu Seoul 150-868 Republic of Korea This 2010 Sustainability Report meets all requirements Tel: 82-2-2073-5797 for the A+ level of the GRI Fax: 82-2-2073-5799 G3 guidelines. E-mail: wisegreen@kbstar.co.kr Website: http://www.kbstar.com Contents A Message from the CEO 02 Company Profile 04 Stakeholder Engagement 06 Sustainability Management Overview 07 Sustainability Issues Changes for Corporate Governance Improvement 12 Sustainable Growth Risk Management Advancement 13 Ethical Management Practice 14 Innovation and Changes 16 Value Creation for Customer Value Creation 20 Sustainable Growth Shareholder Value Creation 25 Employee Value Creation 27 Social Contribution for Socially Responsible Finance 34 Sustainable Growth CSR Activities 37 Green Financing Supports 39 Climate Change Response 41 Mutually Beneficial Relationships 43 Sustainability Performance Economic Performance 46 Environmental Performance 48 Labor and Human Rights 51 Education and Training 54 Product Responsibility 55 Appendix Organization Chart 58 Awards in 2010 Related to Sustainability 59 Management Membership in Associations and 59 Organizations for Sustainability Management About the Cover Independent Assurance Statement 60 The cover conveys KB Kookmin Bank’s GRI Application Level Check Statement 62 progress in developing closer, warmer relationships with all citizens and members GRI Guideline Index 63 of society. Images of butterflies, grapes, UN Global Compact Principles 67 and trees represent the core topics of sustainability growth discussed in this Glossary 68 report: changes, value creation, and social contribution. A Message from the CEO “Change, innovation, and challenge will be key drivers for our sustainable growth” Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Introduction Dear valued stakeholders: I would like to express my gratitude to you for your unwavering support and encouragement for KB Kookmin Bank. In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank made significant strides in fundamental management innovation as it confronted the uncertainties caused by the lingering effects of the global financial crisis and unstable corporate governance. Thus, we Changes laid a firm foundation for yet another leap forward and for further sustainable growth by realigning the management structure, reducing the size of the organization, and streamlining marketing channels to be more customer-oriented. Additionally, we endeavored to fulfill our responsibilities in corporate citizenship, and as a leading bank in Korea, through well-organized CSR activities and industry-leading green management. We have now arrived at a moment when we can examine the last decade, as well as devise our plans for the coming decade. To grow along with all of our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees, and local commuValue creation nities, and to become a global bank leading the Asian financial industry, KB Kookmin Bank will pursue the following three core tasks: First, we will restore profitability and earn greater confidence in the market with substantial, qualitative growth. In 2010, we strove to improve asset quality and management efficiency. Based on this, we will continue to optimize our risk management, reinforce our performance-based compensation system, and boost our marketing activities to achieve remarkable performance in profitability and asset growth. In doing so, we will concentrate not only on improvSocial contribution ing our performance indicators such as asset soundness, but also on reinvigorating our field-based sales. Second, we will create value through changes and innovation for sustainable growth. As a countermeasure to the rapid changes of the financial market, and to sharpen internal competitiveness, KB Kookmin Bank persists in its pursuit of innovation in all guidelines and systems, thereby building on the progress we made in 2010. Additionally, building on the pride we take in our award-winning customer satisfaction for the last five consecutive years, we will raise customer value beyond mere customer satisfaction by fostering unrivaled professional talent. We will also secure our long-term growth engines by revitalizing investment in smartphone banking services, wealth Performance management, and next-generation customer services, thereby maximizing our shareholder value. Third, we will enhance our CSR activities to develop closer, warmer relationships with all citizens and members of society. KB Kookmin Bank has long actively supported the needy with a variety of financial assistance programs and donations, and it has consistently expanded its CSR activities. We have contributed to the development of a culture of sharing by establishing the KB Microfinance Foundation to provide assistance to financially marginalized and underprivileged groups. Looking ahead, we will expand our roles in the development of society, nurturing warm relationships with all citizens of Korea and the world. We will also lead the way in the nation’s “lower carbon, green growth” initiative by playing an essential role in green financing and management activities. All of us at KB Kookmin Bank continue in our endeavors to achieve outstanding economic value, created through the most-efficient management, as well as fulfilling to the greatest possible extent the environmental and social responsibilities of the age. I am looking forward to your continued support and encouragement during the year ahead. Thank you. Min, Byong Deok President & CEO 23 Company Profile Overview KB Kookmin Bank is a leader in the Korean banking industry in terms of asset size and the number of customers. Since its rebirth in 2001 through the merger of former Kookmin Bank and the Housing & Commercial Bank, KB Kookmin Bank has led the market with a range of innovative products and services, including the world’s first mobile banking service. The Bank provides a variety of customer services including industry-leading retail financing, corporate financing, investment banking, private banking, and trust and pension services. KB Kookmin Bank seeks opportunities to expand the scope of its business operations by entering more overseas markets, especially Asian countries. KB Kookmin Bank has received the highest credit ratings of all Korean banks from the world’s renowned credit rating agencies, demonstrating its stable financial condition. In addition to this outstanding financial stability, the Bank continues to create economic value by providing market-leading products and services to customers. The Bank also makes every effort to fulfill its responsibilities in corporate citizenship, creating social and environmental value through consistent sustainability management, thereby becoming a global bank leading the Asian financial industry. Overseas Network Domestic Network Seoul 455 Gangwon-do 15 Gyeonggi-do Incheon 267 60 ChungcheongChungcheongbuk-do Gyeongsangnam-do 19 buk-do 30 31 Daejeon 40 Daegu Ulsan 16 54 Jeollabuk-do 19 GyeongsangBusan Gwangju nam-do 78 28 37 Jeollanam-do 18 Jeju 6 Scale & Status KB Kookmin Bank’s network includes 1,173 offices Major Management Indicators nationwide, including the head office in MyeongEstablishment November 1, 2001 dong, Seoul. The Bank has 22,580 officers and emCEO Min, Byong Deok ployees serving more than 26 million customers. No. of Branches* 1,173 No. of Employees** 22,580 KB Kookmin Bank operates six overseas branches in No. of Customers* 26.4 million Tokyo, New York, Auckland, Guangzhou, Harbin, and Total Assets* KRW 255 Trillion Suzhou; three subsidiaries in Hong Kong, London, ROE 13.44% and Phnom Penh; and two liaison offices in Kiev and Net Income KRW 11.2 billion Ho Chi Minh City. The liaison office in Ho Chi Minh City will be upgraded to a branch office in June 2011, * As of December 31, 2010 ** Including executives and heads of divisions, and while a branch will be launched in Osaka in the secexcluding local employees at overseas subsidiaries and branches ond half of the same year. The Bank is also preparing to open liaison offices in Mumbai and Hanoi. Additionally, the Bank holds a 41.9% share, including convertible preferred stocks, in Bank CenterCredit (BCC) in Kazakhstan. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Introduction Ownership Structure Established as a corporation in 2001 through the merger of former Kookmin Bank and the Housing & Commercial Bank, KB Kookmin Bank became part of KB Financial Group, Inc., which was converted to a holding company in 2008. After its establishment, KB Financial Group, Inc., was listed on the stock market in 2008 through a comprehensive stock transfer from its major subsidiaries, including KB Kookmin Bank, KB Investment & Securities, and KB Credit Information. KB Financial Group Inc. is the legal owner of KB Kookmin Bank, possessing 100% of the shares of the Bank. Changes KB Financial Group Organizational Chart Value creation KB Kookmin KB Investment KB Life KB Asset KB Real KB KB KB Credit KB Data Bank & Securities Insurance Management Estate Trust Investment Futures Information Systems 100% 100% 51% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Kookmin Kookmin Burrill-KB KoFC KBIC Social contribution KB Cambodia KB I&S KB Glenwood NPS-KBIC KBIC No.3 Bank Hong Bank InternaLife Science FrontierChamp PLC. Hong Kong Ltd. PEF No.1 PEF No.1 PEF Kong Ltd. tional Ltd. PEF 2010-5 PEF 53.19% 100% 0.03% 2.56% 2% 100% 100% 35.53% 20% Major Products and KB Kookmin Bank develops and sells deposits, loans, foreign exchange, credit cards, funds, Services trusts, and bancassurance products for retail and corporate customers. Additionally, the Bank provides PB services, as well as diverse services for corporate customers in project financing, Performance asset management, and consulting. Project Bonds Financing Deposit Corporate BancassuFund Corporate rance Management Trust Loans Consulting Funds / RM Credit Loans Cards Foreign Exchange B2B Private e-Payment Banking 45 Stakeholder Engagement Collection and Reflection KB Kookmin Bank communicates with different stakeholders by capitalizing on its organizaof Stakeholders’ Voices tional structure, which is characterized by a division into head offices and branch offices. The Bank obtains diverse feedback through activities that suit the features of each channel. It also endeavors to clearly understand the concerns of stakeholders and to take action accordingly. The Bank holds regular meetings and surveys by stakeholder group in order to collect their opinions. In 2010, it held meetings to gather views from its business partners and collected detailed views from surveys. Survey topics included customer satisfaction, the attitude of employees, and ethical management. KB Kookmin Bank has been charting a course for sustainability management based on stakeholders’ opinions. Through collection and analysis of stakeholder opinions, the Bank has identified a wider variety of risks and opportunities. The Bank has selected some of these opinions based on their potential effect and materiality and has reflected them in its vision and strategies for sustainability management. Additionally, the Bank has increased its understanding of government policies and global trends in sustainability management by holding discussions with the government and joining initiatives related to sustainability management. Major Channels by Stakeholders Major channels Common channels Stakeholder Customers Surveys, customer briefings, VOC Shareholders IR presentations, disclosure, earnings releases Labor-management Council, newsletter, Employee GrievHomepage, sustainability Employees ance Center, employee satisfaction survey report, newsletter Local communities CSR volunteer team, local surveys Suppliers Satisfaction survey, informal gatherings, council Materiality Test KB Kookmin Bank conducted a materiality test to manage and report major issues related to and Issue Management sustainability management. The test used a structured approach illustrated below to identify the most important issues in 2010 to be addressed in this report. After being selected, major issues were finally classified into three core topics to abide by the sustainability management vision and mission. The results of the test are included in this report. 1. Confirmation of Internal Issues 2. Confirmation of External Issues 3. List up of Issues Employee interview, Media analysis, Internal/external issues association management strategies benchmarking and frequency Internal Issues External Issues Combined Issues Economic performance, Economic performance, Economy Economy I1 CS, CRM, customer value, etc. corporate governance, etc. corporate governance, changes, etc. Society Education, welfare, early retirement, etc. Society Microfinance, CS management, etc. I2 Sales, financial stability, etc. Environment Green financing, green management , etc. Environment Climate changes, green financing , etc. … … 4. Evaluation of Major Issues 5. Selection of Major Issues Global standards, Effects on the Bank, business effects social interest Social Concern Global 5 Index standard Peers Media Index Strategies Finance Risk Major issues 4 11 11 MI1 Customer value 12 + 12 3 MI2 Shareholder value 2 13 13 … … 1 Business Impact MI12 Mutual beneficiaries 1 2 3 4 5 Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Management Overview Introduction KB Kookmin Bank grows with consistent value creation, changes, and innovation. The Bank also pursues sustainability management for financial services that contributes to the sustainable development of the society as a whole. Vision KB Kookmin Bank aims to become a leading global bank. To achieve this aim, it is creating outstanding economic value and fulfilling its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen by cherishing the core values of community relations, integrity, and environmental conservation. Changes Mission Statement KB Kookmin Bank is taking the initiative in preserving natural beauty and balanced social development through the following: • transparent management and risk management • green financing and active countermeasures to climate change • sustainability management with the utmost consideration for customers, local communities and employees Sustainability Framework Value creation In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank selected three core topics and their accompanying strategic issues to and Outcomes achieve its sustainability vision and mission. The three core topics include changes for sustainable growth, value creation for sustainable growth, and social contribution for sustainable growth. The Bank established a firm basis for sustainable growth through changes and innovations in corporate governance, streamlining risk management, and enhancing transparent management. AdSocial contribution ditionally, the Bank sought sustainable growth by creating value in its customers, shareholders, and employees alike, thereby creating a virtuous business cycle. Externally, the Bank also contributed to the sustainable development of the entire society through socially-responsible financial services, as well as various social contribution and green financing activities, response to climate change, and mutually beneficial business relations with suppliers. This report covers all efforts and approaches that KB Kookmin Bank made in 2010 regarding sustainability management. They are classified into core topics, key issues, and activities and performance. Hereafter, the Bank will continue striving to achieve its vision and mission in sustainability managePerformance ment through revision of related guidelines and thorough monitoring of business operations. 6. Selection and Management of Core Topics Determination of reporting contents Sustainability Framework Three Core Topics Key Issues Changes for 1. Corporate governance improvement or sustain Sustainable Growth 2. Risk management advancement tion f abl r ea eg ec ro 3. Ethical management practice lu Va Shareholders w 4. Innovation and changes th Customers Employees Value Creation for 5. Customer value creation Changes for Sustainable Growth 6. Shareholder value creation sustainable 7. Employee value creation growth Local Suppliers communities Social Contribution 8. Socially responsible finance gr for Sustainable Growth ci Environment ow 9. CSR activities Soal th co ntr ble 10. Green financing supports na ibu tion for sustai 11. Climate change response 12. Mutually beneficial relationships 67 Changes for Sustainable Growth Value Creation for Sustainable Growth Social Contribution for Sustainable Growth Sustainability Issues DMA – Disclosure on Management Approach Changes for Sustainable Growth Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues KB Kookmin Bank ensures solid, stable sustainability management through continual improvements to its system of corporate governance, enhancements to the transparency of its management, and consistent innovation Sustainability Framework Approach KB Kookmin Bank is aware of the indispensable role of innovation and change in its sustainable growth. With the core values of independent r ation fo sustainab corporate governance and proactive risk management, the Bank fosters cre l eg lue ro Va Shareholders w th a culture of innovation and improves the efficiency of its management. It continues to strive toward its goal of becoming a global leader among Customers Employees Changes for banks in social responsibility and corporate citizenship. sustainable growth Local Suppliers communities Environment th Key Issues & Activities Soc ia w o lc gr on le trib ab u tion for sustain Improvements • More independence for the organs of governance through a greater separation in Corporate between the roles of the CEO and the chairman of the BOD Governance • More efficient decision-making with power granted to the committees of the BOD • Improved risk-management governance with a more precisely defined role for risk Advancemanagement consultative bodies ments in Risk • Balance between risk and returns through the expanded role of a framework for Management risk-adjusted performance measurement • Proactive risk management through scenario-based analysis Enhanced • More efficient internal control through an integrated compliance support system Ethical Management • Stronger ethical awareness through a system for self-diagnosis in ethical management Improvements in the • Management innovation through the implementation of the “Deep Change ManEfficiency of agement” campaign Management Key Performance Classification 2008 2009 2010 Corporate governance indicator Ratio of outside directors 57.1 % 57.1 % 55.6 % Ratio of BOD attendance 89.2 % 93.6 % 91.5 % Risk management indicator No. of Risk Management Committee meetings 8 5 7 Internal control indicator No. of participants in ethical management online All employees All employees All employees education (in persons) offline 15,639 9,968 8,384 No. of corruption incidents 0 0 0 10 11 What efforts does the Bank pursue to improve corporate governance? Q1 A1 The Bank is enhancing the transparency of its corporate governance by ensuring the independence of the BOD and revitalizing the activities of its committees. KB Kookmin Bank considers the BOD to be its highest organ of governCommittee, within the BOD. Each committee includes outside diance, thus guaranteeing that the Bank will be managed in the most rectors whose role is to maximize the efficiency and expertise of professional and transparent manner. In 2010, the Bank more clearly decision-making processes. delineated the roles of the chairman of the BOD and the CEO, thereby reinforcing the independence of the BOD. Through continual improveAudit Committee ments in corporate governance, the Bank clarifies its corporate values The Audit Committee consists of at least two outside directors and and defines its decision-making processes. at least one executive director. At least one of these directors an expert in accounting or finance who thereby fulfill the requirements stipulated in related regulations and the Articles of Incorporation. The Audit Committee manages internal auditing processes for fiBoard of Directors nance, compliance, operation, management, and information techAs part of its program to strengthen the independence of the BOD, nologies. These processes range from audit planning and execution to KB Kookmin Bank created the position of chairman of the BOD and evaluation, follow-ups and suggestions for improvement. The commitassigned the new chairman some of the responsibilities that had tee also has power to intervene if directors or members of managebeen held by the CEO. This new position reinforced the system of ment violate or attempt to violate the regulations and guidelines of checks and balances within the BOD as well as the transparency the Articles of Incorporation; in such cases, the committee immediof corporate governance. ately requests that the Board of Directors convene to prevent adverse effects. The Committee also evaluates and suggests improvements Composition of the BOD for the design and operation of internal control systems. It further The BOD consists of three executive directors and five outside directors. provides guidelines for ethical management practices by compiling An Outside Director Nomination Committee screens candidates for outside internal reports on problems in accounting and by enacting, revising, directors to ensure that they adhere to standards of professionalism and preor abolishing articles in the Code of Ethics. vents potential conflicts of interest by enforcing transparent election procedures. Once these procedures are complete, directors are appointed at the Risk Management Committee general shareholders’ meeting. The Risk Management Committee provides strategies and guidelines for risk management and oversees their implementation to Performance evaluation and compensation identify, measure, monitor, and control risks that may occur during To improve the independence of the BOD’s decision-making proctransactions in the most timely manner possible. esses, in 2010 KB Kookmin Bank established the Evaluation & Compensation Committee. With this committee at the helm, the Evaluation and Compensation Committee Bank evaluates the performance of its top management with clearSince its introduction in March 2010 under the BOD, the Evaluation ly defined criteria and then discloses the results of those evalua& Compensation Committee has designed a compensation systions. Thus, the Bank reinforces the role of the BOD as guarantor tem for top management and other significant personnel who afof the corporate system of checks and balances and provides a fect Bank-wide risk factors. In doing so, the Committee has linked mechanism for the company to focus on long-term growth rather the compensation system to risk management. Using criteria for fithan short-term outcomes. nancial status and risk management issues, it has also deliberated and evaluated the adequacy of its compensation system. Differing annual evaluation and compensation systems are applied to BOD members and top management. Committees KB Kookmin Bank operates three committees, including the Audit Board of Directors* Governance and Board Meetings Classification Name Title Min, Byong Deok • President & CEO, KB Kookmin Bank Shareholders’ Meeting Cheong, Yong Hwa • Chief Audit Executive, KB Kookmin Bank Appointment Report Executive directors • Senior Vice President, KB Kookmin Bank BOD Kim, Ok Chan • Member, Risk Management Committee • Member, Evaluation & Compensation Committee Non-standing • Deputy President & CFO, KB Financial Group Inc. Yoon, Jong Kyoo director • Member, Risk Management Committee Risk Management Evaluation & Com• Partner, Horwath Choongjung Accounting Firm Audit Committee Koo, Tae Jin Committee pensation Committee • Chairman, Board of Directors • Former Vice President, Korea Housing Finance Corporation Park, Jae Hwan • Member, Risk Management Committee • Member, Evaluation & Compensation Committee Committee No. of Opening • Professor, Seoul National University Department of Economics Non-executive Kim, In June • Chairman, Audit Committee Audit Committee 17 directors • Member, Evaluation & Compensation Committee • Dean, Gyeongsang National University’s College of Social Science Risk Management Committee 7 Kim Hong Bum • Member, Risk Management Committee • Member, Audit Committee Evaluation & Compensation Committee 5 • Lawyer, Jungsang Law Firm Park Yo Chan • Member, Evaluation & Compensation Committee In 2010, the BOD convened 21 times to discuss major management issues. Regular BOD meetings are held • Member, Risk Management Committee every quarter, while extraordinary board meetings are held upon the request of directors and committees or with the agreement of the chairman of the BOD. * As of the end of 2010 Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues What activities does the Bank carry out to improve risk management? Q2 A1 The Bank has amended its risk management guidelines and policies to instill the concepts of risk management into its corporate culture. KB Kookmin Bank considers risk management to be the most impornew strategic investment, the Bank introduced a pre-approval proceIntroduction tant means of achieving sustainable returns. With this emphasis, it dure to the Risk Management Committee. It also empowered the inculcates a risk-aware culture throughout its corporate operations, Risk Management Council with approval authority for new, high-risk thereby constantly reinforcing and improving its risk management sysproducts. By doing so, the Bank has strengthened its control over risk tem and governance. factors in new investment and high-risk products. In addition, the Bank enhanced communication and control processes between councils by requiring the Financial Strategy Council and Loan Review Committee to report to the Risk Management Developing a Risk-aware Culture Committee on their activities, especially pertaining to ALM risk Through implementation of techniques for risk management in all management. Changes business processes from planning to performance evaluation, KB Kookmin Bank is developing a risk-aware culture in its daily operations. Integrated response system for risks In 2010, as part of a program to prevent the spread of risk within the Business plans emphasizing risk management Bank and implement a system of countermeasures, the Bank inauguLinking business strategies with risk management, the Bank prorated a Credit Risk Department under the Risk Management Division. vides guidelines for its internal business plans as well as the plans of The Department is in charge of bank-wide loan portfolio management. the business group that take into account the economic forecast and Value creation predicted major risk factors for the coming year. Thus, with business plans that emphasize risk management, the Bank demonstrates the Proactive Risk Management crucial role of risk management in the development of business. In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank implemented systems to control sysExpanded risk-adjusted performance measures temic risks in its credit/loan portfolio and strengthened its proacKB Kookmin Bank has introduced Risk-Adjusted Performance tive risk management system. Measurement (RAPM) as part of its Key Performance Indicators Systemic risk management system implemented Social contribution (KPIs). These indexes are part of the wider program to implement a risk-aware performance evaluation system and thereby improve In its efforts to adapt quickly to changes in the global financial enthe asset quality of its loan portfolio. In 2011, the Bank is also exvironment, the Bank is implementing scenario-based integrated panding the metrics for Risk Adjusted Return on Capital (RAROC) contingency plans to reduce market risks, including effects from in the KPIs, which reflects credit premiums and the cost of capital the European financial crisis, interest rate fluctuations, declining in expenses, in the evaluation of branch operations, thereby conreal estate values, and fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. tributing to substantial growth based on real returns. Moreover, the top echelons of management receive reports on the results of analysis for effects on core financial indicators, including income and loss from credit, markets, and interest, risk-reduction provisions, delinquency rates, and capital adequacy. Performance Risk Management Governance Improved KB Kookmin Bank has reshuffled risk management organization Credit portfolio management system launched and established a policy regarding pre-approval of the Risk ManAs part of efforts to assemble a portfolio that achieves the optiagement Committee for new strategic investment. This newly mum balance between risk and return, KB Kookmin Bank is develintegrated risk management system enables the Bank to prevent oping a credit portfolio management system to support decisionpotential risks enterprise-wide. making processes for asset allocation. It is also outlining detailed guidelines for credit risk management, particularly regarding the Identification of the roles of the Risk Management Council arbitrary decision-making authority of sales and credit analysis In 2010, as part of efforts to enhance decision-making processes for committees, as well as loan reviews and interest rate adjustments. Risk Management Advancement Direction Risk Management Governance Developing risk-aware Financial Market Risk culture Strategy Management Council ALM risk reports Sub-committee Chairman of Core Data Risk Risk manRisk ManageQuality ManBOD Management agement ment Council agement SubCommittee advance: CRO committee ment Improving Proactive risk manActivities reports Credit Risk risk manageagement Loan Review Management ment governance Committee Sub-committee 12 13 What activities does the Bank undertake to enhance its ethical management? Q3 A1 The Bank provides a comprehensive set of internal controls to prevent regulatory and financial incidents. These include an integrated compliance support system and stronger pre-deliberation and monitoring activities. KB Kookmin Bank provides a comprehensive set of internal controls Inspection to Ensure Compliance and Fulfillment to prevent regulatory and financial incidents. The Bank is implementing an Anti-Money Laundering (AML) system that complies with gloCompliance guidelines for overseas branches bal standards. Additionally, all of the Bank’s business operations are In addition to its support for the compliance of domestic branches, monitored as part of a standards compliance program. the Bank provides Overseas Branch Compliance Guidelines and an internal control system for overseas branches. Through KBWiseNet, the guidelines are continually updated to reflect opinions gathered from employees. In 2010, the Bank conducted on-site Integrated Compliance Support System inspection of internal control systems and on-site education semiAs capital markets develop, the risk of regulatory and financial incidents nars at its Suzhou and Harbin branches. increases. To deal proactively with this intrinsic risk, KB Kookmin Bank has developed systems for AML risk management and compliance Reports of transaction records for financial investment products support (CIS). This integrated system allows the Bank to provide more To prevent unfair transactions, Bank employees are required to report efficient internal controls for crime prevention and compliance. all transaction records for financial investment products. With this requirement, the Bank not only prevents financial incidents, but also conReinforced internal control system tributes to the broader development of a fair and transparent society. The internal control system consists of four phases internally and externally. Any improper conduct, including misappropriation, Investor protection strengthened theft, bribery, or misbehavior that leads to losses, leaks of cusIn compliance with the Capital Market and Financial Investment tomer information, and violations of the Act on Real Name FinanBusiness Act, the Bank implements an investor protection procial Transactions and Guarantee of Secrecy, must be reported. All gram. The Bank verifies whether the investor protection program is reported cases are treated with due legal process. operating at its best level and monitors the level of compliance at counters where financial investment products are brokered. <Four Phases of Internal Control> Phase Internal Control Supervisory body 1st Autonomous control Business group Commitment to Combating Money Laundering Compliance Support 2nd Control by an internal control support department Department In addition to the integrated compliance support system, KB Kook3 rd Control evaluation by an internal control evaluAuditing Department min Bank operates a world-class Anti-Money Laundering (AML) ation department system. The Bank also fulfills its responsibility to guarantee the Financial Supervisory 4th Control evaluation by a supervisory body Service transparent management of customer assets. Through the AML education program, internal control managers and all other employees pursue strategies to ensure Customer Due Diligence (CDD) and immediately report suspicious transactions. The Bank holds Expanded Pre-deliberation and Monitoring periodic education and special inspections at its headquarters and In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank strengthened the pre-deliberation prochigh-risk branches, including private banking centers and branches ess for its major business operation, including processes for financial that specialize in corporate banking. product development and disclosure of management practices. The Bank began using pre-deliberation for advertising materials and financial product manuals, and it added to the Terms and Conditions those business operation areas that require pre-deliberation. To comply with recent amendments to the Banking Act, the Bank also A Phased Approach to Internal Control added to the Terms and Conditions those business areas which require the pre-deliberation of a compliance officer, thereby clearly defin4th Phase ing the scope of pre-deliberation and monitoring activities. 3rd Phase Control evaluation by 2 Phase nd Evaluation of internal the Financial Supervicontrol by an auditsory Service 1st Phase Control by a ing department Autonomous control compliance support by business group department with Employee Awareness of Internal Controls with responsibility of responsibility for top management each group’s SEVP To encourage the voluntary participation of all employees in complying with internal control and ethics, KB Kookmin Bank impleSelf ments a variety of education programs. The Bank provides e-traininspection CSA* for ing programs in ethics and compliance to all employees, regardless operating risk Self diagnosis for of position or duty, and holds group sessions for internal control financial reporting managers. Additionally, the Bank sends education materials each month to branches, thereby supporting autonomous, branch-level Articles of Incorporation, Inside Outside education programs. This policy of supporting local branch training Guidelines, the the Manual Bank Bank also allows the Bank to observe the level of compliance and the progress of education programs at branches. * CSA : Control Self Assessment Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues What activities does the Bank undertake to enhance its ethical management? Q3 A2 Toawareness retain customer trust in its financial services, the Bank continually raises employee of ethics and embeds the value of ethical management in its corporate culture. KB Kookmin Bank provides customers with reliable financial services Collecting ideas regarding ethics and compliance Introduction through strong ethical management founded on a stable internal conKB Kookmin Bank holds internal competitions and collects ideas trol system. Since the KB Code of Ethics and Code of Conduct were to improve its internal control system. The Bank rewards excellent first introduced, the Bank has practiced ethical management in its ideas and reflects them in improvements, thereby stimulating emdaily operation. ployee participation in ethical management. Compliance checks and animated presentations Each Monday, all employees must perform ethics and compliance Ethical Management Education checks on their computers before commencing work. In this way, Ethics and compliance training consists of three types: group sesemployees are reminded of their obligations in compliance and Changes sions, on-site education managed by a special ethical manageethical management. If employees discover violations of ethics ment team that visits branches, and e-training programs. KB Kookand compliance rules during the check, they compile detailed informin Bank conducts e-training programs for all employees to raise mation on the violations and report them immediately. awareness of ethics and compliance, as well as special intensive Additionally, each Thursday, employees may watch animated comcourses for internal control managers. puter presentations on ethics and compliance, thereby raising their Furthermore, the Bank offers incentives to outstanding branches awareness of ethics in daily business. whose employees earn compliance officer certificates for internal Value creation control as a result of performance evaluation, thereby increasing employee awareness of ethics and compliance. Surveys on Ethical Management During 2010, KB Kookmin Bank conducted internal and external Inculcation of Ethical Management Values in Corporate Culture diagnostics to ascertain levels of ethical management, determine During the annual Ethics and Compliance Month, KB Kookmin weaknesses, and seek ways to improve. Social contribution Bank collects ideas from employees for improvements in internal In observance of the KB-EMA, its own ethical management incontrols for the prevention of incidents. The Bank also conducts dicator, the Bank canvassed employees and customers on their surveys to encourage employees to participate in self-diagnosis perceptions of ethical management. Employees were asked 20 toward improvement of ethical management. Furthermore, an inquestions covering five topics, including ethical awareness, sharetegrity contract system and self-diagnosis for compliance enable holders, customers, employees, and social contribution; customthe Bank to increase employee awareness of ethical management ers were asked about five topics, including ethical awareness and and compliance. fair treatment. In the results of the survey, ethical awareness received the highest Whistle-blower program score among both employees and customers, followed by financial KB Kookmin Bank provides a whistle-blower program to encourservice matters such as customer protection and fair treatment. Performance age employees to put ethical management into practice. The proKB Kookmin Bank continues to make every effort to fulfill customer gram protects whistle blowers against the unfair treatment that expectations and maintain its status as a corporate role model for can result from reporting suspected dishonest or illegal banking ethical management. activities. By doing so, the Bank is able to nurture a system of checks and balances between employees that further prevents unethical conduct. Results of 2010 KB-EMA Survey Award in Ethical Management Employees Customers Topic Score Topic Score Ethical awareness 99.99 Ethical awareness 82.87 Customer protection 90.43 Fair treatment 82.15 KB Kookmin Bank has earned the highest grade – AAA – for three consecutive Social contribution 89.23 Fair competition 81.27 years in KoBEX SM, a sustainability survey of major domestic companies conCommitment to ethics 89.07 Customer protection 77.39 ducted by the Industrial Policy Research Institute of the Ministry of Knowledge Transparent management 88.60 Social contribution 69.69 and Economy. 14 15 How does the Bank innovate and adapt for greater sustainable growth? Q4 A1 ToChange maximize efficiency in management, the Bank employs a strategy known as Deep Management, an innovation campaign that stimulates corporate mindset, practices, and guidelines. During 2010, KB Kookmin Bank conducted Deep Change Management placement and business start-ups, as well through the creation of a to maximize efficiency through radical innovation. The Bank focused wider variety of job positions. on sustaining a progressive management cycle, along with recovery of profitability, new corporate culture, and development of stronger Radical cost savings responsibility-centered management (RCM). To reduce costs further, the number of open biddings was increased in 2010 to replace private contracts, while annual purchase contracts were signed for standardized goods through competitive bidding. The Bank also improved SMS customer services through the elimiInnovation through Deep Change Management nation of 136 out of 456 items to minimize unnecessary costs in the Deep Change Management exceeds other, shallower efforts to imsending of SMS’s. prove the financial indicators of management. It is a fundamental change through customer-oriented management. Internally, it promotes bank-wide change, while externally enhancing customer value, Changes within the Group and, by extension, leading the financial markets. As the first step, the Bank was reorganized to improve efficiency With the cooperation of a special task force on change and innovaand productivity. This reorganization involved more than the passive tion in the KB Financial Group, KB Kookmin Bank made significant cost-saving efforts of the past, including energy-savings and lower progress during 2010 in the creation of synergy with other Group supply expenditures; it required an effort to reform the Bank into a subsidiaries. low-cost, high-efficiency organization. As part of these efforts, the Bank decided to spin-off its Credit Card Group into a separate subsidiary in order to optimize its manageImprovements in operational efficiency and customer convenience ment structure and sharpen its competitive capabilities. KB KookDuring 2010, KB Kookmin Bank improved productivity by reducmin Card was officially established on March 2, 2011, following the ing personnel in back-office units including its centers for credit careful review by a special task force on legal and financial matters. management, credit analysis, and business support. The slimmer The Bank and the newly-launched credit card company are now esorganization of the credit management centers in particular has altablishing further synergy in marketing and product development. lowed the Bank to conduct marketing-driven credit management by In addition to this organizational change, the Bank sought excellence assigning greater responsibility to the management of branches and in internal change by defining a new mission and core values. KB the handling of credit. In the business support centers, the Bank Kookmin Bank continues to seek opportunities for the creation of centralized its back-office operations, including the clearing and synergy within the Group. holding of bills and settlement of checking accounts. The Bank improved the operational efficiency of its sales channels by integrating some of the retail and corporate banking branches, A New Corporate Culture while expanding services to corporate clients at retail branches, generating more than KRW10 billion in sales, as well as creating a Management innovation and adaptation are being inculcated in the branch network that is more customer-oriented and more efficient Bank’s corporate culture, with outcomes well beyond the short-term. in the management of its human resources. The Bank is fostering a new corporate culture that is vital, aggressive, and future-oriented, as well as improving its culture through Restructuring of human resources consistent development of innovative tasks by division. These efIn its pursuit of more efficient human resource management, KB forts will be the future engines for innovation in management. In adKookmin Bank in 2010 launched an early retirement program with dition, bank-wide campaigns promoting a “Can-Do Spirit” and “Chalthe participation of 3,244 employees, after an agreement with lalenge, Innovation, and Teamwork” urge employees to participate in bor unions. Participants were supported through counseling on outcorporate innovation and change. Four Objectives and Six Core Tasks of Deep Change Management A Special Task Force for Group-wide Innovation and Changes Deep Change Enhancing Sustaining a Cultivating a Recovering responsibilgood managenew corporate profitability ity–centered ment cycle culture management Customer value Cost-efficiency Sales capability Headed by the CEO of the Bank, a KB Financial Group special task force had selected core Risk management Performance-based culture Cultural innovation tasks for Group-wide innovation and significantly improved Group-wide performance by December 2010. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues Special Action 1. Into the Field and Nearer the Voices of the Employees Top management has led the way in innovation activities, bringing itself closer to the voices of the employees. The Pivotal Role of Top Management in Corporate Change Change has swept through the Bank since new leadership was appointed in August 2010. The Bank completed alignment of its organization and systems of productivity at the end of 2010. This realignment included reduction in the size of the organization, redeployment of the workforce, reassessment of communication channels, amendment of guidelines with marketing-driven approaches, and creation of a sounder asset portfolio. Top management, including the CEO, played a pivotal role in this organizational realignment and took advantage of it as an opportunity to develop a more intimate relationship with employees. Strengthening of Internal Communication To involve employees at the contact point with customers in Deep Change Management, as well as to seek future growth engines for the next stage of corporate development, the CEO paid 17 visits to more than 3,400 employees at nation-wide branches over the course of six weeks from September to November. During these visits, the CEO discussed the direction of management and the Bank’s action plans, gathering their direct input. This stronger internal communication has enabled the Bank to encourage employees to seek voluntary change from within, and it has utilized all the competencies that employees can bring to bear on that change, maximizing the company’s marketing capability. A Role Model for Marketing Activities In 2010, the Group’s top management, including the Bank’s CEO, visited major corporate clients to listen carefully to the voices of the customers, thereby proactively supporting sales activities in the field and establishing customer-oriented marketing strategies. Additionally, the Nation-wide CEO Communication (September – October) CEOs of all the subsidiaries of the Group participated in the ExecuManagement Workshop (September) tives Get Members (EGM) campaign, and led marketing activities for Top Management Visits to Major deposit and loan products, foreign exchange, and corporate pensions. Clients (September) This leadership allows all employees to participate in the Bank’s develTop Management Visits to Branches opment of customer-oriented approaches to marketing. (September – Present) New Product Promotional Activities (September – Present) Growth Satisfied by Customers and Employees alike As a result of top management’s closer communication with customers and employees, the Bank’s Deep Change Management campaign earned the full trust of its participants and set a fine example of effective communication for employees. 16 17 DMA – Disclosure on Management Approach Value Creation for Sustainable Growth Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues KB Kookmin Bank consistently develops itself by sustaining a good management cycle, along with value creation for its customers, shareholders, and employees. Sustainability Framework Approach Based on its own customer satisfaction activities, KB Kookmin Bank remains a leader in the creation of customer value through premium products and servr ation fo sustainab ices. Furthermore, the Bank is thoroughly managing asset quality to improve cre l eg lue ro Va Shareholders w th profitability and secure growth engines. The Bank is also transforming itself into a world-class workplace by attracting high-caliber human resources. Customers Employees Changes for sustainable growth Local Suppliers communities Environment th Key Issues & Activities So c ia w o lc gr on le trib ab u tion for sustain • Enhanced customer satisfaction through revision of Service Identity (SI) Customer Value • Strengthened CS infrastructure through implementation of My Star, a next-generCreation ation banking system • Introduced market-leading products and services for the needs of each market segment Virtuous Shareholder • Maintained asset soundness through strengthened provisions for loan losses Business Value • Secured growth engines through launch of Corporate & Investment Banking Group, Cycle Creation Hidden Star 500 program*, and ‘Rock Star’ branches** • Fostered financial professionals through KB Financial Academy and KB MBA Employee • Cultivated performance-based culture through preferential treatment for outstandValue ing employees Creation • Strengthened employee welfare through one-stop KB welfare service * A program to locate and develop promising SMEs ** A new branch system specialized in youth groups Key Performance Classification 2008 2009 2010 Customer value creation indicator National Customer Satisfaction Index No.1 (71 points) No.1 (71 points) No.1 (73 points) (NCSI) Shareholder value creation indicator Won-denominated deposit (M/S) KRW160.2 trillion (21.3%) KRW169.5 trillion (21.3%) KRW180.4 trillion (21.5%) Won-denominated loan (M/S) KRW169.7 trillion (21.6%) KRW171.2 trillion (21.0%) KRW172.0 trillion (20.5%) BIS ratio 13.18 % 14.04 % 13.44 % Employee value creation indicator Average hours of education 114 Hrs. 86 Hrs. 110 Hrs. 18 19 How does the Bank create customer value? Q5 A1 KB Kookmin Bank continues to execute customer satisfaction management processes in a highly organized fashion in order to provide the best possible services, even exceeding customer expectations. Under the leadership of the CEO and its new customer value manthe Bank continuously improves employee satisfaction by conagement system, KB Kookmin Bank continuously improves customer sidering them to be internal customers and strengthens managevalue by delivering services that exceed mere customer satisfaction. ment-employee relations through on-site communication. As a result, the Bank has ranked number-one for five consecutive When the Bank receives complaints or suggestions for improveyears on Korea’s National Customer Satisfaction Index – the first time ment from branch employees, the relevant SEVP or general mana local bank has held that distinction. ager reviews and registers them in a database. They then use the feedback to make improvements to the system. In addition, the Bank disseminates the ideas gathered from employee feedback, as well as the status of improvements, throughout the company Well-organized Customer Satisfaction System on a quarterly basis. This dissemination adds further support to inRevision of the Customer Satisfaction Charter and Service Identity ternal communication channels and assists in field-based system KB Kookmin Bank has reorganized its existing Service Identity (SI), improvements. which focuses on the improvement of human services, to include material services for systems and products. Consumer protection (civil affairs) program In 2010, the Bank conducted quantitative and qualitative research Speedy CS 24 Hrs service program The Bank provides a rapid cusinto customer values to ascertain core customer expectations and tomer satisfaction program. Under this service, which is the reto determine the attributes of services. This research revealed that sponsibility of branch managers, customer complaints at branches customers consider economic values, such as their quality of life are resolved within 24 hours. and their level of satisfaction, while also factoring in traditional Supporting Support Desk in branches If a customer complaint cannot values such as stability and comfort; they also place value in selfbe resolved within 24 hours of receipt, a branch can request assistexpression, with high priority on free choice. ance from Bank headquarters, which provides support specialists Using the five core values revealed in the research, KB Kookmin at service centers in regional head offices for difficult cases. Bank performed a comprehensive revision of its SI system and Guidelines and process improvement The Bank proactively pursues Customer Satisfaction Charter. To raise awareness of the revised its commitments to consumer protection and prevention of cusCharter, the Bank held promotional campaigns and ceremonies tomer complaints. Through regular analysis of factors that lead to throughout the company. customer dissatisfaction, the Bank continues to improve related Through these revisions, KB Kookmin Bank has improved the coguidelines and processes, as well as encouraging employee parhesiveness of its customer satisfaction activities, and it continues ticipation. to discover ways to meet customer expectations into the future. Monitoring CS through research CS quality improvements system operations In addition to customer satisfaction surveys conducted by external Integrated CS management system The Bank selects and manages agencies, KB Kookmin Bank regularly conducts self-measurement those vital few critical-to-quality (CTQ) factors that are most likely on the level of satisfaction that customers receive from their conto lead to customer dissatisfaction and the downturn of overall CS tact with the Bank. This research enables the Bank to understand levels if they are not managed continuously at headquarters. the level of service quality in its sales channels, as well as satisVoice-of-Customer (VOC) and Voice-of-Employee (VOE) Through its faction in its systems, processes, and products, which are reguVOC system, the Bank carefully considers customer input, both lated by headquarters. Through the research conducted in 2010, positive and negative, fully addressing complaints while establishthe Bank identified specific points that need to be improved, and ing standards for performance. It responds to all comments within prescribed improvement activities. two business days, developing improvements. Through its VOE, The Three Sources of Customer Satisfaction Under the leadership of the CEO, the Bank promotes CS activities throughout the company, with the primary objective of management being the improvement of customer value. CEO Leadership As the highest priority for its employees, customer satisfaction management at KB Kookmin Bank is developing Participatory CS, thereby inculcating CS throughout the corporate culture. No.1 Bank in CS EnthusiasOrganized A dynamic CS process is embedded within the organic interaction between customer value tic Staff ParSystems and valuation criteria, minimizing the gap between customer expectations and the current level ticipation of services, a gap that can result from changes in customer value. This dynamic process occurs in three stages: CS measurement, administration, and improvement processes. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank create customer value? Q5 A1 KB Kookmin Bank continues to execute customer satisfaction management processes in a highly organized fashion in order to provide the best possible services, even exceeding customer expectations. Offering Premium Services at Points of Contact the unique premium services that KB Kookmin Bank offers, and to Introduction strengthen the ability to implement CS at the branches, the Bank Customer-centered CS Activities publishes and distributes a booklet called “An Active KB to Master KB Kookmin Bank conducts a CS activities program that creates profCS” to all branch offices. it while reinforcing the processes of customer value improvement. In addition, the Bank produces a series of educational videos enThese CS activities lead to changes that are increasingly customertitled “Happy Tuesday! CS Proposal!” This series, which is precentered and reflect a new willingness to innovate and seek greater sented through in-house, closed-circuit broadcast, demonstrates authenticity in customer care. As part of their efforts to present the to employees the importance of counseling skills in the execution Bank’s customer-oriented image, all sales branches display banners of advanced services. It is written as a television situation comedy, to express their willingness to serve the customer; they also perform thereby presenting in role-play format a set of examples from situChanges structured customer satisfaction projects such as selection of monthations that may arise during actual interactions between customer ly CS themes, action themes, and focused initiatives. and employee. CS-Star Award System KB Kookmin Bank conducts a range of promotional activities to re•Ranked No.1 on NCSI for five consecutive years, the first such accomplishment in the Korean financial industry, while winward employees who excel in CS performance, thereby embedding ning the first position at KCSI for the fourth time in a row premium service practices throughout the company and promoting Value creation the value of authenticity. As part of its employee mileage program, every six months the Bank designates staff who excel in customer service as CS-Stars and rewards them with a special certification. Selected employees participate in the CS-Star Energy-UP program, which inspires them with a sense of pride in CS activities and provides them with the opportunity to motivate their colleagues. Selected employees participate in the CS-Star Energy-UP program, Social contribution which inspires them with a sense of pride in CS activities and provides them with the opportunity to motivate their colleagues. •At a ceremony to announce the Bank’s first position on the National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI) CS Manager Program A CS Manager is a specialist in customer satisfaction training, providing CS education at the regional level. To improve customer response at points of contact, CS Managers organize training sessions for CS performance supervisors and CS leaders, visit branches for customized CS consultations, and hold customer-interaction events to boost sales. Performance Utilizing a Variety of Channels for CS Education KB Kookmin Bank has enhanced its ability to respond to customer requests through a variety of channels, including the production of brochures and use of broadcast media. In order to standardize CS Education Programs in 2010 Ranking in the National Customer Satisfaction Index (Banks) Program Description No. of Meeting 1 Visiting CS consulting observes retail banking branches Throughout the year education 2 Group Group education at regional HQs 120 times education KB CS Academy 10 times 3 Online CS Education 5 times 4 CS Education by rank at HR Development Center 15 courses Others (including training of new recruits) KB Kookmin Bank 5 A Bank CS education for divisions in HQs 14 times B Bank CS education for outside institutions 6 institutions 6 C Bank 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 20 21 How does the Bank create customer value? Q5 A2 InBank order to provide differentiated financial services to meet individual customer needs, the has reinforced its core CS infrastructure, including CRM and banking systems. In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank performed two significant improvements Through ‘My Star’, the largest domestic banking IT project, the to its marketing systems, thereby integrating the needs of the cusBank is developing a world-class, high-capacity processing system. tomer with the features of its products and creating customer value The system also enables the Bank to provide highly-optimized, custhrough differentiation of marketing activities. First, the Bank streamtomized financial consulting in retail branches by offering a private lined its CRM system to manage customers more efficiently. After a banking level of premium financial services to all customers. large-scaled investment over the past three years, a next-generation banking system was also launched in February 2010 to allow the Bank Fast, convenient, reliable customer service to provide more convenient and stable financial services. In 2010, the Bank reduced customer waiting times by integrating different transactions at terminals for loans, savings, credit cards, or bancassurance. The Bank also developed customer-oriented services, including a service for customer-designated account The CRM System Upgraded numbers where customers can specify account numbers, and a Through the CRM system, KB Kookmin Bank provides value that customer-specific asset management service through an analysis is differentiated by customer. The system offers the Bank a full of individual investment orientation. variety of insights into the needs of customers, while holding CS In addition, the Bank achieved three major innovations in the secucampaigns and financial planning. The system also provides feedrity of its customer information. First, it obtained the first ISO27001 back through analysis of customer response and performance of certification in the Korean financial sector. Secondly, it introduced channel activities. a new identification system called K-PIN, or the KB Personal InThrough four upgrades to the current CRM system, the Bank has formation Number. Also, for the first time in the Korean banking implemented the nation’s most customized client management sysindustry, the Bank has developed the Customer Information Leaktem. In particular, the G-CRM system was upgraded in 2010 with age Prevention System. the expansion of external data and addition of a variety of client analysis capabilities. The G-CRM system now supports highly effective Providing a fast, efficient work environment branch sector-specific marketing activities to attract new customers. A New Product Factory concept was introduced in 2010 to reduce With the ability to analyze the status of a target marketing area, development periods and to facilitate the development of comG-CRM assists in the management of performance at branches. plex financial instruments. Branches increased the efficiency of In this capacity, it analyzes data from internal and external banktheir business processes through new IT services for customer ing transactions, breaking them down by zoning district, apartment care and marketing activities and through automatic accounting of building, and housing unit. It has also enabled more systematic transactions at close of business. management of KB HouStar, a real estate brokerage in partnership with KB Kookmin Bank. Enhanced system reliability As an extensive, world-class electronic banking system, My Star handles a daily trading volume of 160 million transactions worldwide. System administrators monitor operations 24 hours a day, My Star – A Next-Generation System 365 days per year through the Korean financial sector’s first patentIn order to provide more competitive, leading-edge financial served IT service management system and integrated security control ices, KB Kookmin Bank launched My Star, a next-generation inforsystem. In addition, the simultaneous implementation of a nextmation system, in February 2010, the culmination of a three-stage generation disaster recovery system has reinforced the Bank’s cadevelopment process begun in June 2007. pability to deliver non-stop IT services. My Star Specialized for the Needs of Every Clients • Distinct services for retail and corporate clients • Infrastructure to protect customer information A Client-centered • Minimal customer waiting times • Integrated customer information System • Customization for specific clients • Client-centered, user-friendly interfaces A User-friendly • Timeliness and consistency in client data management • Automated, simplified business procedures at branches System • Expanded screen and terminal functions Support for Product • Greater efficiency and timeliness in product development Development • Integrated management of product information and development • Shared, integrated data • Integrated processes connecting tasks Rapid Support for • Development of a client-focused data management system • Rapid transaction processing Business Operations • Expanded screen and terminal functions An Efficient, • Constant operation, 24 hours per day, 365 days per year • Adoption of standard technologies and standardized processes Reliable System • Development of a cost-effective IT infrastructure • Support for a globalized business environment Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank create customer value? Q5 A3 Through services that are highly responsive to customer needs, KB Kookmin Bank sets trends in the financial markets and helps customers gain the highest possible value. Introduction KB Kookmin UP Time Deposits KB Biz Star Loans A time deposit with interest rates compounded For business owners with superior credit records, monthly in a terraced structure, with monthly rate this product reduces the burden of initial interest increases, this product also offers withdrawal in rates through discounted rates and annual fees. installments and preferential interest rates when Clients may choose from a selection of annual adcross-buying. justments to initial interest rates. Family Love Free Installment Savings Deposits KB Branch Sector-specific SOHO Prime Loans Interest rate discounts are granted to a family accordThese community-based real estate mortgage Changes ing to the number of members, upon achievement loans offer SOHO customers preferential interof targeted amounts, or based on credit card usage. est rates of as much as 0.5%p. Additional loan As a free savings account that reflects the needs of amounts are granted based on business income or Korean families, it may be closed at any time if a famrevenue, depending on profitability. ily needs to pay tribute at a special event. KB Wise Plan & Installment Savings Deposits KB COFIX-linked Mortgage Loans As a set of complex financial products for conservThrough this product, interest rates are linked to the Value creation ative investors, this is an auto-balancing package of Cost of Funds Index (COFIX), offering customers exfunds and savings instruments that closely follow panded options for interest rates on mortgage loans. current financial market conditions. KB Card finanThe COFIX is calculated based on information on the cial points can be deposited, with bank transaction costs of funding from nine major domestic banks. fees waived. Due to a lower fluctuation than market interest rates, this product is ideal for customers who seek stable interest rates for long-term mortgage loans. Deposit & Savings Loan Services Social contribution Accounts Reduction of interest burdens Application of Interest Rate Discounts Fluctuations in interest rates Efficiency of Fund Management Loan to private businesses High Interest Rates Customer Needs by Product Foreign Exchange Line Credit Card Products Services Enhanced Discounts Performance Convenient remittance services Diversified Optional Services Discounted interest rates for foreign currency and exchange trading CNY Private Remittance Service KB Kookmin Good Day Card As a special remittance service for Renminbi (RMB), With discounts on living expenses such as public this product eliminates the inconveniences of CNY JDC0410 UI4F transportation, telecommunications, and gas, this remittance to the People’s Republic of China, such card offers families a cash-back service based on as restriction, additional exchange procedures, annual usage. JDC0410 UI4F and the unpredictability in the value of transferred amounts that results from FX fluctuation. KB Kookmin UP Foreign Currency Time Deposits KB Kookmin Good Shopping Card With such features as monthly interest rates inThis card offers discounts on certain items at largecreases, partitioning of withdrawal services, and scale discount outlets, department stores, home preferential rates for foreign currency transactions, shopping outlets, and on-line shopping malls. this foreign currency time deposit is most appropriate for customers with funds in a foreign currency. KB Network FX Service KB Kookmin GounMom S Card With discounts up to 50% on 38 foreign currencies, In cooperation with the maternity support project this product enables travelers to receive foreign of the National Health Insurance Corporation, this currency cash or travelers checks at the nearest card assists with a portion of prenatal screening Bank branches, or at branches and FX booths at the and childbirth costs, including hospitals, childcare, Incheon International Airport through FX application and discounts on shopping. at branch offices, or via internet banking. 22 23 How does the Bank create customer value? Q5 A3 Through services that are highly responsive to customer needs, KB Kookmin Bank is setting trends in the financial markets and helps customers gain the highest possible value. Market-leading Products and Services Expanded financial products and services through smartphones KB Smart★phone Installment Deposits / Time Deposits offer customers an opportunity to reduce consumption while cultivating the KB Smart★phone Installment Deposits / Time Deposits habit of saving money. In an effort to appeal to young clients, this – Making Financial Life Fun product combines entertainment with the latest electronic financial management features. For example, account status is repre1. A new savings system where icons represent the savings sented by animated icons. KB Star Plus is a service that emphasizes customer lifestyle and The smartphone interface features icons representing items that a user selects for reduced consumption. When an icon combines smartphone applications with KB’s unique information is selected, a corresponding amount is automatically deposservices. It provides a range of financial information in each major ited into the savings account. service area of KB Kookmin Bank. Moreover, it provides customWhen a user selects an icon 10 times, the user earns a 0.1% ers with functions that they may find useful in daily life, such as a increase on the annual interest rate. household ledger for financial transactions, making it convenient for them to understand their household finances at a glance. Service Details Apartment Smartphone users may find detailed information on apartments listings through augmented reality technology. 2. Visually showing the status of an account Farm Development Star Shop KB Credit Card customers may search for Star Shop services; clidatabase ents with cellular phones may use coupons in Star Shop stores. Visual effects make use of farm animals to show the user that the expiration date for an account is approaching; as the This application offers all the functions of an account book; it date approaches, the number of farm animals grows. Virtual Pocket also allows users to import and view credit card expenses along Book with other financial transactions. Smartphone customers may use their built-in cameras to view Star View apartment rental rates, or to find Star Shop locations, Bank service branches, and ATMs. Integrated Fund Management for Corporate Clients KB Kookmin Bank has developed customized services for corporate clients as well as private customers. Cyber Branch is the first integrated fund management system in the financial sector to enable corporate clients to monitor all transactions across financial accounts in real time and on one screen. The system also allows clients to link information on fund transfers and banking transactions with their own accounting systems, thereby automating their fund management business processes. Thus, it provides corporate clients with a means of incident prevention. Through a safe, convenient integrated financial management system, financial advisors can now perform multi-level approvals and transparent corporate financial management. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank create shareholder value? Q6 A1 Market dominance and capital adequacy are the foundations for the shareholder value of KB Kookmin Bank. The Bank continues to improve profitability and growth potential through higher operational efficiency. Since the financial crisis of 2009, the banking industry has placed more KB Kookmin Bank’s profitability and growth ratios continue to imIntroduction emphasis on the soundness and stability of capital as the most necesprove as management becomes more efficient and the business sary conditions for the sustainable creation of shareholder value. KB portfolio becomes stronger. Kookmin Bank possesses abundant capital and strong market power, and it is therefore well positioned to respond to fluctuations in the financial markets. The Bank’s BIS ratio, loan-deposit ratio, and other indicators of financial soundness are all in the hands of in-depth management, Soundness and Stability with a stronger business portfolio that expands revenue sources. With proactive risk management and conservative asset management, KB Kookmin Bank has improved its asset quality and capital adequacy, resulting in greater overall financial stability. In 2010, Changes with 119.87% of its NPL coverage ratio, KB Kookmin Bank mainProfitability and Growth tained its ability to absorb losses caused by bad loans, thereby In 2010, rather than pursuing sizable growth, the Bank laid the founreinforcing the safety of its management. With a BIS capital addations for sustainable growth while maintaining financial soundequacy ratio of 13.44% in 2010, the Bank has maintained capital ness. At the end of 2010, KB Kookmin Bank recorded total assets adequacy, as well. of 254.9 trillion won, 1.6 trillion won less than the previous year. Despite a difficult external environment, KB Kookmin Bank has The Bank also reduced its net income due mainly to conservative earned excellent international credit ratings due to its stable finanValue creation provision for possible loan losses, thereby helping to maintain the cial and sales structures. Adding to the high ratings it had attained soundness of assets. in 2009, KB Kookmin Bank received an “A” in 2010 from Standard & Despite these decreases in assets and net income, KB Kookmin Poor’s, an “A1” from Moody’s, and an “A” from Fitch, maintaining Bank continues to hold the number-one position in market share, the highest ratings and most positive outlooks given to domestic with 21% of all KRW deposits and KRW loans, key indicators of commercial banks. To maintain these credit standings, which reflect a bank’s position in the deposit and loan market. The Bank’s net the soundness and stability of its capital and therefore the level of interest margin (NIM), an important indicator of profitability, rose shareholder value, KB Kookmin Bank continues to develop its risk Social contribution to 2.77%, an increase of 0.36% over the previous year. management systems and reinforce its internal control systems. Profitability and growth KRW180 trillion (KRW in Trillion) (%) 21.5% (No.1) 2.99 2.77 KB 262.1 Performance 256.5 254.9 2.41 Won-denominated M/S of Total Asset 2010 21.4% Assets NIM Deposits ** (M/S) Others* No.1 in eight domestic banks 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Including 8 domestic banks and NACF ** Won-denominated deposits + CD + Cover Deposit + RP Soundness and stability (%) (%) (%) 106.26 105.18 1.00 14.04 98.93 13.18 13.44 Global credit ratings Delinquency ratio* A1, A, A Loan-deposit ratio 0.65 0.63 BIS ratio Moody’s. S&P, and Fitch’s credit ratings (As of Aug. 2, 2010) 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 * Total loans / loans overdue for more than one month 24 25 How does the Bank create shareholder value? Q6 A2 By acquiring future growth engines, the Bank is strengthening its business portfolio and expanding its customer base to create sustainable shareholder value. In response to changing market conditions and the need to secure new through direct and indirect financial support and secures potential growth engines, KB Kookmin Bank has reinforced a relatively weak part customers for future win-win relationships. of business portfolio. It has restructured and strengthened services targeting corporate banking customers. It has launched a full-scale youth Discovery and development program for blue chip SMEs marketing initiative focusing on the future prospects of college stuThe Hidden Star 500 system was implemented in February 2011 to dents, thereby adding to its potential customer base. In addition, it has identify blue chip SMEs with competitive products and technoloinitiated a step-by-step process to advance into overseas markets, seekgies, and then to provide them with systematic and personalized ing new growth engines beyond the already saturated domestic market. services for each stage of growth, thereby assisting them to become global companies. KB Financial Group provides a full array of financial and non-financial services customized to the needs of SMEs included in the Hidden Star 500. Based on this differentiated Strengthening Corporate Banking corporate banking service, the Bank also continues to fulfill its soAs part of the development of future growth engines, KB Kookcial responsibilities as an industry leader through contributions to min Bank has strengthened the sales force in the corporate banknational economic development and the creation of employment. ing sector. The Bank reshuffled its organization of large corporate and institutional banking businesses. The Bank also established stronger business plans for large corporations as well as small and Expanding into Overseas Markets medium-sized businesses. KB Kookmin Bank is expanding its global network to find opportuFostering professionalism in corporate banking nities in new markets. The Bank launched its first Chinese branch To enhance its expertise in corporate banking services, the Bank has in Suzhou in July 2010, followed by two more branches. It is now realigned human resources and related organizational structures. planning to extend its presence in China by establishing a local In terms of organization, the Bank launched the Corporate & Investsubsidiary, which is expected to evolve into a regional hub. In other ment Banking Group in 2010, which includes the Large Corporate & Asian regions, the Bank is preparing to open a branch office in OsPublic Institution Business Division and the Investment Banking Diviaka, while the liaison office in Ho Chi Minh City will be upgraded to sion. These new divisions have strengthened the Bank’s expertise in a branch office. The bank is also preparing to launch liaison offices sales and product development. in Mumbai and Hanoi. In addition, we focus on the sales force and product development Bank CeterCredit (BCC) now has a subsidiary in Moscow which through the separation of internal staff into two groups; experts in corwill become an important base for future business development in porate customers and product specialists. We will seek to strengthen CIS countries. Likewise, the continuous expansion of the overseas our expertise, including training courses for future development of sales network will help the Bank to lay the foundations that are professionals in corporate banking. needed to become a global financial services provider. Expanded consultation services for corporate clients KB Kookmin Bank is expanding to all branches the consultation Expanding into the Youth Market services provided to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which have previously been available only at corporate bankTo expand its youth-client base, KB Kookmin Bank has selected ing branches. KB Wise consulting provides appropriate solutions the youth to be the core target audience and has created specialto the management problems of SMEs by understanding their ized channels focusing on their needs. It has launched Rock Star unique situations, thereby supporting their sustainable growth. branches to secure youth clients at major universities around the By providing every consultation service at no cost to the client, country. In addition, it launched the Campus Plaza, a marketing unit KB Kookmin Bank establishes new relationships with companies dedicated to the needs of young customers. Held the 1st seminar for SMEs included in the Hidden Star 500 Held a groundbreaking ceremony for Sookmyung Snow Flower Zone, a Rock Star branch at Sookmyung Women’s University Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank create employee value? Q7 A1 KB Kookmin Bank is implementing strategies to develop careers and provide the best education for financial professionals. At the core of the Bank’s growth lies an education system that foDeveloping Excellent Human Resources Introduction cuses on talent. Employees develop themselves into financial professionals through position-specific and work-specific training. They acAn outstanding system to nurture excellence in HR quire the skills needed to become global experts and leaders through KB Kookmin Bank provides in-house programs to help employees courses that match their job grades and core expertise. They may develop as financial professionals. By offering an in-house MBA in choose to earn MBAs by studying at home or abroad. Finance, the Bank provides a unique approach to the development of human resources development process. The Bank also offers support for employees who choose other MBA courses in Korea or overseas. Enhancing On-the-job Skills Professional training courses Professional training courses at KB Changes Through upgrades to its Career Development Program (CDP) and are divided into two categories: programs for the entire Financial position-specific training programs, KB Kookmin Bank cultivates a Group that are designed to train individuals for core business aresense of professionalism among all employees. These programs as, and programs designed to serve employees of the Bank. Under provide a long-term learning system to encourage the continuous the group-level programs, employees of the Group may study core learning and growth of employees as members of the financial business areas including corporate banking and IB, trading and community. The CDP provides both required and elective courses, derivatives, risk management, and asset management consulting. where employees can acquire the sets of knowledge needed for Specialist training sessions are also offered to foster business exValue creation their positions. pertise within the Bank, with medium and long-term professional development in fields such as marketing and accounting. A training system for branch managers and contract personnel KB Financial MBA The in-house MBA courses at KB Kookmin Bank KB Kookmin Bank has extended its position-specific training sysconsist of three stages: basic, intensive, and overseas studies. tem and CDP from full-time staff to branch managers and contract The program takes six months to complete. In the basic stage, the staff, thereby helping employees in every position to develop their employee learns about KB’s corporate mind-set, leadership skills, capacities. and corporate loyalty. In the intensive stage, employees progress Social contribution systematically through sessions that address economics, financial Training private bankers (PBs) and VIP managers (VMs) management, management accounting, and overall management. In order to nurture the highest level of PBs and VMs, the Bank proFinally, the international stage provides employees with the opvides regular training programs to help them understand financial portunity to study in Hong Kong, London, or other destinations, market data. Courses present a range of views and practical inforwhere they attend lectures on finance and visit actual enterprises mation on financial markets, real estate, and tax policy. Employees to practice benchmarking. who earn superior grades are incentivized with recognition from the CEO and opportunities for overseas training. MBAs at home or abroad In conjunction with outstanding domestic and overseas universities, KB Kookmin Bank offers specialized training courses focusing on fiPerformance nance. In 2010, the Bank selected staff with excellent performance Cultivating Shared Organizational Values records for degree programs with Korea University and the Korea AdTo develop the leadership skills of the highest performers in each vanced Institute for Science and Technology (KAIST). Those selected position, and to enhance core competencies, in 2010 KB Kookwill complete their degrees in one or two years. In addition, the Bank min Bank divided position-specific training into two categories: is offering MBA programs through some of the world’s most respecleadership courses and job grade courses (including training for tive universities, including the London School of Business and, most new recruits and promotion). In so doing, the Bank was able to notably, Beijing University. strengthen employee loyalty and promote leadership. HR Development Strategies and Education/Training Reinforcing Global Capacity KB Kookmin Bank offers foreign language training courses in Providing education programs to nurture world-class human resources support of its global business initiatives and development of local experts. It has recently launched courses in Russian, Vietnamese, Bahasa Indonesia, and other languages for countries where Sharing Fostering Enhancing Corporate Nurturing GloOutstanding branches have recently opened, thereby actively assisting overJob Skills bal Talents Value Talents seas staff in minimizing language difficulties. Additional training courses provide overseas experts with tools for analysis of local Nurturing workplace Nurturing global Securing excellent expertise to enhance Fostering loyalty and talents to achieve HR for long-term markets in Asia and the CIS; they also support efforts to develop management leadership by grade global strategies growth performance the global sales network. Job training by Position-specific Regional specialists KB Financial MBA As of 2010, a total of 57 professional-grade employees had been position/CDP training training courses trained in China, Vietnam, Russia, Uzbekistan, and other regions. On-site mobile training KB leadership development course Global language courses Domestic/overseas MBAs Weekend training Branch-level teamSpecialist nurturing for certificates work training programs 26 27 How does the Bank create employee value? Q7 A2 KB Kookmin Bank uses fair performance evaluation and compensation systems to develop a culture of rational meritocracy. In order to establish a culture of meritocracy, KB Kookmin Bank has Compensation System implemented a compensation scheme that offers preferential treatment to talented personnel. The Bank’s systematic human resource The compensation program of the Bank is implemented in two development programs nurture talent and provide reasonable compenbroad categories – one for general positions and one for professation based on step-by-step performance appraisals and competency sionals; compensation is deemed adequate in consideration of the assessments. nature of the work in a specific position and the level of individual achievement. The compensation program of the Bank is implemented in two broad categories – one for general positions and one for specialPerformance Evaluation System ists. Compensation is granted based on the nature of the work and The Bank’s performance appraisal system ensures that all parts of the level of individual achievement. the company, from headquarters down to branches and individual Regular employees are paid a basic salary and a share of profits employees, communicate clearly and efficiently. It serves a crucial that is based on performance. Basic salary consists of base pay role in the decisions and strategies of the management. To make and three additional components, while the profit share consists the best possible use of these assessments, the Bank recently of a fixed share combined with three other components, includestablished the Performance Improvement Division. ing incentives, which are paid according to the performance of organizations and individuals. In particular, incentives are paid to The direction of the evaluation system the employees who excel in their positions, thereby motivating the The Bank’s performance appraisal system provides continuous sales force and raising morale. Specialist-grade salaries include a measurement of communications between organizations and indihigher proportion of profit share that is differentiated according to viduals to improve the performance of the branches. At the same individual performance. time, it acts as a tool to facilitate improvement of staff competenThe Bank awards talented personnel with reasonable compencies and is used as an efficient vehicle to execute management sation and preferential treatment, encouraging them to contribstrategies for specific actions. Assessments at all levels -down to ute their talents to the company. This preferential system also branches, teams, and individuals -are performed in phases and in promotes self-development and motivates workers, as well as a manner that will achieve the most systematic measurement of strengthening the competitiveness of KB Kookmin Bank. organizational performance. Benefits for Outstanding Employees Launched a center for performance improvement As part of efforts to inculcate a culture of meritocracy and increase the Candidates Benefits efficiency of personnel operations, KB Kookmin Bank has recently estab• Exceptional performers in key • Awards and plaques KB Man • Vacations lished the Performance Improvement Division. This division is responsible Award areas including business ex• Promotions ecution and idea development for the improvement of underperforming employees. These employees Outstanding • Greater opportunities for training performance are selected for education, training or coaching. Progress assessments Appoint• Retail banking: Masters • Preferential treatments including • Corporate banking : RM special promotions measure developments in competency and improvements in performments as champions, consultants • CEO recognition for excellent specialperformers ance, and these results are used in human resource planning and manists • PB : PB of the year • Others: CS managers • Greater opportunities for training agement. This system motivates low performers and leads to a focus on MBAs • Domestic/overseas MBAs • Appointment to desired positions the development of capacities and productivity. programs • KB financial MBA • Greater opportunities for training High potential Special • Certificates for level A and B, • Preferential appointment to qualificabased on Bank standard specialized tions (14 certificates including CPA) • Greater opportunities for training Evaluation Structure Vision & Mission Performance Competence Evaluation Evaluation Business Strategies Organization Evaluation Bank-wide Business Plan System Core Competence Main/Branch Office Business Plan(BSC) Individual Evaluation Business Goal(KPI) Criteria(Basic/Leadship/Work) Goal System Setting Action Plan/Method/KPI Indicators(Behaviors) Face-to-face Execution Face-to-face 면담제도 Item Implementation Evaluation Goal Setting Evaluation Evaluation Interview /Support Interview Selection /Screening Result Reward Promotion Training Reassignment Application Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank create employee value? Q7 A3 The Bank provides extensive welfare services to boost employee morale. KB Kookmin Bank provides one-stop employee health and welfare Promoting the Cultural Life of Employees Introduction services to help employees enjoy their work lives. To increase emUsing the KB Family Love credit card, another feature of the Bank’s ployee satisfaction, it offers a wide variety of healthcare services, selective welfare system, employees can take advantage of culleisure programs, and retirement plans, including pensions. tural events, self development, and recreation according to their personal needs. By maintaining a balance between work and family, employees find more energy for productivity at work. One-Stop KB Welfare Service The Bank’s welfare system offers resolutions to all counseling queries related to employee benefits via a single telephone connecChanges Retirement Benefit System tion. Through this call center, the Bank fulfills its commitment to implement an employee-centered welfare system, with support The Bank manages a retirement benefit system in response to services that can be contacted in emergencies or during holidays. an aging society, with the objective of providing a stable life for In addition, to encourage the use of annual leave, the Bank operemployees. The choice of retirement benefits has recently been ates recreation facilities during summer, including condominiums expanded to include two types of plans: the defined benefit (DB) around the country available for a membership fee. and the defined contribution (DC). Value creation Personalized health services In cooperation with an external health care company, KB Kookmin Bank provides personalized health care services, with health inforHealth mation and counseling available 24 hours, 365 days a year. These care program services focus, however, on management of the most common illnesses. Through an outpatient reservation network, employees Direct can easily access hospitals and clinics across the country. operation Funeral of shopping assistance Social contribution malls Employee complaints center KB Kookmin Bank offers a variety of channels for employees to be One-stop heard. It is committed to promoting a cheerful and healthy work KB Welfare life through separate centers that address employee complaints, Service Business help employees cope with conflicts, handle cases of sexual harHousing start-ups assment, and receive counseling for personal problems. assistance and career changes Recreation Performance Strengthening KB Family Welfare Services facilities KB Kookmin Bank offers a variety of programs for employees and their families. In an effort to strengthen its family support systems, the Bank provides residences for employees who need housing; it offers financial support to families in grief, as well as congratulations for family milestones. Financial aid is available to assist children with school expenses. The Bank promotes a culture that allows time and space for employees to care for their families. Every first, second, and third Wednesday of the month, employees leave their offices at 6 p.m., a practice which promotes family bonds; offices also celebrate spouses’ birthdays. 28 29 Special Action 2. ‘Rock Star’ Zones Ctrl Shift Bloq/uppercase win Alt ººª A Z Cmd esc 1 Q X W S 1f 2 D C f2 E 3 F V f3 4 R B f4 G T H N f5 5 Y M f6 6 U J Ctrl K ;,„ f7 7 I .:… win f8 8 L O Alt f9 9 Ñ -_ Cmd f10 0 P ´¨{ f11 ? ` Shift f12 ¿ + f13 end f14 Down f15 del Up end Cmd Shift Down Alt Up win -_ Ctrl del .:… ´¨{ + ;,„ Ñ ` M L f15 P ¿ f14 N K O ? f13 B J 0 I f12 V H 9 f11 U Cmd G 8 f10 C Y f9 Alt X F 7 T f8 win D 6 Z R f7 S 5 Ctrl E f6 A 4 f5 W Shift 3 f4 Q Bloq/uppercase 2 f3 f2 1 f1 ººª esc Enjoying the Bank A new concept reflecting a new generation’s needs led 51f 41f pU 31f nwo D 21f ¿ 11f dne + ? 01f ` 0 9f tfih S {¨´ P 9 8f Ñ O 8 7f _L dm …: I 7 6f C tlA . K U 6 5f n iw „,; J Y 5 4f lrtC M H T 4 3f N G R 3 2f B F E 2 1f V D W 1 cse C S Q ªºº X A dm C Z esa crep pu/ qo lB tlA niw t fih S lrtC ‘Rock Star’ – A New Branch for New Concepts In January 2011, KB Kookmin Bank inaugurated the ‘Rock On-line channels for ‘Rock Star’ Star’ zones, branches that redefine the concepts of bankTo keep pace with rapid change in the financial industry and ing for the youth market, particularly college students. Bank the flow of a new generation characterized by social netbranches are being reborn as centers of activity for college works, ‘Rock Star’ provides a new level of service that young students, providing a clear response to rapid changes in the people prefer. A website (www.kbrockstar.com) and official financial industry and becoming a platform of communicaTwitter page (@kb_rockstar) provide information delivered tion for the young generation. In these zones, basic banking through media that appeal to youth, ranging from the introservices such as savings, deposits, and credit or debit cards duction of ‘Rock Star’ to financial and employment informaare offered along with spaces for activities, including seminar tion, restaurants, and events. Site menus are configured to rooms, mini-cafes, movies and music. meet a variety of student needs, enabling the audience to find information about the Bank more quickly. Financial products customized for the youth ‘Rock Star’ – Investment in the Customers of the Future Currently, youth-only ‘Rock Star’ accounts and ‘Rock Star’ KB Kookmin Bank has reconsidered the importance of the youth debit cards are available. ‘Rock Star’ accounts offer an annual from an investment perspective, valuing them as potential cusinterest rate of 4%, which is relatively high, up to an average tomers and sources of future revenue. Beginning with Sookmydeposit balance of KRW 1 million. Additional services are in deung Women’s and Ewha Women’s universities, the program has velopment, such as favorable foreign exchange rates through opened a total of 41 ‘Rock Star’ zones as of April 2011, with 11 in electronic banking and automated teller machines that are free Seoul, 6 in suburban areas, 9 in Chungcheong, 10 in Youngnam, of charge. ‘Rock Star’ debit cards offer unprecedented fee disand 5 in Honam, allowing more young people to enjoy the concounts on top of the existing 20~30% given to purchases at venience of nearby locations. cafes, bookstores, and restaurants near universities. Such efforts to attract young clients not only increase shareholder value in the current market, but also drive future growth. Furthermore, these zones are changing the image of KB Kookmin ‘Rock Star’ – Enjoyable Banks for Young Customers Bank and adding to its customer value as new cultural spaces. Until now, banks have developed differentiated services primarily for wealthy customers and corporate clients, but have never addressed the need for specific space and services ‘Rock Star’ ... Is It Possible to Rock? dedicated to young customers. ‘Rock Star’ zones feature faOff-line channels for ‘Rock Star’ miliar environments that fit into the university campus, using ‘Rock Star’ zones are positioned at points of contact with the university symbols and colors. Thus, they present a customyounger audience. They consist of mini stores aimed at the ized outward appearance that customers will instantly recogyoung generation in locations with heavy traffic by university nize. They feature seminar rooms available at any time, free of students and high student population density. Employees at charge, and new media such as media walls and public iPads, these zones are in their early 20s to 30s, and the atmosphere making them comfortable places that students will want to of the branches represents a revolution in the concept of visit even if they have no banking to do. Within each Zone, a financial institution. The objective is to form a consensus mini-cafes provide take-out at affordable prices. KB ‘Rock within the youth community that these zones are friendly Star’ is demonstrating to the industry that such unconvenplaces to visit. tional services do successfully reach out to young customers. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues ‘Rock Star’ Zone Bank Zone Fun & Community Zone Space for general banking services Space suitable for university students lifestyle • Retail banking services (excluding loan and bancasurrance) • Multi-channel experiences in WiFi zones • Sleek design with customer-friendly atmosphere • Financial consulting and products specialized in university students + • Equipped with Seminar rooms, Mini cafes, and media wall • Opening small events only for ‘Rock Star’ zones • Lectures for financial information and job search at seminar rooms 30 31 DMA – Disclosure on Management Approach Social Contribution for Sustainable Growth Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues KB Kookmin Bank actively participates in regional development and fulfills its responsibilities in corporate citizenship. Sustainability Framework Approach KB Kookmin Bank fulfills it social responsibilities through a variety of sharing and voluntary activities and innovative responses to environmental r ation fo sustainab challenges. In addition, the Bank seeks mutually beneficial growth with its cre l eg lue ro Va Shareholders w th suppliers. Customers Employees Changes for sustainable growth Local Suppliers communities Environment th Key Issues & Activities Soc ia w o lc gr on le trib ab u tion for sustain • Expanding socially-responsible financing services by providing more customers with easy access to financial services, operating microfinance programs, and inSocial troducing diversified public interest products. Contribution • Enhancing sharing and voluntary activities including support for coming generations, global CSR activities, and activities of the KB Social Service Organization • Reinvigorating support for green growth industries through the KB Green Growth Loan Green Growth • Enhancing Green Management through the Carbon-dioxide Emission Management System (KB-CEMS) and office processes that reduce paper usage. Mutually Beneficial • Seeking opportunities for mutually beneficial positions with suppliers through Growth surveys of their levels of satisfaction and evaluation of their ethical management. Key Performance Classification 2008 2009 2010 Socially responsible financing indicator Loan exposure to microfinance (KRW in billions) 7.1 Financial education participants (in persons) 42,290 17,402 Social contribution indicator Investment in social contribution activities (KRW in billions) 89.8 131.7 62.8 Green financing indicator Eco-friendly funds/direct investment & loan/other loan (KRW in billions) 310.1* 910.8 No. of green product accounts (accounts) 91,449 106,193 Green management indicator Amount of greenhouse gas emission (tCO2_eq) 48,088 59,152 56,123 Partner company indicator Suppliers’ satisfaction (points) 95.23 97.00 * The figures in the 2009 sustainability report for eco-friendly funds/direct investment & loan/other loan were revised to include amounts for the KB Solar-Biz Loan. 32 33 How does the Bank provide socially responsible financial services? Q8 A1 The Bank responds to the needs of society by improving customer access to financial services. KB Kookmin Bank enhances access to financial services for all cusand voice prompts to assist the visually impaired, using electronic tomers and the entire nation through a variety of ways. The Bank’s sensors to detect when customers approach. To ensure security customer outreach continues with initiatives ranging from direct conand privacy, the machines include earphones. 1,044 machines are tact at desks to indirect contact through other channels. currently in operation as of March 2011, and service will be extended to all branches by the end of the year. Foreign-language brochures Building Channels to Strengthen Customer Contacts With the increase in the number of multicultural families in Korea, Branches in small and medium-sized towns the need for foreign language financial services is also growing. To KB Kookmin Bank has the largest banking network in Korea, a total provide foreigners with more convenient banking services , and as of 1,173 branches to welcome customers anywhere in the counpart of its support for financial services to international and multry. There are 26 branches in more remote towns, offering financial ticultural families, the Bank publishes brochures for KB Star Club services in under-served areas. services in English and Chinese. Universal counters For the disabled and elderly, KB Kookmin Bank has lowered the Discount Fees for the Economically Disadvantaged height of counters and installed seats at online banking windows for more convenient, frequent use, including deposits, withdrawKB Kookmin Bank offers discounted fees for economically disadals and revision of records. In 2010, these universal counters were vantaged customers who are under 18 years or over 65 years of installed in 68 additional branches, increasing customer convenage. This program adds a psychological benefit by relieving some ience at 480 branches, or 40% of the total. of the economic burden that all ages face when they are economically disadvantaged. Discounts of 20% are offered through ATMs Mobile automated branches for withdrawals and transfers To resolve customer inconvenience due to temporary surges in demand for financial services in places such as highway rest areas during major holidays, the Bank has operated mobile year-round automated branches since September 2010. These branches also provide traveling customers with cell phone chargers and first-aid kits. Improved Convenience in Financial Services ATM machines for the visually impaired KB Kookmin Bank is in the process of improving e-financial services, which are becoming increasingly popular with customers. Some automated machines are reserved for customers who have difficulty identifying buttons due to poor eyesight. These machines allow users to adjust screen magnification. A total of 7,925 were installed as of March 2011. The Bank also provides ATM machines with Braille input buttons Enhancing Access to Financial Services A Universal Counter at the Baekgung Branch, Seongnam City A KB Kookmin Bank Website in Chinese KB Kookmin Bank has improved its branches by providing convenient online banking winThe Bank has developed a Chinese version of its website to accommodate the 10,000 dows for the disabled and elderly to handle the most common transactions. Chinese-speaking customers who use its services each month. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank provide socially responsible financial services? Q8 A2 Through the KB Microfinance Foundation, the Bank helps the underprivileged become financially independent. The KB Microfinance Foundation manages the Bank’s sharing of benaddition, employees visit traditional markets, local employment seIntroduction efits with the community and provides mutual benefit for the Bank curity centers, and local government offices to find customers in and the underprivileged. As of December 2010, the Foundation has need of financial support, thereby seeking out eligible applicants provided KRW7.1 billion in financial support -the banking industry’s rather than merely waiting for them. Meticulous surveys are conlargest contribution -through provincial and metropolitan area offices ducted to find beneficiaries and help them obtain financial indeand active fund-raising activities. It expects to expand from the curpendence as well as financial support. rent size of KRW10 billion to KRW50 billion within 5 years, thereby making this support a long-term commitment. Application Process for Microfinance Changes Initial Operations of the KB Micro-finance Foundation consultaAdditional consultaLoan Deliberation and deterApproval and Distion and application tion mination bursement screening In 2010, the Bank reassigned small-loan financing to the KB Microfinance Foundation, taking advantage of the foundation’s central role to administer unsecured small-loan finance. The KB Microfinance Foundation provides working capital to the underprivileged, who lack access to conventional financial services. In conjunction with Small Application Steps Value creation Enterprise Development Agency (SEDA), the Foundation also offers them consulting services on start-ups and business operations Initial consultation and screening All loan applicants are required to visit the KB Microfinance Foundation for initial consultation. All loan applicants are required to submit their identification cards. In Regional Expansion of Microfinance Support the initial consultation, applicants determine their basic eligibility and restrictions; the adequacy of proposed working capital for their busiWhile the headquarters of other institutions are located in Seoul, ness plans is also screened. Social contribution the head office for the KB Microfinance Foundation was established in Daejeon, thereby enabling services to reach provincial Additional consultation Applicants who fulfill basic requirements or restrictions are required to areas with less access to microfinance support. The first KB Miobtain a SEDA consultation report on business plans. crofinance Branch opened in 2010 in Dobong-gu, Seoul, followed During the consultation, applicants receive basic education on how to by branch offices in Busan, Incheon, Daegu, and Gwangju. As of start a business, while the feasibility of their business plans is examined. the end of 2010, the Bank operates the head office in Daejeon, five branch offices, and one sub-branch. Loan application In addition, the Bank has forged a strategic agreement with local Applicants submit loan applications, certificates for basic requirements, and a SEDA consultation report governments for funding that reflects the characteristics of each Loans are approved following deliberations by the Microfinance Foundaregion. An MOU was signed with Gyeonggi and Busan to support Performance tion. Not all applicants are approved. low-income families and entrepreneurship with customized product releases offering relaxed lending criteria. Deliberation and determination Loans are determined through due diligence, feasibility tests for business plans, interviews, and screening of certificates to ensure compliance with requirements. Facilitating Microfinance Approval and disbursement KB Kookmin Bank is committed to the facilitation of microfinance When applicants fulfill all conditions, a loan agreement is concluded and services. Promotional materials produced in the form of cartoons loans are disbursed. have made it easy for the public to understand microfinance. In Vision and Mission of the KB Microfinance Foundation Outreach of the KB Microfinance Foundation To become a financial institution VISION cherished by the Korean people through outstanding social contribution activities VISION & MISSION To provide financial assistance for lowThe chairman of KB Financial income/low-credit Group and the CEO of KB Kookmin MISSION Bank visited Shinpo Market, families, helping them obtain finanIncheon, in September 2010. cial independence 34 35 How does the Bank provide socially responsible financial services? Q8 A3 The Bank fulfills its social responsibilities through the introduction of a range of products in the public interest and encouragement of customer participation in CSR activities. Development of Public-interest Products for Local Communities KB Kookmin Bank provides benefits directly to the underprivileged through financial support and improvements in service, while offering to general customers greater opportunities to participate indirectly in social contribution activities through public-interest products. Through such products, the Bank returns value to society by assuming the burden of interest payments and revenue. The Bank continues to encourage public involvement and interest in social contribution by ensuring competitiveness in the financial industry and expanding the marketing activities for its public-interest products. Classification Product Details Performance • Preferential benefits for new mothers as a countermeasure to lower birth rates, a KB Happy Mom major social concern in Korea; Sales KRW165.6 billion Installment Savings Deposits • Preferential interest rates in financial assistance for pregnant mothers, newborns, and No. of accounts 73,496 multi-child families; KB Maternity Classes • Boosting movie ticket sales by participating in the prevention of illegal downloads; Deposit KB Movie Love InSales KRW222.5 billion Accounts stallment Deposits • Donation of 1% of payable interest to funds raised for the development of the Korean No. of accounts 98,234 movie industry I-Love-Figure• Promotion of less popular Winter Olympic sports through endorsement by worldQueen-Yuna champion figure skater Yuna Kim Sales KRW979.2billion e-Procurement Time • Donation of 1% of payable interest to the underprivileged and financially-marginalized, No. of accounts 184,236 Deposits including children suffering from rare or incurable diseases KB Kangaroo Sales KRW164.1billion Investment Trust • Donation of a portion of fees from distributors and asset management companies to Regular Savings (Fund) children’s education and children suffering from rare or incurable diseases No. of accounts 73,496 Investment Trust KB My Home • Economic assistance to local communities and support for the financially-marginalized; Usage KRW263.7 billion Credit Card Love Card • Donation of 0.2% of card usage amounts to the My Home Love Development Fund No. of accounts 212,741 * For more information on public interest products, visit the KB Kookmin Bank website (www.kbstar.com > Sustainability > Social Responsibility > CSR Themes > Public welfare > Public Products). Social Responsibility through Finance Considering Socially Responsible Practices of Businesses When Evaluating Small-business Credit KB Kookmin Bank understands the significant role of corporate social responsibility (CSR) in ensuring the sustainable future of the corporation and society. As a financial institution, the Bank uses CSR indicators as part of criteria to assess the credit ratings of SMEs, thereby encouraging their CSR activities and reinforcing credit risk management. In 2010, the Bank expanded the scope of these criteria beyond indicators of ethical management, a non-financial criterion, into Green Growth policy, job creation, and other socially-responsible activities, thereby keeping pace with the growing concerns and demands of stakeholders. There are five grades in the criteria. SME CSR activities must be reevaluated each year through consistent monitoring. Before Ethical Management (EM) Indicators After – Extended CSR Indicators Up to May 2010 Since May 2010 CEO’s attitude on EM EM practices Infrastructure Healthy laborContribution Utilization of EM management to job of green relationship creation technologies Evaluation Evaluation Integrity, Criteria fairness, and Criteria transparency Customer protection Participation in Utilization in business of green social welfare relations technologies works Environmental Eco-friendly Contribution to protection guidelines local communities Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank develop social contributions for the community? Q9 A1 KB Kookmin Bank conducts a range of CSR programs, including the activities of the KB Social Service Organization and initiatives to support the youth. The Bank is also extending the reach of these programs internationally. The social contribution activities of KB Kookmin Bank focus on supGlobal Social Contribution Introduction porting future generations, in recognition that the future depends on the successful coexistence of business and society. RaonAtti An overseas volunteer group for university students The Bank operates RaonAtti, an overseas volunteer corps for university students that offers a helping hand to people suffering from poverty, hunger, and natural disasters in developing Asian nations. Youth Support Programs In 2010, a total of 60 college students -30 each for the first and KB Happy Table Assistance for undernourished children second half of the year -were sent to six Asian countries: Vietnam, KB Kookmin Bank assists undernourished children through the Cambodia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, and the Philippines. ‘KB Happy Table’ project, which has served more than one milVolunteer groups are assigned to areas after completing one Changes lion meals since 2008. In 2010, KB Bank provided meals for 1,907 month of training in Korea. They commit to five months of service students in 147 elementary and middle schools across Korea. Durin overseas activities overseas, such as taking care of disabled chiling school vacations, when schools do not provide lunches, Bank dren, teaching language to vulnerable children, and serving meals employees make and deliver rice, side dishes, and snacks to unto hungry children. dernourished children. KB Korean language program Sharing the Korean language with the world KB Mini Libraries Bridging the information gap Since 2007, the KB Loves Hangul program has led in the dissemiValue creation Since 2007, the Bank has participated in financing information and nation of the Korean language around the world. The Bank is comcultural spaces called KB Mini Libraries, in cooperation with the mitted to the development and distribution of Korean study materiMinistry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism and the Munhwa Broadals translated into local languages in Vietnam, Mongolia, Indonesia, casting Company. As of the end of 2010, there were 22 Mini Liand Kazakhstan. braries nationwide. Some, such as the KB Youngsters Library in To meet the needs of local college students, leading experts in Kothe Seoul SOS Children’s Village in 2009 and the Busan City Minirean education and local professors are developing customized textLibrary in 2010, have been built with funds raised through embooks that make the study of Korean easy. As of the end of 2010, Social contribution ployees’ volunteer fundraising activities. In addition to its domestextbooks in Vietnamese, Mongolian, and Indonesian were being tic projects, the Bank helps bridge the information gap overseas developed for students in beginning, intermediate, and advanced through Mini Libraries for youth in Vietnam, Cambodia, and other levels, and for intermediate students in Kazakhstan. The Bank plans culturally marginalized areas. to support Korean language education in more key regions. KB Hope Study Rooms Cultivating hope KB Hope Study Rooms promote the learning skills of young people Community Volunteer Activities in difficult environments by supporting educational programs at local children’s centers, which play an important role in the educaThe Bank’s 22,000 employees are members of the KB Social Servtion of low-income youth. Since 2007, the Childcare Center Study ice Organization, participating in nationwide activities such as KB Performance Improvement Program has placed college-aged mentors and Kimchi Sharing and KB Volunteer Day, but also operating at the loteachers in contact with children through voluntary 1:1 tutoring, cal level through each branch. mentoring, and training at 40 local children’s centers. The college mentoring program, KB Star King, selects 50 mentors for the first and second half respectively. More than 5,600 college students applied for 100 openings in 2010 -a promising response. Key CSR Activities of KB Kookmin Bank 3 Key Areas Classification Major activities KB English Camp, KB Hope Study Room, KB Mini Library, KB Youth support Academy, KB Happy Table, KB Youth Sky Theater Performance Arts Festival, and KB Museum Tour KB Social Youth Global RaonAtti (a university student overseas volunteer group), KB Service Global CSR support CSR Loves Hangul, KB Hangul Class Organization Volunteer KB Social Service Organization activities 36 37 How does the Bank develop social contributions for the community? Q9 A1 KB Kookmin Bank conducts a range of CSR programs, including the activities of the KB Social Service Organization and initiatives to support the youth. The Bank is also extending the reach of these programs internationally. * For more information on CSR activities, visit the KB Kookmin Bank website (www.kbstar.com > Sustainability > Social Responsibility > Volunteer Activity). Community Education -A Volunteer’s Experience From Gil Soon Park, a Team Leader in the NHF Management Department When KB Kookmin Bank inaugurated its economics education program, the Marketing Team asked me to cooperate in the production of a KB-sponsored television program, “A Green Renaissance to Change Korea,” which was scheduled to be broadcast on the Living TV channel. At first, I felt nervous knowing that I would appear on TV, but as I began to prepare, I realized that it would be an opportunity for me to gain much-needed confidence. My lecture was entitled “Green”, an introduction to the economic value of recycling. I thought that it would be fun to associate the old theme of global warming caused by environmental destruction with tasks that children can practice in their everyday lives. I added to the agenda the effects of recycling bottles, paper, and plastic, including the understanding of the official Eco Label, which I had learned about at a workshop of the KB Green Economy Education Group. I also discussed the role of the Green Growth Movement, especially as it is reflected in the Stop CO2 Club Member Guidelines, in our daily lives. All of these components made it a good lecture. My lecture didn’t go easy at first. The camera made me, and even the students, very nervous. Furthermore, the Internet connection, which I needed for the lecture, was not very smooth, making me sweat even more. Fortunately, with the help of a teacher, we managed to connect to the Internet, and everything was alright. I felt more at ease with the camera, and the children responded naturally to an interview during the lecture. The economics class was a moderate success. Although my lecture was not the best, I hoped that it would aid students in understanding economics and finance and even help them plan for their future. I hope that the KB Green Economics Education program continues to improve, becoming more systematic in its approach. Mecenat Activity -A Child’s Book Review Social Service -A Letter of Thanks * This is a letter from a student named Noh Joo Yeon at Happy Work, a vocational facility for the 마법에 걸린 컴퓨터를 읽고 disabled, about a trip she made 김은영 __^ with volunteers from the KB Kookmin Bank Mortgage Credit Management Center. She says that writing the letter made her hands uncomfortable, but she 나는 김희석 차장님께 ‘마법에 걸린 컴퓨터’라는 책을 받았다. wrote it character-by-character 너무 재미있어서 받자마자 다 읽어 버렸다. <마법에 걸린 컴퓨터>라는 책에 with her whole heart. 는 8편의 이야기가 있었다. 그 중에서 ‘엄마와 노란 스카프’가 제일 기 억에 남는다. 아빠가 실직자여서 자신의 단짝 윤석이네 가게 반찬가게에서 일을 하는 엄 Noh Joo Yeon at Happy Work 마가 창피하기만 했던 현진이는 당당한 엄마의 모습을 보고 창피하던 감정 이 사라진 현진이의 이야기이다. 나도 엄마가 창피했다. 이 동화를 읽기 전에 I was delighted to visit Yeoju with my Happy Work families and KB 말이다. 엄마가 지하철에서는 목소리도 크고 뚱뚱해서 엄마와 오랜만에 외출 Kookmin Bank volunteers. It was a pleasant outing to the ceramic 을 하면 엄마랑 떨어져서 걷거나 친구들을 만나면 엄마를 소개시켜 주지도 town. The first and second buses departed separately. 않았다 창피해서. 그러나 이제는 그렇지 않는다. 난 아마 이 동화가 아니었으 The first place we visited was the Tomb of King Se Jong. I was 면 앞으로도 엄마를 창피해 했을 것이다. 많은 교훈을 준 작가 선생님께 감사 happy to see the green grass. Hwang In Hee from KB Kookmin 하다는 인사를 하고 싶다. Bank told stories about King Se Jong. We also visited the museum. It was really good to learn so much. I enjoyed the delicious pork we had for lunch, as well as talking with friends from Happy Work. We painted on cups in various colors and made ceramics together. We had a good time with friends and vol* unteers from KB Kookmin Bank, taking pictures together. We put As a Mecenat activity, KB Kookmin Bank publishes children’s books. these memories in our hearts and took the buses back home. The The review above was written by Kim Eun Young, a young participant trip put everyone in a light-hearted mood. in the reading program at the Dongducheon Children’s Center, about I’d like to thank KB Kookmin Bank supporters and teachers for one of these books. Eun Young mentions Kim Hi Suk, manager of the Mia Station branch, who has been sending storybooks to the Dongspending a good time with us. The time with my Happy Work famducheon Center since 2007. ily will remain as good memories. I love you all. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank develop financial support for the green growth of society? Q10 A1 KB Kookmin Bank is aggressively developing a comprehensive set of financial solutions to support and nurture the growth of green industry. KB Kookmin Bank is expanding funding for green companies through for 235 companies at the end of 2009 to KRW821.5 billion for 363 Introduction the KB Green Growth Loan, a representative green financial service, companies at the end of 2010 and is seeking a variety of ways to support green companies. To do so, it is developing an enhanced infrastructure for green finance through dedicated reorganization of its green business unit. KB Kookmin Bank continues to promote the rapid growth of Korea’s green industry. Financial Solutions for Multifaceted Support of Green Industry Cooperation with other financial institutions KB Kookmin Bank aggressively participates in collaborative initiatives with organizations involved in financial support for green industry, so Support for the Growth of Green Industry that more funding can be secured by banks for green industry. Changes KB Kookmin Bank contributes to the growth of green industry naA case in point is the cooperative development of tax-free green fitionwide through direct investment and financial products. In parnancial products with the Presidential Committee on Green Growth ticular, it leads the banking industry in the support of funding for and the Korea Federation of Banks. One result of these collaborative green businesses by actively expanding the scope of KB Green initiatives was the enactment of the Standards for Green Financial Growth Loans. Management. The Bank complies with these standards in the development of green financial products. Facilitating the KB Green Growth Loan Value creation The KB Green Growth Loan is a corporate banking product that Sponsoring the National Green Tech Award supports funding for green growth companies and fosters green KB Kookmin Bank is the only financial institution that sponsors the technologies and green industries to enhance industrial competiNational Green Tech Award, which is given by a joint body consisting tiveness. As the Bank’s representative green financial product, it ofof the Ministry for Education, Science and Technology, the Ministry fers premium financial services and additional preferential benefits of Knowledge Economy, the Ministry of Environment, and the Minnecessary for the growth of green companies. istry of Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs. These awards recogPreferential interest rates are offered to manufacturers of econize low-carbon, industry-leading green technologies. The Bank is at Social contribution products, providers of renewable energy, and waste-recycling busithe forefront of the development of green technologies and in creatnesses. The Bank also donates 0.5% of loan sales revenues to a ing a social consensus on the importance of green growth. Green Growth Development Fund for associations and organizaAs a sponsor, the Bank grants KB Green Growth Loans to the awartions, thereby contributing still further to the development of the dees through an agreement with the Korea Technology Credit Guargreen industry. antee Fund and the Korea Industrial Technology Association. In adIn consideration of the unstable funding structure of the green indition, the Bank provides SMEs who receive the KB Kookmin Bank dustry, KB Kookmin Bank continues to create the demand for fundCEO award with premium benefits and the opportunity to promote ing through organic cooperation with external organizations. This cotheir technology in the KB Kookmin Bank booth at the Low-carbon, operation is based on agreements and on the reinforcement of the Green-growth Expo. credit levels of debtors through the strength of guarantor institutions . Performance Specifically, in 2010, through business agreements with Gyeonggi Conducting trial global matching province and Gyeonggi Credit Foundation, KB Green Growth Loans KB Kookmin Bank encourages its corporate clients to participate were granted to low-carbon green companies located in the region. on a trial basis in a matching program organized by SMBC (SumiSince its launch in February 2009, the amount of support has steadtomo Mitsui Banking Corporation), a partner bank. The program, ily increased thanks to efforts to identify promising green businesswhich matches suppliers with vendors, has enabled the Bank to es, along with expanded cooperation with other institutions. As a provide its corporate clients in the green industry with practical result, its outstanding balance has expanded from KRW254.3 billion support and to examine new fee-based green business models. Green Business Investment and Products Performance Classification Investment and Products 2009 2010 New & Renewable Energy Fund Investment* (KRW in billions) 1.2 New Technology Investment through Green Growth Investment Fund* (KRW in billions) 1.0 Green Growth support Direct Investment & Loans for Wind Power Industry* (KRW in billions) 19.5 23.6 KB Solar-Biz Loan** (KRW in billions) 34.1 65.7 KB Green Growth Loan**(KRW in billions) 254.3 821.5 Business Taxi Corporate Card (no. of accounts) 7,823 9,305 Preferential Business Installment Savings (no. of accounts, KRW in billions) 16,787 (305.9) 9,026 (271.4) Promotion of customer KB Green Growth e-Procurement Time Deposits (no. of accounts, KRW in billions) 21,833 (208.8) 6,914 (68.4) eco-lifestyles*** Green Bicycle Insurance (no. of accounts, KRW in million) 12,144 (490.0) 14,246 (591.0) KB Green Growth Card (no. of accounts) 32,862 66,702 * Based on the amount of annual direct investment by KB Kookmin Bank ** Based on annual year-end balances *** Based on the annual year-end number of active accounts; figures in parenthesis represent annual year-end balances 38 39 How does the Bank develop financial support for the green growth of society? Q10 A1 KB Kookmin Bank is aggressively developing a comprehensive set of financial solutions to support and nurture green industry. Future plans Building green financial networks and enhancing communication Along with the government’s stricter guidelines on greenhouse As the leading green bank, KB Kookmin Bank has strengthened the gas emissions and energy conservation, the demand for investgreen financial network that links it with the government and related ment in energy-saving facilities is expected to grow. Thus, KB agencies. This communications link has enabled the Bank to take Kookmin Bank is seeking opportunities to expand funding activities the lead in policy proposals for the development of green finance for energy service companies (ESCO). The Bank is also exploring and a system of close collaboration among financial institutions. The new business opportunities in the worldwide carbon emissions Bank continues to provide a variety of financial support to reinforce trading scheme. the competitiveness of the green industry. The Bank also launched KB WiseGreen, its green-brand identity, in May 2010, and applied it to KB green financial products and services. With this integrated brand name, KB Kookmin Bank is increasing the Consolidation of the Green Financing Infrastructure efficiency of internal and external communication. Dedicated reorganization and strengthening of green financing In 2009, KB Kookmin Bank inaugurated a Green Business Task • Industries Subject to Inspection of Eco-friendly Management Force, the Korean financial industry’s first organization dedicated to promoting green finance and green management. In August Industries Subject to Environmental Assessment 2010, KB Kookmin Bank reorganized and renamed the organization ㆍGreen Growth industries: Renewable energy, carbon free as the Green Business Department, reinforcing executive powers energy, advanced wastewater treatment, LED applications, and expertise in green financing. green transportation system, new materials, nano-converIn 2010, the Bank also added green financial education programs gence technologies, and bio-pharmaceuticals to the curriculum of its existing e-training sessions to help employees better understand green finance and to develop experts in ㆍIndustries necessary for eco-friendly management: Mining, the field. The Bank is now developing a green finance course in its tobacco manufacturing, textile dyeing, manufacture of reCore Job Professional Development Program, a training program fined petroleum products, chemicals manufacturing, sewage for the next generation of talent. disposal, and general construction Strengthening environmental-risk management systems Assessment Results 967 Since September 30, 2009, the Bank has employed an eco-friendliness eco-friendliness assessments 967 checklist to assign credit ratings to green growth companies receiving (36.0%) loans of more than KRW8 billion and to companies and projects requiring environmental management. 2,688 credit-ratings The use of these results has been made possible by alliances with an applications outside professional institution since March 2010, thereby enhancing its environmental risk management framework. 183 The Bank also receives advice on improving environmental risk assessment techniques. Environmental risk management has improved sig2009 2010 2010 *Increase in Eco-friendliness Assessments *Number of Eco-friendliness Assessments nificantly through such alliances with a professional institution. Agreements with Gyeonggi-do and Gyeonggi Credit Foundation for Sole Financial-Sector Sponsor of the National Green Tech Award Support of Green Growth KB Green Growth Loans offer preferential interest rates to new growth engines and lowThe second National Green Tech Award was held in December 2010. As the sole sponsor carbon green companies recommended by the Gyeonggi-do provincial government. from the financial sector, KB Kookmin Bank played an important role in creating a social consensus on the importance of green growth and in promoting the development of green technologies. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank respond to climate change? Q11 A1 The Bank actively demonstrates its leadership in green management through the improvement of systems, organizations, and infrastructure. In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank established a framework to enhance its reEnergy Conservation and Reduction of Greenhouse Gases Introduction sponse to climate change, both internally and externally. Through such initiatives as the KB Carbon-dioxide Emission Management System (KBParticipation in Energy (-) Love (+) Campaign CEMS), the introduction of eco-friendly green branches, and the use of KB Kookmin Bank participates in the Energy (-) Love (+) Campaign hybrid cars, the Bank provides employees with a greener work environsponsored by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and organized ment. By participating in various initiatives, the Bank is standing strong by the Korea Energy Management Corporation. From July to Auas a global green bank. gust, this campaign donates funds saved from reduced heating costs to the needy. The Bank’s 442 branches were able to reduce total electricity consumption by 1,866 MWh, equivalent to KRW 205 million or 873 tons of CO2. As a result, the Bank was recogChanges Enhancing the Green Management Infrastructure nized for its outstanding participation in the campaign. Carbon-dioxide Emission Management System Through its own summer and winter energy conservation camKB Kookmin Bank has developed the KB-CEMS, the first system paigns, the Bank also promotes energy-saving habits in the daily in the financial sector to monitor carbon emissions company-wide. lives of the employees. Following development and preparation during the second half of 2009, KB-CEMS came into full operation in 2010 to measure Carbon-neutral program participation energy usage and carbon emissions, as well as to set and moniIn 2010, KB Kookmin Bank participated in a carbon-neutral program Value creation tor fulfillment of annual targets for carbon emissions reduction, organized by the Korea Energy Management Corporation. thereby creating an opportunity to establish a quantitative ground At the beginning of 2010, the CO2 reduction target was set at 443.74 for cost savings and carbon management. tCO2, which is 1% of 44,374.17 tCO2, the amount of carbon emitKB-CEMS has received the ISO9001 certification, signaling its recogted by the seven headquarter buildings in 2009. By setting targets nition as a data management system that meets global standards. for a carbon dioxide reduction ratio at the seven headquarter buildings during the period from January to December 2010, the Bank New eco-friendly green branches reduced 2,325.66 tCO2, exceeding the target by 1,881.92 tCO2. Social contribution KB Kookmin Bank installed eco-friendly office supplies such as In addition to achieving the targets, and as part of voluntary green building materials with environmental certifications and LED lightmanagement practices, the Bank planted 5,500 yellow poplars and ing in five of the branches opened in 2010. It posted information on ginkgo trees in the army base camp of 26th Division, offsetting new installations, thereby contributing to customer awareness of 996.62 tCO2 of carbon dioxide emissions. green products and encouraging employee commitment. The Bank has also placed hydroponic gardens inside branches to improve work environments with indoor air purification and humidity control. Introduction of eco-friendly low-carbon vehicles Performance KB Kookmin Bank replaced the 47 mid-size cars whose leases expired in 2010 with hybrid vehicles. These cars have helped the Bank achieve energy savings and greenhouse-gas reduction due to their high fuel efficiency and the use of LPG, which emits the least greenhouse gas of any fuel. More cars are being replaced in 2011. An Auto Teller Machine Built with Eco-friendly Building Materials Greenhouse Gas Reduction Activities 40 41 How does the Bank respond to climate change? Q11 A1 The Bank actively demonstrates its leadership in green management through the improvement of systems, organizations, and infrastructure. Global Initiative Activities and Achievements UN Global Compact In April 2010, KB Kookmin Bank participated in ‘2010 B4E (Business for Environment)’, co-sponsored by the UNGC, the United Nations Environment Program, the WWF, and Global Initiatives. Since the participation, the Bank has actively responded to climate change and has achieved outstanding non-financial performance by signing the Caring for Climate (C4C) agreement. Acting as chair of the UNEP FI Korea Group The Bank has actively participated in UNEP FI since joining in April 2004. In April 2010, it organized a meeting of the UNEP FI Korea Group as chair. In this meeting, the Bank announced the progress of its green finance and discussed plans for the group’s future activities. In addition, the Bank hosted a UNEP FI Korea group workshop in November 2010 to share group’s future policy plans. Participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) KB Kookmin Bank has participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) as a signatory since 2009. In October 2010, KB Financial Group was named a Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) leader in the financial sector for the second consecutive year. Thus, the Group’s transparent disclosure of carbon information and ongoing green management activities were widely acknowledged. Included in the DJSI Asia/Pacific & Korea KB Financial Group has been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific and Korea Indexes for two consecutive years since 2009. DJSI Korea is organized by Korea Productivity Center and assessed SAM, headquartered in Switzerland. The inclusion signals official recognition of KB Financial Group by international investors for its outstanding sustainability. Joined in FTSE4GOOD Index In March 2011, KB Financial Group was included in the FTSE4GOOD Index. The index was created by the FTSE Group, developer of two of the world’s major stock market indexes, to provide recognition of the world’s leading companies in corporate ethics. KB Financial Group will maintain its inclusion in the index, as well as its leading role in CSR management, through newly revitalized CSR activities. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues How does the Bank conduct business activities with suppliers? Q12 A1 The Bank has improved guidelines and processes through active communication with suppliers, and it encourages them to participate in ethical, fair, and transparent business relationships. KB Kookmin Bank improves its procurement systems through active also creating a database for survey results to strengthen foundaIntroduction communication with all suppliers. In addition, the Bank continues to tions for cooperative relationships with suppliers. seek opportunities for mutually beneficial relations with partners by screening and evaluating their ethical management. Integrity Contract Every contract for purchase of goods or services at the Bank must Communication with Suppliers include a clause prohibiting the use of money, goods, or entertainKB Kookmin Bank continuously improves procurement policies ment to gain unfair advantage. Any violation of this clause will and processes, including guidelines for purchasing. It also regularly disqualify a supplier indefinitely from further bidding rights. These Changes holds meetings and conducts satisfaction surveys of its suppliers standards are regarded by other institutions as exemplary provito reflect their concerns in the improvement of guidelines. sions for ethical management. Meetings with suppliers KB Kookmin Bank regularly holds business meetings with suppliEvaluation of Ethical Management ers to build mutually beneficial relationships. At these meetings, the Bank introduces guidelines for procurement activities and collects Since 2009, KB Kookmin Bank has reviewed suppliers’ ethical Value creation complaints and suggestions from suppliers. management practices and used them as evaluation criteria. The To incorporate industry-specific considerations into the Bank’s procriteria for inclusion of suppliers in the Approved Vendor List (AVL) curement policy, procurement categories are classified as strategic include introduction of ethical management (including a code of procurement, IT procurement, facilities construction, and general ethics and programs for ethics education), the eco-friendliness of a purchasing. Discussions during meetings are transcribed. Opinions proposed product, and social contribution activities. These criteria and suggestions are reflected in business operations through due are also used in the selection of general vendors. analysis and review. Social contribution Survey of supplier satisfaction KB Kookmin Bank conducts surveys to improve its purchasing policies and processes. It uses the information from these surveys to develop mutually beneficial relationships with suppliers. In 2010, surveys were conducted on 229 suppliers to address issues such as the fairness of selection, appropriateness of deadlines, staff attitudes, unfair treatment, and purchasing processes. After each survey, the companies receive invitations to submit suggestions for improvement to the Bank. Moreover, the Bank is Performance The Result of Supplier Satisfaction Survey 2010 2009 100 98.9 97.9 98.9 98 97.9 97.8 96.8 96 96.7 95.8 • Target: 229 suppliers 94.7 • Duration : May 13 ~ 27, 2010 94 94.5 94.5 • Criteria 1. Fair and rational process in selecting suppliers 92 2. Appropriateness of the duration for selection and delivery (including the completion of construction projects) 90 3. Appropriateness of inspection for delivery (including the completion of construction projects) and duration of payment 89 4. Active but polite attitudes of Bank employees 88 5. Entertainment required by Bank employees for business purposes, 86 and other unfair treatment 6. Overall process of procurement (including facilities construction) 84 * These criteria attained an average satisfaction rate for 97.0%, increasing 1.8%p comCriteria 1 Criteria 2 Criteria 3 Criteria 4 Criteria 5 Criteria 6 pared to the previous year. 42 43 Special Action 3. Implementation of Paperless Business Processes Electronic Documents in Branches – Creating New Work Environments Promoting the Use of Electronic Documents Results of Four Initiatives In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank implemented the Paperless Green Bank Project, which promotes four initiatives: I.D. scanning, invoice digiFour initiatives Before After tization, e-public documents, and digital credit record search. The I.D. scanners were installed in Employees had to leave their all bank windows to store the Bank extended these practices to all branches in January 2011. I.D. scanning seats to photocopy customer IDs I.D. as image files, easier to Prior to these initiatives, the photocopying of customer identificamanage and access tion at branches had delayed communication with customers; in Unsystematic management Invoices are scanned by Branch documents of branch documents such as Shared Service Center, and addition, separate invoice management at the branch level had indigitalization application forms, and the risk original documents are stored creased the risk of data loss and other difficulties in data access of losses in a separate specialized library. and management. However, with these improvements, the Bank Documents with blank spaces By eliminating printing process, e-Public docucan now respond to customer requests more quickly, and it can ments for customers to fill in were the Bank manages all docuprinted out. ments in electronic form. actively participate in low-carbon, green-growth activities due to Information searches were the reductions in paper use. printed and scanned, followed The Bank manages and stores Digital credit by scanning and printing of customer credit loan informarecord search image files and subsequent tion in digital form, thereby disposal of the original docueliminating printing. ments. Four Initiatives Implementation of identification scanning I.D. scanners were installed in banking windows at all branches. Electronic public documents Prior to this, employees had to leave their seats to photocopy cusInstead of printing documents with blank spaces for customers tomer IDs and enter information to confirm the authenticity at the to complete, the Bank manages all documents in electronic form. employee-only website. Since scanner installation, however, scans Views and approvals are also completed electronically, which simcan be performed at desks, and authenticity can be determined plifies manual tasks and results in annual savings of about 7.3 milautomatically, a significant improvement in efficiency. lion sheets of paper. Electronic documents generated at branches Other electronic documents Invoices generated at branches are sent to a Shared Services CentSearch tables for customer credit data, which are required when er, where copies are produced and original documents are stored handling personal loans, as well as search tables used in the rein a separate specialized library. In the past, branch documents view of applications for the Housing Finance Credit Guarantee and such as application forms were stored in a library at each branch, e-certificates, are now stored as image files. As the loan transacinevitably requiring personnel and time to fulfill customer requests; tions require many data searches, the use of electronic documents they were also occasionally lost during office moves or disasters, has contributed not only to reductions in paper consumption, but and they were not properly disposed of at the end of their retention also to reductions in working hours. periods. The digitization of all invoices has made it possible to open any document electronically, thereby reducing costs by facilitating disposal of all expired documents, and enhancing the security of Killing Three Birds with One Stone customer information by reducing the risk of data loss. KB Kookmin Bank’s Green Bank promotes the use of electronic documents to increase business efficiency, provide an effective Invoice Digitization at Branches means to the ongoing ‘Work Diet’, and provide rapid, accurate services to customers. Specifically, by dramatically reducing paper 5 Storage at branches usage in all branches, the Bank is further strengthening its position Data search/retrieval as the leading green bank for low-carbon, green growth in society as a whole. 3 Branches Shared Services Center Storage of copies 4 1 Storage of Organization and Scan, revision originals sending of invoices to and screening of Storage concentrator the Center documents Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Issues Sustainability Performance Creating Economic Value Economic The Bank shares the economic value created by its banking operations with its stakeholders, contributing to the growth of society as a whole. For balanced regional growth, the Bank focuses on hiring regional suppliers and Performance manpower, as well as steadily investing in local communities 1. Operating Results and Asset Portfolio Summarized Income Statement (Unit: KRW in billions) In 2010, the operating income of the Bank changed moderately 2008 2009 2010 from the previous year, but its net income fell due to preemptive Net-interest income 7,230.6 6,220.6 6,947.6 and conservative provisions for possible loan losses. Although Non-interest income 368.4 457.8 335.6 net income was lower, the net interest margin (NIM) was wider General & administrative expenses 3,799.6 3535.6 4,061.4 compared to that of the previous year, and net income is expectOperating income before provisioning 3,799.4 3,142.8 3,221.8 ed to improve gradually in the coming year due to the growth of Provision expenses 1,987.9 2,439.7 3,120.3 interest income. (Provision for loan losses) 1,811.3 1,925.8 2,750.7 Operating income 1,811.5 703.1 101.5 Non-operating income 346.8 (42.6) (184.3) Net income before taxes 2,158.3 660.5 (82.8) Taxes 647.5 24.7 (94.0) Net income 1,510.8 635.8 11.2 Loan Exposure by Customer (Unit: KRW in billions, %) Loan* Ratio Large corporate 11,743 6.62 SMEs 65,120 36.70 Household 97,932 55.17 Others 2,684 1.51 Total 177,479 100.00 * Sum of Wonand foreign currency-denominated loans as of the end of 2010 Loan Exposure by Industry (Unit: KRW in billions, %) Loan* Ratio(%) Financial 2,221 2.80 Manufacturing 24,068 30.37 Service 32,616 41.15 Others 20,350 25.68 Total 79,255 100.00 * Sum of Wonand foreign currency-denominated loans as of the end of 2010 2. Distribution of Economic Value EC1 (Unit: KRW in billions) KB Kookmin Bank creates economic value through its business 2008 2009 2010 operations, and shares it with its employees, shareholders and Amount flows from operating activities creditors, the government, and suppliers. Operating revenues 44,379.5 26,114.4 20,796.1 The value created by the Bank is distributed to stakeholders in Amount distributed to stakeholders several ways: salaries and benefits to employees, dividends to Officers/Employees 2,357.0 2,055.3 2,628.9 shareholders, interest payments to customers, taxes to the gov(Salaries & welfares) ernment, fees and commissions to suppliers, and donations or Shareholders (Dividends) 95.3 contributions to local communities. Customers (Interest) 6,333.9 5,467.7 4,740.7 Government (Taxes/Dues) 165.1 121.8 111.0 Local communities (CSR 89.8 131.7 62.8 activities) Suppliers (Purchase & service) 1,022.8 945.4 944.0 * Figures for 2009 and 2010 reflect the profit and loss from discontinued operations resulting from spin-off of the credit card business Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Introduction 3. Regional Contractors for Construction Projects EC6 (Unit: %) Changes The Bank encourages the participation of regional contractors in the 2008 2009 2010 renovation of branch offices nation-wide. In doing so, the Bank conRatio of regional contractors 94.6 85.7 83.9 tributes to regional economic development. In 2010, regional contracRatio of non-regional contractors 5.4 14.3 16.1 tors shared 83.9% of all such works. Total 100 100 100 * Changes in reporting standard from purchased amount in 2008-2009 to project participation ratio in 2010 Value creation 4. Local Recruits and Managers Social contribution EC7 (Unit: %) The Bank discovers new growth drivers in overseas markets to 2008 2009 2010 overcome the growth limitations inherent in domestic banking No. of expatriate employees 45 47 54 businesses and to locate future growth engines in response to No. of employNo. of local recruits (a) 75 97 105 the growing tendency of globally integrated financial markets and ees at overseas Total 120 144 159 emerging Asian markets. As a result, the number of expatriate No. of local managers (b) 8 16 15 employees has grown. Moreover, to link the growth of the Bank Performance Ratio of local managers (b/a) 10.7% 16.5% 14.3% with the development of local communities, KB Kookmin Bank consistently increases local recruits. Ratio of Local Recruits and Local Managers 66.0%, 14.3% 5. CSR Activities for the Public Interest EC8 Investment (Unit: KRW in billions) Hours of Participation (Unit: Hours) KB Kookmin Bank has selected main social contribution areas Amount Hours and has held a variety of CSR programs to contribute to a brightLocal communities/ Local communities/ er, healthier society. Public interest 16.2 Public interest 168,944 * Abiding by the third clause of Article 7 in the Regulations for Donation Operations, Education 3.0 Education 2,497 KB Kookmin Bank prohibits donations to politicians and political organizations. Environment 0.2 Environment 1,801 Culture/sports/arts 4.8 Culture/sports/arts 387 Global 2.4 Global 297 Microfinance 36.2 Total 173,926 Total 62.8 46 47 Creating Environmental Value Environmental Given the nature of the financial services industry, the environmental impact of KB Kookmin Bank is comparatively lighter than that of other companies in other industries, who directly use fossil fuel. KB Kookmin Bank Performance aims to become a leading green bank by controlling energy consumption and CO2 emissions through continual monitoring. As a financial service provider, KB Kookmin Bank produces no products manufactured by processes that discharge polluting materials or involve hazardous materials. In 2010, there was no record of violations of environmental laws. 6. Using Recycled Materials EN1, EN2 As a service sector, the banking industry does not use primary Copy Paper Purchase Recycled Paper Purchase raw materials such as metal or mineral resources, unlike manu(Unit: Tons ) (Unit: Tons ) facturing businesses. KB Kookmin Bank, however, has been us1,000 ing substantial amounts of paper for bills and receipts, office 92 803 documents, contract documents and other documents at bank 74 counters and back offices. KB Kookmin Bank deems document paper to be major raw material. Copy paper usage in 2010 declined by 20% compared to the previous year. 170 KB Kookmin Bank continues to increase its use of recycled paper. N/A The Bank used around 10 tons of recycled paper in 2010. These figures will increase as the Bank extends usage of recycled paper 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 into new areas. * Scope of Data Collection 2008: Head office 2009, 2010 : Head office and branches 7. Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN3, EN4, EN16, EN17 In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank directly and indirectly consumed 1,082 Energy Consumption by Emission Source (Unit: TJ ) TJ of energy resources, including electricity and fuels for heating Emission sources 2008 2009 2010 Diesel 25 21 25 systems and vehicles. Accordingly, a total of 56,123 tCO2_eq of Kerosene 6 6 6 greenhouse gas was emitted. Scope 1 Stationary LNG 55 55 55 (Direct Combustion emission) LPG 0 0 0 Total 87 82 87 Subtotal 173 164 173 Scope 2 Electricity 731 954 905 (Indirect Heating system 1 4 4 emission) Subtotal 732 958 909 Total 905 1,122 1,082 Greenhouse Gas Emission (Unit: tCO2_eq) Emission sources 2008 2009 2010 Diesel 1,897.1 1,563.0 1,817.1 Kerosene 442.2 216.5 181.2 Stationary LNG 3,102.4 4,318.7 4,185.5 Combustion LPG 7.8 3.1 2.5 Scope 1 Total 5,449.5 6,101.3 6,186.3 (Direct emission) Gasoline 4,353.3 3,299.0 2,606.2 Mobile Diesel 348.9 335.2 364.8 Combustion LPG 0.0 0.0 66.1 Total 4,702.2 3,634.2 3,037.1 Subtotal 10,151.7 9,735.5 9,223.4 Scope 2 Electricity 37,937.0 49,416.8 46,899.8 (Indirect Heating system 0.1 0.2 0.2 emission) Subtotal 37,937.1 49,417.0 46,900.0 Total 48,088.8 59,152.5 56,123.4 * Scope of data: Seven large buildings and boarding houses ** Based on the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment for greenhouse gas reduction and energy conservation Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Introduction 8. Energy-savings and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions EN5, EN7, EN18 Changes 59,152 56,123 KB Kookmin Bank is improving the condition of its buildings in order to reduce electrical consumption. The Bank improved build48,088 ing conditions through the following means: Introducing high efficiency air conditioners; adjusting cooling temperatures in office spaces; turning off lights in unused spaces; and installing standby power-down outlets, particularly in computers at Yeouido, MyValue creation eongdong, Sewoo, and Gwanghwamun head offices. The Bank also improved infrastructure by replacing lighting systems at head 2008 2009 2010 offices and branches to increase energy-efficiency. * Greenhouse gas emissions (Unit: tCO2_eq) In addition, the Bank carried out activities to conserve energy in daily operations. As a result, electrical consumption was decreased by 49TJ from the previous year. Social contribution 9. Water Consumption and Waste Water EN8, EN21 (Unit: m3) Total water usage at the seven large buildings in 2010 was 2008 2009 2010 186,302m3. Municipal waterworks supply most water, and the Total usage 133,619 205,060 186,302 Bank does not use underground or recycled water. Yeouido Head Office, Yeouido Head Office, Yeouido Head Office, Since the Bank relies on waterworks as a supply source, it is Performance Myeongdong Head Myeongdong Head Myeongdong Head not directly affected by disruptions in catchment. Water used by Office, Office, Office, KB Kookmin Bank is domestic sewage. The Bank does not treat Gwanghwamun Gwanghwamun Gwanghwamun building, building, building, its own sewage, but relies on local municipal sewage treatment Scope of data Yeomchang DataYeomchang DataYeomchang Datafacilities on an aggregate basis. Therefore, the Bank’s sewage collection processing Center, processing Center, processing Center, output has negligible environmental impact on the local area of Jongam DataJongam DataJongam Dataprocessing Center processing Center processing Center discharge, particularly on its biodiversity. Yeouido DataYeouido Dataprocessing Center, processing Center, Sewoo Head Office Sewoo Head Office 10. Waste Discharge EN22 (Unit: m3) Most waste discharged from KB Kookmin Bank is office waste. 2008 2009 2010 In addition, all currently-generated office waste is managed by an Total dischage 53 42 38 outsourced waste treatment business to minimize environmental Yeouido Head Office, Yeouido Head Office, Yeouido Head Office, pollution. Myeongdong Head Myeongdong Head Myeongdong Head Office, Office, Office, Gwanghwamun Gwanghwamun Gwanghwamun building, building, building, Scope of data Yeomchang DataYeomchang DataYeomchang Datacollection processing Center, processing Center, processing Center, Jongam DataJongam DataJongam Dataprocessing Center processing Center processing Center Yeouido DataYeouido Dataprocessing Center, processing Center, Sewoo Head Office Sewoo Head Office 48 49 Creating Environmental Value 11. Environmental Investment EN30 (Unit: KRW in million) Environmental concerns, including climate change, have become 2009 2010 significant issues in corporate management. KB Kookmin Bank Direct investment to support “green growth” 310,100 910,800 supports corporate “green growth” and confronts climate change Investment to “green management” through formulation of systematic, attainable plans and active in• Hybrid vehicle 35 vestment in green industries and technologies. • Eco-friendly building materials purchase 786 821 In green financing, KB Kookmin Bank continues to seek outstand• Recycled paper purchase 374 414 ing financial solutions to support eco-friendly businesses. Furthermore, the Bank continues to seek new business opportunities in emerging international carbon markets. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Creating Social Value Labor and KB Kookmin Bank upholds the principles of equal opportunity in its recruitment practices. The Bank also maintains cooperative, mutually beneficial labor-management relations. To assist employees who encounter unexpected difHuman Rights ficulties, the Bank provides an Employee Grievance Center and health care programs. Introduction 12. HR and Employment LA1 (Unit: Persons) Changes As of the end of 2010, KB Kookmin Bank has 22,580 officers and 2008 2009 2010 employees. The Bank hires employees for both regular and nonRegular 17,789 18,237 16,546 regular positions, which are defined according their duties and Permanent Employment 4,998 6,975 5,270 qualifications. In 2009, the Bank transitioned most of its temNon-regular 3,245 730 764 porary workers, who held fixed-term contracts, into permanent Total 26,032 25,942 22,580 employment. As a result, non-regular workers accounted for 3% * Including executives and heads of divisions, and excluding overseas local staff of the Bank’s total workforce as of the end of 2010. The Bank Value creation complies with the Temporary Employee Protection Act and Act (Unit: Persons) on the Protection, Etc. of Fixed-term and Part-time Employees. 2008 2009 2010 The Bank provides equal employment opportunity for socially Disabled 292 294 249 disadvantaged groups. In 2010, it hired 249 disabled persons, as Patriots and veterans 1,599 1,531 1,385 well as 1,385 veterans, persons of distinguished national service, and their family members. The number of female employees accounted for 46% of the total. There is no distinction between male and female workers for the purpose of compensation and Social contribution 8 promotion. The Bank also supports harmony between workplace 18 and home by permitting leaves of absence for health, maternity, Gender prenatal care, and childcare. Additionally, it operates facilities inAge groups 53.9 proportion 46.1 39 cluding a women’s lounge, nursing rooms, and childcare centers. (Unit: %) (Unit: %) 35 Male Female 20s 30s 40s Older than 50s Performance 13. Retirement LA2 (Unit: Persons) In 2010, KB Kookmin Bank launched an early retirement program, 2008 2009 2010 through which it assisted 3,777 participants in planning for life Male 540 117 1,749 after retirement. This assistance included special severance pay, Female 626 334 2,028 outplacement, job counseling, honorable promotions, subsidies Total 1,166 451 3,777 for children’s education, and support for business start-ups. In particular, participants in the early retirement program were supported with counseling and education programs for outplacement and start-ups. 50 51 Creating Social Value 14. Elimination of Labor Discrimination HR4, HR6, HR7, LA14 Abiding by the Labor Relations Act, KB Kookmin Bank prohibits Cases child labor and compulsory labor. The Bank also equally pays male No. of total discrimination 0 and female employees according to their ranks. The Bank’s guideGender discrimination (including sexual harassment) 0 lines for personnel management include clear statements about Region discrimination 0 these prohibitions and sets out countermeasures for any form of Education background discrimination 0 discrimination. Age discrimination 0 Educational opportunities discrimination 0 15. Health and Safety LA6, LA7 (Unit: %) As most employment positions are characterized primarily by of2008 2009 2010 fice work, a collective bargaining agreement is enforced regardIndustrial accident rate* 0.08 0.03 0.05 ing safety and health care, environmental inspection, education for Frequency rate of injury** 0.33 0.16 0.21 the prevention of accidents, sanitation education, periodic medical * The industrial accident rate is the percentage of injured persons among the total number examinations, mental health, and resort facilities. The agreement of employees. Normally, the duration of the calculation is a year. If the duration is one also covers accident compensation, injury compensation, maternal year, the calculation equals the ratio of the number of injuries per year to the average number of employees per year. The ratio is calculated as follows: compensation, group insurance subscription, support for medical Industrial accident rate = (Number of injured person/Number of employees) x 100 expenses, recuperation, surgical operations, and support of physi** Frequency of injuries reflects the number of injuries per one million man-hours. The ratio is calculated as follows: cal activities Frequency rate of injury = (Number of accidents / Working hours in a year) ×1,000,000 * Related collective bargaining agreement : See Chapter 4, fifth clause (Injury Compensation), sixth clause (Safety & Health), seventh clause (Recuperation), and eighth clause (Physical activities) (Unit: Hours, Days, %) 2008 2009 2010 Total working days 62,558,400 62,344,800 61,495,200 Lost Work Days* 81,640 106,407 44,621 Rate of LWD** 0.13 0.17 0.07 * Lost Work Days (LWDs) are numbers of days which employees are not capable for their duties due to industrial accidents and disease. ** LWD rate = (Total No. of LWD / Working days in a year) x 100 16. Health Management Programs LA8, LA9 KB Kookmin Bank implements a tailored health management proPrograms Target Details gram for serious diseases to support employees and their families. • 24 hours & every days consulting for health In addition to health and safety education programs, the Bank pro• Reservation for the nation-wide medical vides a variety of timely information to help employees maintain Tailored health centers Employees and good health. management • Providing a variety of health information their families program • 1:1 tailed management for employees with abnormal findings • Concentrating on health risk groups Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Introduction 17. Labor-Management Relationship LA4, LA5, HR5 Changes (Unit: Persons) KB Kookmin Bank has signed “Joint Collective Bargaining Agree2009 2010 ments” with 34 institutions, including the Korean Financial InEmployees eligible for labor union dustry Union and other commercial banks through the Financial 21,732 19,124 membership Industry Users Council. According to Chapter 2 (union activities) Labor union members 21,156 18,732 of the agreement, the Bank guarantees freedom of association for union training, supply of various facilities and materials, and 97.95 Employees joined labor unions Employees not joined labor unions various publicity activities while in employment. Labor Union Value creation Membership (Unit: %) ※ Including employees at HR Dept., 2.05 Employees Satisfaction Dept., and secretariat KB Kookmin Bank has launched a joint standing consultative body Details between labor and management to determine important policies. • Abolished the restriction on the number of examinations for The Bank invigorates communications between labor and manregular job position • Added entrance to or graduation from school as an acceptagement, thus establishing a symbiotic culture. This communicaLabor-Management able leave of absence tion includes TFTs, workshops, and in-house as well as external Council Social contribution • Modified the period and the basis of assessment for a new part of KPIs introduced to reduce overtime work training sessions for employees in charge of labor-management • Provided plans to encourage employees in the IT Business relations. These efforts allow the Bank to share its vision and Group establish a culture of mutual trust and cooperation, greatly enJoint labor-manage• Held a workshop to discuss major management issues and ment workshop to strengthen membership hancing its reputation and competitiveness and securing future Joint labor-managegrowth engines. ment TFTs • Held a workshop related to HR, welfare, and salaries In compliance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement and the Performance ClassifiAgreements Conclusion Discussion guidelines of the Labor-Management Council, KB Kookmin Bank cation fulfills its responsibility to notify employees in a timely manner on • Enacted and • Union activities while in amended the employment important changes in business. Collective guidelines for • Downsizing Bargaining recruits The Bank also guarantees the rights of employees with respect Agreement • Placed • Protections against sexual harassment to dismissal and organizational downsizing pursuant to Article 46 limitations on dismissal (Limitation of Dismissal), Article 47 (Downsizing), and Article 48 • Established basic • Treatment of employee (Prima Facie Proof) of the Collective Bargaining Agreement, as plans for employee grievances education and ca• Improvement of safety well as Article 7 (Efforts to avoid Dismissal) of the Agreement on reer development and health in the workStable Employment Labor-Man• Built and operated place, as well as general agement welfare facilities employee health Council • Introduced an Intra• Balance between work company Labor and breaks Welfare Fund • Employee welfare and other concerns for labormanagement cooperation • Leaves caused • Stable employment by manage• Employment succession Agreement ment problems plans after acquisitions, on Stable • Early retirement splits, mergers, transfers, Employ• Education for spin-offs, and outsourcing ment outplacement • Efforts to avoid dismissal and business start-ups • Higher workplace productivity and distribution of value created by that higher productivity Business • Welfare of employees Develop• Improvement of HR ment management, and other Council effects on employment, including reorganization • Recruitment, deployment, and education of employees 52 53 Creating Social Value Education KB Kookmin Bank systematically manages the work histories of its employees and offers a variety of education courses to cultivate their expertise. The Bank also regularly conducts education programs in ethics and anti& Training corruption to foster a culture of professional ethics. Furthermore, the Bank administers education for security guards and officers. 18. Employee Education LA10 KB Kookmin Bank continues to improve the quality of its educa2008 2009 2010 tion and training programs to foster professionalism and global Average hours of education per employee 114 86 110 talent. To attract outstanding employees, the Bank provides a vaAverage hours of education by rank riety of courses and incentives to foster professionalism in core L(S) 1* 145 96 121 tasks. All employees voluntarily participate in training programs L(S) 2** 132 85 111 to enhance individual competence. L(S) 3** 123 102 107 L(S) 4** 56 42 70 Others*** 78 77 105 * L(S)1 level: Team members Average Hours of ** L(S) 2-4 level: Head of units, team leaders or members Education per Employee *** Others : Executives, office in 2010 Compared to 2009 workers, and experts, etc. +24 Hours 19. Ethics and Human Rights Education HR3, HR8, SO3 (Unit: Times, Person) KB Kookmin Bank holds a variety of education programs for anti2008 2009 2010 corruption and ethics. All employees of the Bank are required to take Online Offline Online Offline Online Offline one of various ethics compliance education programs, including No. of group sessions, e-training programs, and mobile training sessions. 7 577 8 523 8 351 Education All 313 security guards participated in 10 hours of education proNo. of parAll All All 15,639 9,968 8,384 grams, while 709 guards who were outsourced from external seticipants employees employees employees curity service companies, or 98% of the total, completed safety and ethics education programs. 20. Anti-corruption and Violations SO2, SO4, SO8 To eliminate corruption, including illegal rebates from suppliers, 2008 2009 2010 misappropriation, and bribery, the Bank evaluates the performNumber of workplaces All workplaces All workplaces All workplaces ance of its anti-corruption prevention framework for each business Percentage of workplaces group. All employees are required to participate in ethics complireceiving anti-corruption 100% 100% 100% ance checks and self diagnoses through integrated compliance checks support systems for internal control and self-assessment of opIn 2010, there were six non-financial penalties for breaches of law. Accordingly, the emerational risk. Additionally, once a year the Bank conducts surveys ployees concerned were warned, and internal guidance and supervsion were strengthened. of customers and employees to evaluate ethical management, thereby monitoring current status of the ethical management and potential risks from corruption. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Product KB Kookmin Bank continues to improve its deliberations on the disclosure of information about financial products, and it observes internal guidelines on marketing and the management of information for the customer, thereby Responsibility protecting the customer’s rights. In addition, the Bank conducts CS surveys and other CS activities to fulfill its responsibilities to maintain products and services, from their introduction, to sales, to post-sales consultation. Introduction 21. Type of Financial Service Information Required by Procedures PR3 (Unit: Cases) Changes KB Kookmin Bank provides product information to its customers 2008 2009 2010 in various forms. Abiding by the Compliance Manual, the Bank Previews of disclosure about financial 1,105 1,343 1,813 places the highest priority on providing its customers with acproducts curate information. Number of Previews of Product Information Disclosures in 2010 Compared to 2009 +470 Cases Value creation 22. Customer Satisfaction PR5 (Unit: Rank, Points) Along with external CS surveys, KB Kookmin Bank conducts its Social contribution 2008 2009 2010 own CS surveys for all business channels, including branches, NCSI* No. 1 No. 1 No. 1 call centers, and internet banking. The results of the survey are KCSI** No. 1 No. 1 No. 1 reflected in the CS targets of the Key Performance Indicators CSI of Branches 91.40 92.55 92.82 (KPI) at each branch and used in the evaluation of branch CS per* National Customer Satisfaction Index (NCSI), Korea Productivity Center formance. With detailed information about the results, the Bank ** Korea Customer Satisfaction Index (KCSI), Korea Management Association promptly prescribes remedial action for any problems. Performance 23. Marketing Communications PR6 KB Kookmin Bank provides product information to its customers in various forms, including invitation letters. In so doing, the Bank places the highest priority on providing its customers with accurate information about financial products and services. KB Kookmin Bank complies with internal and external regulations regarding advertising and promotional activities for its financial products. The Bank protects the rights of its users and investors and prevents unfair business activities, including attracting customers away from competitors in unjust ways. The Bank observes related regulations: Article 89 (public disclosure of financial transaction terms) of the Bank Supervision Regulation; Chapter 7 (protection of rights and interests of users of financial institutions) of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business; and Chapter 3 (investment advertisement) of the Regulations on the Operation and Service of Financial Investment Companies. 54 55 Creating Social Value 24. Protection of Customer Privacy PR8 Since the Customer Information Management Guidelines stipuDetails lated criteria for management and protection for illegal disclosure • Recording employees’ extractions of customer data through printing of customer information in 2004, KB Kookmin Bank has amended or downloading from the e-banking system, in order to monitor disthe Guidelines seven times to raise the level of customer privacy posal of that data after office hours, as well as to ensure registration of each disposal in the data processing system. protection. To protect customer information, the Bank assigns at Data • Requiring business purpose codes for every e-transaction to prevent retrieval of customer information for non-business purposes least one customer information manager to each branch office to control • Restricting the number of employees allowed to access customer conduct daily inspection of customer information management acinformation through the CRM system to four per branch office tivities, as well periodic training of personnel in CIM. It addition, • Installing customer information protection systems on the PCs of all employees the deputy branch manager examines the appropriateness of customer information management on a monthly basis. In 2010, there • Monitoring and supervising the management/processing of customer information every quarter was no record of leak or loss of customer information or data. • Regularly inspecting computer logs for unauthorized retrieval of customer information for non-business purposes and the appropriateness Monitorof revision ing and • Reviewing the status of customer information management through education on-site inspection at each branch office (Audit Dept.). • Conducting bank-wide customer information security training (Every half year) • Including customer information protection/management courses in intensive training courses for internal control managers Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix Organization Chart Awards in 2010 Related to Sustainability Management Membership in Associations and Organizations for Sustainability Management Independent Assurance Statement GRI Application Level Check Statement GRI Guideline Index UN Global Compact Principles Glossary Organization Chart 9 Groups, 16 Divisions, 57 Departments (as of March 24, 2011) Trading Finance Mgmt. Capital Market Div. Division Accounting. Financial Mgmt. Derivatives Sales Fund Mgmt. Settlement Supporting Center Human Resources Branch Development Div. Public Relation Planning & Coordination Regional Head Office Performance Channel Planning Planning Employee Custody Improvement Div. & Coordination Div. Relationship Mgmt. Human Resources Development Trust Sales Planning Performance Improvement Dept. Trust Biz. Div. HR Div. Sales Div. Retail Sales Strategy & Finance NHF Mgmt. Mgmt. Group Human Resources Corporate Banking Sales Group HR Group Loan & Customer Service IT Development Large Corporate Account Service Investment Banking Biz. & Public Institution Biz. IT Development Channel Audit RM Secretariat Large Corporate Investment & Public Institution Banking Div. IT Development Chief Audit Executive IT Planning Biz. Div. Corporate Div. & Investment Management Audit IT Service IT Group Global Business Operations Information Service Banking Group IT Development Pension Biz. Project Financing Overseas Branch President IT Channel Service Compliance Supporting & CEO Development Foreign ExchangeBiz. Credit Risk Chief Compliance Risk Mgmt. Officer Div. Risk Management Call Center New Growth Biz. Legal Shared Service New Group Credit Review Group Banking Biz. Business Supporting Center General Affairs PB Center New Banking Biz. Division Business Help Center Security Control Green Biz. Wealth Marketing Credit Analysis Campus Plaza Biz. Management Div. Group Group Sales Supporting Wealth Management Campus Plaza Securities Agency Biz. ACS Center Credit Mgmt.Center General Administration Customer Satisfaction Loan Planning Marketing Corporate Restructuring Deposit Product Credit Management Corporate Credit Analysis Affiliated Product Credit Analysis Div. Product Mgmt. Div. Loan Product Retail Credit Analysis Credit Analysis Center Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix Awards in 2010 Related to Sustainability Management Month Awards Organizers Jan. Selected as the top bank at the 2010 Human Resource Management Awards The Korea Economic Daily KB Green Growth Loan is awarded a special prize at the 2010 e-Daily Financial Product Feb. e-Daily Awards Korea Management Association Mar. Ranked 1st for the 12th consecutive year in the 2010 Korea Brand Power Index (K-BPI) Consulting Korea Management Association Apr. Selected as Korea’s top bank at the 2010 Korea Brand Power Golden Brand Consulting Received the Minister of Knowledge Economy Award for green management at the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, May Global Green Management Excellence Awards Ministry of Environment 2009 annual report won premium award for the 2nd consecutive year in general finanLeague of American CommunicaJul. cial category for at 2008 League of American Communication Professionals Award * tion Professionals (LACP) Ranked 1st among banks in the NBCI(National Brand Competitiveness Index) for the Aug. Korea Productivity Center 7th consecutive year Selected as Best Domestic Provider of FX Services as voted by financial institutions Asiamoney Ranked 1st among banks in the KCSI(Korean Customer Satisfaction Index) for the 4th Korea Management Association Sep. consecutive year Consulting Received the Minister of Knowledge Economy Award at the 34th National Productivity Korea Productivity Center Awards in the green productivity category Named a Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) leader in the financial area for the second CDP Korea year * Oct. Dow Jones, SAM, Korea ProducJoined the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index for two consecutive years tivity Center Nov. Recognized for the 5th consecutive year at CSR Award Korea 2010 The Korea Economic Daily Received Grand Prize in new product development of 2010 at Korea Marketing Awards Seoul Economic Daily Dec. Ranked 1st on the National Customer Satisfaction Index for the 5th consecutive year Korea Productivity Center * Awards for KB Financial Group ** For more information about awards, visit the “History” page under “About Us” at the website of KB Kookmin Bank (http://www.kbstar.com), or “KB Financial Group History” under “Management Info” at the website of KB Financial Group (www.kbfng.com). Membership in Associations and Organizations for Sustainability Management Associations and Organizations Purpose of membership Korea Auditors Association Information exchange on auditing Korea Internal Control Society Information exchange on internal controls Korea Listed Companies Association Information exchange on auditing KMA Consulting Implementation of CS related policies Korea Productivity Center NCSI, CEO dinner banquet Korea Federation of Small and Medium Business Meeting of economy related groups Korea Federation of Banks Information exchange among banks and joint response to issues Korea Personnel Management Association Gatherings of persons in charge of HR management and training The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Forums on ethical management Korea Association of Procurement and Supply Management Academic research on procurement and supply management Discussion with other financial institutions and Financial Financial Information Security Association Supervisory Service on policy-making for information protection KF-ISAC(Information Sharing and Analysis Center) of KFTC Implementation of the Law of Critical Infrastructure Protection 58 59 Independent Assurance Statement To the readers of the 2010 KB Kookmin Bank Sustainability Report: The Korea Productivity Center (the auditor) has received a request for independent third-party assurance for the KB Kookmin Bank Sustainability Report of 2010. Our KB Kookmin Bank is responsible for the collection and presentation of information within this report, and our Independence responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information within the verification scope stipulated below. With the exception of providing third party verification services, this auditor has not been involved in the formulation of KB Kookmin Bank’s Sustainability Report or any other business operations, thereby avoiding any conflicts of interest and maintaining independence. Assurance We have been engaged to provide Type 1 assurance, which covers evaluation of adherence to the AA1000APS Standards (2008) stakeholder principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness. KB Kookmin Bank has confirmed that this report has been prepared according to the GRI G3 Guidelines. Scope In adherence to the aforementioned assurance standards, this assurance statement excludes reviews of the reliability of data provided in this report. Additionally, on-site inspection was restricted to head offices in Seoul, thus excluding other domestic branch offices and overseas branches. The results included in this report may be changed if additional assurance procedures are applied. Methodology To provide this statement of assurance, we have performed the following tasks: 1. Inspection of the appropriateness in selection of key issues and contents presented in this report through media research and benchmarking; 2. Review of reporting rates and methodologies abiding by all indicators of the GRI G3 Guidelines, especially the additional indicators for the financial services industry, in order to meet the level-A criteria of the GRI Application; 3. Verification of the fulfillment of the principles of the GRI G3 Guidelines regarding contents and quality; 4. Assessment of the suitability of the contents of this report, with attention to errors in expression in comparison with other sources; 5. Identification of evidence supporting the data and other information in this report through on-site inspection of head offices, as well as internal processes and systems. Results The auditor verifies that this report reflects the activities and performance of sustainability management at KB Kookmin Bank with integrity and fairness. We also grant assurance that the Bank meets the criteria required for level A of the GRI Application, exactly as KB Kookmin Bank has declared. 1. Inclusivity : Participation of stakeholders KB Kookmin Bank classifies its stakeholders into customers, shareholders, employees, local communities, and suppliers. The Bank uses a variety of communication channels and methods to collect a full range of stakeholder opinions and to understand stakeholder interests. The Bank considers the views of its customers through a VOC system, an Internet homepage, surveys, and customer satisfaction indexes. Based on observation of company operations, the auditor acknowledges the efforts of the Bank to improve customer satisfaction. The Bank holds briefings to provide customers with investment information and provides programs to encourage employee participation in these efforts, such as CS-Star and CS-manager positions. The Bank operates a large-scale data processing system called My Star to provide customized retail services. The auditor recommends, however, that the Bank establish additional communication channels for stakeholders to encourage their further participation and to collect opinions. Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix 2. Materiality : Selection and report of key issues We confirm that the Bank understands the needs of key stakeholders in the financial services industry, and we verify that it has identified key issues for its sustainable growth. To do so, the Bank has collected diverse opinions of stakeholders through regular informal meetings and through surveys administered according to type of stakeholder and issue. We acknowledge that this report also reflects external opinions regarding the risks and opportunities that may result from participation in initiatives and meetings with government agencies. We confirm that this report accurately defines the key issues that the Bank has identified through the collection of stakeholder opinions and materiality tests. We recommend that the Bank to extend its research of key issues by consulting outside experts to collect their opinions and identify external financial market issues. 3. Responsiveness : Organizational response to key issues We grant assurance that KB Kookmin Bank carries out the activities described in this report to respond to sustainability issues. The Bank improves customer value by providing products tailored to a range of customer needs through a CRM system. It also reinvigorates its CS activities through a CS Dynamic Process, a customer protection program, and related surveys. We also acknowledge the quality of the Bank’s professional development programs, which we consider to be a crucial issue of sustainability management in the financial sector. These professional development programs include education on financial market conditions, training for specialists, as well as an in-house MBA course offered to employees according to rank and position. We advise the Bank to present long-term strategies and plans in this report, in addition to its responses to key issues. Recommended This auditor expresses confidence in the efforts of KB Kookmin Bank to improve its sustainability manageImprovements ment, and in the performance that it has demonstrated. We offer the following suggestions to encourage the Bank to enhance sustainability in the performance of its business operations: 1. We advise the Bank to establish a bank-wide sustainability management system that covers overseas branches and other domestic branches more thoroughly, and to report the performance of that system in this report. 2. We suggest that the Bank implement additional, systematic communication channels to encourage stakeholder participation. 3. We counsel the Bank to develop additional indicators to measure the performance of sustainability management and to link it with financial management. 4. We advise the bank to implement an integrated system to manage its diverse sustainability management indicators for use in this report. Dong-Kyu Choi Chairman of Korea Productivity Dongsoo Kim Tae Ho Park Ju Mi Park Young Hwan Kim 60 61 GRI Application Level Check Statement Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix GRI Guideline Index Fully Paritially Not Description Page Reported Remarks 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO Message 3 1.2 Sustainability: effects, risks and opportunities 3 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 4 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 5 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 58 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 2.7 Market served 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 4 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, 2.9 No significant change or ownership 2.10 Award received 59 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Inside cover 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Inside cover 3.3 Reporting cycle Inside cover 3.4 Contact points Inside cover Inside 3.5 Process for defining report content cover, 6~7 3.6 Boundary of the report Inside cover 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Inside cover Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect Inside cover comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data collection and calculation methods Inside cover 3.10 Re-statements/changes in the presentation of information 33 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 No significant change boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI Content Index 63~66 3.13 Verification of external third parties 60~61 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure, including responsibility for sustainability 12 4.2 Independence of the Chair of the highest governance body 12 For organizations without a highest governance body: independent and/or 4.3 12 non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 53 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance 4.5 12 body, senior managers, and executives and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 12 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members 4.7 12 of the highest governance body in the field of sustainability 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 7 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 4.9 organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, 12 and social opportunities and risks Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s sustainability 4.10 12 performance 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary approach or principle 13 4.12 Participation in/support for external initiatives 42 4.13 Memberships 59 4.14 Stakeholder engagement 6 4.15 Basis for the selection of stakeholders 6 62 63 GRI Guideline Index Fully Paritially Not Description Page Reported Remarks 4.16 Stakeholder dialog 6 4.17 Statement on the main wishes of stakeholders 6-7 Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Economic value generated and distributed 46 EC2 Financial implications of climate change 39-40 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 29 EC4 Financial assistance received from government No government subsidy Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum EC5 wage at significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at EC6 47 significant locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired EC7 47 from the local community at significant locations of operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services EC8 47 provided primarily for public benefit Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, EC9 3 including the extent of impacts Environmental Performance Indicator EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 48 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 48 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 48 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 48 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 49 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and EN6 39~40 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 49 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 49 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water No occurrence, due to industry EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused No occurrence, due to industry EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, No occurrence, due to industry protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside No occurrence, due to industry protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored No occurrence, due to industry EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on No occurrence, due to industry biodiversity EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species No occurrence, due to industry with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 48 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 48 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 49 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight No occurrence, due to industry EN20 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight No occurrence, due to industry EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 49 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 49 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No occurrence, due to industry Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and No occurrence, due to industry VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s No occurrence, due to industry discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 39~40 and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are No occurrence, due to industry reclaimed by category EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary No occurrence, due to industry sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix Fully Paritially Not Description Page Reported Remarks Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other EN29 goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and No occurrence, due to industry transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 50 Social Performance Indicator Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 51 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 51 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 29 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 53 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, LA5 53 including whether it is specified in collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management LA6 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and LA7 52 total number of work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs LA8 in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community 52 members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 52 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 54 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 51 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career LA12 28 development reviews Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, 51 and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 51 Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements HR1 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights 36 screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone HR2 screening on human rights and actions taken 43 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the 54 percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 52 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association HR5 and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to 53 support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, HR6 52 and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of 52 forced or compulsory labor HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or 54 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous HR9 No incidents people and actions taken Society Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that SO1 assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including 37~38 entering, operating, and exiting Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related SO2 54 to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies SO3 54 and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 54 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 39~40 64 65 GRI Guideline Index Fully Paritially Not Description Page Reported Remarks Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, SO6 47 politicians, and related institutions by country Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary SO8 54 sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and PR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant No occurrence, due to industry products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and No incidents services, by type of customers Type of product and service informantion required by procedures, PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such 55 information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, No incidents by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys PR5 55 measuring customer satisfaction Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related PR6 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and 55 sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including No incidents advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer PR8 56 privacy and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and PR9 No incidents regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Financial Services Sector Supplement Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to FS1 36, 40 business lines Procedures for assessing screening environmental and social risks in FS2 36, 40 business lines Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance FS3 with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or 36, 40 transactions Processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental FS4 40 and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding FS5 39, 40 environmental and social risks and opportunities Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size, FS6 46 and by sector Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS7 35, 36 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS8 39 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of FS9 36, 40 environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio FS10 with which the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or 36, 40 social issues Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or FS11 No such assets social screening Voting policies applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which FS12 No such voting policies the reporting organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 34 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 34 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services 55 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 33, 38 Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report Appendix UN Global Compact Principles In April 2009, KB Kookmin Bank enrolled in UN Global Compact to become a company fulfilling social responsibility. The Bank announced that the Bank will abide by and implement 10 principles. The Bank will report its abidance of Global Compact principles through annual Sustainability Report. Classification Principle Action and Performance Indicator G3 • Staff education HR1 HR5 • Guidelines of personnel and welfare HR2 HR6 1. Support and respect the protection of management for investing companies HR3 HR7 internationally proclaimed human rights • Education on human right protection and ethical HR4 management Human • Education on prevention of sexual harassment Rights • No. of cases of discriminatory practice HR4 2. Make sure that businesses are not • No. of infringement for rights of local HR8 complicit in human rights abuses. communities 3. Uphold the freedom of association and • Current status of labor union and its enrollment HR5 the effective recognition of the right to • Occurrence of labor disputes LA4 collective bargaining LA5 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of • Compliance with Labor Standards Act, ILO and HR7 forced and compulsory labor Collective Agreement Labor • Compliance with Labor Standards Act, ILO and HR6 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labor Collective Agreement • Employment rate of the disabled HR4 LA13 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in • Female employment rate LA2 LA14 respect of employment and occupation • Recruits of local talents LA10 7. Support a precautionary approach to • Risk management for non-financial areas 4.11 environmental challenges • Guidelines of environmental risk management • Measures of environmental effects EN12 EN21 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater • Prevention of biodiversity EN13 EN22 Environment environmental responsibility • Management of environmental performance EN14 EN26 • Reduction of greenhouse gas emission EN18 EN30 • Energy-saving activities EN5 EN10 9. Encourage the development and diffusion • Environmental investment and expenditure EN6 EN18 of environmentally friendly technologies • Prevention for global warming EN7 EN26 • Implementation of “integrity contract system” SO2 SO4 Anti-corrup10. Work against all forms of corruption, • Reinforcement of self-diagnosis for ethical SO3 tion including extortion and bribery management 66 67 Glossary Term Definition Provision for Loan Losses An allowance for non-performing loans classified as estimated loss among accounts receivable The responsibility of a government, corporation, organization or individual for the society as a whole. Also known as “Corporate Responsibility”, it includes human rights, environment, labor, Social Responsibility (SR) and corporate governance. In 2010, ISO 26000, an international standard for social responsibility, was introduced worldwide. A global project in response to climate change, with participation of the world’s leading financial Carbon Disclosure Project(CDP) and investment institutions; requires surveys of major corporations. These surveys include strategies or countermeasures to climate change and current status regarding carbon emissions. A method of financing, in which loans are secured through project assets and paid entirely Project Financing (PF) from project cash flow, ideal for large-scale funding of such projects as oil exploration, mining, shipbuilding and highway construction An indicator of the level of quality demanded by customers; also, the improvement objective of Critical to Quality (CTQ) the 6 Sigma activities. The term has recently been incorporated for use in business. An international standard introduced by the Accountability, used in guidelines for sustainability AA1000AS reports. It consists of three principles: Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. Asset and Liability Risks that may result from differing maturity periods in funding sources, classified into two Management (ALM) Risk categories: Interest and Liquidity risks Business for the The world’s largest international event organized by the UNEP for environmental concerns; Environment (B4E) holds summits of CEOs from various countries to discuss global environmental protection Introduced by the Bank for International Settlement (BIS); provides a ratio between risk-bearing BIS Ratio shareholders’ equity and risk-weighted assets (bad loans). Since July 1988, it has measured the adequacy of capital to secure financial soundness and stability for banks worldwide. A political community of 10 former Soviet republics, formed during the breakup of the Soviet CIS (Common Wealth of Union in 1991. Current members: Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Uzbekistan, Independent States) Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, and Moldova Customer Relationship A management technique and marketing program utilizing a database that tracks purchasing Management (CRM) trends for products and services, including both existing and potential customers Energy Service Company A company that invests in energy-saving facilities and recoups the investment via savings in (ESCO) energy costs, on behalf of energy consumers A non-profit, independent international body that has introduced international standards on susGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI) tainable management. G3.1 is the most current version. A globally accepted Information Security Management System (ISMS) standard utilizing the ISO 27001 best practices of the world’s leading players. ISMS may be certified to verify that organizations comply with the standard. Risk-adjusted Return A framework to assess financial performance against risk by business unit or individual using Performance Measurement indicators such as risk-adjusted return on capital (RAROC) (RAPM) United Nations Environment A global partnership between the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Programme Finance Initiative global financial sector to identify, promote, and realize the adoption of the best environmental (UNEP FI) and sustainability practices at all levels of financial institution operations An initiative inaugurated at UN headquarters in New York in July 2000, originally proposed by UN Global Compact (UNGC) former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan at the 1999 World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, for the ethics of international society and environment Kookmin Bank I 2010 Sustainability Report A PDF version of this report is available at: http://www.kbstar.com If you have inquiry or opinion on KB Kookmin Bank’s Sustainability Report, please feel free to use the contact information below. Green Business Department, KB Kookmin Bank 10 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu Seoul 150-868 Republic of Korea T e l : 82-2-2073-5797 F a x : 82-2-2073-5799 E m a i l : wisegreen@kbstar.co.kr Website: http://www.kbstar.com This report is printed on environment-friendly paper and with soybean oil-based ink. 9-1, 2-ga, Namdaemun-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-703, Korea (822) 2073-7114 www.kbstar.com
