Responsible Energy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Local Communities Natural Environment Market Workplace Responsible Energy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 Responsibility is at the heart of everything the PGNiG Group and its staff do. It is our key value. In all our activities we strive for balance and a smooth combination of business, social and environmental objectives. Table of Contents 5 Workplace 25 5.1 Challenges and Opportunities 25 5.2 Culture of Dialogue 26 5.3 Occupational Health and Safety 27 Workplace 5 . 4 R e c r u i t m e n t a n d P r o f e s s i o n a l Development 29 5.5 Extra Benefits Package 31 5.6 Plans for the Future 32 5.7 Best Practices 32 5.7.1 Best Practices Abroad 37 5 . 8 A w a r d s a n d D i s t i n c t i o n s R e c e i v e d by PGNiG’s Entities between 1 Mission and Values 4 January 2009 and June 2010 38 2 Letter from the President 6 3 P G N i G ' s P r o f i l e 8 3.1 PGNiG Group Structure 10 3.2 PGNiG at the Stock Exchange 12 3.3 Corporate Governance 12 3.4 Our Operations 14 4 O u r A p p r o a c h t o S u s t a i n a b l e Development 19 4.1 Group’s Stakeholders 19 4 . 2  S u s t a i n a b l e D e v e l o p m e n t and Responsible Business Strategy 19 4 . 3 M a n a g e m e n t o f t h e Sustainable Development Strategy at the PGNiG Group 21 4.4 Information about the Report 21 6 Market 39 4 . 5  S u s t a i n a b l e D e v e l o p m e n t 6.1 Challenges and Opportunities 39 at the PGNiG Group Key Events 22 6.2 Customer Care 41 6 . 3 E x t e n s i o n a n d C o n s t r u c t i o n of Gas Storage Facilities 43 6.4 Research Laboratories 44 6 . 5 C o n t r i b u t i o n t o I n d u s t r y Market Development 44 6 . 6 S e e k i n g N e w B u s i n e s s Expansion Opportunities in Line with the Principle of Sustainable Development 45 6.7 Plans for the Future 45 6.8 Best Practices 46 6 . 9 A w a r d s a n d D i s t i n c t i o n s Obtained by the PGNiG Group Members between January 2009 and June 2010 47 2 PGNiG Responsible Energy 8 Local Communities 63 8.1 Challenges and Opportunities 63 8 . 2 I n v e s t m e n t i n I n f r a s t r u c t u r e , Payment of Compensation 64 8 . 3 I n i t i a t i v e s A i m e d a t P r o m o t i n g Local Communities the Petroleum Industry and the Idea of Responsible Business 65 8 . 4  P G N i G S A ’ s Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation 66 8.5 Social and Sponsoring Projects 68 8.6 Plans for the Future 70 8.7 Best Practices 70 8.7.1 Best Practices Abroad 73 8.8 Awards 74 7  N a t u r a l E n v i r o n m e n t 51 7.1 Challenges and Opportunities 51 7.2 People and Systems 53 Natural Environment 7.3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 54 7 . 4  W a t e r C o n s u m p t i o n , Sewage and Waste 56 7 . 5  O t h e r E n v i r o n m e n t F r i e n d l y Initiatives and Projects 58 7.6 Plans for the Future 61 7.7 Best Practices 62 7.8 Awards and Distinctions 62 9  S u s t a i n a b l e Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group 77 10 Glossary 82 11 Questionnaire 85 12 GRI Indicators 87 13 IPIECA Indicators 89 14 Acknowledgments 91 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 3 PGNiG Group’s Mission and Values Our mission in the area of sustainable development is to be a responsible actor on the Polish energy market, one that understands and respects the needs and expectations of key stakeholders and the natural environment, and promotes innovative and environment-friendly solutions and technologies. 4 PGNiG Responsible Energy Values The social, environmental and business dimensions of sustainable development and corporate social responsibility of the PGNiG Group are rooted in the system of ultimate values we champion. These values are: Quality. The Group continuously strives to develop, improve and deliver high-quality products and services, implement innovative technologies, develop staff competence, while being flexible Responsibility. and open to change. Partnership. Responsibility defines The PGNiG Group is all the Group’s a partner that seeks to relations, from understand the needs employee and public and expectations of relations to interactions the external with the natural environment and is environment, open to a dialogue, our customers and respects people, shareholders. Part their needs, of the responsibility customs, culture and is also PGNiG’s role religion. This is how in ensuring energy we wish to develop security for Poland. Credibility. our relations with The PGNIG Group our personnel, trade operates in a fair and unions, customers, t r a n s p a r e n t m a n n e r, local communities and is predictable and other market players, makes every effort such as the Energy to be perceived as Regulatory Office, a trustworthy business. industry organisations, suppliers, business partners and other economic entities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 5 Letter from the President Ladies and Gentlemen, Publishing this year's corporate social responsibility report, we have decided to keep the Corporate social responsibility tradition at Polskie last-year edition’s title, that is Responsible Energy, Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, or more as in our opinion it best conveys the essence of broadly, at the PGNIG Group, is long and rich, sustainable development in our industry, and also dating back to the times of Ignacy Łukasiewicz, stands among the PGNiG Group's defining values. the pioneer of oil mining in Poland and beyond. Corporate social responsibility remains a vital This report demonstrates the magnitude of value, present in the Group's everyday business the challenges we face, but also the level of pursuits. involvement of the PGNiG Group staff in the undertaking. If I were to name the single In July 2009, the PGNiG Management Board adopmost-important benefit of implementing ted a Sustainable Development and Responsible the principles of sustainable development Business Strategy, which establishes directions at the Group, this would clearly be the commitof our activities in the years to come, designed ment of our staff. The social responsibility project to smoothly combine our business goals with spurred a tremendous amount of creativity environmental and social objectives. in them, becoming a powerful stimulus for all our employees across the value chain. This cannot be This is not an easy task, in particular if embarked overestimated. on by a big organisation that we are. To manage a business while respecting the principles of Along the same lines, we were proud yet sustainable development means that we must humble to receive awards granted to the Company adopt a broader perspective in our everyday in recent months. A place among a dozen-or-so business decision making, and consider more only companies of the Warsaw Stock Exchange’s than just short-term economic effects, namely the Respect Index, the first such ranking in this part long-term social, environmental and economic of Europe, is something we pride on, but also implications. By delivering to our customers the something which proves what an enormous product they need, we also wish to participate in potential had been present within PGNiG before building a sustainable future for the workplace, we unlocked it by providing it with a strategic its surroundings, the natural environment and all framework. Our accomplishments this year, such other stakeholders working with us, and to make as the Laurel of Responsibility, awarded under a lasting impression that the way we conduct the “Promotion of Corporate Social Responsibility business is just as important as our offering. Standards Among Businesses” project by the Lewiatan Association of Employers, Deloitte, and the Solidarność Trade Unions, as well as our top ranking among responsible businesses in the fuels and energy sector and in the Polish businesses category from the Dziennik Gazeta Prawna daily, fuel our drive to continue with our hard and consistent efforts. 6 PGNiG Responsible Energy PGNiG’s strategic involvement in the area of sustainable development and responsible business is demonstrated by our active membership in the Global Compact, the Responsible Business Forum, and a number of other initiatives you can read about in this Report. To deliver on sustainability promises means to supervise and report the accomplishment of objectives not only at the level of the corporate headquarters, our branches and companies in Poland, but also at our foreign divisions and subsidiaries. Our top priority is to fine-tune the tools we have to ensure ongoing monitoring of our overriding objective: the growth of the Company's value in line with the sustainable development principles. We wish to develop our relations with the environment in a well-thought-out manner, and therefore, next to the Management by Objectives and the Value Building Programme in place at the Group, we embark on initia-tives which improve our management systems, I would like to thank all staff of the PGNiG Group cooperation and coordination of our activities, who took on the challenge, and my special internal communication and measurement of our thanks go to our regional CSR coordinators for commitment to corporate social responsibility. We their unique involvement. Regular and honest are aware that we still have a long way to go, and cooperation with the coordinators is what enables it will take many years to attain certain objectives, us to successfully manage the implementation of considering the evolving environment and needs the Sustainable Development Strategy across the of our stakeholders. Group. Thanks are also due to our shareholders, customers and all stakeholders for their trust in us. Be assured that this is what provides a powerful stimulus for our sustained and reinforced efforts. We are happy to hear your comments and opinions on our sustainability efforts, as this will help us improve them. Respectfully yours, Michał Szubski President of the Management Board of PGNiG SA Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 7 • PGNiG is the leader of the Polish natural gas market: the Company delivers gas to over 6.6 million customers. The PGNiG Group companies are involved in geophysical and geological surveys and analyses, oil and gas exploration, production and preparation of products for sale, both in Poland and abroad. • The history of PGNiG dates back to the 19th century, the birth of the global and Polish petroleum industry. PGNiG is one of Poland’s oldest enterprises; under its present name the Company has operated since 1982. • Companies of the PGNiG Group employ over 30 thousand people. We are present in Denmark, Egypt, India, Yemen, Kazakhstan, Mozambique, Pakistan and Uganda, and also carry out production projects on the Norwegian Continental Shelf. Poland however remains our core location, where we continue to be one of the largest employers. • Since September 2005, PGNiG has been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. The Company enjoys growing trust from the capital market, as evidenced by its excellent ratings. PGNiG's strength is demonstrated by its inclusion in the WIG 20 index, the index of the Warsaw Stock Exchange's largest companies, and, since October 2009, its presence in the Respect Index, which lists socially responsible companies. PGNiG’s Profile PGNiG Group 2008 2009 Sales revenue PLNm 18,432 19,290 Net profit/loss PLNm 866 1,203 Equity PLNm 20,716 21,402 Total assets PLNm 29,745 31,082 PGNiG SA 2008 2009 Sales revenue PLNm 18,038 18,578 Net profit/loss PLNm 546 665 Equity PLNm 17,181 17,339 Total assets PLNm 23,440 24,183 Key Business and Economic Figures for 2009 4.11 bn m 3 Natural gas production 504 ths. t Crude oil production Natural gas imports Natural gas sales Length of the distribution network 8 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace 2008 2009 PGNiG Group persons 31,440 31,685 PGNiG SA Head Office persons 837 833 Exploration and Production persons 10,725 10,800 Trade and Storage persons 4,088 4,128 including companies consolidated with the equity method persons 295 292 Distribution persons 13,746 13,851 Other Activities persons 2,044 2,073 Headcount as at December 31st 2009. Training: an average of 35 training hours per employee and approximately 60 training hours per managerial PGNiG as a Strategic Sponsor employee. of the Polish Handball Association Re-introduction of the profession of gas engineer – agreement with the Complex of Senior Secondary Schools No. 3 in Łódź on a project to launch the gas engineer course for youth and adults. Collaboration between Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo and the Polish Handball Association started in January 2010. PGNiG became Environment the strategic sponsor of women’s national handball Environmental investment projects PLN 16,811,255 team, men’s national handball team, junior national Upgrades PLN 11,055,770 teams, and the sponsor of the women’s and Other environmental projects PLN 961,481 men’s premier handball leagues. Starting from the 2010/2011 season, the premier handball league Implementation of the Environmental Management System (EMS): EMS has been implemented games are referred to as “PGNiG Superliga”. at three entities, including the PGNiG SA Head Office, Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa and Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków. Over a time span of three years, PGNiG SA will Successful implementation of 45 projects at 71 Natura 2000 sites by the Group members. provide funding to support the organisation of games, purchase of equipment for sport, recreation and official events, preparation to and organisation of competitions, as well as provision of physician and physical therapy services for the On the initiative of PGNiG SA, players. Local Communities seven companies signed a declaration on Donations. PLN 3,066,620 was donated sustainable development in the energy sector. Next to collaboration with the Polish Rowing to finance various needs, including the activities The signatories were: EDF Polska, ENEA SA, Association, sponsorship support for the Polish of the Foundation for the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Gaz-System SA, GDF Suez Energia Polska, Polskie national handball teams is another sports Museum in Bóbrka. Górnictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA, Tauron sponsoring project which showcases our SA and Vatenfall Poland Sp. z o.o. In 2010, three commitment to implementing the corporate social PGNiG’s I. Łukasiewicz Foundation launched its more companies (Fortum Power and Heat responsibility strategy. scholarship programme for students of exact Polska, Grupa LOTOS and Polskie Sieci sciences, with an annual grant of PLN 5 thousand Elektroenergetyczne – Operator) have We are confident that our activity in this area will being the prize for the best students. joined the initiative. contribute not only to the development of the sports disciplines and improved performance of our sports contestants, but also will popularize physical activity and promote healthy lifestyle among the Polish people. 9.14 bn m 3 13.28 bn m 3 116 ths. km Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 9 PGNiG SA is the parent undertaking of the PGNiG Group, which includes 27 direct and 8 indirect subsidiaries of PGNiG SA. Our core business comprises exploration for and production of natural gas and crude oil, as well as import, storage, trade in and distribution of gaseous and liquid fuels. PGNiG Group Structure Exploration and Trade and Storage Distribution Other Activities Production PNiG Jasło sp. z o.o. INVESTGAS SA Dolnośląska Spółka BUG Gazobudowa sp. z o.o. 100% 100% Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. 100% GK PNiG Kraków 100% ZUN Naftomet sp. z o.o. 100% Górnośląska Spółka 100% PNiG Nafta sp. z o.o. Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. Geovita sp. z o.o. 100% 100% 100% GK Geofizyka Kraków Karpacka Spółka PGNiG Energia SA 100% Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. 100% Geofizyka Toruń sp. z o.o. 100% BN Naftomontaż sp. z o.o. 100% GK Mazowiecka 88.83% PN Diament sp. z o.o. Spółka Gazownictwa Naft-Stal sp. z o.o. 100% 100% 67.40% ZRG Krosno sp. z o.o. Pomorska Spółka BSiPG Gazoprojekt SA 100% Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. 75% PNiG Norway AS 100% 100% Wielkopolska Spółka POGC – Libya B.V. Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. 100% 100% Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków Group comprises Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków sp. z o.o. and its subsidiary Oil Tech International-F.Z.E. Geofizyka Kraków Group comprises Geofizyka Kraków sp. z o.o. and its subsidiary Geofizyka Kraków Libya JSC (Geofizyka Kraków Libya JSC was deleted from the commercial register in January 2010). Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa Group comprises Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. and its subsidiary Powiśle Park sp. z o.o. 10 PGNiG Responsible Energy The PGNiG Head Office supports all of the Group’s The distribution functions are performed by six business segments. PGNiG branches operate in Gas Distribution Companies which are of strategic two segments: the exploration and production importance to the PGNiG Group. Nine of the Group segment (Zielona Góra, Sanok and Odolanów subsidiaries specialize in hydrocarbon exploration branches) and the trade and storage segment and production, one company is involved in the (six Gas Trading Divisions and the Storage System storage business, one in power generation, and Operator). the remaining six subsidiaries provide services, including construction and assembly services for the oil mining industry. PGNiG SA Central Measurement Lower Silesian Gas Trading Operating Branch in Pakistan and Testing Laboratory in Warsaw Division in Wrocław Egypt Branch Odolanów Branch Upper Silesian Gas Trading Denmark Branch Division in Zabrze Storage System Operator in Warsaw Carpathian Gas Trading Division in Tarnów Sanok Branch Mazovian Gas Trading Zielona Góra Branch Division in Warsaw Pomeranian Gas Trading Division in Gdańsk Greater Poland Gas Trading Division in Poznań Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 11 3.2 PGNiG at the Stock Exchange PGNiG has been listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange since 2005. PGNiG shares are included in the WIG-20 blue-chip index, as well as in the prestigious emerging markets index of Morgan Stanley Capital International Inc. (MSCI). The company enjoys the “golden company” status and is one of eight companies making up the WIG-Paliwa fuel index. PGNiG’s shareholder structure in 2008-2009 Shareholder Number of % of share Number of % of share shares/votes capital/total vote at GM, shares/votes capital/total vote at GM, as at Dec 31 2008 as at Dec 31 2008 as at Dec 31 2009 as at Dec 31 2009 State Treasury 4,999,999,999 84.75% 4,303,686,368 72.94% Eligible employees 0 0% 696,313,631 11.80% Other 900,000,001 15.25% 900,000,001 15.25% Total 5,900,000,000 100.00% 5,900,000,000 100.00% Structure of free float (15.25% of the PGNiG shares), by shareholders’ country of origin The Polish State Treasury remains PGNiG’s Other 7.4% majority shareholder. On June 26th 2008, the Austria 1.3% Minister of the State Treasury purchased one Germany 1.6% PGNiG share on general terms which, pursuant Norway 1.9% to the Commercialisation and Privatisation Act of Hungary 2.2% 1996, gave eligible employees the right to acquire, free of charge, up to 750,000,000 PGNiG shares. UK 3.3% The process of free-of-charge distribution of the Ireland 3.6% Poland shares started on April 6th 2009 and will continue 47.4% Luxembourg until October 1st 2010. By December 31st 2009, 5.7% the employees acquired 696,313,631 shares representing 11.80% of the total vote. USA Consequently, the State Treasury’s stake in PGNiG 6.2% decreased to 72.94%. The shares acquired free of charge by eligible employees may not be traded France 8.2% in before July 1st 2010, and those acquired by members of the Company’s Management Board – before July 1st 2011. Shareholders 3.3 Corporate Governance As at December 31st 2009, the share capital of PGNiG amounted to PLN 5,900,000,000, and was Compliance with corporate divided into 5,900,000,000 shares with a par governance principles is of vital value of PLN 1 per share. Shares of all series, that importance to the PGNiG Group. is Series A, Series A1 and Series B, are ordinary We treat all our shareholders in bearer shares, and entitle their holders to one vote a f a i r, e q u a l a n d h o n e s t m a n n e r, each at the General Shareholders Meeting. PGNiG’s making every effort to build Articles of Association do not provide for any excellent relations between limitations as to the exercise of the voting rights investors and the Company’s attached to the shares. governing bodies. 12 PGNiG Responsible Energy General Shareholders Meeting PGNiG’s business which have not been reserved Best Practices The General Shareholders Meeting is the supreme for or delegated to other governing bodies of the Since its debut on the stock exchange in 2005, the body of PGNiG, exercising shareholder rights. Company by any applicable laws or the Company’s Company has followed the recommendations of Through the General Shareholders Meeting Articles of Association. The Management Board the Warsaw Stock Exchange contained in “Best shareholders perform their corporate rights, operates on the basis of applicable laws, including Practices for WSE Listed Companies”. PGNiG’s by examining and approving Directors’ Reports, in particular the Commercial Companies Code, as corporate governance reports have been taking decisions as to the amount , method and well as on the basis of the Company’s Articles of published on the Company’s website at www. date of dividend payment, and more. The GM Association and the Rules of Procedure for the pgnig.pl in the Corporate Governance section. grants discharge to members of PGNiG’s other Management Board. The Company meets its disclosure obligations governing bodies in respect of their performance towards the shareholders and other capital market of duties, appoints members of the Supervisory Currently, the Management Board is composed stakeholders by publishing reports on its current Board, and takes decisions concerning of five members: Michał Szubski – President, operations and financial reports, and by the Company’s assets. Marek Karabuła – Vice-President, Gas and Trade, organising press conferences devoted to the Radosław Dudziński – Vice-President, Strategy; Company’s key projects and strategic objectives. Supervisory Board Sławomir Hinc – Vice-President, Finance, Rules of Procedure for the General Shareholders The Supervisory Board exercises continuous superand Mirosław Szkałuba – Vice-President, Social Meeting, the Supervisory Board, the Management vision over the Company’s activities in all areas of Dialogue and Assets. Board and the Audit Committee, as well as the its operations, pursuant to the Rules of Procedure Articles of Association of PGNiG, are available on for the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board PGNiG has appropriate procedures in place to the Company website at www.pgnig.pl, in the is composed of between five to nine members, prevent conflicts of interests to members of its Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section. including one independent member, appointed supreme supervisory body. The process of preby the General Shareholders Meeting for a joint venting such conflicts is a part of the public hiring Investor Relations three-year term. The State Treasury is entitled to procedure: a job opening is announced on the web The Company meets its disclosure obligations appoint and remove one member of site of the Ministry of State Treasury. towards the shareholders and other capital market the Supervisory Board for as long as it remains The process is also transparent, strictly compliant stakeholders by publishing reports on its current a shareholder of PGNiG. In addition, two members with the relevant laws, and ensures avoiding operations and financial reports, and by organising are elected by PGNiG’s employees if the Superconflicts of interests. press conferences devoted to the Company’s key visory Board consists of up to six members, and projects and strategic objectives. The activities three if there are from seven to nine Supervisory In 2009, the PGNiG Group introduced of the Company’s Investor Relations team is not Board members. Management by Objectives (MBO), a system which limited only to what is explicitly required by the enables an objective measurement of employee’s law. It also includes an array of other initiatives In 2009, the Supervisory Board was composed performance, rather than paying them for their taken by the Company with a view to meeting of eight members, including Stanisław Rychlicki, working time. MBO was initially implemented high expectations of all the market participants, Marcin Moryń, Mieczysław Kawecki, Grzegorz for management boards of subsidiaries, heads such as roadshows and conferences for investors Banaszek, Agnieszka Chmielarz, Marek Karabuła, of branches and heads of departments at the held abroad (in Austria, Belgium, the Czech Mieczysław Puławski, and Jolanta Siergiej. PGNiG Head Office. After one year, the managerial Republic, Japan, Germany, the United States, Currently, the Supervisory Board has seven staff was obliged to report on the progress with Sweden, France and the United Kingdom), members, as Mr Marek Karabuła was appointed the objectives assigned to them. If they were meetings with asset managers, or ongoing Vice-President of the Management Board for Gas attained, a bonus was granted to well-performing contacts with equity analysts. and Trade. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, managers. Mr Stanisław Rychlicki, does not perform any The PGNiG website features a dedicated section, executive or managerial functions at This management system provides great support managed and edited by the Company’s Investor the Company. for the PGNiG Management Board in their pursuit Relations team, where every capital market of objectives set forth in the Group’s strategy, by participant can find essential information on The Supervisory Board provides continuous linking the objectives for the individual organisathe Company’s current standing, market forecasts oversight of the Company’s operations in all areas tional units with the strategic framework. for the PGNiG Group’s performance, or the of its activity based on laws of general application most recent price recommendations by analysts and Company’s internal regulations. Audit Committee covering the Company. The Company’s Investor The Audit Committee has been a standing Relations team publishes an electronic newsletManagement Board committee of the Supervisory Board since ter available to anyone interested in the current The Management Board is the executive November 27th 2008. It consists of at least three developments at PGNiG. body managing the Company’s business members of the Supervisory Board, including and representing the Company in all actions at least one member who is independent of the before and out of court. The Management Company and of entities having significant links Board is composed of between two to seven with PGNiG and who is elected by the General members, with the precise number defined by the Shareholders Meeting pursuant to PGNiG’s Articles Supervisory Board. Members of the Management of Association. Such a person has to be competent Board are appointed for a joint three-year term. in accounting and finance. Members of the Audit The powers of the Management Board include Committee are appointed by the Supervisory all matters pertaining to the management of Board. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 13 3.4 Our Operations The activities of the PGNiG Group companies impact all areas of responsible business, namely the Workplace, Natural Environment, Market and Local Communities. The magnitude of the impact and of the challenges it involves are determined on the hand by the scale of the PGNiG Group’s operations, the number of people it employs, and its geographical reach, and by the specific nature of a given element of the value chain on the other. You are invited to watch the “How We Conduct Our Business” video, which is enclosed on a CD attached to this Report and available on the www.pgnig.pl and www.odpowiedzialnaenergia.pl websites. Direct customers Exploration and Production This business area has the following CSR-relevant impact: • Market/economic impact – our operations stimulate economic life in regions where we are present; by increasing hydrocarbon production capacities, also beyond Poland, we contribute to greater security of gas supplies; • Local communities – fostering partnership, working out uniform rules of collaboration with local authorities, forestry authorities, landowners, and – in the case of companies operating abroad – taking into account cultural differences; • Distribution Natural environment – rational management of resources and of waste, including in particular drilling waste, minimising the adverse environmental impact from our operations and, when necessary, remedying This business area has the following area has the following CSR-relevant the effects of our environmental interference; CSR-relevant impact: impact : demand; • Workplace – working in the field carries with it the • Natural environment – our investment need to apply the tightest safety standards and to • Market/economic impact – we deliver projects do interfere with the natural demonstrate top level of care. gas to over 6.6 million customers and environment, and therefore we believe a number of key businesses in Poland, it is our responsibility to minimize any we are co-responsible for ensuring safe adverse impacts and, when necessary, consumption of gas and national energy remedy the negative effects of our security, as well as for implementing environmental interference; solutions tailored to the evolving legal • Local communities – both Trade and and business environment (unbundling of Distribution co-operate with the local activities); our investment projects boost communities in a variety of areas. regional economies and this business 14 PGNiG Responsible Energy Large industrial customers  Households Trade and Storage This business area has the following the competitive advantage of gaseous fuel CSR-relevant impact: (including through promotion of solutions and products that use gas, e.g. CNG); • Market/economic impact – the big chal• Natural environment – using natural gas lenge in this area involves ensuring security of has a favourable impact on the environment, gas supplies; being Poland’s largest natural as gas is the most environment-friendly of gas importer, we concurrently participate all the conventional sources of energy; we in projects seeking to ensure diversification believe it is our responsibility to promote of supplies and pursue an active investment natural gas as a fuel. Construction of gas policy aimed at increasing our gas storage storage facilities involves interference with capacity; we deliver gas to over 6.6 million the natural environment, and therefore we customers and a number of key businesses make every effort to minimise the adverse in Poland; we are responsible for building impact and remedy any negative effects of and maintaining good relations, ensuring the our operations; standard of service expected by our custo• Local communities – both Trade and mers; we are looking for possibilities to obDistribution co-operate with local tain systemic support in solving the problem communities in a variety of areas. of socially vulnerable customers, as well as  take measures with a view to maintaining Gas import Power Generation This business area has the following CSR-relevant as it will materially reduce harmful emissions, impact: enable better utilisation of primary fuels as well as reduce energy transmission losses and the • Market/economic impact – the segment’s consumption of water; activities will increase demand for gas and help • Workplace – taking over existing heating Poland better use its domestic resources of systems and sources and their conversion natural gas, broaden our offering, contribute to into gas-fuelled facilities often entails the emergence of new market entrants, enable serious workforce cuts at existing companies, location of investment projects in rural and thus posing challenges related to workforce non-industrialised areas (co-generation, use of optimisation and finding good ways to use the biogas and biomass); skills of existing employees in performing new • Natural environment – development of the responsibilities. segment will help protect the environment, Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 15 CSR-relevant Impact of the Exploration and Production Segment and Our Responsibility This business area has the following CSR-relevant impact: • Market/economic impact – our operations stimulate economic life in regions where we are present; by increasing hydrocarbon production capacities, also beyond Poland, we contribute to greater security of gas supplies; • Local communities – fostering partnership, working out uniform rules of collaboration Exploration and Production with local authorities, forestry authorities, landowners, and – in the case of companies The PGNiG Group is involved in operating abroad – taking into account exploration for oil and gas in cultural differences; Poland, but also in Africa, Asia • Natural environment – rational management and elsewhere in Europe. Some of resources and of waste, including in parti10 thousand employees of the cular drilling waste, minimising the adverse Group are responsible for environmental impact from our operations exploration operations, and, when necessary, remedying the effects of geophysical and seismic surveys, our environmental interference; The first borehole (Grundy-2), reaching down production and preparation of • Workplace – working in the field carries with it to 5,000 metres below the ground level, was products for sale. Production of the need to apply the tightest safety standards drilled in 2008 in the Poznań area. The geological natural gas from the Group’s own and to demonstrate top level of care. formations which have been reached have certain resources contributes to higher characteristics typical of unconventional reserves security of supplies. and may give hope for intense tight gas Responsibly on Tight Gas exploration in the area. Major Events in 2009 Exploration • Acquisition of interests in three exploration When discussing the segment, one can hardly The Markowola-1 borehole in the Lublin area licences on the Norwegian Continental Shelf; leave out exploration for and production of was completed in May 2010. Markowola-1 • Exploration work commences in the Bahariya shale gas. This topic has stirred strong emotions; will be tested with a view to establishing licence area in Egypt; a number of publications have appeared, which the characteristics of reservoir saturation with • Two PGNiG branches open in Denmark and nevertheless were often disappointingly general gas from clastic deposits (shales). PGNiG has also Egypt. and failed in helping the readers understand the commenced negotiations with foreign companies peculiarities and complexity of the idea. concerning exchange of geological and PGNiG’s Exploration and Production segment geophysical data (Lane Energy), and joint conducts geophysical and geological surveys, and Regrettably, many opinions voiced in such exploratory activities in the Płońsk area (Marathon oil and gas exploration and production. Currently, publications were wishful thinking, and did not Oil) and the Lublin Rift area (Chevron). Exploration oil and gas production activities are conducted in take into consideration the intrinsic difficulties of for tight gas is also under way in the Poznań Poland only. shale gas production. province in the Szamotuły area, in the Kórnik-Środa area (in cooperation with FX Energy), and Production from fields located abroad will PGNiG SA has been conducting geological research in the area of Murowana Goślina-Kłecko, Pyzdry, commence in the third quarter of 2011, in the on shale gas (gas trapped in shales) and tight gas Gniezno and Ślesin, where first 2D and 3D seismic Skarv/Snadd/Idun licence area on the Norwegian (natural gas accumulations, usually in sandstone, work has already commenced. Similar design and Continental Shelf. Storage needs of the segment and less frequently in limestone formations) for seismic work has been launched in are met by gas storage facilities in Brzeźnica, several years now. The Company holds rights to the Pomeranian petroleum province. Daszewo, Strachocin and Swarzów. areas where unconventional gas may be present, located in four petroleum provinces: the Gdańsk province, Lublin province, Kraków province and Poznań province. In total, PGNiG holds 11 shale gas licences, covering an area of about 9.1 thousand km2 (applications for another two licences, covering an area of 1.3 thousand km2, have been filed with the Ministry of the Environment), and 6 tight gas licences, covering an total exploration area of 13.9 thousand km2. 16 PGNiG Responsible Energy Bonikowo Underground Gas Storage Facility – gas will be stored in a partially depleted gas reservoir. The facility will be ready for use in 2010, and will have working capacity of 200 million m3. It will be the second gas storage facility for Unfortunately, no reliable data is available nitrogen-rich gas in Poland, and will facilitate at present that could serve as the basis for optimised production of nitrogen-rich gas from estimating the volume of the unconventional Poland’ domestic reserves. reserves. The information that surfaced in mass-media on the forecast hydrocarbon Kosakowo Cavern Underground Gas Storage quantities in Poland’s unconventional reserves had Facility – a high-methane gas storage facility in been prepared by American consulting companies, the vicinity of the Gdańsk-Gdynia-Sport agglomebased on a comparison of geological conditions Trade and Storage ration. The project provides for 10 caverns in halite in Poland and the US. However, it has not been formations. Completion of the facility, to hold 100 confirmed that geological conditions which are Natural gas produced in Poland million m3 of gas, is due by 2014, and its further necessary to produce unconventional hydrocarbon or imported is delivered to 6.6 extension to reach 225 million m3 in capacity is accumulations were actually present in Poland. million PGNiG customers, who also scheduled to be completed by 2020. receive smooth, comprehensive, Another problem connected with shale gas professional and timely service CSR-relevant Impact is enormous costs, far exceeding the cost of from the many thousands of of the Trade and Storage exploration for conventional reserves. To note, e m p l o y e e s o f t h e Tr a d e s e g m e n t . I t Segment and Our the cost of drilling a single exploratory well for is the staff at the Customer Service Responsibility shale gas more than doubles the cost of Offices (CSO) at each of our 23 Gas This business area has the following a conventional gas well, and increases along with Sales Units, who are the closest to CSR-relevant impact: the depth of the shale formation. Unconventional o u r c u s t o m e r s . To e n s u r e s e c u r i t y gas production technology also requires vast of supplies, the Company pursues • Market/economic impact quantities of water. an active policy to increase – being Poland’s largest natural gas storage capacities at its underimporter, we concurrently participate in ground gas storage facilities. projects seeking to ensure diversification of supplies and pursue an active investment Major Events in 2009 policy aimed at increasing our gas storage • Supplies under the contract with capacity; we deliver gas to over 6.5 million RosUkrEnergo discontinued from customers and a number of key businesses in January 1st 2009; Poland; we are responsible for building and • Execution of a short-term agreement maintaining good relations, ensuring the between PGNiG and Gazprom Export for standard of service expected by our delivery of 1 billion m3 of natural gas; customers; we are looking for possibilities to • Execution of an agreement with Qatargas obtain systemic support in solving the problem Operating Company for delivery of 1 million of socially vulnerable customers, as well as tonnes of LNG over 20 years, starting take measures with a view to maintaining from 2014; the competitive advantage of gaseous fuel • Opening of the first underground gas storage (including through promotion of solutions and facility for nitrogen-rich gas in Daszewo, with products that use gas, e.g. CNG); the big a storage capacity of 30 million m3; challenge in this area involves ensuring • Volume of mandatory stock of natural gas held security of gas supplies; in gas storage facilities was increased to about • Natural environment – using natural gas has 400 million m3. a favourable impact on the environment, as gas is the most environment-friendly of all the The Trade and Storage segment sells natural gas conventional sources of energy; we believe which is imported or produced domestically. it is our responsibility to promote natural gas Imported gas is purchased mainly in the East. as a fuel. Construction of gas storage facilities The sale of natural gas from both the distribution involves interference with the natural and transmission network is regulated by the environment, and therefore we make every Energy Law, and gas prices are set based on tariffs effort to minimise the adverse impact and approved by the Energy Regulatory Office. The remedy any negative effects of our operations; segment operates three underground gas storage facilities to meet its current needs, located in Mogilno, Wierzchowice and Husów. Construction of two more gas storage facilities is under way. These are: Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 17 Distribution The staff of our six regional Gas Distribution Companies, which provide distribution services, work to ensure uninterrupted gas deliveries to both households and industrial customers. Major Events in 2009 • Distribution network extended by 2 thousand Power Generation kilometres in 2009 By developing this new business The core business of the Distribution segment is segment, the PGNiG Group will to transmit high-methane and nitrogen-rich gas, become an energy conglomerate. as well as small quantities of propane-butane and PGNiG Energia will focus on the coke-oven gas, over the distribution network. generation of electricity and heat, Distribution operations are handled by six Gas as well as on trading in electricity Distribution Companies, which deliver gas to on the wholesale market. households as well as industrial and wholesale customers. The companies are also responsible for Major Events operating, maintaining and extending distribution • PGNiG Energia was established to become the pipelines, and for connecting new customers to competence centre for the Group’s power the network. generation business; • Steps taken to obtain co-funding for the pilot CSR-relevant Impact of biogas project in Ostrów Świętokrzyski; the Distribution Segment • Execution Agreement for the CCGT project in and Our Responsibility Stalowa Wola. This business area has the following CSR-relevant impact: CSR-relevant Impact of the Power Generation Segment • Market/economic impact and Our Responsibility – we deliver gas to over 6.6 million customers This business area has the following and a number of key businesses in Poland, CSR-relevant impact: we are co-responsible for ensuring safe delivery of gas to the customers and for • Market/economic impact – the segment’s You are invited to watch the national energy security, as well as for activities will increase demand for gas “How We Conduct Our Business” implementing solutions tailored to the and help Poland better use its domestic video, which is enclosed evolving legal and business environment resources of natural gas, broaden our offering on a CD attached to this Report (unbundling of activities); our investment to customers, contribute to the emergence and available on the www.pgnig.pl projects boost regional economies and of new market entrants, enable location and www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl websites. generate demand; of investment projects in rural and • Natural environment – our investment non-industrialised areas (co-generation, projects do interfere with the natural use of biogas and biomass); environment, and therefore we believe it is our • Natural environment – development of the responsibility to minimize any adverse impacts Segment will help protect the environment, and, when necessary, remedy the negative as it will materially reduce harmful emissions, effects of our environmental interference; enable better utilisation of primary fuels, as • Local communities – both Trade and Storage well as reduce energy transmission losses; and Distribution segments, co-operate with • Workplace – taking over existing heating the local communities in a variety of areas. systems and sources and their conversion into gas-fuelled facilities often entails serious workforce cuts at existing companies, thus posing challenges related to workforce optimisation and finding good ways to use the skills of existing employees in performing new responsibilities. 18 PGNiG Responsible Energy 4.1 Group’s Stakeholders The table below presents key tools we use to build mutually beneficial relations with our external and It is of vital importance to us that we maintain internal environment. constructive relations with all groups of stakeholders interested in our operations, as well We believe that we can achieve more by working as with those who are in a position to impact the hand in hand and we are keen to cooperate with debate on energy policy and key challenges for other actors from the industry in the area of the industry. We acknowledge that only by corporate social responsibility. Accordingly, since building a broad platform of understanding with June 2009, we have hosted the Responsible Energy the Group’s stakeholders can we pursue our Conference, an annual event. It is devoted to business in line with the principles of sustainable sustainable development challenges in the energy development and understand better our mutual industry. As part of the event, we also seek to needs and expectations. establish partnerships to solve specific problems of importance for the stakeholders of a given Owing to its size and reach, the Group has a broad industry, as well as for individual market array of stakeholders. The nature of the business participants. Opinions gathered at the conference of our branches and subsidiaries, as well as their indicate that co-operation within the energy place in the value chain, decide on the properties industry is expected by everyone concerned. and composition of the respective stakeholder groups. More details on our relations with the external and internal environment can be found in sections Market, Workplace and Local Communities. Our Approach 4.2 Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy to Sustainable In 2008, the Management Board of PGNiG adopted a new strategy, which defines business challenges for the Group until 2015. The Group’s mission, articulated in the document, provides that “setting Development the interest of our shareholders, customers and employees as our main priority, we wish to focus on our reliability and transparency as a partner and to develop the Group’s values in accordance with the principles of sustainable development”. Already in December 2008, in order to deliver on the promises outlined in the strategy, we launched Stakeholders Dialogue/developing constructive relations the Sustainable Development Strategy ImplemenEmployees Public consultation, Employee Council, the system of tation project across the Group. We are Poland’s communicators (employees responsible for internal first company in the energy industry to launch communication), electronic newsletter, corporate portal, a comprehensive sustainable development stratstaff surveys, web chats with representatives of egy. Contributors to the strategy were employees the Management Board from all operational areas of the PGNiG Head Customers Satisfaction surveys, helpline, website, Customer Service Office, as well as from branches and subsidiaries Offices, dedicated business consultants of the PGNiG Group. The Sustainable Development Local communities Public consultation, activities of PGNiG Foundation Strategy was formally approved by the Manageand the donation fund, direct cooperation with local ment Board in July 2009. The main objective we authorities and organisations have embarked on by formulating our sustainable Business partners Dedicated business consultants, direct meetings, conferences, development mission is to be an active player on trade declarations the Polish energy market, who acts responsibly Suppliers Evaluation of partnership, support for local development and takes into consideration the expectations and Research institutes, universities Support for vocational education at all levels, conferences, needs of the stakeholders and the natural environand other schools PGNiG Foundation’s scholarship programme, ment. Further, the Group wishes to act as sponsor Administration Consultations, joint initiatives, such as conferences of innovative and environmentally friendly and market regulator and workshops solutions. The above is to contribute to the Shareholders and investors Meetings with asset managers, participation in roadshows Group’s development of productive relations and foreign conferences for investors, dedicated newsletter, with the present and future stakeholders, current and periodic reports. and also with the natural environment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 19 Six pillars of the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy, operational goals and measures for the years 2009-2015 The Mission of Our mission in the area of sustainable development is to be a responsible actor on the Polish energy market, one that understands and respects the needs and the PGNiG Group expectations of key stakeholders and the natural environment, and promotes innovative and environment-friendly solutions and technologies. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Enhanced satEfficient and Pursuing business Creating a safe and Consistent, isfaction of partnership-based in a responsible friendly workplace credible the existing co-operation and way while and efficient customers and dialogue with caring for communication acquisition of social and business the natural and marketing new customers partners environment through improved customer care quality 8 operational 7 operational 7 operational 10 operational 2 operational goals goals goals goals goals 28 measures 20 measures 21 measures 26 measures 6 measures 6. 7 operational Seeking new business expansion opportunities goals in line with the principle of sustainable development 20 measures The Group’s CSR strategy addresses the challenges 2. Efficient and partnership-based co-operation An integral part of the Strategy is the impleemerging from our environment, and our planned and dialogue with social and business partners; mentation plan, which defines operational goals actions driven by the strategy result both from the 3. Pursuing business in a responsible way while corresponding to each strategic objective. Next needs of our stakeholders, and from best practices caring for the natural environment; to defining operational goals and measures, the in place at the Group, in particular in the area of 4. Creating a safe and friendly workplace; implementation plan also specifies measures environmental protection practices and social 5. Consistent, credible and efficient which enable the Group to consistently gauge involvement initiatives. communication and marketing; the implementation progress, as well as assigns 6. Seeking new business expansion opportunities owners to the individual operational goals, and Sustainable development and responsible business in line with the principle of sustainable sets the implementation schedule for the indiviembraces all links of the PGNiG Group’s value development. dual measures. An additional item of the plan is chain and applies to all four areas of sustainable a list of stakeholders for the respective operadevelopment, resting on the six strategic pillars: tional goals. Identification of stakeholder groups 1. Enhanced satisfaction of the existing customers is meant to engage them in the implementation and acquisition of new customers through process. improved customer care quality; 20 PGNiG Responsible Energy The Sustainable Development and Responsible in 2009. The strategic objectives were also incor4.4 Information about the Report Business Strategy of the PGNiG Group is compleporated into the evaluation of senior managerial Responsible Energy is the second CSR report prementary to the Group’s business strategy. staff by including them in the annual MBO targets, pared by the PGNiG Group. The Report follows the and thus were reflected in the objectives and Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and IPIECA The strategy applies to PGNiG SA, the Group’s parent targets set for individual employees and teams. indicators. undertaking, to all Polish and foreign branches of All the above testifies to the strategic involvement the Group, to PGNiG’s wholly-owned subsidiaries, and determination of the Group as it implements The publication presents our activities in the area as well as to Gazprojekt and Naftomontaż in which the Strategy. of sustainable development and responsible busiPGNiG holds majority interests. In January 2010, ness in the period from January 2009 to June 2010. based on the document, branches and subsiAn integral part of the Sustainable Development The activities directly follow from the pursuit of diaries of the PGNiG Group developed and adopted and Responsible Business Strategy is the impleobjectives under the Sustainable Development their substrategies, which are aligned with the key mentation plan, which defines operational goals and Responsible Business Strategy. Although the priorities of the master strategy, but also take into corresponding to the respective strategic objecStrategy was adopted relatively recently (midaccount the individual companies’ specific business tives. Next to operational goals and measures, 2009), we are delighted to have attained some of profiles and local conditions. assignment of objective owners and establishment its objectives already. of the implementation schedule, the implementation plan also specifies measures to consistently Two years ago, the PGNiG Group prepared the 4.3 Management of the Sustainable gauge the progress of the implementation. Ownfirst external report on environmental protecDevelopment Strategy at the PGNiG ers of the operational goals are also members of tion, which, since last year, is included in the CSR Group the management structure established to manage Report. Data presented in the natural environEffective implementation of the adopted CSR sustainable development and responsible business ment section are arranged into thematic groups, strategy requires direct involvement of the manat the PGNiG Group. An additional item of the plan including specific types of environmental impacts agement staff. Since its inception, the project has is a list of the entities’ internal and external stakeon a specific environment factor. The scope of the received a strong support at the Group level from holders, matched with the specific operational discussion in the section covers all aspects of envithe PGNiG Management Board. Both President and goals, which is to contribute to their involvement ronmental protection, including legal, investment Vice-Presidents attended the project’s working in our initiatives in the area. and economic aspects, environmental managesessions and workshops, as well as meetings that ment systems, and launch of new technologies. closed out individual project stages. The final The initial year of the Strategy’s implementation Sustainable Development Strategy charted not demonstrated a need for further refinement of the PGNiG’s operational areas and activities are only the vision, but also priorities of our actions. tools in place at the Group, and therefore subsepresented using data and/or descriptions of the Soon after its formal adoption, a dedicated quent initiatives emerged, designed to improve practices, rules or procedures which are currently structure was established to coordinate the related the management and measurement of results, in place. All figures used in the Report are for processes within the Group. Members of the and evaluation of our actions. Together with our 2009, but the section devoted to recent developBoard, along with the President, perform the roles consultant in the process, PricewaterhouseCoopments also covers the first half of 2010. of Project Sponsors as part of the structure. ers, we embarked on a project to implement more efficient monitoring and improve communicaThe presented financial data are consistent with Another tier is the Steering Committee, composed tion, which represents a formidable task for a big the PGNiG Group’s Annual Report for 2009 and, of business owners of strategic objectives. The organisation we are. 2010 also saw our joining the as such, were reviewed by the auditors. Management Board’s Proxy for the Strategy is group of founding members of the LBG Poland Notwithstanding, independent audits were also responsible for coordinating and monitoring (London Benchmarking Group), namely BZ WBK, conducted at PGNiG subsidiaries, including the Sustainable Development and Responsible Danone, GlaxoSmithKline, Ikea and Żywiec Zdrój. environmental protection system audits. Business Strategy implementation at the PGNiG The LBG model is currently one of the world’s subsidiaries and branches, and for internal best-tested methodologies for measurement and Quantitative measures presented in the Report and external communication of actions on the reporting of corporate social activities. Its use data from PGNiG SA as well as from 23 gas sustainable development and responsible busiimplementation in Poland is managed by CSR companies operating across Poland, all domestic ness agenda. The same role at the level of the Consulting, which invited us to test the branches of PGNiG, and most of PGNiG’s whollyGroup’s branches and subsidiaries is performed methodology. Hopefully, our participation in owned subsidiaries (except the recently estabby Regional CSR Facilitators. The group consists the group’s work will enhance the management lished PGNiG Energia SA), as per sections 3.1 and of a few dozen persons, for whom sustainable process regarding our social involvement, thus 4.2 (also including two companies: Budownictwo development is the primary job responsibility. The improving the quality and efficiency of local and Naftowe Naftomontaż sp. z o.o. and B.S i P.G Proxy is also responsible for monitoring progress national corporate social activities of our business. Gazoprojekt SA). The Report does no contain data with the implementation of strategic and operafor some of Bud-Gaz’ subsidiaries, Geovita and tional goals, and for reporting to the Management Clearly, another year of work under the Strategy several foreign branches and subsidiaries. Board of actions scheduled for a given period. The will unveil new needs regarding the refineperson also collects data from across the Group ment of our tools, procedures and policies in and prepares the Social Report in conjunction with the area. Aware of the need for improvement in the regional facilitators. Importantly, twenty-one this respect, we are all-the-more happy to have facilitators started their postgraduate scheme in received awards resulting from our strategic responsible business at the Kozminski University involvement in the project already in the first year. For more details, see section 4.5. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 21 The printed Introduction to the CSR Report 2009 The Report has not been reviewed externally, contains only selected information on the PGNiG although selected indicators come from the Group’s operations relevant from the perspecAnnual Report and the Financial Report, which tive of sustainable development and responsible were audited externally. All data in the report business. The printed version includes a DVD, were accurately collected directly from the entities where you will find the full 2009 CSR Report and described in this document, and from persons this year’s Annual Report, as well as educational managing the respective areas of the PGNiG materials presenting our activities. Group’s operations. The full contents are also available on the websites www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl and www.pgnig.pl (Responsible Business section). There you will also find a questionnaire designed to help us understand your expectations regarding reporting and corporate social activities of the PGNiG Group, which is also enclosed with this Report. Opinions and suggestions of all readers of this publication count. Your comments will help us improve our activities and subsequent CSR reports June of the PGNiG Group, so that they reflect our stakeholders’ needs to the fullest extent possible. Please fill in the questionnaire and contact us at informacje@odpowiedzialna-energia.pl. First PGNiG’s Responsible Energy Conference devoted to sustainable development in the energy industry. The Sustainable Development Declaration is signed by seven companies: EDF Polska, ENEA SA, Gaz-System SA, GDF Suez Energia Polska, Polskie Górnictwo April N a f t o w e i G a z o w n i c t w o S A , Ta u ro n SA and Vatenfall Poland Sp. z o.o. The PGNiG Group strategic workshop – development of the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy. 4.5 Sustainable Development at the PGNiG Group – Key Events 2009 July May/June A  doption by the PGNiG Management Board of the Sustainable Development and M  azowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa, Responsible Business Strategy, jointly with Senior Secondary which established priorities for School Complex No. 3 of Łódź, actions at all stages of the PGNiG embark on a project to establish Group’s value chain. a gas engineer education scheme for youth and adults starting from the school year 2009/2010. 22 PGNiG Responsible Energy October/November Internal communication about the Sustainable Development and August Responsible Business Strategy at the Group.  doption by the PGNiG A Regional meetings attended by Management Board of the about a thousand employees of implementation concept for the Group from all gas companies, 2010 the PGNiG Group Sustainable branches and subsidiaries. Development and Responsible Business Strategy, appointment of the Proxy for the Strategy and Regional CSR Facilitators. December S i g n i n g o f a L e t t e r o f I n t e n t between PGNiG and Konfederacja November Pracodawców Polskich (Polish Employers’ Confederation, currently Pracodawcy RP) on T h e R e s p o n s i b l e E n e r g y R e p o r t cooperation regarding develreceives a recognition in the opment of the “Coalition for Responsible Business Forum’s Responsible Business” project, competition. co-funded by the EU. The purpose of the project is to disseminate PGNiG included in the Respect CSR principles among Polish Index of the Warsaw Stock businesses. October Exchange, the first index listing socially responsible companies in Central and Eastern Europe. Signing of the Declaration on joint initiatives on sustainable Strategic workshop at PGNiG development and responsible branches and subsidiaries. business between Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa and Enea Launch of the new PGNiG web O p e r a t o r. portal. The portal is accessible for the disabled. One of the Special award for communication innovations is a text-to-speech with investors from the Warsaw facility embedded in the service. Stock Exchange, presented at The feature enables the users to “The Best Annual Report” have the contents of the portal competition’s award ceremony. r e a d o u t b y t h e c o m p u t e r, o r t o manually adjust the font size. Publication of the first PGNiG Group’s CSR Report, entitled Responsible Energy, prepared in accordance with the GRI guidelines, and discussing operations of the PGNiG Group (Head Office, branches, including 23 gas companies, other subsidiaries). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 23 April The Laurel of Responsibility goes to PGNiG SA under the “Promotion of Corporate Social January Responsibility Standards Among Businesses” project, developed  by Lewiatan, Deloitte and the Declaration on the establishment S o l i d a r n o ś ć Tr a d e U n i o n . of the Helium Cryogenics Centre at PGNiG’s Odolanów Branch. The To p p o s i t i o n i n t h e P o l i s h Centre is a joint project developed Companies listing, top position together with the Warsaw Univerin the Fuels and Energy Sector s i t y o f Te c h n o l o g y , t h e W r o c ł a w listing of the Responsible U n i v e r s i t y o f Te c h n o l o g y , a n d t h e Companies Ranking 2010 by Department of Molecular Physics Dziennik Gazeta Prawna. of the Polish Academy of Sciences. The purpose is to establish an Agreement on co-operation institute with a research and in the area of ethics promotion business agenda, to be a benchin business between Pomorska mark example of collaboration Spółka Gazownictwa and the between industry and science. G d a ń s k U n i v e r s i t y o f Te c h n o l o g y . 2010 June May 2nd Responsible Energy Conference – three more February companies: Fortum Power To p p o s i t i o n i n t h e 2 4 / 7 a n d H e a t P o l s k a , LOTO S G ro u p a n d Tr a n s p a r e n t C S R L e a d e r r a n k i n g b y Polskie Sieci Elektroenergetyczne Strategic workshop on socially Braun & Partners CSR. The ranking O p e r a t o r, s i g n t h e D e c l a r a t i o n o n vulnerable customers attended lists 25 companies with the highest Sustainable Development in the by experts from the Energy 2008 profit. Energy Sector in Poland. Regulatory Office and the May/June Ministry of Labour Completion by 21 Regional CSR Facilitators of the post-graduate programme in responsible business “Marketing in the gas industry” at the Kozminski University. conference. This year’s edition is themed “In compliance with PGNiG joins the group of the sustainable development founding members of the LBG principles”. PGNiG’s representatives (London Benchmarking Group) share their lessons from the Poland: BZ WBK, Danone, development of the Sustainable GlaxoSmithKline, Ikea and Żywiec Development and Responsible Zdrój. The LBG Model is currently Business Strategy at the Group. one of the world’s best-tested methodologies for measuring and reporting the efficiency of corporate social activities. The methodology’s implementation in Poland is managed by CSR Consulting. 24 PGNiG Responsible Energy The Workplace area has one strategic objective Workplace assigned in the Group’s Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy, namely to c r e a t e a s a f e a n d f r i e n d l y w o r k p l a c e . Te n o b j e c t i v e s and 26 measures are implemented under the strategic objective. Implementation of the tasks and activities stipulated by the objectives needs continue in the subsequent years. This section presents information o n a l l w e h a v e m a n a g e d t o a c h i e v e i n t h e a r e a t h u s f a r. Workplace Friendly and safe Iwona Matusiak Head of Integrated Management Systems Department at Geofizyka Toruń. Geofizyka Toruń executes contracts for the 5.1 Challenges and Opportunities most demanding investors worldwide. This is not only thanks to our excellent experts Most entities making up the Group have a long and state-of-the-art technology, but also history, often reaching back a few decades, or best-in-class occupational safety standards. even one hundred years back, and thus contribute Our employees are provided with compreto the Group their own organisational cultures, as hensive training and equipped with Personal well as workplace regulations, procedures and polSafety Passports, which are internationally icies. Each company treats its staff in a prioritised recognised professional competence IDs. manner, making every effort to ensure their development and safety. The variety of entities forming the Group is an enormous value. Nevertheless, the topic of fuller harnessing at the Group level of the respective experience and best practices among the Group’s members has been tackled for a number of years, similarly to such challenges as building uniform procedures and policies, but also shared standards and values that would unite the employees of the PGNiG Group and provide a common foundation for our operations. This is reflected in the objectives and measures stipulated in the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy. The focus on the objectives adopted in the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy in the employee area enhances the exchange of experience among HR teams at the Group level, ensures focused development of human resources, and warrants the establishment of a uniform and consistent platform for developing the Group-wide HR policies. Our enormous opportunity resides in the potential Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 25 5.2 Culture of Dialogue Internal Communication to develop joint initiatives for employees, and in Smooth internal communication at an organisation the consistent building of a joint HR strategy. The whose size, reach and characteristics match those key challenges in the area include the evaluation of the PGNiG Group is a formidable challenge. of the current HR initiatives in the context of the We employ a few dozen thousand employees in Sustainable Development Strategy’s objectives, a number of branches and tens of subsidiaries, sustained care for the development of employees, both in Poland and abroad, who work behind the establishment of a shared communication system, desk, but also at well installations, underground and development of the PGNiG Group Code of gas storage facilities, or as operators or repairers Staff Values. If we manage to avert the risk of of the gas network. Consistent and rapid commuprioritising other, seemingly more important nication represents one of our employees’ crucial topics, and maintain a uniform level of interest in rights, but also forms the basis for successful the implementation of the strategy, we should be business operation of our subsidiaries. Therefore, able to attain our overriding long-term objective. we consistently develop communication tools We agreed that this objective in the Workplace and channels at the PGNiG Group. The key ones area is building an organisation which learns and agement model for the PGNiG Group. Until include: develops in line with the principles of sustainmid-2010, conceptual principles were developed able development, brings satisfaction to people it for the employee evaluation system and process, Communicators – persons whose responsibilities employs, and meets the market expectations. and for the incentive system. A detailed analysis include coordination of internal communications of the current organisational culture at PGNiG SA at their respective units (branches, gas distribution Implementation of the CSR Strategy spurred has also been completed. Currently, work is in companies, subsidiaries), as well as cooperation in the launch of various initiatives and concepts at progress on the concept of the final employee that area with other units/entities of the Group, the Group level, also those touching upon the evaluation and incentive system and process. including the Head Office. Several dozen staff of workplace dimension. This Report presents the the PGNiG Group remain in ongoing telephone and most interesting of those projects. With a view Marta Cydejko, Director for Human Resources and email contact with their counterparts and take to improving our activities in the area, we also Training Office at PGNiG SA: part, at least twice a year, in Group-wide embark on initiatives under the PGNiG Value Buildcommunication and marketing meetings. ing Programme, in place at the PGNiG Group since Instrumental in the implementation of the CSR early 2010. This project is in particular seeking to Strategy in the Workplace dimension are periodic Newsletter Portal – an electronic portal, where align the incentive systems and implement the meetings of HR staff. The topics covered at such we publish essential information for the Group’s employee evaluation model under the new manmeetings include key issues related to human employees; the portal can be accessed from all IT resources development, as well as working out systems used across the Group. solutions on staff development. The meetings represent an excellent opportunity to share our Electronic Newsletter – sent daily from the PGNiG knowledge and experience. At the initial stage, Head Office to PGNiG’s employees and communithe meetings are attended by representatives of cators, who distribute it among the employees. PGNiG branches. Subsequently, we plan to expand the group of attendees to include representatives MaGAZyn – a monthly of the PGNiG Group’s of PGNiG’s subsidiaries. Of paramount importance employees, with a circulation of 5 thousand copin the implementation of the CSR Strategy is focusies; other periodicals (quarterlies, bi-monthlies ing on staff development. The projects we are and monthlies, both hard copy and electronic) are currently developing focus on this specific aspect. also published by the Group’s subsidiaries and However, activities to increase the level of occubranches, discussing matters of importance for pational safety and hygiene are equally important. the respective organisations. The annual HSE services conference is a vital forum for exchange of experiences and review the Electronic chat – with the President of the PGNiG level of safety at the PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries. Management Board is organised at least twice a year by the PGNiG Head Office; all employees of the Group may participate in the meeting. Business presentations and meetings – organised as necessary by the respective divisions and departments of the PGNiG Head Office, and the Group’s subsidiaries and branches. These are the primary tools and channels of communication at the PGNiG Group. Importantly, 26 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace however, because many of our subsidiaries and If the consultation procedure with trade unions often of transitory nature. However, once signed, branches operate quality management systems, is conducted, e.g. in the case of the Memorandum they continue to be binding on all the signatories, they may use other internal communication tools, of Understanding with the National Trade protracting the decision-making process where which are not yet used Group-wide. Unions (which also represent trade unions within speedy solutions for pressing issues are necesthe Group), the process provides for a 30-day sary. In such a complex organisational and legal Certain projects which cover the entire Group are period for responding to a motion in writing, environment, one of the primary responsibilities of communicated at direct meetings organised across 30 days for exchanging documents if the those in charge of the social dialogue at PGNiG is Poland. This was the case with the implementation negotiation-and-approval procedure is applicable, searching for and proposing such solutions as may of the Sustainable Development and Responsible and 14 days if an opinion is to be issued. The result in a healthy compromise that reinforces the Business Strategy. Next to using standard tools, duration of the process under the Memorandum social foundations of PGNiG’s business. such as internal publications, members of the of Understanding with the PGNiG Trade Union is PGNiG Management Board and managers who 30, 30 and 10 days, respectively. The employer is Collective Bargaining own the respective pillars of the Strategy attended required to provide the Employee Council with the Agreement a road show, comprising a series of meetings with information requested by the Council within 14 Efforts of the trade unions and the employer led employees of the branches and subsidiaries across days. The Council issues opinions within 14 days of to the registration of the Collective Bargaining Poland, also attended by over a thousand employreceiving the information from the employer. Also, Agreement for Employees of Polskie Górnictwo ees of the Group. For more details on communicaas provided for the relevant laws, the employer is Naftowe i Gazownictwo on July 15th 2009. It was tion within the project, see Best Practices. required to submit the information within deadthe crowning of the parties’ work on a document lines and scope enabling the Council to familiarise which would elaborate on employee rights and Dialogue with Employees itself with the facts of a specific case and prepare privileges stipulated in the relevant national laws Social dialogue in the energy industry has a wellfor the consultation process. and regulations. established tradition. It is no different at the PGNiG Group, where over 120 trade union organisations Since January 2009, a new discussion platform The Collective Bargaining Agreement also follows operate. One member of the PGNiG Managehas operated at the Group, namely a special up on the laws and regulations by taking into ment Board is elected for a three-year term by annual PGNiG Group Social Dialogue Conference, account the nature of our organisation, in many employees of the Company, and the Supervisory attended by the PGNiG Management Board and cases exceeding the requirements set by the laws. Board includes three members who are reprekey directors, with a total of 150-200 persons For more details on the specific solutions adopted sentatives of the employees. Each subsidiary has participating in the event, also including in the Collective Bargaining Agreement see Extra an officer for employee affairs and cooperation representatives of social partners from across the Benefits Package section. To note, most of the with trade unions. The subsidiaries consult every Group. For more details, see Best Practices. solutions described in the Social Report come from material decision with employee organisations. the Group’s parent undertaking, and other entities This framework of cooperation is of seminal Andrzej Wyrzykowski, Social Dialogue Office of the Group may apply different and often diverimportance for us, yet it does protract decisionDirector at PGNiG SA: gent rules in this respect. making processes concerning a number of issues, including employee affairs. The problem came to The analysis of trade union organisations at the the attention of trade unions at PGNiG and the PGNiG Group must take into account a broader Group. In 2008 and 2009, attempts were made to social context in which the unions operate. All 5.3 Occupational Health and Safety establish a single method of cooperation among trade unions belong to the various nationwide all the trade unions to enable coordination of labour union organisations, which may, The nature of our operations requires not only the trade unions’ activities towards employers in particular cases, naturally transpose certain professional training and development of profesin the gas and oil industry. The initiative was not divergent opinions on important social and sional qualifications, but also paying the utmost entirely successful at that stage, but the process political matters onto the native ground of PGNiG, attention to occupational health and safety. This continues. depending on the position of the respective is of particular importance for employees working nationwide trade unions on the matter. out in the field, at oil well installations. By analysEmployee information and consultations regarding The variety of professions at the PGNiG Group ing data on the number and causes of accidents, important decisions is are also present within the also means that interests of the respective we are able to refine our tools used to prevent framework of cooperation with trade unions and labour groups and, consequently, trade union occupational accidents. In effect, their number employee councils, operating at PGNiG SA and organisations, may be divergent, similarly to has been consistently falling. Our branches and many of the subsidiaries. their expectations as to the applicable solutions. subsidiaries improve their occupational safety Not without significance are also the trade union systems and continue to launch new initiatives in leaders’ aspirations and the need for the social this area. acceptance, notably from their constituencies. Polish laws and regulations governing the rights of the trade unions as well as the revised provisions of the Memoranda of Understanding between the trade unions and subsequent Management Boards of PGNiG SA may also sometimes thwart the problem-solving process. The provisions were being drafted in specific social and labour contexts as a response to problems which were Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 27 Total number of accidents 2007 2008 2009 PGNiG SA 27 21 26 Subsidiaries 201 192 189 PGNiG Group 228 213 215 Frequency of accidents per 1,000 employees 2007 2008 2009 PGNiG SA 3.2 2.4 2.9 Subsidiaries 9.8 9.2 9.1 PGNiG Group 8.0 7.2 7.3 In 2009, 215 accidents occurred across the Group Having analysed all circumstances of the fatal acciupgrading process plant and equipment, or reno(each involving one or more persons), in which dent, we took the following steps: vating and overhauling premises. An established injuries were sustained by 220 employees. The practice at PGNiG is also to elect employees to frequency of accidents per 1000 employees was The method for pumping the drilling fluid during formal occupational health and safety commit7.3 in 2009. the casing procedure was modified to limit the tees, which actively participate in HSE inspections involvement of pressure vessel operators. and put forward their HSE-related proposals. The root causes of the accidents include inapMany new initiatives are also proposed by our propriate behaviour of employees. 2009 saw one The casing and cementing procedure was revised employees, who are also regularly trained on HSE fatal accident, in which an employee of Poszukito include provisions on safe pumping during the at workplace at all levels of the PGNiG Group. This wania Nafty i Gaz Nafta sp. z o.o. lost his life. The casing procedure. year, for the first time ever, all employees of the accident took place at the Markowola-1 oil-well PGNiG Head Office attended an e-learning multiinstallation. Its direct cause was the employee’s Fitting anti-slip mats on floor surfaces at oil rigs module HSE training. being hit by a metal end of the drilling fluid-pumpand around the rotary table. ing hose. This caused the employee to fall off and Every employee received an e-mail with suffer serious occipital injuries. The death resulted Last year, the Group’s total of days on which a password to access the training, and then from multiple internal injuries (cardiac rupture, employees were unable to work as result of accitook a test on topics covered in the training. skull and brain lesions). dents was 12,755, that is 1,484 days more than in The e-learning model enabled our employees to 2008. The accident severity index, however, that attend the training at any time, without the need is the number of sick leave days resulting from to leave their workplace. accident per accidents, was 59 days. Finally, it is worth noting that, among the many We also monitor our employees’ occupational other non-salary benefits in place at PGNiG, diseases. In 2009, the State Sanitary Inspectorate employees are also entitled to a two-week did not issue any decisions which would pertain rehabilitation leave to improve their general to occupational diseases being identified in PGNiG health. The employee’s share in the total cost Group’s employees. of the holiday is a mere 1% of the total cost. Occupational safety is also very high on the agenda of our foreign branches and subsidiaries. In bidding for foreign tenders, they must demonstrate proper operation of HSE systems to the strictest world standards. This enables them to provide services to international oil majors, such as Shell or Statoil, who expect top-level safety from their business partners. For interesting examples of our subsidiaries' activities in this area, see Best Practices and Best Practices Abroad. Our routine HSE activities focus on providing our employees with appropriate protective clothing, 28 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace 5.4 Recruitment and Professional Development The recruitment process is governed by internal corporate regulations. At PGNiG SA, there are no separate procedures in place to specify the rules of employing workforce from the local market. For information on how our subsidiaries with foreign operations deal with the issue, see Best Practices Abroad. Training High on our agenda is internal recruitment. The The PGNiG Group employs over 30 thousand process is vital for our employees who are keen people – from surveyors, oil-well operators and to develop within the Group, as well as for the seismologists to economists, negotiators, subsidiaries themselves, because this helps them customer consultants and sellers. The variety retain competent staff. Under the current of our staff translates into the diversity of our procedures, employees who change jobs within training offering. the company are still entitled to their length-of-service benefits. The Group’s employees can learn foreign languages, also in individual tutoring schemes, Clearly, this does not mean that we do not hire complete post-graduate education, attend employees from the labour market. Every year, domestic trade conferences or other events, we participate in traineeship programmes, e.g. participate in traineeships, as well as explore we offer traineeships to winners of the Grasz o e-learning self-education opportunities. They can staż initiative for students and fresh graduates, also be sent for paid traineeship positions at our who have later the opportunity to stay with PGNiG. offices in Moscow or Brussels. This offers them Our new employees are also recruited from among an opportunity to familiarise themselves with the graduates of vocational schools and universities of everyday work of those entities, while improving technology, with which our subsidiaries cooperate their language skills. In 2009, the average of nearly on a regular basis, e.g. by offering scholarships to 60 training hours was used by each managerial top-performing students. staff member, with 35 training hours on average spent per employee. Importantly, over three-fourths of our subsidiaries and branches declare they discuss reasons for leaving with the departing employees. Our subsidiaries’ and branches’ efforts also focused on initiatives aimed at supporting vocational education in Poland, including revival of professions and skills needed in our industry. Through PGNiG’s Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation, PGNiG sponsors scholarships for technology degree scheme students. For more details, see Best Practices. Headcount by segments Headcount 2009 2008 2007 PGNiG Head Office 833 8371 604 Exploration and Production 10,800 10,725 10,151 Trade and Storage, including: 4,128 4,088 3,810 companies consolidated with the equity method 292 295 Distribution 13,851 13,746 13,538 Other 2,073 2,044 1,928 Total 31,685 31,440 30,031 1 This significant rise in headcount resulted from the restructuring carried in 2008, involving the unbundling of Trade and Distribution, as a result of which the Head Office took over the sales force. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 29 Average number of training hours per employee Average Average training cost per employee Average Directors/managers, including office directors, Directors/managers, including office directors, proxies, managers 57.76 proxies, managers 2,494.86 Experts 46.12 Experts 1,187.20 Blue-collar positions 11.78 Blue-collar position 367.59 Non-blue collar, including administration staff 27.32 Non-blue collar, including administration staff 898.64 Total 35.75 Total 1,237.07 Depending on their scope of responsibilities, employees may also attend training on contemporary business management and operation. The specific training topics under this umbrella package include: project management, legal environment analysis, business risk management, customer service techniques, or internal communication and team work. A portion of the training cost is reimbursed by the European Social Fund. Owing to the nature and specialist profile of the PGNiG subsidiaries, some training schemes are tailor-made. This applies in particular to training for the employees of Geofizyka Kraków, Geofizyka Toruń, PNiG Nafta Piła or Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków, who, under contracts executed there. The subsidiaries carry out regular training by their companies, go to Kazakhstan, Pakistan, programmes for such employees on cultural diffeLibya, Uganda or Ukraine and spend 6 to 8 weeks rences, as this will help them develop good relations in the new environment, but also avoid risky behaviours. Human rights procedures and policies training is also provided at the PGNiG Group. Typically, HSE Officers are continuously present at foreign contract sites, and they are responsible for ensuring strict adherence to all procedures related to health, safety and natural environment. For more details, see Best Practices Abroad. An important training project launched in 2009 in connection with the Group-wide implementation of the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy was enrolment of 21 employees in a Poland's first post-graduate CSR programme, Responsible Business, at the Kozminski University. The group completed the programme in June 2010. As a result, the Group probably employs the largest number of CSR experts in Poland. For more details, see Best Practices. 30 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace during the 2010 flooding. They received assistance from the Social Fund which, following separate decisions of the PGNiG Management Board, was significantly increased. PGNiG SA also cares about more distant future of our employees by covering them with the Retirement Plan and paying the base premium, totalling 7% of the employee’s salary. A benefit favoured by many of our employees is extra days off work. One of them falls on December 4th, that is Saint Barbara’s Day, the patron saint of miners. The other day off falls on a birthday or name-day of an employee and can be taken at any time convenient to the employee. The third day off is offered to employees whose Nevertheless, a few dozen thousand employees of length-of-service at PGNiG SA is at least 15 years. PGNiG SA and the Group’s subsidiaries/branches, as well as entitled retirees, did acquire PGNiG 5.5 Extra Benefits Package The benefits mentioned above as well as other shares free of charge. The number of shares benefits and the employer’s obligations towards assigned to individual employees varied based on Next to standard compensation paid to employees employees are provided for in the Company’s Coltheir length-of-service at the company. Holding in the form of a salary, they are also entitled to lective Bargaining Agreement, which was adopted shares in PGNiG SA clearly forms a stronger bond a number of additional benefits. These include gift after many months of negotiations with the trade between the company and its personnel. vouchers, medical cover, partial reimbursement unions. The Agreement came into force in July of tickets for commuters, as well as opportunities 2009. It contains such obligations as a guarantee Finally, the Group also cares about employees to participate in many national and international of employment for the deceased employee’s who have already retired. They are entitled to the sports events. family member if the employee died or suffered following benefits offered by the Group: injuries resulting in a permanent inability to work Non-financial benefits are high on the agenda of as a result of an accident at work or on his/her • holiday subsidies; most of the Group’s subsidiaries and branches. way /from work, higher retirement severance • financial and in-kind assistance for persons Over 70% of them declare that these benefits are payments, calculated as length-of-service awards, experiencing financial hardships or health “important” or “very important”, and grades given or extension of the occasional leave period by problems; to the package of extra benefits are also high (4s one day, as well as many other provisions which • housing assistance; and 5s in the self-assessment account for about reward those with a long track record at the • co-funding of sports, recreation, cultural and 65% of the responses). company PGNiG. educational activities; • the eldest and those suffering from the most Currently, all non-salary benefits are available at A special benefit is the entitlement to obtain PGNiG severe diseases also receive Christmas gift 73% of the Group’s subsidiaries and branches. shares free of charge. The benefit does not cover baskets. Importantly, although PGNiG SA already ranks all employees as the so-called entitlement to high among Polish employers when it comes to shares was established under the law during the In an attempt to address the needs of our non-salary benefits, new options and extensions corporatisation (transformation into a joint-stock employees, retirees and disability pensioners, the are continuously being added to our offering. company) process of the state-owned enterprise, staff of the Social Welfare Office organises annual This Report presents employee benefits in place which took place in 1996. Persons employed meetings of the PGNiG Management Board with at PGNiG SA. However, the packages may vary after the transition are not entitled to the benefit. retirees and disability pensioners of the Head substantially across the Group. Office, which represents an opportunity to brief them on our current operations and social welfare A unique example of our care for employees was activities targeted at this group of former employthe establishment of a separate financial assiees. With our retirees and disability pensioners in stance scheme within the PGNiG Group, to benefit mind, we also organise trips as well as rehabilitathose employees who suffered most severe losses tion holidays. Every year, on Saint Barbara’s Day, that is the industry’s holiday, we organise official celebration events as well as get-togethers for all employees. Additionally, it has become the company’s tradition to organise an educational family picnics. In Warsaw alone, the 2010 picnic was attended by over 1,500 people. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 31 5.6 Plans for the Future Pursuant to the Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy adopted by the Group, our activities in the Workplace dimension will focus on reinforcing the foundations of our shared corporate culture, and on developing uniform procedures, policies and ongoing cooperation of HR services within the PGNiG Group so as to implement consistent HR actions, create common HR tools, and, in a longer run, establish a Group-wide HR strategy. By the end of 2010, we plan to conduct the first employee satisfaction survey at PGNiG SA, which is to cover all employees at the Head Office, as well as our Polish and foreign branches. Subsequently, we want to develop uniform guidelines for regular We will also strive to build the image of the Group employee satisfaction surveys at all subsidiaries as the “employer of choice”, by developing shared and branches to ensure comparability of the data regional initiatives and joint measures targeted at (certain subsidiaries and branches already conduct key stakeholders (such as universities which offer such surveys as part of their own projects). We degree schemes corresponding to our industry’s also look to work out shared research and analytineeds). cal tools so that the survey can become a standard tool applied across the Group. We wish to work together to develop managerial competences by identifying the relevant training At the same time, we will continue our joint needs and options for the development of joint efforts to develop the PGNiG Group Code of Staff projects in the area. Values and appoint the PGNiG Group Ethics Officer. Currently, many of our subsidiaries and branches We plan to continue with sustainable development 5.7 Best Practices use their own codes of ethics and employ ethics and responsible business training programmes officers, but this happens on a local scale only. and presentations both for CSR facilitators, our Head Office, branches managers, and employees of the PGNiG Group and subsidiaries: both in Poland and abroad. How implementation of the Sustainable Development and We will improve the standards of communication Responsible Business Strategy within the Group by working on shared rules and has been communicated within practices of communication. the Group Following the approval of the Strategy by the Management Board, the process of a broad internal communication of the Strategy at the PGNiG Group commenced. Attended by members of the Management Board and persons in charge of the key business areas at PGNiG and pillars of the CSR strategy, who previously participated in the development of the strategy, several meetings were held in various Polish cities (at Multikino multiplex cinemas). The meetings were attended by about 1,000 employees. Following the initial stage, individual strategies were worked out at dedicated workshops by employees, assisted by consultants. The purpose was for the individual strategies to match the local needs and capabilities while remaining consistent with the master strategy. 32 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace Head Office, branches and Participation in the scheme allowed me to adopt subsidiaries: Post-Graduate a broader perspective when looking at CSR. I also scheme in Responsible Business met a lot of interesting people, both lecturers and at the Kozminski University students. I think that the CSR Responsible Following the decision of the PGNiG Business Strategy scheme is a guide of sorts to Management Board, management boards of CSR. I recommend it to everyone who wants to our subsidiaries and branch managers, become an expert in the field. 21 employees of the Group were nominated for enrolment in a post-graduate CSR programme: Marta Malinowska, Responsible Business Strategy, organised by CSR Facilitator, Gazownia Olsztyńska the Kozminski University. During two semesters, our employees attended practical classes devoted to CSR strategy planning, Head Office, branches development and communication, conducted and subsidiaries by experts from PricewaterhouseCoopers. They Many of the PGNiG subsidiaries and branches could also familiarise themselves with a broader have their own codes of ethics and values in CSR context and to gain knowledge of environplace, however one of the Strategy’s objectives mental management systems, social innovations, remains to implement a uniform Code of Values PGNiG SA Ignacy Łukasiewicz marketing, or ethics. Importantly, the classes were across the Group. Foundation: Scholarship conducted by academic lecturers and practiProgramme tioners, and the programme coordinator was The initial work to develop the Code commenced Aware of the weakening interest of young Bolesław Rok, PhD, from the Business Ethics in H2 2007 and H1 2008. A series of training people in technical sciences, and in an attempt Centre of the Kozminski University, an eminent sessions was conducted at the time for mid-level to motivate them to work hard and broaden practitioner of the Polish CSR, who proposed and and senior managers of the PGNiG Group to their knowledge, the Board of the Foundation organised the ranking of Polish socially responsible help them understand the employee motivation decided to establish a scholarship fund for corporations compiled by Dziennik Gazeta Prawna. mechanisms, and to define key values for the top-performing students enrolled in degree Group employees. The effort continued during the schemes related to the oil and gas industry. All our employees graduated from Poland’s first workshop on the Sustainable Development and post-graduate scheme in CSR programme in June Responsible Business Strategy, held in April 2009. The rules of the programme provide that the 2010, and, as a result, the PGNiG Group currently At the same time, on April 7th 2009, the PGNiG scholarship may be granted to students who employs probably the greatest number of CSR Management Board approved the document jointly meet at least two of the following three experts in Poland. entitled “Good Practices for the Managers of the conditions: PGNiG Group”, which is an element of a coherent This is how they evaluate the time spent to system, at the core of which will be the Code of – their total average grade obtained for courses broaden their CSR horizons. Values for the PGNiG Group employees. The work completed in the previous academic year on the document continued in 2010, also as part is 4.5 or higher (5 being the top grade CSR: Responsible Business Strategy is an investof the consultation process with CSR facilitators. and 1 the lowest grade); ment in personal and professional development. It The document is scheduled for implementation by is a different line of actions and thinking, focusing the end of 2010. – demonstrate academic achievements from the on dialogue and other people. The scheme is worth previous academic year at the international, recommending to managers, but also to all those national or provincial level; to whom responsible business ideas are important. – are keen to share their knowledge with other Agnieszka Sioła, CSR Facilitator at PNiG Kraków people, e.g. as participants in student volunteering programmes, non-mandatory student The scheme offers sustainable development traineeships, or act as volunteers on their own expertise, but also touches upon a number of account. aspects regarding the management of other elements of the corporate value chain, such as The scholarships have already been awarded environmental protection or human resources twice, for the academic years 2009/2010 and management. Graduates of the scheme are 2010/2011. For each academic year, ten students allowed a broader insight into the business and received PLN 5,000 in scholarship money. The competence, and get to know how to translate programme raised considerable interest and will the principles of sustainable development into be continued in the coming years. everyday activities. Katarzyna Mróz, Coordinator for Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy Implementation at the PGNiG Group, Head Office Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 33 Jan Sęp Head of Section for Contacts with the Environment at Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno sp. z o.o. Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno is a modern company providing shaft mining maintenance services. The tradition we cherish, dating back to the early days of the world oil industry, born in Bóbrka near Krosno, is more than just the quality of our services, but is also about ensuring a safe and friendly workplace. We PGNiG Head Office: Social remember that Ignacy Łukasiewicz was not Dialogue Conference only an entrepreneur and innovator, but also It is a unique discussion forum concept, a person for whom staff and social matters designed to broaden social dialogue were high on the agenda. at the PGNiG Group and improve communication with the thousands of the Group employees. Regular meetings attended by the PGNiG Management Board and key department directors of the Head Office on the one hand, and by representatives of the key trade unions in the oil and gas industry, as well as the PGNiG Employee Council on the other, bring together a regrettably low number of the social partners’ representatives, as only a relatively stable group of 30–35 persons attends the meetings. The number is disappointing if we consider that the PGNiG Group consists of a few dozen subsinatural gas market transition”, presented by diaries and branches, each with separate trade union Tomasz Karaś, Strategy Department Director at the organisations. Oftentimes, these trade unions PGNiG Head Office. are not members of the mainstream oil and gas industry trade unions. Hence the concept of holdOther presentations also discussed trade unions at ing a meeting attended by 150–200 persons acting PGNiG SA and at the Group (by Joanna Sztajer), and as representatives of the social partners. The first presence of the Polish trade unions in the EU instisuch meeting demonstrated that the reasoning tutions (Piotr Ostrowski from OPZZ’s Committee behind it was well-founded, which paved the way for International Affairs). To note, there are over for the 2nd PGNiG Group Social Dialogue “Enterprise/company trade unions in times of 120 local labour organisations at PGNiG SA and Conference, held in January 2010. transition towards the free market” was the its subsidiaries, the vast majority of which belong theme of the 2010 conference, moderated by to one of the three main trade union streams: The event was attended by nearly 200 Mirosław Szkałuba, Vice-President of the PGNiG OZZGNiG, NSZZ Solidarność and PZZ Kadra. Referrepresentatives of trade union organisations Management Board, who is also behind the idea ring to the 10th anniversary of the PGNiG Trade operating within PGNiG SA and the PGNiG Group, of the conference itself. After the speech by Union Coordination Committee, Dariusz Matuszeas well as the PGNiG Employee Council. The list of President Szubski and a paper delivered by Rafał wski, Chairman of OZZGNiG, Bolesław Potyrała, the conference’s invited guests included Professor Baniak, a panel discussion followed, moderated Chairman of the national section of GNiG NSZZ Jerzy Hausner, Rafał Baniak, Undersecretary of by Sławomir Matczak of the Polish public TV (TVP). Solidarność, and Józef Ryl, Chairman of GNiG secState at the Ministry of Economy, chairpersons of Among those who took the floor in the heated tion of PZZ Kadra presented the history and main national trade unions represented in the Trilateral debate were Chairman of NSZZ Solidarność Janusz achievements of this trade union communication Commission: Jan Guz of OPZZ trade union, Janusz Śniadek, Chairman of OPZZ Jan Guz, and Professor platform, which is of vital importance for the Śniadek of NSZZ Solidarność, Tadeusz Chwałka, Jerzy Hausner. social dialogue at PGNiG SA. Deputy Chairman of Forum ZZ, and Andrzej Konecki, member of the National Committee of Sławomir Hinc, Vice-President of the PGNiG An important addition to the forms of social diaNSZZ Solidarność. The PGNiG Management and Management Board discussed the company’s logue at PGNiG SA is the Employee Council, whose Supervisory Boards were represented by Michał prospects, but also potential threats resulting first term of office expired in June 2010. Its chairSzubski, President of the Management Board, and from the imminent opening of the gas market in man, Tomasz Ziembicki, familiarised the conference Vice-Presidents: Radosław Dudziński, Sławomir Poland. The audience welcomed details of projects attendees not only with the Council’s activities, but Hinc, Mirosław Szkałuba, as well as members of designed to prepare the company for new market also presented it against a broader context of the the Supervisory Board: Agnieszka Chmielarz and challenges by developing the “PGNiG Group Value Council's formal framework and similar solutions Mieczysław Kawecki. Building Programme in the context of the Polish applied in other European countries. 34 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace Mazowiecka Spółka should be consistent, since the former contains at the school. The scheme is very popular, and, Gazownictwa professions which can be taught, and the latter importantly, top-performing students of the Revival of the gas engineer profession is an names professions which can be legally practised. scheme receive scholarship money funded by the initiative pursued in cooperation with the Senior PNiG Kraków Management Board. Secondary School Complex No. 3 of Łódź. The PGNiG Zielona Góra Branch, project addresses labour market needs, and the PN Diament PNiG Nafta – Memorandum of expectations of the gas industry, which suffers Conclusion of the agreement on curriculum Understanding on cooperation from a serious shortage of mid-level technical organisation and education of future drilling rig with the Stanisław Staszic staff. and shaft mining technicians between the Zielona School Complex of Piła Góra Branch, Poszukiwania Naftowe Diament and In 2008, the company signed a Memorandum of As part of the project, in May and June 2009, the Senior Secondary School Complex of Grodzisk Understanding with the Stanisław Staszic School Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa, together with Wielkopolski. The project ensures a continued Complex of Piła, whereby both parties undertook the Senior Secondary School Complex No. 3 of development of exploration and production to cooperate to ensure top-level education to Łódź, put forward a proposal to conduct a pilot operations in the area by educating mid-level drilling rig technicians, with a view to their later educational project starting from the school technical staff, preventing the risk of unemployemployment by our company, or higher education year 2009/2010, involving the launch of the ment and decline of the industry in the region. at the AGH University of Science and Technology of gas engineer scheme for youth and adults. The Kraków. Nafta Piła supports the school in conductpilot project was to gauge whether the scheme Execution of the agreement was guided by a noble ing classes, organising traineeships as well as in would prove popular with the target population, cause of educating future mid-level staff, and the school’s social welfare and day care pursuits and whether it would equip its graduates with ensuring a safe and friendly workplace for them. in a number of ways. These include: seconding knowledge matching to the requirements of the The launch of the initiative also supports closer Nafta Piła’s engineers to teach vocational subjects; contemporary labour market. cooperation with local and school authorities, as providing learning aids and industry-specific well as with the schoolgoers themselves. publications to the school (employees of Nafta Piła The results of the pilot scheme, approved by the developed course books for vocational subjects, Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of National PGNiG's involvement stipulates supporting the published by the company); funding English Education, are to decide on whether it is justified youth in the education process, providing lecturers, language instruction with a specialist vocabulary to extend the list of professions by adding the learning aids and technical materials. The projected module; making the oil rig installation and its gas engineer. The scheme raised so much interest effect of these activities is a continuous dialogue technical base available for vocational instruction; among students of the participating school and with the communities which support the initiative, organising traineeships; providing free-of-charge other schoolgoers that, already in September last and which can identify subsequent areas to be accommodation and meals to trainees at drilling year, Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa filed an covered by similar schemes. rig installations; organising study visits to oil rig application with the Ministry of Economy to enter installations; granting awards to top-performing the gas engineer profession on the list of profesPNiG Kraków – cooperation students; inviting students and teachers to events sions taught in the vocational education system. with universities of organised by Nafta (such as research conferences); The application was endorsed by the Chamber technology, traineeship and providing curriculum and staffing support for of the Natural Gas Industry, and by the Research project, support of new popular science events organised by the school. Association of Oil and Gas Industry Engineers and vocational education schemes The benefits of the MoU for Nafta is access to Technicians (Stowarzyszenie Naukowo-Techniczne The company has established long-standing qualified personnel. Inżynierów i Techników Przemysłu Naftowego cooperation with the key providers of graduates i Gazowniczego). The Ministry of Economy for the oil industry, such as the AGH University of PNiG Kraków – broad access welcomed the concept and filed the relevant appliScience and Technology, the Oil Industry Secondto domestic and international cation with the Ministry of National Education. The ary School of Krosno, and the PGNiG Vocational training latter, in turn, proceeded to amending the regulaSchool Complex of Kraków. Our intent is to The annual training plan for PNiG Kraków tion on the classification of professions taught in consistently promote oil drilling-related schemes. includes training programmes conducted the vocational education system by adding the gas To that end, we participate in “open days” and domestically by the PNiG Kraków Training engineer profession. The gas engineer qualifica“career days” events at universities, which has and Qualification Development Centre, as well tions can therefore be acquired not only by youth, earned PNiG Kraków the reputation of a responas training abroad offered in cooperation with but also by adults who already work for gas sible and attractive employer. PNiG Kraków also renowned universities and technical companies, if they are enrolled in a 3-year vocaorganises a number of traineeship schemes and organisations. tional senior secondary school weekend scheme programmes for future oil industry professionals. or a 2-year post-secondary non-degree course. Students and schoolgoers have the opportunity to The Kraków training centre hosts HSE and blowout Both schemes were launched in the school year learn the practicalities of the drilling rig operaprevention programmes, as well as training on 2009/2010. In order for the new profession to be tor profession, supervised by the best experts in occupational health and safety and environmental recognised, not only is it necessary to enter it in Kraków. In 2009, and by mid-2010, 85 students laws and regulations. The centre is accredited with the list of professions taught within the vocational and schoolgoers participated in the schemes. Two IWCF (International Well Control Forum) and IADC education system, maintained by the Ministry of years ago, the company commenced co-operation (International Association of Drilling Contractors) National Education, but also to have it included in with the PGNiG Vocational School Complex of WellCap Commission, and is certified to organise the classification of professions and specialisations Kraków as a result of which, on our initiative and courses and exams in blowout prevention and maintained by the Minister of Labour and Social drawing on our expert knowledge, a new drilling control for drilling rig operators and supervisory Policy for the labour-market purposes. Both lists rig technician vocational scheme was launched personnel, as well as to issue IWCF and IADC Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 35 certificates recognised by all oil companies in the PNiG Nafta technologies and working practices, as well as the world, which are mandatory for workers in the – satisfaction survey vision of professional development communicated sector. In 2009, the centre conducted training for The company conducted a satisfaction survey by the employees themselves. The Annual Training 700 employees of PNiG Kraków. The company among its 104 employees performing Plan covers training which improves employee also invests in the development of its staff by administrative jobs, and a similar survey for 118 skills and qualifications through workshops, trainco-funding their MA, post-graduate and MBA oil rig staff members followed in September. ing sessions, courses, conferences, trade events, schemes which are in line with the current policy Conclusions from the survey will be analysed by etc. In 2009, approximately 100 training sessions of the company. the PNiG Management Board, and be used as the were organised, attended by about 130 employbasis for further actions to enhance employee ees. In addition, a dozen or so employees had Geofizyka Kraków satisfaction. their post-graduate, MBA or MA programmes co– professional development financed. The crowning of our staff development programme Geofizyka Toruń efforts is participation in the Investor in Human The launch of a comprehensive employee The company launched the process of providing Capital (Inwestor w kapitał ludzki) certification qualifications development programme at its employees with Personal Safety Passports, programme. Following the audit at our company, the company in 2010. The programme addresses which are internationally recognised documents combined with an electronic employee opinion the needs of employees and the company with used as an optional proof of qualifications in the survey, we were awarded the Investor in Human respect to staff development. Its launch follows industry, and which contain details on qualificaCapital certificate. This proves that our extensive directly from the company’s strategy, in which tions, authorisations and professional training. actions in the area of employee development go emphasis is placed on innovation and commitThe document is kept by the employees thembeyond the market standards. ment. selves as their professional competence ID. Dolnośląska Spółka In early 2009, Geofizyka Kraków’s Personnel PNiG Jasło Gazownictwa Department formed an interdisciplinary team of Development of a revised and updated HSE Recruitment procedure. Each new job vacancy employees to explore current staff development manual: the manual is used by the company staff is reported to DSG staff and the Regional Job needs and issues. In effect, a comprehensive and PNiG Jasło sp. z o.o.’s business and social Centre, which gives a promotion opportunity employee development programme was departners. to the former, and a chance to get a job for the veloped a few months later. latter’s customers. The purpose of the revised manual is to implement The programme consists of a number of modules, world management standards and improve safety It is a way to recruit employees who have the such as the adaptation scheme, professional of the company’s operations, as well as to limit required professional background and certain induction, knowledge sharing, the expert module, adverse effects of the operations on the natural character traits which enable them to perform and the employee evaluation scheme. In Q1 environment and local communities. The tools a given job efficiently. This, in turn, contributes 2010, employee evaluation based on the new offered by the HSE system, developed thanks to to timely and quality completion of tasks and programme was conducted for the first time. In the effort and commitment of PNiG Jasło’s staff, attainment of the company’s strategic objecMarch 2010, the adaptation scheme was launched, are designed to identify risks, search for best risk tives, as well as to employee satisfaction. The which covers newly employed persons. Implemenmitigation measures and enable the best-possible outcome of the correct recruitment process is tation of the induction module also commenced, response to emergencies. stable employment (the dismissals index for the as part of which employees are prepared to company totalled 2.8% in 2009) and company’s perform specific jobs at production units. Work Budownictwo Naftowe sound economic performance. is underway to develop and implement further Naftomontaż modules. Conducting environmental research – noise and Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa vibrations emitted by power tools and SiO2 dust In 2010, with a view to promoting knowledge The programme provides a comprehensive emissions at welder workstations. and raising the awareness of Pomorska Spółka support package for new employees so that they Gazownictwa employees in the area of occupacan adapt to their jobs smoothly and effectively, The purpose of the research is to reduce the tional health and safety, fire safety and environand feel comfortable at the company. Secondly, likelihood of occupational diseases by eliminating mental protection, the company organised the the purpose of the programme is to manage staff or reducing the impact of factors harmful to the fifth edition of the intra-company competition development in a way ensuring company’s further employees’ health as identified in the course of the entitled “OHS, Fire Safety and Environmental growth as a knowledge-based organisation where emission measurements. Expert” (Mistrz wiedzy w dziedzinie BHP, Ppoż knowledge is shared. This means that mechanisms i Ochrony Środowiska). will be established whereby employees with GAZOPROJEKT expertise in certain areas, or with exceptional Employee training needs planning as part of the Participation in the competition was open to all practical skills, can pass on their knowledge to annual employee evaluation. employees. The competition consisted of three other staff members and use their skills and knowstages: qualifiers, department finals, and central ledge effectively. Training needs of the company’s employees finals. The grand final of the competition included are identified during annual employee evaluaa written component, where competitors had tion reviews. They must take into account the to provide answers to 50 single-choice test framework of strategic objectives, the training plan questions, and the practical component, which implementations from previous years, any planned included physical fitness tasks, such as “fire staffing changes, amended laws, regulations, suppression,” “rescue”, and “time-limit safety 36 PGNiG Responsible Energy Workplace harness fastening”. Forty-nine employees ISO standards, as well as local labour market HSE system at Geofizyka Kraków, which is competed in the 2010 event, and the total of 257 laws. Currently, PNiG employs three managers in a practical tool to manage work safety in the participated in all five editions of the competition. Pakistan and seven in Kazakhstan. course of project execution. In Libya and Pakistan, where standard risks are aggravated by difficult By supporting the employees’ interests Interestingly, local employees of PNiG Kraków terrain and climate, and often political and social and their learning process, the company can boast also work for other contracts executed by the situation, our HSE procedures are central to each employees who demonstrate commitment in their company. For example, employees from Pakistan of our projects. We use an extensive system of work. The company also contributes to awarnessare employed in Uganda, and from Mozambique training, including practical sessions, simulations raising among employees regarding potential in Kazakhstan. The company’s head office staff and statistical analysis, or even incentives in the threats in the workplace by promoting safetyincludes staff from Kazakhstan, but also Lithuania. form of performance bonus, or awards for specific oriented behaviours of the staff. All local employees (Kazakhs, Pakistanis, Ukrainbehaviours, with the overall objective being ians, etc.) who worked for PNiG Kraków stand education of the local personnel and improved The measure of the competition’s success a good chance of employment at other foreign work safety. In Libya, drivers are trained on is the consistently growing number of contestants. subsidiaries, because recommendations issued dessert driving, and in Pakistan – on safe travelling Therefore, the company plans to hold further by PNiG Kraków have grown to be a guarantee of in the mountain regions. Regardless of the editions of the event. employee expertise for other oil companies. country, all employees undergo practical training on medical and fire evacuation, resuscitation PNiG Nafta and first aid. Intelligence is gathered on each 5.7.1 Best Practices Abroad The operator (investor) specifies in the terms of new project delivery location, including a site contract that the contractor must provide key visit, which is followed by the identification of Hiring from Local Markets personnel along with the drilling rig. risks and threats. This is the basis for a projectspecific HSE plan, which details training plans Geofizyka Toruń Other employees, from the driller’s hand down, for the respective employee groups, as well as Hiring local employees for seismic work takes are sourced locally. The operator usually specifies contingency procedures. The plan can be revised place in India in particular, where local staff is in the contract the percentage share of employat any time if a situation occurs which has not employed by Up Consultants. ees who must be sourced from the local market, been covered in the previous revision. This or names specific positions to be filled by local was the case in Pakistan in 2010, following the Under an agreement executed by our subsidiarworkforce. passage of a hurricane in the area of Geofizyka ies, Geofizyka Toruń assigns a work location to Kraków’s project location. Prior to resumption of employees and decides on terms of their employTypically, Nafta Piła’s personnel account for 30% the work, safety procedures and the training plan ment. Local staff recruitment begins with ads puband local market staff for 70% of the total. were revised to include provisions on previously lished on the company’s website in English, and on unaccounted for weather threats. Another set of Best Jobs India website. Candidates who meet the Training on Working Abroad activities, which is separate but fully integrated recruitment criteria and pass the interview stage into employee safety, is prevention and mitigation are offered employment. Currently, Up ConsultGeofizyka Kraków of environmental impacts. Geofizyka Kraków is ants employs 47 staff members, 30 of whom fill in Pakistan and Libya a provider of related environmental education in key positions within seismic groups. However, As a contractor for geophysical work, Geofizyka both Libya and Pakistan. no UPC employee holds a managerial position. Kraków operates on a number of foreign markets, The work safety management policy we pursue On average, about 20 Up Consultants’ employees in different geographical and cultural regions. offers benefits to both parties in the process. work in a single seismic group in any given month, Currently, Libya and Pakistan are the primary Firstly, it supports accident-free work, worker and along with about 20 Polish employees. The rest of foreign locations. We have a well-established environmental safety, and secondly, it contributes the group is made up of subcontractors. presence there, with several large projects to acquiring new competences by employees executed over five years in Libya, and a number of coming from local communities. PNiG Kraków large contracts successfully executed over twelve The company’s operation on foreign markets years of our presence in Pakistan. Working in both Geofizyka Toruń has led to the uniformisation of its staffing countries involves the challenge of getting on Each time new employees commence work policy standards, and the policy’s alignment terms with completely different cultural realities. in a seismic group abroad, they undergo the with the requirements of international operators The work culture is also different, because induction training, where they are briefed on the which cooperate with the company . The policy employees sourced locally often come from less company’s policies, such as the responsible busihas also been adapted to conditions prevailing developed communities, or do not have prior ness policy, also touching upon human rights. The on local labour markets. experience of performing tasks similar to those induction training is organised for all employee required by Geofizyka Kraków. The hiring policy groups, including subcontractors, who are under The company focuses in particular on local staff provides that local employees may account for an obligation to comply with all standards adopted recruitment and training in Kazakhstan, Pakistan as much as over 90% of the total staffing for by Geofizyka Toruń. The overriding objective of and Uganda. Each local employee has equal contracts executed abroad, which means that the induction training is to discuss work safety. access to vacancies, and can pursue his/her the local staff’s work culture and safety are professional career in accordance with the career instrumental to the success of each large project track established by PNiG Kraków. Sourcing and we execute abroad. Therefore, we prioritise their employing staff from local markets follows the training in the area of occupational safety. A few company’s internal human resources procedures, years ago, we implemented a comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 37 PNiG Kraków PNiG Nafta The company provides drilling rig maintenance Training on cultural differences was conducted by services in Europe, Asia and Africa. Owing to the PNiG Nafta Piła prior to the commencement of its cultural differences between Poland and certain projects in India and Egypt. The training was conother countries (such as Pakistan, Uganda, Mozamducted by the oil rig installation management and bique or Kazakhstan), PNiG Kraków has long been by Safety Officers. Among the topics discussed organising meetings to prepare its employees to were cultural and religious aspects, observance of work not only in a different weather, but also a human rights in the context of religious and cultudifferent social environment. If the markets where ral differences, as well as non-discrimination. the Kraków drillers work are regarded as high-risk areas, PNiG Kraków organises meetings attended Training materials were drafted internally, but by occupational health and safety, environmental, also came from the management of the company as well as legal services, where human rights, for which we worked. Oftentimes, the operator’s cultural peculiarities, or natural environment risks management organises meetings with the staff to are discussed. In 2009, the company organised discuss cultural and religious matters in a given over 60 one-hour training sessions to cover the area. above topics, attended by 70% of PNiG Kraków’s employees. In addition, twice a year, we organise During our work in Egypt, one of the container meetings of our staff with specilist companies offices at the drilling rig site was converted into which provide training on emergency prevention a mosque, available to the staff at all times. Over as well as safe behaviour in travel and workplace. the years of our presence abroad, never have Threat simulations and prevention exercises are any cultural or religious issues emerged, either in conducted during such training. Egypt or India. 5.8 Awards and Distinctions Received by PGNiG’s Entities between January 2009 and June 2010 Awards and distinction received by PGNiG’s entities between January 2009 and June 2010 in the Local Communities dimension Entity Awards and distinctions Awarding organisation Reasons for the award/criteria/grounds received Distribution Mazowiecka Spółka Staff-friendly employer 2009 NSZZ Solidarność NSZZ Solidarność trade union awards companies, whose activities Gazownictwa Certification Committee match the values promoted by the trade union, such as preference for indefinite-time employment, observance of labour laws and standards as well ensuring the employee’s rights to form and join trade unions. Exploration and Production PNiG Kraków Reliable Employer of the Year Rzecz o Biznesie The award for personnel management. PNiG Kraków received the award supplement to for effective training of its foreign employees, for investing in training and Rzeczpospolita daily for continuous improvement of qualifications PGNiG Sanok Branch Investor in Human Capital Management This nationwide programme is organised for all companies which Observatory demonstrate care for their staff’s development, and where efficient Foundation human resources management systems are in place. Participation in the competition enables the competing companies to analyse and compare their achievements against the market standards in the area of HR policies. The foundation presents the award to organisations which exceed employee development standards. Other BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Investor in Human Capital Management This nationwide programme is organised for all companies which Observatory demonstrate care for their staff’s development, and where efficient Foundation human resources management systems are in place. Participation in the competition enables the competing companies to analyse and compare their achievements against the market standards in the area of HR policies. The foundation presents the award to organisations which exceed employee development standards. 38 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market The Market dimension was assigned two strategic objectives in the Group’s Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy. These are: – enhanced satisfaction of existing customers and acquisition of new customers through improved quality of customer service; – seeking new business expansion opportunities in Market line with the idea of sustainable development. Ten operational goals and 34 measures were identified for implementation in the Market dimension. Caring for Customers and develSimilarly to other dimensions, the implementation oping new business areas of some will commence in the years to come. This section presents what we have managed to achieve in the area thus far. 6.1 Challenges and Opportunities Marcin Lewenstein Head of the Strategic Planning Natural gas is the primary product of PGNiG. In Office, PGNiG SA’s Strategy order that it can reach end customers, it takes the Department commitment of many entities of the Group from across the PGNiG value chain, as well as hard work The current global trend in the power industry of a few dozen branches and subsidiaries of the is to form energy conglomerates. The conduGroup. cive factors include customers’ and markets’ growing expectations and evolving needs. That The biggest challenge, but also opportunity in this is why a decision was taken in November 2009 to segment is to ensure a high standard of service establish PGNiG Energia, a subsidiary involved in for the 6.6 million household customers and key the construction of power units, natural gas-fired industrial accounts.. Of paramount importance, installations, co-generation systems and pilot however, are also often exceptional compebiogas projects. tences of our experts and high quality of services provided by our exploration, drilling, production teams and distribution companies. In line with the Group’s strategy, we also want to develop new services and products, extend the scope and scale of our business, and explore new business areas in line with the principles of sustainable development. Implementation of the CSR Strategy contributed to a better prioritisation of many activities and projects within the PGNiG Group, including those in the area of customer care. This Report presents the most interesting of those initiatives. With a view to improving further, we are also developing initiatives under the PGNiG Group Value Building Programme, in place at the Group since early 2010. In particular, these are projects dedicated to creating a new product offering and implementing a new operational model for the customer service area. Until mid-2010, the outline of a new product offering was formulated, along with a new operational concept for the Customer Service Offices, and a concept for e-service implementation at PGNiG. The package also includes a number of projects designed to improve customer service, reduce service delivery costs, Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 39 and refine the quality management systems an active exploration and investment policy with both in the Trade segment, directly involved in a view to increasing the capacity of our gas storcustomer service, and in the Distribution segment. age facilities. As the largest natural gas supplier on the Polish Natural Gas market, we are responsible for building and maintaining good relations with our customers, as Natrual gas is the most environment-friendly well as for exploring new opportunities to support conventional source of energy. It is a fuel which socially vulnerable customers in a systemic way. emits by far the least pollution. For example, the We wish to maintain the competitive advantage emission of CO2 per unit of generated energy of gaseous fuels, also by promoting new solutions is the lowest for natural gas. What is more, gas and products which use gas, such as CNG. combustion generates no waste. A big challenge in the responsible business area We believe therefore it is our responsibility to involves ensuring the security of gas supplies, promote use of gas. Accordingly, education on and therefore the Group participates in projects broader gas application represents one of the seeking to diversify the supplies, but also pursues priorities in our Sustainable Development Strategy. Emissions of main pollutants (kg/GJ) Dust CO CO2 NO2 SO2 Coal 1.003 1.096 0.120 0.177 0.840 Fuel oil 0.055 0.034 0.082 0.110 0.132 Natural gas 0.009 0.015 0.063 0.054 – Emission of pollutants generated by heating 100 sqm of housing space (kg per year) Pollutant Coal Coke Oil Gas Sulphur dioxide (SO2) 64.70 19.2 5.7 Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) 26.96 6.0 6.5 3.200 Carbon oxide (CO) 67.40 75.0 0.5 0.900 Suspended dust (PM10) 229.20 18.3 1.8 0.038 Our primary product is not sold in packaging and therefore PGNiG does not recycle any material from the products it sells. Comparison of pollutant content in natural gas with pollutant content in other fuels Pollutant Natural gas Fuel oil Coal Ash none 0.0-0.4% 7-30% Sulphur trace amount 0.1-4.0% 0.5-2.5% Chlorine none none up to 0.6% Arsenic none 0.5-2.0 80-2,900 Cadmium none 0.5-0.7 400 Cobalt none none 80-1,600 Mercury <0.004 0.09-0.16 400 Chromium none 0.6-1.2 120-1,800 Magnesium none none 400-1,200 Nickel none none 320-3,200 Vanadium none 2-1,300 320-6,000 Zinc none 2-20 1,200-8,000 Lead none 3.0-25.0 1,200-4,000 Other organic substances in trace amounts none none 5-10 40 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market CNG 6.2 Customer Care With our customers in mind, in 2009 we redesigned our website, which now offers new CNG is compressed natural gas which can be All the 23 Gas Sales Units (responsible for gas sales functionalities facilitating its use by the disabled. used as a fuel for vehicles. There are about 10.5 and customer service) follow the Single Retail For more details on this subject, see Best Practices. million CNG fuelled vehicles in the world, and Customer Service Model to maintain and improve In the 2010 retail customer satisfaction survey, mechanisms have been put in place in numerous the level of customer service in our six Gas Trading top grades were given to such attributes of the countries to support the application of natural gas Divisions. Customer satisfaction surveys and eduwebsite as aesthetic appeal, clear layout, and easy as a vehicle fuel. It is estimated that at the end cation campaigns are also conducted on a regular searching for relevant information. of 2009 there were approximately 2.1 thousand basis. vehicles in Poland running on compressed natural All the Gas Sales Units find providing customers gas; these were mainly public transport vehicles In a survey conducted as part of studies preceding with appropriate access to information to be of and vehicles operated by private carriers. 2009 implementation of the Sustainable Development particular importance as far as customer service saw the opening of more CNG filling points and, and Responsible Business Strategy, almost 70% quality is concerned. The scope of informaat the end of the year, PGNiG operated a total of the Group’s entities from different operational tion published by PGNiG on its website includes of 31 CNG filling stations. segments reported that dialogue with customers details on gas delivered to customers, which goes and customer satisfaction surveying are imporbeyond the regulatory requirements currently In 2007, gas trading companies requested the tant, and over 50% declared that they already in effect. The same information is also provided regulator to be released from the obligation to conducted such customer-focused activities. to all customers on demand. These are primarily submit for approval the tariffs for CNG used by monthly gas quality reports, with information on motor vehicles. In March 2008, the Energy The Single Retail Customer Service Model the primary functional parameter of gaseous fuel, Regulatory Office granted the request. Currently, enables customers to use state-of-the-art informai.e. its gross calorific value. CNG prices for customers using public filling tion exchange technologies. For example, most stations are set by PGNiG. customer service-related documents can be downIn addition, on the initiative of the Lower Silesian loaded from the Internet. Today, most customers and Gas Trading Division and the Mazovian Gas PGNiG sees the promotion of CNG in Poland as one fill them in themselves, which saves time previTrading Divisions, their customers regularly of its primary responsibilities, which is motivated ously spent on interaction with consultants. In the receive documents confirming quality of the fuel by both economic and environmental factors. Pomeranian Gas Trading Division, an electronic they are supplied with. Gas samples are taken for customer service office facility (e-CSO) has been analysis by specially trained employees at least made available to the customers of the Bydgoszcz, every 10 days. Also the Gas Distribution Gdańsk and Olsztyn Gas Sales Units. ImplemenCompanies (Distribution System Operators, DSO) tation of electronic customer service offices in control gas quality on an ongoing basis. Aware certain other gas trading divisions is expected to that it is a factor of primary importance for the follow soon. PGNiG’s investments in this area are customers, we also organise open days for our validated by the results of customer satisfaction customers at PGNiG SA’s Central Measurement surveys, which indicate that Internet contact with and Testing Laboratory, featuring show testing. a Gas Sales Unit is a communication channel highly For more details, see Best Practices. valued by the customers. Naturally, customers can contact us not only via the website, but also through our 300 Customer Service Offices (CSOs). CSOs were very positively evaluated in the cusImportance of dialogue with customers and customer satisfaction surveys tomer satisfaction survey. The customers appreciated in particular their availability and location, the methods and time required to handle individual matters , as well as the competence of PGNiG no response very important 19% 25% staff. The survey also showed that customers' satisfaction with interaction with the customer service offices has a material impact on the overall irrelevant customer satisfaction index. Therefore, PGNiG will 10% continue to monitor the work of the CSOs, with a view to identifying those areas where improveImportance ment is still needed. of little importance important 29% 44% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 41 The customer satisfaction survey further revealed We care about socially vulnerable Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa that telephone interaction with a CSO is an customers (WSG) of Poznań, with Gas Distribution important communication channel for PGNiG’s Divisions in Kalisz, Koszalin, Poznań and customers. They value and appreciate the possibilSocially vulnerable customers is an item high on Szczecin ity to have their problem solved with a single call. our agenda. Laws which are currently in effect in Considering the fact that customer satisfaction Poland fail to provide a clear definition of socially Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa (PSG) of from telephone interactions with CSOs greatly vulnerable customers, which hinders PGNiG’s Gdańsk, with Gas Distribution Divisions depends on how easy it is to get connected to attempts to implement uniform standards in this in Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk and Olsztyn consultants (as confirmed by the surveys), we respect. In its household gas delivery business, plan to make relevant investments in this area of PGNiG often encounters the problem of customers customer service. who fail to pay their gas bills on time for a number Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa of reasons. The Group’s collection procedures (MSG) of Warsaw, with Gas Distribution To sum up the 2010 retail customer satisfaction clearly specify how to collect the Company’s Divisions in Białystok, Łódź, Mińsk Mazosurvey, it can be argued that the Net Promoters receivables in such cases. Before we proceed wiecki, Radom, Ciechanów and Warsaw Score (the basic customer satisfaction index), the to suspending gas deliveries, we use an array Customer Satisfaction Index we plan to make relof other measures to help the customers make evant investments in this area of customer service their payment, including the setting of additional Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa (KSG) of and Customer Loyalty (measuring loyalty following payment deadlines, breaking the payment into Tarnów, with Gas Distribution Divisions from high satisfaction and high brand recommeninstalments, waiver of charging interest in justified in Jarosław, Jasło, Kielce, Kraków, Lublin, dation levels) are all high. cases, or cancellation of interest already charged. Rzeszów, Sandomierz and Tarnów The issue of supporting socially vulnerable customers is itemised among the measures planned Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa (DSG) to be taken as part of the Group’s Sustainable of Wrocław, with Gas Distribution Development Strategy. In cooperation with Divisions in Wrocław, Wałbrzych and experts from the Energy Regulatory Office and the Zgorzelec Ministry of Labour, we commenced work to Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa (GSG) of Zabrze, with Gas Distribution Divisions in Opole and Zabrze ZG Gdańsk ZG Koszalin ZG Olsztyn ZG Szczecin ZG Bydgoszcz ZG Białystok ZG Ciechanów ZG Poznań ZG Warszawa ZG Mińsk Mazowiecki ZG Łódź ZG Kalisz ZG Radom ZG Zgorzelec ZG Lublin ZG Wrocław ZG Kielce ZG Wałbrzych ZG Opole ZG Sandomierz ZG Zabrze ZG Kraków ZG Rzeszów ZG Tarnów ZG Jarosław ZG Jasło 42 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market also allow the Company to satisfy the statutory requirements concerning maintenance of mandatory stocks. Furthermore, the storage facilities help PGNiG optimise its gas supply chain, and enable it to respond to sudden, short-term surges counteracting corruption, observance of human and falls in demand for gas. Thanks to the gas rights, ethics, compliance with labour laws, as storage facilities, PGNiG can keep a steady level well as evaluation and selection of suppliers and of production throughout the year, because gas subcontractors are of material importance in the is injected into the storage facilities in periods of bidder evaluation process. For example, PNiG lower demand, and withdrawn in periods of peak Kraków regularly comes across such requiredemand (when current production or imports are ments being imposed on bidders in contracts not sufficient). for drilling services tendered by international operators. In order to meet demand for gas storage services establish nationwide regulations in this respect. from various market participants, PGNiG estabAlready today, however, many of our Gas Sales Responsible business, including obser-vance of the lished the Storage System Operator, a dedicated Units declare they take measures to help socially UN Global Compact’s principles, compliance with branch which is responsible for providing third vulnerable customers, and 82% of respondents professional ethics standards by our employees, parties with access to gas storage capacities. Once perceive such measures as important or very and monitoring of suppliers and subcontractors planned the planned extension projects are comimportant. have been high on the Company’s agenda for pleted, in 2015 PGNiG should be able to store gas many years. Suppliers and subcontractors that covering 70-day demand from its customers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, social welfare have passed the verification process are entered institutions, such as local social welfare centres, on our Qualified Suppliers List. In 2009, three-fourths of the capial expenditure often provide financial assistance to such customallocated to construction and extension of highers, making outstanding payments for defaulting Another way in which the PGNiG Group demonmethane gas storage facilities was spent on the customers. It is important to note that this system strates its care for quality and customer satisfacWierzchowice Underground Storage Facility, of assistance operates outside PGNiG SA and is tion is the pursuit of business projects by forming which is the largest such facility in Poland. based on an agreement between the social welalliances and consortia with proven partners and In November 2009, a new facility came on stream fare institution and the customer. The Company subcontractors from within the PGNiG Group. – the Daszewo Underground Storage Facility, PGNiG, however, tries to provide information This is an excellent method to promote the Group which is the first facility in Poland designed to hold to customers in need on how to obtain such companies, and to guarantee service quality. nitrogen-rich gas. It has a working capacity of 30 assistance. Consortia led by PNiG Kraków have executed million m3, and a maximum withdrawal capacity projects in Kazakhstan, India, Mozambique, and of 16 thousand m3 per hour. High Standards and Quality as Our more recently in the Czech Republic. This comCompetitive Strengths prehensive and professional approach to contract Two new gas storage facilities are under execution in all its aspects ensures that expectaconstruction. The PGNiG Group is in the business of end-to-end tions of our customers are met, and full customer production of natural gas and crude oil, starting satisfaction is achieved. • Bonikowo Underground Gas Storage Facility. from geophysical surveys, which precede the Gas will be stored in a partially depleted gas exploration stage, through drilling and production, 6.3 Extension and Construction of deposit, starting from 2010. The facility will to end with product preparation and sales. Gas Storage Facilities have a working capacity of 200 million m3. It will hold Lw subgroup nitrogen-rich gas and Highly specialised staff equipped with Among the six priorities of PGNiG’s business is will allow PGNiG to optimise national gas prostate-of-the-art machinery represents our key the extension and construction of gas storage duction from fields located in western Poland; asset, making the Group subsidiaries reputable facilities. This is to ensure security of gas supplies • Kosakowo Cavern Gas Storage Facility. A highand valued partners across the world. Many to our customers. PGNiG owns and operates seven methane gas storage facility in the vicinity years of relevant experience enable us to work underground storage facilities, some of which are of the Gdańsk-Gdynia-Sport agglomeration. efficiently in various climate and geological zones, in salt caverns and others in partially depleted The project provides for 10 caverns in halite as well as in different cultural regions. gas deposits. The facilities differ in terms of their formations. Completion of this 100 million m3 working parameters, in particular with respect to facility is due in 2014, and its further extension Next to internal benefits from the implemengas withdrawal time. Six of them are used to store to 225 million m3 in capacity is scheduled to be tation of the Sustainable Development and high-methane gas, and one holds Ls subgroup completed by 2020. Responsible Business Strategy at the Group, nitrogen-rich gas. the strategy is also an important building block of our competitive advantage. Pursuing our The underground storage facilities enable PGNiG business in a responsible way is of paramount to maintain continuity of gas supplies in the peak importance during tenders in which our compaseason of gas consumption (i.e. in winter), to keep nies participate as bidders. Implementation of an appropriate level of reserves to be used in the the strategy often translates into extra points case of any interruptions in gas supplies, failures being scored in the tender procedures, where or gas flow volume reductions. The facilities Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 43 Bonikowo Swarzów USF USF 0/200 Locations of underground gas storage facilities 90 current/target working capacity Kosakowo Husów CUSF USF 0/225 350 Daszewo USF 30 Academic research currently conducted by students at the Laboratory primarily covers natural gas and biogas analytics. Independent research and development activities at the PGNiG Group are also conducted by other subsidiaries, including: • Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło sp. z o.o.; • PGNiG SA of Warsaw, Zielona Góra Branch; • Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa sp. z o.o of Tarnów; • Zakład Urządzeń Naftowych NAFTOMET sp. z o.o. The se entities conduct research in various areas, from those closely linked with our business goals, such as gas quality testing (Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa of Tarnów), to research into reduction of impacts on the environment (Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło and the Zielona Góra Branch), to tests and analyses which contribute to the establishment of technical standards and legal Wierzchowice regulations for the gas market (Karpacka Spółka USF Gazownictwa of Tarnów). 575/1200 Mogilno CUSF Brzeźnica 6.5 Contribution to Industry 370/800 USF Development 65/100 Strachocina USF 150/330 Exploring new business areas by the PGNiG Group goes hand in hand with robust activity of our experts and knowledge-sharing under the various initiatives embarked on by the market actors, such as conferences, and debates. For more details, see Local Communities. Currently, CMTL is the leading partner for CO2 emission metering for large gas combustion sources, Our subsidiaries also cooperate with research as well as Poland’s only accredited laboratory institutions across the country. Nearly 38% of all 6.4 Research Laboratories authorised to test and evaluate equipment used for the Group companies and branches have decided CO2 emission volume estimations. Work is currently to enter into cooperation with selected Polish The Central Measurement and Testing Laboratory under way to start offering these services also to research institutions. Exploration and production (“CMTL”), present within the PGNiG corporate strucother entities, which, next to natural gas, also emit companies account for 67% of the subsidiaries ture for 16 years already, supervises the various greenhouse gases coming from the combustion of engaged in such co-operation. natural gas billing processes. The primary responsibiogas, solid or liquid fuels. bilities of the laboratory include maintenance of refAmong the many research institutions which erence standards for the instruments and measures The Laboratory represents the key values of the cooperate with the PGNiG Group a few deserve units used in the natural gas industry. CMTL also PGNiG SA, also because it openly communicates a mention. These are the AGH University of Scioversees metering systems by conducting regular with the society, and is happy to host all events for ence and Technology, the Silesian University of inspections ordered by parties to the billing process, people who are interested in science and research. Technology, the Polish Standardisation Committee as well as in emergency cases or when a dispute CMTL also organises trainee-ships for students and, (Polski Komitet Normalizacyjny), the Polish Oil and needs to be resolved. It is also the Laboratory’s since last year, students from the University of WarGas Institute (Instytut Nafty i Gazu), the Poznań mission to initiate research and implementation saw and the Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University in University of Technology, the Polish Fuels and projects concerning in particular new techniques Warsaw have been able to conduct their MSc/BSc Renewable Energy Institute (Instytut Paliw i Energii and technologies for the natural gas industry (e.g. research at the laboratory, and acquire hands-on Odnawialnych) or the Motor Transport Institute assessment of gas quality). experience of natural gas industry. (Instytut Transportu Samochodowego). 44 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market An interesting example of research activities Kaleje and Łukowa fields, as well as development conducted by our subsidiaries the involvement of of the Żołynia, Pantalowice, Nowy Tomyśl and Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa sp. z o.o. in the Pilzno fields. European BIOGASMAX Project on the application of biogas and natural gas in the transport sector, and In addition to developing its core business, the in the Baltic Energy Cluster, which develops proPGNiG Group also explores new business opporjects facilitating the absorption of EU funding in tunities. The current global trend in the power the area of renewable energy in northern Poland. industry is to form energy conglomerates. The conducive factors include customers’ and markets’ Other areas of significant research interest among growing expectations and evolving needs as our subsidiaries development of CNG filling stawell as the rapidly growing importance of the tions, drilling fluid management, soil and water environment-friendly sources of energy. 6.7 Plans for the Future analysis and testing, waste management, environmental monitoring, and materials science. The PGNiG Group takes on the sustainability Over the next 6 months, PGNiG plans a pilot challenge of producing and trading in electricity launch of an e-gallery. The PGNiG e-gallery is an 6.6 Seeking New Business Expansion derived from natural gas, but also from renewable IT tool which is to be a marketing-oriented expert Opportunities in Line with the energy sources, both in its business strategy, and and sales service, and an intermediary in the sales Principle of Sustainable Development the sustainable development strategy. of heating systems which use gaseous fuels, as well as a tool to present the offering of key supPGNiG attaches a lot of importance to projects A peculiarity of the Polish market, which also pliers of equipment which consumes gaseous fuels which serve the purpose of corporate value represents an enormous opportunity for PGNiG SA, in consumer applications. The project concept building in a long-term perspective. The Group’s is the imminent closure of a large number of coalenvisages that the final product of the cooperation business strategy includes the search for new fired boiler facilities, which are very popular in the will be the launch of a sophisticated web-based directions and sources of gas supplies: access to country but often fail to meet the environmental service combining consultancy functionalities own gas reserves is a key success factor, but also requirements. This gives room for replacement (professional opinions on energy consumption, enhances security of supplies. PGNiG is developof their production capacities based on a more technical, operational and installation matters) ing exploration and production operations both environment-friendly gas technology. with sales, with PGNiG and its website acting as an in Poland and abroad. In this area, our objectives intermediary. It is expected that, next to revenue include: The entry into the power industry, as provided streams from the increased volume of sales, the for in the “PGNiG Group Strategy Until 2015”, and new project will contribute to building productive • Increasing natural gas production from our focus on building the presence in the new communication and a positive image of PGNiG PGNiG’s own reserves; segment in line with responsible business princiamong customers and other stakeholders. • Streamlining operations in the E xploration and ples, are reflected in the priorities of the Group’s Production segment through restructuring of Sustainable Development Strategy. There are also plans to broaden the offering by the exploration companies (partial or full conadding financial and then insurance services. solidation, which will enable us to maintain the In 2009, PGNiG signed two letters of intent: one position of a trusted and recognised provider with Tauron, on extension of a power plant in PGNiG SA is the only owner of CNG filling stations of well-maintenance services); Stalowa Wola, and the second with the LOTOS in Poland. In 2009, a CNG Market Development • Building the position of an international exploGroup and Energa, on potential joint gas-fired Strategy was formulated, which provides for the ration and production group on key markets in power projects. In November 2009, a decision was construction of more CNG filling stations. three regions of the World: (1) the North Sea, taken to establish PGNiG Energia. The company the Norwegian Sea and, in future, the Barents will be involved in power-generation projects, Innovative natural gas application projects are also Sea (Norway and Denmark, UK, Germany); (2) gas-fired co-generation projects, as well as in pilot high on PGNIG’s agenda. We promote innovative in North Africa (Libya, Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, biogas projects. Our approach of involving a sepasolutions and technologies, such as the application Morocco, Mauritania), and (3) in Central and rate dedicated entity in such projects enables us to of natural gas in air-conditioning systems, which South Asia (India and Pakistan). prioritise such undertakings at the Group level. in the future will allow to heat and air condition When deciding on the lines of foreign expansion, facilities at a competitive cost compared with we take into account the prospects for discovering other energy sources. oil and gas, the political situation in the country which exports those resources, options for delivPGNiG SA is primarily interested in the developery of the gas to Poland, laws and regulations, as ment of small and medium-sized co-generation, well as the potential for cooperation with other with capacities from 2MW to 10MW (for comparioil and gas companies (both Polish and foreign). son, a large power plant has the capacity of about In 2009, most of the effort in this area focused on 800MW). Their key asset is location close to the the development of new fields, or increasing the customer, which helps to minimise transmission production capacity of the existing facilities. losses and adverse landscape changes. We plan to Key projects included development of the participate in such projects not only as a provider Lubiatów-Międzychód-Grotów oil and gas fields of gas, but also as an equity investor (indepen(the LMG project), construction of the denitriding dently, or jointly with existing facility operators in plant in Grodzisk Wielkopolski, development of the joint ventures). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 45 Agnieszka Chmielarz Chief Specialist for Products and Services at PGNiG SA’s Customer Service Standards Office PGNiG is keen to respond to our customers’ needs and move with the times. Therefore, within the next 6 months, we plan a pilot launch of an e-gallery. The PGNiG e-gallery is an IT solution which is to be a marketing-oriented expert and sales service, and an intermediary in the sales of But the Group also intends to develop gaseous fuel-fired heating systems. The service co-generation sources designed to provide will enable all those interested to familiarise electricity and heat to larger customers. themselves with the offerings of key suppliers of equipment operating on gaseous fuel. This is PGNiG will not remain passive in the area of exactly a solution that our customers expect, as renewable energy sources. Our natural market evidenced by their opinions voiced in customer niche is biogas projects; they offer an enorsatisfaction surveys. mous opportunity, as the segment has not fully developed in Poland yet. They also form a crucial element of the Group’s power business development concept as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, and PGNiG SA plans to be involved in purchasing and developing biogas plants. Heat generated by biogas projects will be sold locally and electricity will be sold to the transmission grid as green energy. CCS Technologies Other business lines of the Group pursued in compliance with the sustainability concept include the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. Carbon dioxide can be stored in One of innovations is a text-to-speech facility underground rock pores which were previously embedded in the website’s structure. With the filled by natural gas. The development of compehelp of the tool, users can have the website’s tence in the area of environment-friendly solutions contents read out by the computer, and can also involving CO2 storage is one of our business priorimanually adjust the size of the fonts. Navigation ties, and one of the objectives of the Sustainable and use of the website is also facilitated by clear Development Strategy. separation of its contents and background, as well as a clear differentiation between various building 6.8 Best Practices blocks of the website (links, content, form fields, buttons), which significantly improves its clarity. New PGNiG SA Website: Focus The website has been developed in compliance on the Needs of the Disabled with the WCAG standards, which represent a set The new website of Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe of rules and recommendations issued by the W3C i Gazownictwo was designed with a view to (World Wide Web) Consortium. W3C is an interensuring its availability to the disabled. The national organisation which has been developing website features include a new application for WWW standards since 1994. Its primary mission on-line replacement of gas supply contracts. is to ensure long-term, optimum growth of the Modification of the website is another step Internet. The www.pgnig.pl website has been in our pursuit of the PGNiG Group’s Sustainconstructed based on DynaXML, a proprietary able Development and Responsible Business website solution delivered by AMG.net. Strategy, which identifies enhanced customer satisfaction through improved customer service We hope that this initiative will help elderly quality as one of its pillars. We want to attain people, or those suffering from visual impairthe objective by developing new channels ment, use the electronic channel to take care of and tools of communication with our customthe formalities connected with the requirement ers, including the launch of a website which is to replace the gas-supply contracts signed before friendly to people with disabilities. July 1st 2007. 46 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market Open Day at the Central Carpathian Gas Trading The responsibilities and rules of proceeding Measurement and Testing Division – Cooperation with the provided for in the Instruction relate to: Laboratory Analysis of Regional Development Agency Gas Supplied to Customers and Special Economic Zones • the Management Board, as regards its superviin Warsaw Regular meetings are organised with managsion over equal and non-discriminatory treatThe gas for the analysis was sampled directly from ers of special economic zones and the Regional ment of the existing and prospective storage the gas supply system in the laboratory’s building. Development Agency. This way the Gas Trading service customers; The gas comes from the Warsaw ring, a network Division obtains information on the zones growth • the SSO branch manager and their deputies; of gas pipelines surrounding Warsaw. Gas quality prospects, which is of paramount importance for • other SSO employees. depends on the concentrations of its individual the development of infrastructure and gas sales components and their mutual proportions. It was volumes. The Instruction details what needs to be done to confirmed that the proportions of components in ensure non-discriminating treatment of the storthe sampled gas were correct: methane accounted Lower Silesian Gas Trading age system’s customers, including: for over 98%, ethane for about 0.8%, and nitrogen Division, Gas Sales Unit in for about 0.8%. The gas composition analysis also Wrocław – Assistance to • Rules for the protection of confidential or enabled us to determine: Socially Vulnerable Customers legally protected information whose disclosure As part of the “customer zone” initiative, focusing could infringe on the storage system custom• the gross calorific value – 39.95 MJ per cubic on cooperation between energy companies and ers’ business secrecy, or which could be used metre; social welfare centres, the South-Western Field for purposes other than management of the • the Wobbe index – above 53.09 MJ per cubic Branch in Wrocław attended a meeting held at storage system; metre. the Energy Regulatory Office. The Wrocław Gas • Solutions and tools to avoid discrimination Sales Unit put forward a cooperation proposal against the existing and prospective storage In order to meet the requirements specified in the with a view to providing assistance to socially service customers, in particular if the discrimi“Transmission Network Operation Instruction”, vulnerable customers supported by local welfare nation favours PGNiG subsidiaries. E-type natural gas (high-methane gas) must have centres. A few dozen letters were sent to all local a gross calorific value in excess of 34 MJ per cubic welfare centres within the operational boundaries metre. If the parameter is below this threshold, of the Wrocław Gas Sales Unit, which resulted in 6.9 Awards and Distinctions the gas is not approved for transmission by the collection of contact details to facilitate direct, Obtained by the PGNiG Group the transmission pipelines operator Operator ongoing co-operation. Members between January 2009 Gazociągów Przesyłowych GAZ-SYSTEM SA. and June 2010 Special leaflets were also prepared for customers Natural gas delivered to customers must also who are in need of assistance. The potential of the PGNiG Group is manifest in its meet certain quality specifications provided for in presence in independent rankings. In the Global the Minister of Economy’s Regulation concerning Lower Silesian Gas Trading 2000 international ranking of companies which detailed gas system operation requirements, dated Division, Gas Sales Unit in are of greatest importance to the world economy, July 2nd 2010, whose Par. 38 regulates gas quality. Zgorzelec published by the American edition of the Forbes The following methods of providing assistance can magazine, PGNiG SA moved up from 1,170th posiBased on an analysis conducted before the be used by the Gas Sales Unit after it has familiartion in 2008 to 926th position in 2009. audience at the laboratory, it was demonstrated ised itself with the financial situation of a customer that the gross calorific value of the gas in the who submits a written application for assistance: In 2009, PGNiG SA was also awarded the “Premium laboratory building’s gas supply system, which is extension of the final payment date by up to 30 Brand” title. It came in recognition of the PGNiG SA essentially the same gas as that supplied to other days without charging late interest, breaking the brand which is highly reputed in the industry. In customers in the city, was at 39.9 MJ per cubic payment into instalments over a maximum period the same year, the PGNiG Group came sixth in the metre, i.e. very high. of 12 months without charging late interest, ranking of one hundred most valuable brands in cancellation of interest or principal, breaking the Poland, prepared by A.T. Kearney and the editorial Carpathian Gas Trading payment into instalments, or waiver of fees for staff of Newsweek. The ranking covered compaDivision – “Socially Vulnerable resuming supply of gaseous fuel. nies with highest revenues, highest earnings, as Customer” Initiative well as those recognised by Poles as important The Carpathian Gas Trading Division is working Storage System Operator and valuable brands. on a document entitled “Socially Vulnerable CusInstruction Concerning Avoidance of tomer – Rules for and Scope of Assistance by the Discriminatory Behaviour Towards the Storage Carpathian GTD”. The purpose of the programme System Operator’s Customers is to help customers who are economically weak The Instruction is binding on all employees of avoid being disconnected from the gas network. the Storage System Operator (“SSO”) as well The document governs the methods of providing as on the persons to whom the Branch reports. assistance to socially vulnerable customers, and Its purpose is to ensure equal treatment of lays down rules for cooperation with local social and non-discrimination against storage service welfare centres and with family assistance centres. customers and prospective storage service customers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 47 Business awards and distinctions obtained the PGNiG units and the PGNiG Group members Trade and Storage Upper Silesian Gas 2009 Golden Media Leaf The Warsaw-Katowice-Kraków Award for skilful acquisition of new gas customers, Trading Division Press, Radio and Television Study and for excellent relations with the media. and Programming Centre, patronage by the Rzeczpospolita daily Upper Silesian Gas Grand Prix of the 34th Opole Market Śląski Award for activities in line with the principles of sustaTrading Division, Gas Construction Industry Fair “My home” inable development and corporate social responsibility, Sales Unit in Opole with a particular focus on protection of the natural environment. Upper Silesian Gas Amicus Amico Era sp. z o.o. competition jury Honorary award for reliability, ethical and open approach Trading Division, Gas in business interactions deserving utmost respect. Sales Unit in Zabrze Pomeranian Gas Special award Mayor of Bydgoszcz’s 2010 Award for the promotion of use of compressed natural Trading Division, award gas as a car and bus fuel, for environmentally friendly Gas Sales Unit in initiatives and promotion of the city of Bydgoszcz. Bydgoszcz Pomeranian Gas Special award Competition jury of the 8th Special award for an innovative product offering and Trading Division, Gas Automotive Fair “Auto-Show” promotion of new solutions. Sales Unit in Bydgoszcz 2010. Distribution Górnośląska Spółka Certificate of the 12th edition of the Fair Play Enterprise The certificate confirms that Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Entrepreneurial Culture Promotion Gazownictwa applies standards for honest dealings with Programme customers, partners, employees, business partners, local communities, as well as local and national authorities. Górnośląska Spółka Award for the best stand at the 1st Organisers of the fair Award for an interesting display of exhibited items. Gazownictwa International Tourism, Industrial Heritage, and Underground Tourism Fair Karpacka Spółka The Quality of the Year Award Polskie Centrum Badań The Quality of the Year is a nationwide project seeking to Gazownictwa i Certyfikacji SA (Polish Centre support, develop and foster a quality-driven approach to for Testing and Certification) business among enterprises. Karpacka Spółka The Words of Wisdom (Złota Myśl) Fundacja Nauka i Zdrowie The award is offered to persons or institutions that Gazownictwa Award in the category: provider of (Learning and Health rendered great service to Polish culture and academic financing to Polish academic research Foundation) research. The awards are presented in two categories: (i) and culture contributor to the development of Polish academic research and culture, and (ii) provider of financing to Polish academic research and culture. Karpacka Spółka ISO UDT-Cert Integrated Management Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa was the first distribution Gazownictwa System company to obtain four certificates: in the area of quality, environment, information safety and health and safety at work. Karpacka Spółka 2009 Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Badań Award-winner in a nationwide competition, recognition Gazownictwa i Certyfikacji SA (Polish Centre for the quality of services in all operational aspects, for Testing and Certification), including the pursuit of high quality of service to Biznes Raport customers buying natural gas. Karpacka Spółka The “New Impulse” Award The recognition is awarded to persons, enterprises Gazownictwa and institutions working for the development of the Polish energy and fuels sector, promoting new and energy-efficient technologies, raising social awareness in the area of energy efficiency, and taking actions fostering development of the energy market. Mazowiecka Spółka The Province of Warsaw’s Company Competition Jury and OrgaThe award is presented to companies which strive to Gazownictwa of the Year 2009 – 2nd position in niser of the Province of provide top-level services and demonstrate a professional the power and electrical engineering Warsaw’s Company of the Year approach to customers. category competition Pomorska Spółka The Marshall of the Province of The Province of Gdańsk Council The award is presented for accomplishments in the area Gazownictwa Gdańsk’s Award in the 12th edition of the Polish Federation of Engiof promoting ethics, fair dealings and modern manageof the Province of Gdańsk’s Quality neering Associations ment concepts, as well as for commitment and contribuAward Competition – NOT of Gdańsk tion to the development of Pomerania as a region. Wielkopolska Spółka 2009 Quality of the Year Polskie Centrum Badań i CertyfiRecognition was awarded for high quality of comprehenGazownictwa kacji SA (Polish Centre for Testing sive gaseous fuels distribution services. and Certification), Biznes Raport 48 PGNiG Responsible Energy Market Exploration and Production Geofizyka Kraków 2008 Business Gazelle Puls Biznesu daily, Coface Poland The award is granted to companies showing the largest sales revenue growth and excellent financial performance and which, over the last 3 years, have not recorded a loss, enjoy unblemished reputation and demonstrate fairness towards their partners, employees and the Polish State Treasury. Geofizyka Kraków has ranked among “Business Gazelles” since 2006. Geofizyka Toruń Gazeta Prawna’s 2010 ranking of Responsible Business Forum, 8th position in the fuel and energy industry, top ranking responsible companies PricewaterhouseCoopers among companies of the PGNiG Group. Poszukiwania Naftowe “Business Leader in the Zielona Góra Western Chamber of Industry Poszukiwania Naftowe “Diament” sp. z o.o. is a company “Diament” / Gorzów Wielkopolski Province” – and Commerce, Marshal which cares for the natural environment, ensures Best Company of the Zielona Góra / of the Zielona Góra / Gorzów a friendly workplace and invests in new technologies. Gorzów Wielkopolski Province in large Wielkopolski Province companies category PNiG Jasło Business Gazelle Puls Biznesu daily The award is granted to companies showing the largest sales revenue growth and excellent financial performance and which, over the last 3 years, have not recorded a loss, enjoy unblemished reputation and demonstrate fairness towards their partners, employees and the Polish State Treasury. PNiG Jasło Province of Rzeszów Leader Chamber of Industry and The purpose of the award is to grant certificates to large Commerce in Rzeszów and medium-sized companies from the Province of Rzeszów and award the title of the “Province of Rzeszów Leader” to the best among them. PNiG Jasło 2010 Forbes’ Diamond Forbes, Dun&Bradstreet 2nd among the largest companies (over PLN 250m in revenue) of the Province of Rzeszów. The Forbes’ Diamonds is a ranking of Polish companies whose value grows at the fastest pace. The ranking is published based on a Swiss business valuation methodology, which takes into account both financial performance and value of the companies’ assets, enables corporate potential measurement considering the value of capital expenditure and potential for sales revenue and profit growth. PNiG Kraków Forbes’ Diamonds Forbes Recognition in the Forbes’ Diamonds ranking in a category where the competitors are companies from the Province of Kraków with revenue in excess of PLN 250m. PNiG Nafta Platinum Media Leaf The Warsaw-Katowice-Kraków The Platinum Media Leaf was awarded for excellent Press, Radio and Television results of oil and gas exploration, as well as for Study and Programming introduction and use of state-of-the-art drilling methods Centre, patronage by and technologies, and excellent relations with local the Rzeczpospolita daily communities, both in Poland and abroad. PNiG Nafta Forbes’ Diamonds Forbes The company was listed in the Forbes’ Diamonds ranking in recognition of its excellent performance and resistance to economic turmoil. The basis for the evaluation was a positive credibility ranking from the years 2005-2008, (profitability based on EBIT and ROA, high current ratio and no outstanding payments), net profit and value of equity. In a ranking of companies with revenue in excess of PLN 250m, PNiG Nafta of Piła came 2nd among companies from the Province of Poznań, and 15th in the nationwide ranking. PNiG Nafta Business Gazelle Puls Biznesu daily PNiG Nafta of Piła is one of Poland’s fastest growing companies. This is the company’s fourth Business Gazelle title in a row (2006-2009). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 49 PNiG Nafta The Stanisław Staszic Award Chamber of Commerce of The company was the award winner in the Stanisław Northern Greater Poland Staszic Competition, in the most recognised corporate brand of Northern Greater Poland category. The jury considered PNiG Nafta as a brand which is associated with reliability, top service quality and activities that benefit the society, and as a company which is recognised not only in Poland, but also worldwide, thus being an economic ambassador of its city and region. ZUN Naftomet Business Gazelle Puls Biznesu daily The company was recognised as one of the fastest growing companies in the 10th edition of the competition. Other BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Lower Silesia Business Certificate The “Krzyżowa” Foundation for The purpose of the programme is to award those Mutual Understanding in Europe companies from Lower Silesia which meet ethics and and the Board of the Province of fair competition requirements and boast sound financial Wrocław performance and stable employment. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2009 Business Gazelle Puls Biznesu daily The ranking is a list of most robust and credible small and medium-sized companies in Poland. To receive the distinction in 2009, the companies had to post profits and demonstrate continuous sales growth in the years 2006-2008. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT White List – Bronze Certificate for Wrocław Chamber of Commerce Meeting the competition criteria (accurate and timely reliability and credibility social security and tax payments) BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT Best Polish Engineering Design Chamber of Engineering Design The purpose of the competition was to award and Company in 1990-2010 promote engineering design companies which represented top performance in engineering design and are benchmark examples of engineering design work. Award criteria: achievements and reputation (credentials, recommendations and awards), corporate organisation and management systems, accomplishments in HR policy, active presence in professional and commercial organisations, scope and quality of insurance covers used by the company, and financial performance. BSiPG GAZOPROJEKT 2010 Best Engineering Design Chamber of Engineering Design Two designs were awarded in the competition: “Upgrade of the GT10B+50P4 Compressor at the Hołowczyce Gas Compressor Station” and “Education, Tourism and Sports Centre, along with a Youth Hostel in Krośnice”. The criteria were innovativeness, originality and optimised design solutions. INVESTGAS 2009 European Crown Jury of the Media Programme Award for consistently pursued strategy of enhancing “Poland in Europe – Europe in Poland’s energy security through the construction of Poland” underground gas storage facilities, in combination with care for the environment and excellent relations with the local government. INVESTGAS 2009 Media Oscar for the President of The Warsaw-Katowice-Kraków Award for consistently pursued strategy of enhancing Investgas SA’s Management Board Press, Radio and Television Study Poland’s energy security through the construction of and Programming Centre underground gas storage facilities, in combination with care for the environment and excellent relations with the local government.For managing a company having strategic importance for the state’s energy security and for cooperation with the media. 50 PGNiG Responsible Energy Natural Environment Natural Environment has one strategic objective assigned in the Group’s Sustainable Development and Responsible Business Strategy. The objective is to conduct business in a responsible way while caring for the natural environment. Seven goals and 21 measures are provided for under the strategic objective. Some will continue to be implemented in the years to come. This section discusses what we have managed to achieve in the N a t u r a l E n v i r o n m e n t d i m e n s i o n t h u s f a r. Natural Environment Acting responsibly and respecting the natural environment 7.1 Challenges and Opportunities Our business inextricably involves interference with the natural resources and individual components of the environment. This is particularly true about the Exploration and Production segment, and it is our responsibility to minimise impacts of it operations on the natural environment, rationally manage resources and waste, and, if necessary, compensate for the effects of our interference with the natural environment. Katarzyna Chołast Specialist, PGNiG’s Odolanów Branch On the other hand, when compared with other fossil fuels, natural gas, which is our main comThe Odolanów Branch is the only producer modity, produces markedly less emissions into of helium in the European Union. The helium the atmosphere. Therefore, in the present days, produced here finds its application in research when counteracting climate change is high on the conducted by leading European centres, such as agenda, it is essential to promote a broader use of the European Organisation for Nuclear Research natural gas, both for applications which have been (CERN). State-of-the-art technologies we employ known for years (such as gas cookers or heating are also there to benefit the natural environment. residential), or through products that we can offer Our process of natural gas denitrification employs by developing our new business segment – Power the recently installed turboexpanders, in which the Generation. Power plants fuelled by gas instead energy from the pressure of gas extracted from of the traditional coal, co-generation, renewable rock mass is converted into electric power. This energy sources and the utilisation of biomass way we reduce the consumption of energy will all have a beneficial effect on the level of generated using conventional methods. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 51 atmospheric emissions. A similar environmental Aware of the contemporary challenges of enviIrrespective of their individual business characand economic purpose is served by the promotion ronmental protection, notably relating to climate teristics, all entities of the PGNiG Group, whether of CNG fuelled vehicles, from passenger cars to change, depletion of natural resources, or excessive operating in Poland or elsewhere, have always buses and delivery trucks. This is one of PGNiG’s pollution of the various individual components of put special emphasis on environmental proteccorporate social responsibility priorities. For the natural environment (air, water, soil), we are tion, mitigation of adverse environmental impacts, more details on the educational and promotional continuously striving to minimise our impact on the and environment-friendly projects. This has found campaigns concerning the use of natural gas, see environment across all the elements of our corporeflection in the goals and measures identified Local Communities. rate value chain (exploration, production, storage, in the Sustainable Development and Responsible distribution, trade and power generation) while Business Strategy. Care for the natural environconcurrently promoting both innovative and enviment is among the six primary objectives of our ronmentally friendly solutions and technologies. Strategy. Environmental Management Systems PGNiG believes that the key challenge is to conat the PGNiG Group duct our business so that we use the broad range of our impact to benefit the environment, and convert any threats that exist into opportunities. GDD in Gdańsk Pomeranian GTD Pomorska GDG GDD in Koszalin GDD in Olsztyn GDD in Szczecin PNiG Nafta of Piła GDD in Białystok GDD in Bydgoszcz Geofizyka Toruń GDD in Ciechanów GDD in Poznań Wielkopolska GDC CMTL in Warsaw Investgas Greater Poland GTD Bud-Gaz Mazowiecka GDC GDC in Mińsk Mazowiecki PGNiG SA Head Office Geovita PN Diament Mazowiecki GTD GDD in Warsaw Zielona Góra Branch GDD in Kalisz GDD in Łódź Odolanów Branch GDD in Radom GDD in Zgorzelec Dolnośląska GDC GDD in Lublin BSiPG Gazoprojekt GDD in Wrocław Lower Silesian GTD GDD in Kielce GDD in Wałbrzych GDD in Sandomierz GDD in Opole Górnośląska GDG GDD in Zabrze BUG Gazobudowa of Zabrze Karpacka GDC GDD in Rzeszów Upper Silesian GTD Geofizyka Kraków GDD in Jarosław GDD in Kraków Carpathian GTD ZRUG of Podgórska Wola PNiG Kraków GDD in Tarnów ZUN Naftomet PNiG Jasło ZRG Krosno GDD in Jasło Organisational units of the PGNiG Group Sanok Branch BN Naftomontaż the following systems implemented: ISO 14001 Environmental Management and HSE systems ISO 14001 Environmental Management system other entities Head Office and Branches of PGNiG SA, including Gas Trading Divisions (GTD) Companies of the PGNiG Group, including Gas Distribution Companies (GDC) Gas Distribution Divisions (GDD) of the Gas Distribution Companies (GDC) 52 PGNiG Responsible Energy Natural Environment Environmental Management System certificates held by the PGNiG Group’s entities PGNiG organisational unit Date of implementation/ Date of certification certification renewal Head Office July 2009 Odolanów Branch May 2003 December 2009 Sanok Branch May 2004 February 2008 Zielona Góra Branch April 2002 June 2005 April 2008 Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa May 2005 July 2008 Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa October 2004 November 2007 Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa SA December 2005 Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa September 2009 Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa SA implementation in progress Geofizyka Kraków* November 2001 May 2005 May 2008 Geofizyka Toruń* January 2004 January 2008 Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków November 2009 Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Jasło* November 2001 October 2007 October 2009 Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Piła June 2000 December 2006 December 2009 Poszukiwania Naftowe Diament November 2005 February 2007 January 2010 ZRG Krosno November 2005 December 2008 BUG Gazobudowa Zabrze September 2001 December 2007 BN Naftomontaż December 2004 December 2007 ZRUG in Podgórska Wola May 2006 March 2009 GAZOPROJEKT December 1999 December 2008 INVESTGAS December 2005 December 2007 * Units with the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) management system in place Environmental Management Systems Over 70% of the PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches have environmental management systems in place based on the PN-EN ISO 14001 7.2 People and Systems standard, often integrated with other systems, such as quality assurance, occupational health It takes vast knowledge and experience to meet and safety, and information protection systems. environmental protection requirements, in parti­ The systems, used by the companies for a few cular because of the evolving environmental years already, position PGNiG among robust and protection laws, but also the growing importance environmentally credible companies on the Polish of environmental protection. But, the PGNiG Group market, but also internationally, in Denmark, boasts excellent staff, who have the relevant eduNorway, Pakistan or Egypt. cation and many years of experience in the field. The use of the environmental management sysIn 2009, specialist environmental protection traintems enables us to meet the requirements stipuing covered over 1,511 persons, and the total cost lated in relevant laws and regulations, but also to of the training and degree schemes in environbetter respond to the needs of our customers and mental protection amounted to nearly PLN 220 communities in which we are present, thus buildthousand. ing trust in PGNiG. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 53 Efficient environmental management systems may also reduce the operating costs through more efficient use and optimised selection of materials (raw and recycled materials) and products, improved infrastructure utilisation, reduction in the volumes of emitted pollutants and generated waste, as well as in the cost of their disposal, and finally through lower demand for energy and water, which also reduces their consumption cost. EMSs also translate into enhanced occupational safety and greater awareness of the employees’ role in reducing the Company’s impact on the natural environment. In 2009, most of our companies which were required to renew the certification fulfilled the relevant requirements and obtained the renewals. In 2009, the certificates were awarded to Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa, Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu Kraków and the PGNiG Head Office. Methane emission volumes generated by the PGNiG Group's operations in 2007-2009 (in Mg) We comply with environmental protection laws and have a clean environmental record. 2009 40,915.510 All organisational units making up the PGNiG Group hold the relevant permits and approvals 2008 37,306.333 to use the environment. They are being renewed or replaced with new ones as soon as material 2007 40,386.566 changes in the subsidiaries’ or branches’ operations are introduced, or if such renewal or replacement are required under any amended laws and regulations. 7.3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions In 2009, despite numerous inspections carried out by regional inspectors for environmental protecWe counteract climate change The PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches tion and district mining authorities, no environby controlling the emission of implemented internal and external systems mental fines were imposed on PGNiG subsidiaries. greenhouse gases. for gas quality control as part of their effort to Our Group strives to reduce the emission of reduce greenhouse gas emission volumes, but greenhouse gases and other gas and dust emissions also use their ISO 17025-compliant laboratories to into the air by using gas as a low-emission fuel, by conduct measurements and comparative analysis, monitoring the consumption of fuels, by reducing control and validate correct operation of process energy consumption and by upgrading or replacing chromatographs, use internal spreadsheets for the sources of heat used internally. CO2 emission volume calculation, and upgrade gas consumption metering systems. With respect to The PGNiG subsidiaries emit dust and gas methane emissions by the mining sector, uniform pollutants generated by fuel combustion in interemission indicators have been developed, and nal combustion engines (cars and machines), by work is underway in the gas sector to arrive at sources of heat, crude oil and natural gas mining a single methodology for gas emission settlement processes, and in the course of auxiliary processes to be employed by all gas companies. (painting, welding, wood processing, etc.). Pollution emissions into the air are both controlled In 2009, emissions of primary gas pollutants, such (through point and fixed emitters) and diffuse as carbon dioxide, methane, sulphur dioxide, (e.g. in the painting process). nitrogen oxides (in NO2 equivalents) and carbon monoxide, which are generated chiefly by the The effective laws on control and reduction of combustion of fuels by sources of heat and energy greenhouse gas emissions necessitate introducfor process needs, remained at a steady level tion of CO2 emission monitoring and reporting by relative to the previous years’ volumes. 2009 saw those PGNiG subsidiaries and branches which are a minor growth in methane emission compared covered by the European Union Emission Trading with 2008, but the emission level is still within the Scheme (EU ETS). limits of previous years’ emissions. 54 PGNiG Responsible Energy Natural Environment Carbon dioxide emission volumes from the PGNiG Group’s installations covered by EU ETS, summary for 2009 (in Mg) Installation National Emission Allocation Plan Number Emissions allocated 2009 emission Available Mogilno Underground Gas Storage Cavern Facility PL-898-08 26,642.00 8,521.40 18,120.60 PGNiG SA Odolanów Branch PL-562-05 11,181.00 11,872.97 -691.97 PGNiG SA Odolanów Branch PL-950-08 30,495.00 27,392.06 3,103.00 PGNiG SA Zielona Góra Branch, PL-563-05 31,664.00 28,573.00 3,091.00 Dębno Oil and Gas Mine 99,982.00 76,360.00 23,622.00 Air emissions by type of pollutant (in ‘000 tonnes) 2009 carbon monoxide 2008 2007 nitrogen dioxide sulphur dioxide carbon dioxide 10 10,000 10,000,000 7.4 Water Consumption, Sewage and Waste We optimise water consumption and waste generation. Shortage of water and deteriorating quality of water from domestic sources represent an important problem for the PGNiG Group from the viewpoint of quality, economic and environmental protection processes. Companies of the PGNiG Group source water from their own intake points, or from the water supply network, and use it for workplace needs and, to a smaller extent, for industrial processes. Annual fluctuations in the volume of water consumption largely depend on exploration and investment activities currently in progress. In 2009, the consumption of water from the water supply network fell from 511.8 thousand m3 to 467.70 thousand m3, while the intake of water from our own intake points slightly increased. Sewage generated by the PGNiG subsidiaries and branches is discharged to the sewage system Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 55 (under contracts with water supply and sewage collection operators), or to surface waters or soil (in compliance with the existing water permits) following their pre-treatment or full treatment at the Group’s site sewage treatment plants. In 2009, the volume of sewage coming from the A separate category in the management of water Group’s cesspits and collected by sewage treatsupply and waste across the PGNiG Group is forment plants decreased, while the volume of sewmation water. It is typically injected into the same age discharged to the sewage system increased. geological formations from which it was extracted, along with hydrocarbons. Formation water which could not be injected back is classified as waste other than hazardous and neutral, code 010102, and stored in rock mass under the permits for waste storage in rock mass held by the Company, or treated by external operators with relevant licences and experience in the field. Intake of surface and subsurface water in 2006-2009, by source (in ‘000 m3) 467.86 312.89 Water from water supply network 2009 Water from the Group’s intake points (surface and subsurface) 511.79 300.00 2008 442.17 288.63 2007 Formation water generated in 2007-2009 (in ‘000 m3) 185.92 Generated formation water 172.17 Formation water injected 166.51 into rock mass 145.40 134.29 125.70 2009 2008 2007 56 PGNiG Responsible Energy 499.53 Natural Environment 438.56 410.43 Volumes of sewage generated in 2007-2009, by place of discharge Sewage system discharge Discharge to sewage treatment plant from Group’s cesspits Discharge to surface water and soil, including from Group’s sewage treatment plants 30.02 33.35 25.93 12.24 12.76 0.34 2007 2008 2009 Waste Drilling waste generated in 2007-2009 (in ‘000 Mg) Reasonable Waste Management 6.04 7.05 55.68 84.5 thousand Mg of waste was generated by 2009 the PGNiG Group in 2009 (a 19% decline on 2008), excluding municipal waste sent for recovery or 21.69 10.53 50.11 treatment, landfill waste or waste stored to be 2008 managed in the future. 16.60 26.29 18.73 About 80% of the waste is drilling waste. 2007 It consists of drillings generated during oil or gas well drilling, and drilling mud (mixture of clay minStorage erals, chemicals and water enabling drillings to be Treatment extracted to the surface). The PGNiG Group’s subRecovery sidiaries and branches have, for a number of years now, been gradually reducing the quantities and noxiousness of the generated waste. A significant proportion of the waste is managed. Drillings are separated from drilling mud on vibration screens In order to address the challenges of waste or with the use of other devices. management, the PGNiG Group has set the objectives and commitments which lead to reduction or reuse of the waste. Waste management programmes in place at each PGNiG’s 57.193 58.883 organisational unit give preference to the submission of waste for recovery. The waste which, due to process considerations, needs to be treated, is handled by specialist providers who hold the required treatment licences. 32.965 24.552 22.903 22.732 22.436 Summary of generated waste, excluding non-segregated municipal waste (in ‘000 Mg) 16.347 9.222 Storage Treatment Recovery 2007 2008 2009 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 57 Robert Plesiewicz Marketing Specialist at INVESTGAS INVESTGAS S.A. is involved on the development and modernisation of the gas and power industry, with a particular focus on underground gas storage facilities. Quality, safety and environmental protection are the priorities of our operation. This translates into objectives defined under the We analyse and monitor the Integrated Management Improvement Programme condition of the environment. for 2010-2012 and into specific solutions applied Environmental research is conducted by the PGNiG in contract performance. Environmental requireGroup to meet the requirements under the binding ments are taken into account already at the stage laws and regulations. It is also a valuable source of project designing. Our contractors are also of information, as the environmental research required to use management systems reducing enables our branches and companies to acquire waste generation. data and information used to develop documentations, statements and report, as well as to plan environmental activities. 7.5 Other Environment-Friendly The analysis and monitoring of the environment Initiatives and Projects also allows us to determine its condition before, during, and after execution of particular projects. On account of the quantities of dangerous subThe research covers e.g. emissions of pollutstances collected onsite (natural gas, crude oil, ants into the air, the condition of surface and LPG, propane and butane mix), eleven organisasubsurface waters, the quality of sewage, soil and tional units of PGNiG are subject to requirements land, noise levels, or impact of electromagnetic governing serious industrial failures, of which nine fields. We also monitor the presence of leaks in our are classified as High-Risk Plants (the Odolanów underground gas storage facilities and contents Branch, the Zielona Góra Branch – the Dębno Oil of dangerous substances in waste, and sometimes and Gas Mine, the Wierzchowice Underground Gas in formation water. Therefore, we are prepared to Storage Facility, the Grodzisk Denitriding Plant, monitor the condition of the environment on an The Sanok Branch – The Strachocina Underground ongoing basis, and are also able to identify any Gas Storage Facility, the Swarzów Underground previously occurring threats. Gas Storage Facility, the Husów Underground Gas Storage Facility, the Brzeźnica Underground Gas Storage Facility and the Mogilno Underground Gas Storage Cavern Facility – Investgas S.A.), while two are classified as Increased-Risk Plants (Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa – Gas Distribution Company Gazownia Białostocka, Gas Distribution Region of Ełk, the Zielona Góra Branch – the Zielin Oil and Gas Mine). In 2009, no serious industrial failures occurred at any of the locations referred to above. Similarly, no environmental events occurred which would have any impact on the condition of the environment, or human health. Other entities of the PGNiG Group do not collect such quantities of dangerous substances as to be classified as increased risk plants. 58 PGNiG Responsible Energy Natural Environment We reclaim brownfields. It follows from the pursuit of environmental objectives adopted by the PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches, which have been remedying the effects of past operations for a few years already, including operations of PGNiG’s legal predecessors, such as e.g. municipal gas works. Pro-environmental Projects The PGNiG Group conducts a number of proIn 2009, the clean-up activities covered degraded environmental projects. This is actually one of the soil at mining sites, oil terminal and storage directions of our business development – condepots, post-drilling areas, soil at decommissioned struction and opening of new CNG filling stations, and workover well sites, and conventional gas but also other projects, which are less spectacular work sites. In 2009, land rehabilitation commenced but equally important for the environment. on the real properties which are non-production assets administered by the PGNiG Head Office, We gradually remedy adverse One the one hand they are connected with the such as Wałbrzych, Wrocław, Jugowice, Świdnica, effects of past hydrocarbon daily operations of the Group companies and Lądek Zdrój and Ziębice. In the same year, producmining operations. relate for instance to buying natural gas fuelled tion branches conducted reclamation activities in In order to mitigate the adverse effect of past vehicles, installation of sun collectors or building the operational area of the Zielona Góra Branch operations, PGNiG SA decommissions oil mining insulation. On the other hand, our care for the involving biological remediation of soil contamifacilities whose operation was discontinued many environment is manifest in the projects executed nated with oil derivatives on the Mozów, Jarszewo years ago, such as shafts, diggings and drilling by the Exploration and Production segment, such and Wałowice oil terminal sites and the Kije Oil pits. Decommissioning work is very expensive and as the purchase of power generators to work at Mine; we also carried out water and soil condition requires the use of specialist equipment and effecoil rig installations, redesign of installations used research with a view to conducting remediative technologies. Petroleum has been drawn from for desulphurisation of natural gas and crude oil tion projects. Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa seepages in the Carpathians from time immemoand for waste injection at petroleum production decommissioned its tar tanks on real property in rial. Demand for crude oil led in the 19th century sites, upgrade of formation water installations and Kalisz, whereas Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa to the development of digging shafts (diggings). borehole installations and their job changeover remediated surface water on real properties in Negative or worked-out diggings were abandoned to enable injection of formation water into native Sopot and Kowalewo Pomorskie. Exploration or decommissioned in a wrong way. Currently, rock mass. Another group of projects consists of companies conducted rehabilitation work around such diggings are found all over the Carpathians, upgrades of gas-fired boiler houses and cogeneraexploration workover wells (30 wells in total). and they pose a threat – not only to the environtion systems with a view to limiting emissions ment, but also to humans and animals. Within the from energy-generation sources or replacement In 2009, our companies involved in the construcPGNiG mining areas they are gradually decomof cast-iron gas pipelines with PE ones. Our tion of gas pipelines carried out reclamation activimissioned, although the we have not contriboverhaul projects include primarily tank protection ties on the pipeline construction sites. uted have to their creation or been their owner. systems, tank embankments and bottom sealing, overhauls of gas-fired boilers, measurement apparatus and irrigation systems. A significant drop in capital expenditures on environmental protection results from the progression of our environment-related efforts, and specifically the previous years’ completion of the most expensive projects (e.g. replacement of cast-iron pipes with PE ones). Expenditures on environmental investment and upgrade projects in 2007 – 2009 (PLN) Pro-environmental investment projects Upgrades Other pro-environmental projects 16,811,226 11,055,770 961,481 2009 23,645,425 18,520,275 1,688,191 2008 27,687,685 28,265,067 1,713,469 2007 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 59 We incorporate into Cost of pro-environmental overhaul the investment process work in 2007-2009 technologies and processes which protect the environment. 3,500,000 Environmental considerations are becoming increasingly more important as a factor in 3,000,000 selection of sites and technology as well as in the analysis of future costs of operations. In our opin2,500,000 ion, development of a set of uniform guidelines for project planning and execution is one of the 2,000,000 major achievements of PGNiG. Selection of green technologies is part of our strategy. 1,500,000 1,000,000 500,000 0 2009 2008 2007 Natura 2000 sites Linear investment projects executed by gas companies Linear investment projects executed by PGNiG branches Single-location investment projects executed by gas companies Single-location investment projects executed by PGNiG branches 60 PGNiG Responsible Energy Natural Environment When considering a site for a project, we analyse • promotion of natural gas as an environmentwhether there are any protected areas, Natura friendly fuel. As the primary Polish manu2000 sites or other areas important from the perfacturer and provider of natural gas, we feel spective of nature conservation, which on the one responsible for reducing harmful emissions hand require special procedures during project into the atmosphere by promoting a broad execution or taking compensatory measures, and application of this most environment-friendly on the other hand restrain the planned activiconventional fuel. We also plan to continue ties. When undertaking projects which require the expansion of our CNG fuelling station netan environmental impact assessment, the PGNiG work and co-generate energy and heat from Group companies comply with all procedures and gaseous fuels. A “PGNiG Group Operational prepare environmental impact reports. Strategy for the Development of the Market for CNG as a Vehicle Fuel” was developed for Thanks to modern technological solutions we can the Group; limit the impact on flora and fauna by reducing • continued efforts to raise the environmental the area subject to tree felling, securing the root awareness of our employees through periodic systems during earthwork, limiting vibrations, training, information campaigns, promotion of noise and emissions of pollutants, especially durpro-environmental attitudes and solutions for ing the mating and breeding seasons for animals. the workplace. 7.6 Plans for the Future • In 2009, the PGNiG Group’s subsidiaries and branches implemented 45 projects in 71 Natura Most importantly, we will continue to pursue 2000 sites. Their execution was possible owing the Group’s Sustainable Development and to our experienced staff and high management Responsible Business Strategy through standards in the area of environmental managethe following: ment. • implementation of environmental managePGNiG also participates in initiatives which proment systems at other subsidiaries and mote the concept of sustainable development in branches of the PGNiG Group; the energy and fuels sector. For example, PGNiG • simultaneous incorporation of certain compois an active member and strategic partner of the nents of the implemented and/or upgraded Responsible Business Forum. The mission of the Environmental Management Systems into the Forum is to promote the concept of responsible HSE systems, that is international management business as the effective standard in Poland in standards which are currently indispensible for order to enhance competitiveness of enterprises, companies which operate on foreign markets, satisfaction of the society, and condition of the and increasingly more often preferred by forenvironment. PGNiG’s representatives also sit on eign partners present on the Polish market; the Public Council of the National Emission Reduc• the approved rules for the preparation, plantion Plan. ning and execution of investment and overhaul projects at PGNiG branches incorporate environmental protection aspects. Many of the remaining subsidiaries and branches of the PGNiG Group already have solutions in place which meet at least pro-environmental best practices requirements and, where necessary, the Best Available Technology requirements; • refinement and unification of the environmental impact assessment methods we use to assess the impact of our sites and installations on the environment at each lifecycle stage (design and construction, operation, decommissioning); • we have developed uniform reporting methods for all the Group’s subsidiaries and branches with respect to information on the condition of the environment and the impact of the Group’s operations. Objective and comparable data we collect in the process allow us to prepare reports based on a single set of internal standards used by all subsidiaries and branches; Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 61 7.7 Best Practices INVESTGAS – inclusion of environmental protection PGNiG: gas-fired co-generation considerations into the plant by PGNiG and Tauron investment process Polska Energia SA Environmental considerations are taken into Poland’s largest gas-fired co-generation plant will Poszukiwania Nafty i Gazu account the design stage with a view to limitbe launched in Stalowa Wola in the second half Nafta Piła: three boreholes on ing site area to the necessary minimum and to of 2014. Hot water from the plant will be used the Sinai Peninsula at the turn mitigate the risk of pollutant emissions into the for municipal needs of the towns of Stalowa Wola in 2010 atmosphere. In 2009, the Company applied in and Nisko, whereas process steam will be utilised The drilling area was located on the Red Sea, particular the following solutions: by the nearby industrial sites. The unit’s capac100 meters from the shoreline, in the vicinity ity will increase the total capacity of the plant, of a well-known tourist resort Sharm El Sheikh. • Horizontal directional drilling at the Kosakowo which diminished as a result of decommissioning Vicinity of the sea accommodating a particularly Underground Gas Storage Facility, which of some coal-fired installations, in effect leading precious coral reserve imposed a requirement of markedly reduced the project area; to a nearly threefold reduction in carbon dioxide preventing any contamination of seawater with oil • Application of nitrogen instead of mineral oil emissions. products. The drilling rig area was therefore cusat the Kosakowo Underground Gas Storage tom prepared and protected against leaks of fluids Facility to insulate the underground pit ceilings PGNiG’s Odolanów Branch: and oil used in the drilling process. The drilling in the leaching process, which will eliminate launch and optimisation of followed the “dry location” method, with drillings the risk of environmental pollution by oil turboexpanders generating and drilling fluids stored in leak-proof containers derivatives. power in gas decompression and, after pre-filtration and drying, transported to process the disposal site. The same process was used for The Integrated Management Improvement Plan The first two turboexpanders were installed in the water and waste. Mock alerts were often raised to for 2010-2012 includes: denitriding plant in 2005, with two more added in test the fluid and oil leak emergency procedures. 2009. Energy coming from decompression of natuAll locations of potential leaks were rigorously • Reduction of energy consumption at the INral gas, supplied at its natural pressure from Polish monitored. All downtimes were used to deliver VESTGAZ head office by at least 10% (heating deposits, is converted in the turboexpanders into theoretical and practical training to our Egyptian and air conditioning automation); power, supplying the plant, and supporting the staff. PNiG Nafta Piła was the first company in • Reasonable management requirements process heat demand from the gas denitriding the area to conduct drillings under such stringent imposed on contractors to reduce quantity of plant. requirements. The project is a source of vast waste generated in the investment process. experience for us and is bound to bear fruit in the Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa: future, because the same methods are commonly 7.8 Awards and Distinctions cogeneration used in drilling work in Poland. There are many cogeneration units and gas PGNiG SA received the maximum score (100 turbines within the operational area of Karpacka Construction of a blast room points) for the environmental responsibility criteSpółka Gazownictwa (e.g. in Cmolas, Grabownica and a paint spraying and rion in Gazeta Prawna's 2009 ranking of socially near Sanok, Mełgiew near Lublin, Przeworsk, drying booth responsible companies. In the same ranking for Stężyca near Lublin, Tuchów near Tarnów, The Company completed an investment project at 2010 organised by Dziennik Gazeta Prawna, we Zakopane, Zgłobień near Rzeszów, Starachowice its engineering base, consisting in the construction scored 84 points, following a change of the evaluand Tarnów), which supports a more efficient of a hall housing a state-of-the-art and environation criteria. Regardless of the reason, it repreutilisation of primary fuels and reduces energy mentally friendly blast room and a paint spraying sents a stimulus for us to review our progress in transmission losses by as much as up to 6%. and drying booth by SciTeeX. the area. Wielkopolska Spółka Thus far, the cleaning of large-size elements was For more details on the awards and distinctions Gazownictwa: application contracted out, or conducted outdoors, which for environmental activities of the PGNiG Group’s of new technologies in led to diffuse emissions of dust into the air, and subsidiaries and branches see Market and Local the construction of the generated a large quantity of waste. In order to Communities. Trzemeszno-Witkowo pipeline streamline and upgrade the process, and improve Horizontal directional drilling was used at two working conditions, as well as with a view to locations in the construction of the pipeline: under “regulating the emission of gases and dust into Lake Bystrzyce (289 m), and under forest land the air” and to “minimise the resultant waste”, (446 m), preventing tree felling and re-routing of Nafta took on the investment challenge involving the pipeline. The method has been successfully the construction of a hall to accommodate a stateapplied by gas companies for many years as it of-the-art blast room and a paint spraying and reduces the environmental impact of their operadrying booth. The application of the paint spraying tions. and drying booth will markedly improve process conditions, production efficiency, occupational health and safety, economic and environmental protection factors , and will help optimise the use of space. 62 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities Two strategic objectives set out in the PGNiG Group’s Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy correspond to the Local Communities dimension: • Effective, dialogue-based cooperation Local with social and business partners on an equal-footing basis and; • Consistent, reliable and effective communications and marketing. Communities The above objectives have been subdivided into 14 goals and 40 measures. Some of them will be continued in future years. This section contains an Dialogue and cooperation with social and business partners overview of what we have managed to accomplish in the area to date. Emilia Tomalska Spokesperson for 8.1 Challenges and Opportunities Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa The tradition of the PGNiG Group’s commitment We feel it is our responsibility to support initiatives to social responsibility goes back to the times of aiming to address Poland’s most urgent social Ignacy Łukasiewicz, the pioneer of the oil industry problems. An example of these efforts is an in Poland and in the world. Apart from being agreement with the Satoris Foundation of active a successful entrepreneur and innovator, Ignacy philanthropy, whereby we cooperate with the Łukasiewicz made it his mission to help others start Foundation on the project called Magazyn uliczny up business ventures. In 1877, he organised the WSPAK, a magazine sold by the socially excluded, first petroleum congress and founded the National the long-term unemployed, the homeless and Petroleum Association in Gorlice. His work was an the disabled. The initiative is designed to help the invaluable source of inspiration to other entredisadvantaged regain self-esteem and earn money preneurs. It is safe to say that he was a precursor in a respectable way. Persons selling the magazine of corporate social responsibility, founding and pay regular visits to PGNiG offices, where they building schools, both elementary and vocational meet with positive response to the project from schools for oil industry workers. Interestingly our employees. enough, on his initiative a lace-making school for girls was also founded. He would support peasant boys who took up university studies and would offer free medical treatment to peasants living in the neighbourhood. He took particular care of his workforce. He set up the so-called fraternal fund in Bóbrka, the first such initiative in the Polish region of Galicia. It was obligatory for workers to participate and pay a contribution equal to 3% of their wages into the fund. In return, they received free medical treatment, sickness allowances, life annuities in case of disability, as well as other allowances and benefits, which were clearly ahead of their time. He was also engaged in charity work, for which Pope Pius IX granted him the title of papal chamberlain. In addition to offering a glimpse into the history of oil and gas production in Poland, to which PGNiG wants to refer, this introduction sheds light on a set of values that are still alive in the PGNiG Group’s everyday activities. The most important of them are responsibility and partnership. These are the values on which we want to base our business and social relations, enhancing the quality of dialogue with the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 63 outside world, so as to better understand the needs as wide and diverse as ours. The tools used in that 8.2 Investment in Infrastructure, and expectations of all our stakeholder groups: local process are described in section 4.1. Payment of Compensation communities, public administration and regulatory bodies, sub-suppliers, etc. We are determined to While engaging in CSR and sustainability initiatives, Exploration, drilling, extraction of hydrocarbons and draw on the wealth of our tradition, while effecthe PGNiG Group is determined to communicate expansion of the gas network all interfere with the tively using a broad mix of various communication them even more extensively and effectively to the environment. On the other hand, our activities delitools and channels. public. ver a range of benefits to local communities, as we create jobs, invest in infrastructure and accelerate We are well aware that natural gas, our core An important element of that communication the development of municipalities by getting them product, a resource of unique importance to our strategy is the PGNiG Group’s CSR Report, first connected to the gas network. retail and industrial customers alike, ensuring the published in 2009. We see reporting not only as an comfort of everyday life and smooth operation obligation following from our membership in Global It is our standard practice to work with the local of a number of industries. We perceive it as our Compact or the Responsible Business Forum, but as community before we launch a project in a given mission to ensure secure and reliable supplies of an important part of cooperation in and coordinaarea. Meetings are held to inform local residents of energy, realising our critical role in Poland’s energy tion of the efforts aimed at implementing the CSR why and how a given project is to be executed (we security. Therefore, extensive disclosure of informastrategy across the Group, to lay the foundations always try to bring the schedule of work in line with tion on our projects, diversification of supplies and of a uniform Group-wide corporate culture. We also the land owners’ needs and expectations) and of acquisition of new deposits is a priority, especially attach great importance to what is, after all, an the benefits it will deliver to the municipality and its during crises, which give rise to doubts, concerns absolute necessity in reporting, i.e. the involvement residents (such as a rise in tax revenues). We try to and questions about the status or quality of gas of various divisions along the whole length of the get to know all questions and clear all doubts. Once supplies. We are eager to base our relations with the value chain. The preparation of a joint CSR Report the required documents and permits are obtained, media, as the channel through which we are able helps develop commitment to and understanding of we offer compensation to the owners of land on to reach a wide group of stakeholders, on mutual CSR activities within our organisation. which the project is to be carried out. If they accept understanding and trust. A good illustration of our the offered amount, we pay the compensation, commitment and determination to reach the public The ambition of the PGNiG Group is to give a strucotherwise – we undertake negotiations. with accurate information is the statistics from tural framework to its CSR and sponsoring activities, January 2009 (when the gas crisis was unfolding). by developing action plans aligned with its SustainThe compensation is usually paid for requisition of In that period (from January 2nd to February 4th able Development and Corporate Social Responland and its exclusion from use, or for temporary 2009), the Press Office prepared 10 press releases sibility Strategy, on the basis of which it will build requisition of land on which hydrocarbon operations and replied to 150 e-mailed questions. In addition, long-term partnership relations with the outside are taking place, or as compensation to land owners PGNiG representatives appeared in 94 TV and world, conduct effective dialogue with the public for impairment of land under which a pipeline has radio programmes. As a result, in just one month administration and regulators, share knowledge, been laid. a total 339 publications appeared in the press and broaden cooperation with research institutes and, electronic media, and PGNiG representatives were finally, tackle socially important issues. As for municipal projects, it is a standard practice quoted on more than 300 different occasions in the of the PGNiG Group companies which use heavy context of the gas crisis. As a listed company, PGNiG equipment in their geophysical, drilling or producalso complies with Best Practices for WSE Listed tion work to participate in the costs of repairs of Companies, striving to adhere to the best corporate municipal or county roads, and to allow the local governance practices laid down in the document. community to use their wells and local tie-ins to the Our press releases must be consistent with the water supply system after the drilling operations reports we are required to publish as a listed are over. As a consequence, the PGNiG Group contricompany. Our Investor Relations team works closely butes to improving the lives of local populations. with the Press Office to ensure that any information sought after by the press gets published as soon as Other aspects of investment in the local infrastrucpossible. If necessary, current reports are released ture include payment of royalty fees for gas and oil even several times a day. production, which contribute to municipal budgets. Building trust on the basis of interaction with the For more details on employment policies and media is just one element of the Group’s social practices applied by the PGNiG Group in Poland and outreach strategy. Our close long-term relationships abroad see Workplace. with local communities have given us certainty that we can strive towards excellence only through that interaction. Far from dismissing traditional philanthropy, we are resolved to use other means of cooperation to improve our effectiveness in responding to local communities’ real needs. We can see, though, how difficult it is to accommodate the expectations of all local communities, to work out solutions that would satisfy a stakeholder base 64 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities 8.3 Initiatives Aimed at Promoting It is worth noting that the PGNiG Group companies The proceedings of the Team are pursued through the Petroleum Industry and the Idea initiate a number of scientific conferences and four dedicated working groups of Responsible Business symposia, not all of which deal with abstruse, highly specialist subjects. • the CSR promotion group for Poland; As the leader of gas production and distribution in • the CSR education group; Poland, as well as the holding company of several More and more often, we take an active role in • the sustainable consumption group; dozen undertakings, a majority of which provide other areas, too. Each year in June, a conference • the responsible investment group. highly specialised services, PGNiG brings together is organised jointly by Karpacka Spółka Gazowa number of leading experts in their respective nictwa and gas distribution company Gazownia Katarzyna Wróblewicz, representing Pomorska fields. Hence, representatives of the PGNiG Group Krakowska under the title “Marketing in the Gas Spółka Gazownictwa, is a participant of the CSR attend virtually every important industry confeIndustry”. The event brings together specialists in promotion working group. The group has already rence, are members of many industry organisathe area, also from outside the PGNiG Group. The drawn up draft recommendations concerning the tions (often sitting on their governing boards) and focus of this year’s conference was sustainable dissemination of corporate social responsibility are involved in many research projects. These are development. business practices as part of Poland's public related, for instance, to issuing opinions on new policies. Since the work is underway on developregulations, developing standards and guidelines Another initiative dedicated to responsible ing growth strategies for Poland, the group first for the industry, or professional improvement. business was the Responsible Energy conference, focused on recommendations for the government For instance, President of the PGNiG Management organised by PGNiG in June 2009, at which – on regarding the elimination of barriers to business Board Michał Szubski serves as chairman of the the initiative of PGNiG – the first Declaration on in pursuing CSR studies, and the creation of conPolish Association of Engineers and Technicians Sustainable Development in the Energy Sector ditions conducive to promoting CSR practices. The of the Oil and Gas Industry (SITPNiG), the largest in Poland was signed. The first signatories of the recommendations were developed on the basis of industry organisation in Poland and the successor Declaration included such high-profile names as the document “The Underlying Principles of the of the organisations of petroleum technicians that EDF Polska, Enea, GAZ-System, GDF SUEZ Energia Republic of Poland’s Corporate Social Responwere active in Poland from the mid-19th century, Polska, PGNiG, Tauron and Vattenfall Poland. In sibility Polices. Analysis, Diagnosis, Recommenfirst under partitions and then in the interwar June 2010, three further companies – Fortum dations”, prepared by the UNDP as part of the period. Power and Heat Polska, Grupa LOTOS and Polskie project “Accelerating CSR Practices in the New Sieci Elektroenergetyczne Operator – signed up to EU Member States and Candidate Countries as In total, the Group’s employees are members of the initiative. A similar declaration to undertake a Vehicle for Harmonization, Competitiveness, and more than 60 local, national and international joint initiatives in the spirit of responsible business Social Cohesion in the EU” (for more information, organisations and associations, both intraand was signed in October 2009 by Wielkopolska visit www.acceleratingcsr.eu). The group relied intersectoral. The scale of their involvement allows Spółka Gazownictwa and Enea Operator. on the experience of European countries and the us to stay in touch with the themes relevant to recommendations of the United Nations Developthe Company and the environment in which it In April 2010, Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa ment Programme. The outcome of CSR Team’s operates, while participating in problem solving entered into cooperation with the Gdańsk Univerwork will be used by the governments, business and novel initiatives. sity of Technology to promote the ethical conduct and social partners, non-governmental organisaof business. There are also many initiatives tions, universities, the media and all organisations, In May 2009, the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Oil and Gas whereby we support schools bearing the name of institutions and individuals interested in pursuing Industry Museum in Bóbrka hosted the Fourth Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The schools, which are located CSR practices. National Congress of the Oil and Gas Industry Workin areas with a long tradition of petroleum producers, which marked two anniversaries: the 155th tion and which cultivate that tradition, promote In addition, companies and divisions of the PGNiG anniversary of the European oil industry, which is pro-environmental projects. The jointly implemenGroup are engaged in numerous other sociallyconsidered to have begun with the establishment ted projects are also aimed to support education. focused initiatives in cooperation with local partners, by Ignacy Łukasiewicz and Tytus Trzecieski of For more details, see Best Practices. also carrying out projects which promote the a crude oil mine in Bóbrka, and the 5th anniconcept of sustainable development. versary of the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Oil and Gas PGNiG’s representatives are also engaged in Industry Museum Foundation in Bóbrka. The Consustainable development initiatives of the public For more details, see Best Practices. gress, which was organised by the Board of the administration authorities. On May 8th 2009, the Association of Engineers and Technicians of the Oil President of the Council of Ministers appointed and Gas Industry, was focused on “Present-Day the members of the Corporate Social ResponsiChallenges and Trends in Petroleum Production, bility Team. The task that lies before the Team Oil Processing and Gas Distribution in Poland”. members consists in creating the best conditions conducive to the development of CSR in Poland The Congress serves as a forum for the industry, and, in particular, in promoting solutions supas well as members of the European Parliament, porting coordination of efforts undertaken by representatives of the Ministry of Economy, prethe public administration bodies. sidents and directors of institutes and companies active in the Polish oil and gas industry, local authorities and persons whose everyday work is connected with the industry. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 65 The grant offered by PGNiG has certainly helped in Schools named my studies as I bought my first laptop. By having after Ignacy Łukasiewicz a computer that I can carry round I can study At the beginning of the 2008/2009 school year, where I want. I don’t have to do it at home – I can the PGNiG Foundation commenced cooperation study or prepare projects wherever I am. Additiowith schools named after Ignacy Łukasiewicz. The nally, I was able to buy several books on chemical cooperation involves provision of funds to finance engineering and technology which I hope to use extra classes for children and youth. We support 20 for my job in the future schools, mainly in southern parts of Poland. We have received many interesting programmes con8.4 PGNiG SA’s Paweł Czajka, Warsaw University of Technology cerning both educational classes at school (interest Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation development, knowledge consolidation, compenSupporting volunteer work initiatives adds satory classes) and field classes (e.g. trips following PGNiG SA’s Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation yet another dimension to our operations. The Ignacy Łukasiewicz’s footsteps). draws on the traditions of Ignacy Łukasiewicz’s Foundation is a strategic partner of the “Student community involvement. In accordance with Volunteers” Programme run by the Polish-AmeriFor instance, primary school pupils in Kryg were able the Sustainable Development and Responsible can Freedom Foundation, whose aim consists in to extend their knowledge of the history and culture Business Strategy, the Foundation is a key tool in equalling educational opportunities of children and of where they and their families live during German implementing the PGNiG Group’s social initiayouth living in rural and non-urban areas while and English classes, while learning vocabulary relatives. The Foundation works together with PGNiG promoting the concept of voluntary involvement. ted to historic buildings and monuments, geography branches and subsidiaries. We are most concerned The youth are presented with positive role models and history. Their task was to locate “seven wonders to ensure that the initiatives we support are longand they are inspired to engage in creative deveof Kryg”. Children made photographs, interviewed -term programmes and that they are supported lopment and pursuit of knowledge. The students local citizens and then prepared reports on their through partnership with patrons other than the are provided with an opportunity to engage in activities in the foreign languages. PGNiG Foundation; thus, it is important for us to the implementation of various, frequently novel know that these programmes solve real problems methods of activities and endeavours for the Students of the Complex of Schools in Nowa Sarzyna and lead to lasting social changes. sake of other people. The young invest their time, organised a club of young moviemakers. energy and efforts to show new horizons to the The Foundation is particularly involved in youngest children who have a rough start in life The young moviemakers used IT programmes supporting science and education – all member and they simply spend time with them. Commupurchased with using the subsidies offered by the undertakings of the PGNiG Group fall back on the nity involvement is a great adventure and it can Foundation. The movies they produced were broadfindings and insights of the sciences, hence we leave a lasting positive mark on students’ lives. For cast by the local cable network and shown on web are so much committed to the promotion of the students, not only is it an opportunity to find out portals. Furthermore, the students also arranged a sciences among children and youth. new things, but it is also a way to find their way in studio for the school TV network. In addition, schools life and affirm the belief that they can overcome often receive donations from the PGNiG FoundaIn 2009, a scholarship fund was established with any obstacles and make their dreams come true. tion to acquire the necessary school and sports a view to supporting the best students of technical equipment. universities where oil and gas specialisations are The “Student Volunteers” Programme is an taught. The assistance is meant for top performing example of partnership working – on behalf of In the second semester of the 2008/2009 school students who can share their knowledge with the Polish-American Freedom Foundation, it was year, 1,366 hours of extracurricular classes were others by participating in student-volunteer proimplemented by the Polish Association of Pedaheld, in which 1,452 students took part, while grammes, extracurricular apprenticeship schemes gogues and Youth Animators Klanza (currently 1,796 students participated in 1,127 classes in the or by pursuing initiatives on their own. the Programme is run by the Foundation for the first semester of the 2009/2010 school year. Development of Volunteerism). The Ministry of Thanks to the grant offered by PGNiG SA’s National Education exercises honorary patronage Ignacy Łukasiewicz Foundation I was able to take over the Programme. The PGNiG foundation is the language courses which helped me improve my strategic partner. English and German. I was also able to expand my knowledge of geophysics and geology by In 2009, 178 educational schemes were executed taking part in the Third Geophysics Workshops as part of the cooperation with the PGNiG Geosfera as well as in GAP (Geophysical Activity Foundation, in which participated 3,500 pupils Programme) workshops which took place in from 1,500 schools and 6,000 university students Karlsruhe, Germany. I also took a geology-theliving mostly in the Rzeszów, Warsaw and Olszmed trip to Munich. In addition, I used the funds tyn provinces. I received from the Foundation to buy books and computer equipment, which greatly help me study geophysics. Monika Ujma, Stanisław Staszic AGH University of Science and Technology 66 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities My knowledge of English improved tremendously. Complex of Schools in Nowa Conversations made me feel much more confident Sarzyna and I am not afraid to speak English anymore. Chess club Paweł Potok, student Chess is often referred to as a royal game. And no wonder, because the ability to play chess was The trip “Following Ignacy Łukasiewicz’s foota skill highly valued at the European royal courts steps” gave me more knowledge about the life back in the olden days. This has not changed until and work of Ignacy Łukasiewicz and his links with today – chess has been one of the most intereGorlice where we live. Also, I saw a collection of sting games in the world. I have played chess in School of Young paraffin lamps in the museums in Bóbrka and our chess club for a year. I attended the first class Mathematicians Krosno – some of them are real masterpieces. out of curiosity and I have stayed with the club The School of Young Mathematicians is a prize for I learned a very interesting history of the town of until today. I expanded the range of my hobbies the winners of the Hugon Steinhaus Mathematics Krosno and found out about the culture of people and I also met many people who like playing chess Competition in Jasło. In 2010, the winners of the who inhabited that area in the past. I also learnt as much as I do. Competition went on a trip to Wroclaw as Hugon about the crude oil extraction process in the past Steinhaus’ life evolved around this city. The young and how the oil industry evolved and changed its Urszula Nowakowska people had an opportunity to learn about the life application over the years. and work of the mathematician, but they were also Running the chess club has been a challenge for able to develop their interest in mathematics and Anna Firlit, student me because I have never done anything like that sciences and gained knowledge of how to apply before. I have played chess for many years, but the new abilities to solve real-life problems. The Chairing a thematic club devoted to the life and I never taught chess rules or strategies to anyone. participants met with such people as an academic work of Ignacy Łukasiewicz encouraged me to Watching students developing their skills, enjoying of the Wrocław University of Technology, who find out more about the life and achievements of successes playing chess or simply having a good made a brief presentation of the university’s history the patron of our school. As a result, the students time has been a great source of pleasure to me and showed them around a few university facilities, were able to grasp that Ignacy Łukasiewicz was as well. By meeting students competing at the including the Hugon Steinhaus Centre. Young not only an eminent inventor but also a social chessboard and taking them to chess competitions mathematicians also visited the Mikołaj Kopernik activist and patriot. I wish to emphasise how the I was able to get to know them better, see their Planetarium and Astronomical Observatory in youth are interested in the links Ignacy Łukastrengths and weaknesses and, in the end, apply Chorzów and the Gold Mine in Złoty Stok. siewicz had with the Gorlice region and how he my knowledge in my educational work. Chess is shaped the traditions of our school – the traditions one of my passions, so running the chess club which I, as a history teacher and form master, try and teaching and playing chess has been a great PGNiG Basic Vocational School to inspire in my students. pleasure to me. (ZSZ PGNiG) – Kraków Organising additional classes helped students Anna Belczyk, teacher Dorota Osipa, chess club head make up for the lack of maths knowledge, resulting from differing education levels of junior By participating in after-school classes and Movie club secondary schools, practically consolidate the activities conducted by Ms Anna Belczyk I found skills gained in maths classes and stimulate stuout more about the patron of our school Ignacy We regularly make short-movie news reports on dents developing logical thinking skills. We made Łukasiewicz. After an educational movie we watour school life. While making these movies I found additional analyses of maths problems and issues ched and a class in the museum I discovered that out many interesting things about the way movies which are not discussed because teachers do not not only was he the inventor of the paraffin lamp can be produced. I learnt a lot about film editing have time for that or these issue are excluded and that he was the first one to extract crude oil in and I know how to arrange a small studio for news from curricula despite being necessary to solve areas nearby Gorlice, but I also learnt about many recording. I know how to operate a movie camera tasks in other technical subjects at school. We interesting facts about his life which were not and what functions it has; I am also able to record aroused students’ interest in maths and improved known to me. I had known him to be a renowned and prepare a news report on important events at student activity during classes. By participating in inventor but I was never interested in what kind of our school. By making these movies I learnt about the classes students also developed their reading human being he was. Comparing the knowledge cropping or caption keys. I also found out about comprehension, memorising, logical thinking and about our patron I had a year ago with what the hard work of news reporters covering events counting skills. In addition, we reviewed the mateI know now, I can say that all these educational at our school. I would also like to add that benefits rial for the secondary-school leaving examination. efforts were up to their task. I got to know Ignacy arising from participation in the movie club are Łukasiewicz to be an eminent researcher and valuable not only to me but also to people living Juliana Golec, teacher also a sensitive man devoted to his country and in Nowa Sarzyna who get an insight into the life of other people, who by all means deserves to be the our school. I was taught lessons which I did not understand at patron of our school and a role model for younger school, without having to pay for private lessons generations. Maciej Rajzer that I cannot afford. Urszula Wszołek, student Mateusz Pawlak, student Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 67 Wojciech Janas Head of Marketing Gas distribution company Gazownia Rzeszowska Carpathian Gas Trading Division PGNiG plays an active role in the lives of local 8.5 Social and Sponsoring Projects communities, and it is hardly surprising that it does. In many regions of Poland we are one The PGNiG subsidiaries and branches are involved of the largest Employers (e.g. the Carpathian in issues important to local communities, engaging Gas Trading Division), and our business activity in initiatives and sponsoring projects in the drives the whole region’s economic developsame areas as those undertaken by the PGNiG ment. We therefore consider it our duty to foster Foundation. In 2009, the PGNiG Group drew up the good relations with the communities where we Sponsoring Strategy, which was aligned with the operate. We do our best to learn and understand Strategy of Sustainable Development and Respontheir needs and expectations, while clarifying sible Business and specified the rules and criteria any concerns. We wish to be part of the local for selecting the initiatives to be supported. communities, which is why we care about our employees, who also belong there. We operate on the assumption that the PGNiG Group, as a vital element of the Polish economy, should also include social aspects in activities whose direct goal is advertising and promotion. Therefore our sponsoring and marketing projects frequently serve social purposes – we support such areas as education at Polish schools, or sports and culture, and provide assistance to the disabled. Education is of particular importance for both the Group and the Foundation. Since 2008, the PGNiG Group has been engaged in projects of educational and social nature – arts and science festivals. Each festival lasts several days and features popular science events which are to make even most complex scientific topics easily understandable, often using humour. This makes the festivals popular among children and teenagers as well as adults. In 2009, the Group sponsored the arts and science festivals in Kraków, Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Warszawa, Olsztyn, Wrocław and Siedlce. Whenever possible, our representatives participate in shows and lectures, and even This is particularly significant in the upstream organise lectures as part of the art and science sector – 100% of the entities in this segment festivals at PGNiG own premises. include environmental and social elements in their external communications, considering them to be Another important aspect, actively supported as important (100% – important or very important). part of the Group’s sponsoring and marketing activities and closely related to our operations, is Another group of projects combining the social protection of the environment. We eagerly engage involvement of PGNiG subsidiaries and branches in both local and large-scale projects that may with their marketing goals is sport sponsoring. influence social attitudes in this area. This form of cooperation is expected by our stakeholders, therefore many PNGiG entities support Research conducted in 2009 shows that as much local clubs and sport events. For many years the as 87.5% of the subsidiaries, branches and gas PGNiG Branch in Sanok and the Jasielsk gas distridistribution companies of the Group declare to bution company have been involved, for example, include environmental and social elements in their in the Gorlice Oil Run, while Karpacka Spółka external communications, which, in the opinion Gazownictwa has been supporting the Karpaty of almost 90% of the respondents, is important or Courier Race and Run For a Smile race organised very important. by SOS Wioski Dziecięce in Kraśnik. The Gdańsk gas distribution company has been sponsoring 68 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities A noteworthy example of PGNiG’s commitment to supporting Polish culture is our involvement in Jan Jakub Kolski’s latest film production under the title Wenecja. The film, whose script is based on a book by Włodzimierz Odojewski, explores the universal theme of growing up. It is set during World War II in a house which has a cellar containing a dream world. PGNiG was really keen to support the newest production by one of the most interesting Polish film directors. In addition, that cooperation has paved the way for another original project – the film entitled “Poland’s Underground Tr e a s u r e s – f r o m a B l u e D r o p l e t o f G a s t o a G o l d Tr a i l o n a Screen”, which offers an unconventional take on the fuel and energy industry and its founder Ignacy Łukasiewicz. We hope that the project will spread knowledge of Bóbrka, the village where the global oil industry w a s b o r n . Yo u c a n s t i l l w i t n e s s i t s b e g i n n i n g s b y v i s i t i n g the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Museum in Bóbrka, an institution financed and developed by the Oil and Gas Industry Museum Foundation, founded in 2004 by PGNiG, PKN Orlen races of dragon boats in Gdańsk. There are many a n d S T i P N i G . V i e w t h e e x c e p t i o n a l f i l m o n w w w. p g n i g . p l more examples of such activities. Another nationo r w w w. o d p o w i e d z i a l n a e n e r g i a . p l . wide project is also worth a mention – in 2009, PGNiG SA continued cooperation with the Polish Rowing Association (PZTW). We hope that this will help to popularise rowing as a sport particularly associated with the beauty of nature, and the tremendous successes of our Olympic champions from Beijing – the crew of four: Marek Kolbowicz, Konrad Wasilewski, Michał Jeliński and Adam Korol. The initiative was particularly popular among sailing fans from south-eastern Poland. Since 2008, PGNiG SA has been involved in the “PGNiG Safe by the Water” project, promoting In January 2010, PGNiG commenced its coopesailing but also safe and environmentally-friendly ration with the Polish Handball Federation and use of the nature’s charms. Sadly, every year became a strategic sponsor of the Polish men’s, many Poles who take a relaxing time by the sea women’s, and juniors national teams as well as will never be able to experience holidays again, as a title sponsor of premier men’s and women’s shown by the drowning statistics. The objective of teams. We strongly believe that the cooperation the initiative, which in 2010 had its third edition, with the Polish Handball Federation and rowing is to promote healthy lifestyle as well as safe and Olympic champions will help promote these environmentally-friendly conduct while spending disciplines and improve the teams’ performances, time by the water. The event was held under the and will not only popularise these sports, but honorary patronage of the minister of sport and also increase Polish people’s physical activity and tourism, it was also supported by the Voluntary encourage them to lead a healthy lifestyle. Water Rescue Service (WOPR) of Masuria and Sopot. The crew of four Olympic champions from PGNiG also participates in numerous events imporBeijing participated in the event. “We are engaged tant for Polish culture and art. We sponsor local in this campaign because it promotes safety as well initiatives through the chain of gas distribution as positive attitudes towards the environment and companies, our branches and other subsidiaries of an active, healthy lifestyle,” said Adam Korol, one the PGNiG Group. Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa of the champions. The “PGNiG Safe by the Water” of Tarnów, the PGNiG Branches of Sanok and Zieproject involves educational activities as well as lona Góra, and the Karpacki Gas Trading Division unforgettable sport and sailing experiences. of Tarnów, have a particularly rich tradition in this respect. More information, including information In 2010, a similar initiative, Safe Solina, addreson the awards received for these initiatives, sed to families spending time by the water, was is presented at the end of this section. organised by the PGNiG Branch of Sanok near the Solina Lake in the Province of Rzeszów. The project The Group companies also support the Gas involved educational activities promoting proIndustry Museums in Paczków and at the PGNiG ecological attitudes and safety by the water. Head Office, at ul. Kasprzaka 25 in Warsaw. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 69 8.6 Plans for the Future Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa, PGNiG, Eko Gaz Foundation: Above all, PGNiG intends to continue implementing First multimedia exhibition on social objectives of our Strategy of Sustainable natural gas in Poland. Development. We are planning to participate in In May 2010, the first multimedia exhibition on company events and events promoting social 8.7 Best Practices natural gas was opened at the Ignacy Łukasiewicz responsibility, and issue further CSR Reports. We Gas Industry Museum in Bóbrka. The exhibition hope to undertake more initiatives, jointly with POOG Gazownia Gdańska: is arranged into six rooms, each with a different other oil and gas companies, with the signatories Cooperation with the Centre theme, from gas formation in geological layers of of the Declaration on sustainable development for Pro-Ecological Information the earth, to its uses. The visitors are taken to the in the energy sector, and with the Polish Energy and Education and Educational mysterious interior of the earth, where, thanks Regulatory Office, Ministry of Economy and Establishments to a confluence of light, sound and image, they Ministry of the Environment. Our actions focus on disseminating information learn where and how gas forms, and then how about natural gas and science among children it is found and extracted and how it gets to such PGNiG also plans to continue cooperation with and teenagers. To do that, we organise a series places as factories, bakeries, or our houses, and Pracodawcy RP (Polish Employers) on the of events and competitions, an example of which finally what it is used for. “Coalition for Responsible Business” project, might be the “Let an Apple Hit Your Head” contest, co-funded by the EU. The purpose of the project addressed to primary and secondary school The exhibition was created with a view to dissemiis to disseminate CSR principles among Polish students from Gdańsk and Sopot. The competition nating information about the “blue fuel” in a clear businesses. In December 2009, we signed a letter was to encourage students to creatively interpret and accessible manner. The popular multimedia of intent with Konfederacja Pracodawców Polskich and present natural phenomena in the areas of form of the exhibition was chosen, which means (Polish Employers’ Confederation, currently ecology, physics, chemistry, and technology, and that the visitors learn about natural gas not only Pracodawcy RP) providing for the cooperation to put their knowledge into practice. The contestfrom the guide and by looking at exhibits, but also on the project. ants conducted independent experiments in the by means of light, sound and images. Sometimes area they had selected from the list provided to films and presentations can explain information Furthermore, eager to share our experience, we them, and then presented the selected issue and which cannot be expressed by words or exhibits. take steps to get our branches and foreign subsithe experiment. Teachers were allowed to support The exhibition was arranged in a way that allows diaries involved in execution of socially responsitheir students by sharing their knowledge and to add new exhibits, presentations and films, and ble projects. We intend to focus on efficiency, and suggesting useful sources of information. the management staff would welcome new addito this end we have joined the Group of Founders tions and any suggestions concerning this matter. of the LBG (London Benchmarking Group) Polska, Mazowiecka Spółka which is composed of such companies as: BZ WBK, Gazownictwa: Partnership The idea of the first modern exhibition on natural Danone, GlaxoSmithKline, Ikea and Żywiec Zdrój. with the Satori Foundation, gas was initiated at Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa The LBG model is currently one of the most reliasupporting persons excluded and was implemented with the financial support ble methods of measuring and reporting efficiency from the society of PGNiG and the Eko Gaz Foundation. Within of social initiatives undertaken by businesses. In The company supports projects which help several months all renovation work has been Poland, it is implemented by CSR Consulting. solve pressing social problems in Poland. Under completed, the films and presentations prepared, the agreement with the Satori Foundation, our and the decoration of each room agreed upon. Next year we also intend to launch a project employees participate in the CSR project WSPAK The project was coordinated by Bożena Malagaaiming at a more effective dialogue with the GroStreet Paper. The paper vendors are persons Wrona, KSG’s representative, and construction was up’s stakeholders, leading to further improvement excluded from the society – the permanently overseen by the Board composed of the following of the relationship. unemployed, homeless and disabled. The vendors persons: Artur Grodziński (project’s designer), Ewa receive half of the profit, the other half is allocated Król (PGNiG Branch of Sanok), Tadeusz Godzisz to the printing costs. This initiative enables people (Zakład Robót Górniczych of Krosno), Kazimierz facing difficult life situation to regain self-esteem Wajda (Rafineria Nafty Jedlicze), Czesław Bobek and earn the living in a respectable way. Most (Member of the Management Board of the Bobrka importantly, WSPAK is a remarkable social initiaFoundation), Bohdan Gocz (Gas Industry Museum tive, launched by a group of journalists engaged in in Bóbrka). social work. It is the second paper of this type in Poland and 108th in the world. WSPAK distribuKarpacka Spółka Gazownictwa: tors first appeared in our office at ul. Krucza in support for archaeology December 2009 and since then the papers has research studies been published once every two months. The In 2010, KSG provided funds for archaeology distributors may be met not only at Mazowiecka research studies on two significant archaeologiSpółka Gazownictwa’s office, but also at other cal finds – a site in Wilczyce in the Sandomierz companies and offices in Warsaw, including the county and a burg city found in Trzcinica near Municipal Office of Warsaw, offices of Polskie Jasło, which is called the Troy of the Carpathians. Koleje Państwowe (national railway operator), in The Carpathian Troy is a heritage park situated at the campuses of the University of Warsaw and the site of a Slavic fortified settlement dating back SGGW (Warsaw University of Life Sciences). to the early Middle Ages. Trzcinica was a centre of 70 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities the Management and Economics Department of the Gdańsk Technical University. The project’s priorities also include the promotion of ethical practices in business as a corporate asset which builds reputation and stakeholder confidence. For Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa, the agreement is a natural consequence of the reorganisation of the company’s corporate culture in line with the sustainable development and responsible business strategy initiated in 2008. PSG was the first Poland-based gas company to participate in the Global Compact initiative; in addition, the company also joined the Responsible Business Forum Partnership Programme. The Management and local power, one of the strongest between Kraków Economics Department of the Gdańsk Technical and Przemyśl, and one of the earliest and most University is one of the leading research centres in powerful castles in the Małopolska region. the Pomerania region, where the curriculum has included subjects discussing business ethics and A human outpost, which dates back to the corporate social responsibility since the incepPalaeolithic era (15,000 years old), was situated in tion of the Department. The students are taught Wilczyce. Around 50,000 artifacts were discovered ethics-related subjects throughout the course in that area, which provide a comprehensive picof their studies. The issues of corporate social ture of the human presence on the site. The main responsibility are also subject of MBA courses and identified items included flint products, bones Public Relations post-graduate programmes. In indicating food eaten as well as arms and artworks 2009, students of the Management and Econommade of bone and mammoth tusk. In addition, ics Department and the Forum of Responsible conventional figurines of Venus were excavated, Business organised a CSR conference (“CSR as which were made in line with the Magdalenian responsibility for property. Corporate social era patterns. However, the most valuable find was responsibility – building competitive advantage a very well-preserved skeleton of an eight-monthor building civilization”) under the auspices of the old premature girl. Additionally, valuable family Ministry of State Treasury. possessions were found near the skeleton. The Wilczyce find is unique on the European scale, Sanok Division: support for Górnośląska Spółka and several scientific and popular science articles and cooperation with schools Gazownictwa: cooperation with were published worldwide discussing the find. The named after Ignacy Łukasiewicz Vattenfall: Safety at Home Institute of PAN (the Polish Academy of Sciences) The Sanok Division organises and supports compecampaign supervising the excavations plans to publish the titions testing knowledge of Ignacy Łukasiewicz’s The fifth edition of the Safety at Home initiative results of the archaeological research in 2011; life and heritage, ecology competitions, edulasted from September to December 2009. there are also plans to produce a TV report for Discational programmes, youth athletics meeting covery Chanel. KSG considers continued cooperaand integration meetings. Around 200 children The Safety at Home campaign aims at making the tion in this respect. participate in each such event. public, preventive forces and owners and managers of buildings aware of threats related to illegal Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa: Sanok Division: support for the connecting to gas and electrical infrastructure and cooperation with the International Pianists’ Forum – theft of gas and electricity , as such practices pose Management and Economics Bieszczady Without Borders real threat not only to the perpetrators but also to Department of the Gdańsk The Forum is a large meeting of musically-gifted other people. A dedicated “safety telephone line” Technical University on youth from all around Poland and the Carpathian was launched a few years ago for reporting illegal business ethics Euroregion, where young virtuosos can be seen. gas connections, suspected theft of gas, damage The cooperation agreement, executed on April The Forum enables also the participants to take to and unusual elements of gas network or infra9th 2010, aims at establishing a platform for piano master classes, share experiences and structure. All reports forwarded to the 24-hour exchanging experience and expertise in ethical take first steps on the professional stages of phone line are carefully checked. Information on and socially responsible practices in business, Lviv, Kosice and Bratislava. Operating under the strengthening business based on ethical principles auspices of the Ministry of Culture, the Forum has at PSG and promoting education on professional become a fixed date in the calendar of the largest work ethics principles among the students of and most important musical initiatives in Poland. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 71 At the end of the lessons there was a contest of artworks showing how to use gas and electricity safely. To date, the Safety at Home campaign has involved nearly 30,000 primary school pupils of Bytom, Chorzów, Częstochowa, Gliwice, Kędzierzyn-Koźle, Ruda Śląska, Świętochłowice and Zabrze. Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa: Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa: the Division of Olsztyn Cooperation with universities Zakład Gazowniczy – Safe Gas and schools, campaigns for competition children and the youth, charity At the end of March 2009, PSG OZG of Olsztyn events and support for science and the Fifth Comprehensive Secondary School of In 2009, the company provided funding for the Olsztyn held a Safe Gas (Bezpieczny gaz) contest purchase of equipment for the state-of-the-art for junior and senior secondary school students language laboratory at the Centre of Modern Techliving in the Olsztyn province. The goal of the nologies of the State Higher School of Vocational competition was to bring to light the benefits Education in Tarnów. Using the new equipment, and advantages of using natural gas and to lecturers can conduct classes for groups but, also, educate young people about the safe use of gas the equipment enables pair-work or individual appliances. For the contest entrants submitted study. A high quality of the audio equipment free-form work s on the subject “Natural gas – helps enhance phonetic abilities. The laboratory is suspected theft can be also reported by sending an environment-friendly source of energy. How mostly used by language students and partician e-mail to bezpieczenstwo@gsgaz.pl. The Safety to use it safely and reasonably?” The honorary pants of language courses. The campaign Szkoła at Home campaign has also been promoted at patronage over the contest was held by the dobrze wychowana (Well brought-up school) is schools where the youngest pupils are told about governor of the Olsztyn province and the Olsztyn an initiative co-organised by Zakład Gazowniczy how to safely use gas and electricity. Classes are Centre for Environmental Education). Sixty-eight of Lublin, the Lublin school superintendent and concluded with a contest of posters made by the junior and senior secondary school students living Radio eR. The new initiative promoted positive pupils, illustrating how to use gas and electricity in the Olsztyn province took part in the contest behaviours and responsible raising of the youth. in a safe manner. The most appealing posters are finale held in April 2009. Primary schools, junior secondary schools and then used in calendars and promotional materials senior secondary schools in the Lublin area were published by the company. In addition to radio invited to participate in the project. spots and posters displayed at bus stops, last year’s campaign was also addressed to first to Partnership of Zakład Gazowniczy of Tarnów third grade pupils of Chorzów and Świętochłowice in regular charity campaigns organised by the schools and those living in Kędzierzyn-Koźle (for association Ich lepsze jutro (Better tomorrow for the first time in the Opole region). Nearly 5,000 them), which operates at the Specialist Centre pupils from 41 primary schools in the Silesia region for Children’s Rehabilitation, and the Prometeusz participated in last year’s edition of the campaign. foundation at the Special School and Education During the classes conducted by highly-qualified Centre. The meetings and campaigns are designed staff the pupils learnt about where gas comes to integrate handicapped persons with the comfrom, what it is used for and how to use it safely. munity, while promoting voluntary service and The pupils were also warned of things to watch organizing free-time activities for children and the out for in home electrical and gas systems, such as youth. loosely hanging cables or damaged gas metres. The Roztańczona Europa (Dancing Europe) International Youth Meetings aim at promoting folk culture and regional traditions among children and the youth. Groups from around Europe (Ukraine, France, Moldavia, Poland) present their culture and traditions during joint concerts and folklore workshops. Zakład Gazowniczy of Kraków is a partner in the initiative. 72 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities 8.7.1 Best Practices Abroad Geofizyka Toruń: Cooperation with local communities Geofizyka Toruń boasts broad experience in performing seismic surveys. The company has been capturing new markets for many years , always in line with the approved corporate social responsibility policies. In 2009, it started its first seismic data acquisition project in Thailand. In order to enter this new market Geofizyka Toruń had to analyse Thailand's legal system, ensure compliance with all, and obtain work permits in particular. The project in Thailand entailed facing the challenge of functioning in an unfamiliar and very different culture. Thai holidays, such as the Songkran festival (the traditional New Year celebrated for several days in April), were free from work and Polish employees devoted their leisure time to visit such places of interest as Prasad Phimai, an ancient Khmer sanctuary. It helped develop harmonious relations with the local community (e.g.: a visit paid by staff from a local university). During the preparatory phase, a branch in Bangkok In order to express gratitude for such a welcome, was established to satisfy the formal and legal after the project completion the company donated requirements. The main challenge consisted in the computer hardware and office appliances to organisation of dynamite seismic surveys, and field a local school, and drugs which were not used supervision by a representative of the state adminby a field hospital, replenished the stocks of the istration. Additionally, appropriate procedures had project's nearby hospital. to be followed as the area abounds in archeological sites (approximately 240 protected zones). In line with the company’s policy and terms of POGC Libya: Environmental the contract, particular emphasis was put on Programme co-operation with and employment of local comPOGC Libya, a member of the PGNiG Group operatpanies (hiring workers, renting vehicles, shooting). ing in Libya launched a social programme aimed at On average, more than 530 locals were contracted raising public awareness of safety, healthy lifestyle per month (approx. 95% of the seismic group). and environmental protection, including the All employees were provided with industrial rational use of energy. The programme is implesafety training, protective clothing and boots. The mented in cooperation with the National Youth importance of HSE measures was also stressed Council in Tripoli and local authorities in the region during a meeting of the company’s President where the company conducts operations. During with the seismic group staff. In February 2010, the meetings with young people, POGC Libya disthe company completed the project successfully, cusses not only best practices followed in its eveachieving the projected zero rate of work-related ryday operations, care for and procedures related accidents and establishing excellent relations with to waste management and water use, but also its the local community. concerns for the cultural heritage (of archeological finds discovered in the area). One of the presentations was devoted to the harmful effects of drugs and risky behaviour among teenagers. Another presentation entitled “Environmental protection is everyone’s responsibility” explained the basic terms and notions of environmental protection. It also demonstrated how young people could act for the benefit of their immediate environment and our planet. Several hundred participants of these meetings expressed their favourable opinions on the programme. Surprisingly, they claimed they had never heard of an energy company engaging in this type of activities. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 73 8.8 Awards Awards obtained by PGNiG companies in the Local Community category in the period January 2009–June 2010 Entity Awards Awarding organization Reasons for the award/ Criteria / Grounds Trade and Storage Carpathian Gas Trading Jasło Culture Patron 2009 Mayor of Jasło Granting the award, the mayor of Jasło emphasized the significant Division, Gas Sales Unit role of patronage in developing cultural life in Jasło and expressed in Sandomierz her willingness to promote the activities of cultural benefactors. She stressed the company’s generosity and reliability in organising and supporting activities for town’s cultural development, active involvement in local initiatives as well as its positive image as a Culture Patron among town residents. Carpathian Gas Trading Summary of the cultural year 2009 in City Office of Zamość The Company supported two festivals – the Festival of Italian Division, Gas Sales Unit Zamość Culture “Arte, Cultura, Musica, E…” and Marek Grechuta Cultural in Sandomierz Festival of Zamość Carpathian Gas Trading New Year’s Meeting of Athletes City Office of The award in the category of ‘Promoter of Sport in Sandomierz’. Division, Gas Sales Unit Sandomierz PGNiG SA CGTD, Gas Sales Unit in Sandomierz was honoured for its in Sandomierz contribution to the development and support of sports clubs and associations. The award was granted on the basis of the number of recommendations sent by sports clubs and sections in the town. In the analysed period the gas sales unit cooperated with the Handball Association Wisła and Interschool Student Sports Club Piątka – handball section. Pomeranian Gas Thread of Understanding Certificate Primary School No. The certificate was granted for joint efforts to promote sustainable Trading Division, Gas 18 in Elbląg and the development, under the Green Thread of Understanding AgreeSales Unit in Gdańsk Cooperative Community ment concluded between the Zakrzewo Cooperative and Primary Centre, the Zakrzewo School No. 18. In 2009 the Company participated in various school Cooperative in Elbląg initiatives related to the protection of the natural environment. They were designed to raise the ecological awareness of the students and inhabitants of the Zawada residential district and to integrate them. Pomeranian Gas Partner 2009 Marshall of the Province The award was granted on the initiative of provincial cultural instiTrading Division, Gas of Olsztyn tutions run by local governments. The Company was honoured for Sales Unit in Gdańsk supporting vital cultural institutions, such as Stefan Jaracz Theatre, the Museum of Warmia and Masuria. Pomeranian Gas Silver Mask Stefan Jaracz Theatre Support for the theatre in Olsztyn. The Company implemented Trading Division, Gas an eco-idea, which was aimed at educating the inhabitants of Sales Unit in Gdańsk the region by persuading them to use eco-bags. Every ticket for Meetings of Theatres in Olsztyn was accompanied by an eco-bag with the logo of PGNiG and Meetings of Theatres in Olsztyn. In this way we distributed 10,000 eco-bags. Pomeranian Gas Gold Statuette of “Friend of the Earth” Ecological Education The award was granted for nine-year-long consistent support for Trading Division, Gas Centre in Olsztyn eco-teams in the region of Warmia and Masuria Sales Unit in Gdańsk Distribution Dolnośląska Spółka Lower Silesian Success Key Association for the Promotion of socially involved business, which, consciously and Gazownictwa Promotion of Lower responsibly, assumes ethical, ecological and social obligations in Silesia keeping with the broad interests of the community. Laurels of Eco-Friendship Polish Centre of Statuettes were given to persons and institutions renowned for Education, Promotion of the promotion of ecology in Lower Silesia. The award is a recogniEcological Products and tion of activities aimed at supporting ecological education. Appliances “Association Ekonature” Górnośląska Spółka Tygodnik Regionalny Gazownictwa Goniec Górnośląski weekly 74 PGNiG Responsible Energy Local Communities Silesian Oscar 2008 Tygodnik Regionalny The award was granted for undertaking new challenges and Goniec Górnośląski implementing initiatives designed to promote Silesia in Poland and weekly abroad as well as for creating a new vision of the region worthy of future generations. Honorary Title “Friend of the Silesian Adam Graczyński The title was granted to GSG by the Board of Foundation and Scholarship Fund Foundation” Silesian Scholarship conferred upon it during the scholarship awarding ceremony of Fund Foundation the 17th and 18th editions of the Silesian Scholarship Fund. Platinum Media Leaf 2009 Committee of the Media The award for the campaign Safety at Home launched with Programme “Poland Vattenfall. It focused on educating the youngest gas and electricity in Europe – Europe in consumers how to use the utilities in a safe way. The company Poland” was also awarded for consistent expansion and modernization of the gas network in Silesia and the region of Opole, which translates into safe and reliable supplies of natural gas to its consumers. Medal for the 90th Anniversary of Polish Association of On November 6th, during a jubilee session a historical paper was PZITS Engineers and Sanitary read out and distinguished members of the association received Technicians (PZITS) commemorative medals. Golden Laurels of Skills and CompeChamber of Commerce The award was granted for the active participation of employees tence in the category of ‘Socially and Industry in in the life of local communities by helping those in need; for Responsible Company’ Katowice financial support of important medical centres, among others: the Burns Treatment Centre in Siemianowice Śląskie, Hematology and Children’s Oncology Unit in Zabrze, Foundation of the Silesian Centre of Heart Diseases; for sponsoring Adam Graczyński Silesian Scholarship Fund Foundation. The Fund supports gifted students of various fields, who are in a difficult financial situation and receive top grades. The Golden Laurels in this category were awarded by popular vote organised by Polska Dziennik Zachodni and www.laury.eu Karpacka Spółka Medal for the 750th anniversary of City of Kraków The award represents the city’s gratitude for saving the cultural Gazownictwa Kraków’s incorporation and national heritage. Tarnów Culture Patron 2008 City of Tarnów The title is awarded to persons and companies supporting culture and art institutions in Tarnów. Medal for the 90th anniversary of AGH University of The award was granted in recognition of the company’s comprethe AGH University of Science and Science and Technology hensive support for teaching and research conducted by the Technology of Kraków university. Statuette of Misericors Caritas in Tarnów The statuette for sponsors and volunteers of Caritas in Tarnów. Patron of the Cultural Centre in Cultural Centre in The title is awarded to persons and institutions supporting the Przemyśl Przemyśl Cultural Centre in Przemyś. Mazowiecka Spółka Platinum Media Leaf Studio and Programme The award is granted for supporting sector education. Gazownictwa Centre of the Press, Radio and Television Warsaw-KatowiceKraków, Committee of the Media Programme “Poland in Europe – Europe in Poland” Partner CSR Satoris Foundation The award for the support of projects designed to solve pressing social problems in Poland. Patron 2009 Centre of Polish The award is granted in recognition of the Company’s involvement Sculpture in Orańsk in cultural events organized by this institution in 2009. Granite Tulip 2009 Committee formed The aim of the competition is to promote companies and instiby the Chamber of tutions, which through their professionalism, management and Commerce and Industry implementation of new technologies contributed to the developin the Radom region ment of the Radom region and gained a prominent position in Mazovia and in Poland. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 75 Pomorska Spółka Friend of Children Society of the Friends of The title awarded to express gratitude for previous cooperation Gazownictwa Children and financial support. Ally of the Theatre Stefan Jaracz Theatre in The titled granted for support, which enables the theatre to Olsztyn develop and expand repertoire, for being an ally of culture. Medal of the Marshall of the Province Marshall of the Province Medal for services rendered for the region development. of Bydgoszcz of Bydgoszcz Patron of the Museum of Warmia and Museum of Warmia and Diploma for the support of museum’s activities. Masuria Masuria in Olsztyn Parton of the Garden of Arts in Mayor of Bydgoszcz The title granted for support of culture in the city in 2009. Bydgoszcz 2009, the statuette of the Golden Apple Wielkopolska Spółka Culture Patron Mayor of Kalisz The award was granted in recognition of the Company’s contribuGazownictwa tion to the city culture. In 2009, WSG supported the Days of Kalisz. Calendar Competition The award for the large format calendar of WSG, which featured Vidical, the Poster landscape photographs taken in Greater Poland Museum in Warszawa Exploration and Production PGNiG Jasło Jasło Culture Patron 2009 City Office of Jasło The award is granted to emphasize the significant role of patronage in developing cultural life in Jasło and promote the activities of cultural benefactors. Every year the statuette of ‘Jasło Culture Patron’ is awarded to persons and institutions, which support culture in the town and the Jasło region. PGNiG Nafta Success Leader Board of the County Nafta received the title of ‘Success Leader’ for promoting the Piła of Piła region and its business and social activities, which contributed to the development of the county. PGNiG Sanok Branch Golden Pin Forum Carpathian Culture For supporting musical education of young people and equaling Development opportunities of teenagers from small towns in the Carpathian Foundation Euroregion. PGNiG Zielona Góra Award for services for the Province of Regional Council of The award is granted to natural persons, state institutions and Branch Zielona Góra the Province of Zielona companies, the activity of which contributed to economic, cultural Góra and social development of the province. The branch has been involved in the life of the local community for many years. It is one of the biggest employers in the region and at the same time serves as a patron of various cultural and educational initiatives. Poszukiwania Naftowe Commercial award of the Mayor Mayor of Zielona Góra For the company’s active involvement in the development and life Diament of Zielona Góra “Citizen Friendly of the city and its local community. Company” 76 PGNiG Responsible Energy Coordinators Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Coordinators at the PGNiG Group PGNiG Head Office, Management Board’s Centralne Laboratorium PomiarowoProxy for Sustainable Development and Badawcze (Central Measuring and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Research Laboratory), PGNiG Branch Marzena Strzelczak Dariusz Pastuszka marzena.strzelczak@pgnig.pl dariusz.pastuszka@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22-691-82-01 Tel. +48 609-742-736 PGNiG Head Office, Sustainable DevelopPGNiG Branch in Egypt ment and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Coordinator Michał Kopczak michal.kopczak@pgnig.pl Katarzyna Mróz Tel. 201-8500-1994 katarzyna.mroz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22-691-82-11 PGNiG Head Office, Sustainable DevelopPGNiG Branch in Odolanów ment and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy Coordinator Katarzyna Chołast katarzyna.cholast@pgnig.pl Agnieszka Chmielarz Tel. +48 62-736-44-41 ext. 260 agnieszka.chmielarz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22-589-45-13 PGNiG Head Office, Lead Specialist for Operator Systemu Magazynowania (Storage Ecological Communication System Operator), PGNiG Branch Jakub Siewko Radosław Galbarczyk jakub.siewko@pgnig.pl radoslaw.galbarczyk@pgngi.pl Tel. +48 22-691-84-06 Tel. +48 22-691-80-49 PGNiG Branch in Sanok Ewa Król Ewa.Krol@sanok.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 13-465-23-90 PGNiG Branch in Zielona Góra Ewa Białowąs ewa.bialowas@zgora.pgnig.pl Tel. +48 68-329-16-28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 77 PGNiG Trading Divisions Gas distribution company Gazownia Gas distribution company Gazownia Jarosławska, Wałbrzyska, Dolnośląska Gas Trading Division Karpacka Gas Trading Division Wojciech Tymiak, Marcin Grząba, wojciech.tymiak@pgnig.pl marcin.grzaba@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 74-842-71-20 Tel. +48 16-624-52-83 Gas distribution company Gazownia Gas distribution company Gazownia Jasielska, Wrocławska, Dolnośląska Gas Trading Division Karpacka Gas Trading Division Piotr Wańczyk, Anna Miśkowicz piotr.wanczyk@pgnig.pl anna.miskowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 71-364-95-53 Tel. +48 13-443-73-63 Gas distribution company Gazownia Zgorzelecka, Gas distribution company Gazownia Kielecka, Dolnośląska Gas Trading Division Karpacka Gas Trading Division Małgorzata Bartos, Piotr Sobieraj malgorzata.bartos@pgnig.pl piotr.sobieraj@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 75-772-23-35 Tel. +48 41-349-34-20 Gas distribution company Gazownia Opolska, Gas distribution company Gazownia Krakowska, Górnośląska Gas Trading Division Karpacka Gas Trading Division Monika Kościów, Ewa Węgrzyn monika.kosciow@pgnig.pl ewa.wegrzyn@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 77-443-51-23 Tel. +48 12-628-12-80 Gas distribution company Gazownia Zabrzańska, Gas distribution company Gazownia Lubelska, Górnośląska Gas Trading Division Karpacka Gas Trading Division Jolanta Matusek Paweł Staniszewski jolanta.matusek@pgnig.pl pawel.staniszewski@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 32-373-53-31 Tel. +48 81-445-21-62 78 PGNiG Responsible Energy Gas distribution company Gazownia Rzeszowska, Gas distribution company Gazownia Bydgoska, Karpacka Gas Trading Division Pomorska Gas Trading Division Wojciech Janas Sebastian Latanowicz wojciech.janas@pgnig.pl sebastian.latanowicz@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 17-875-03-00 Tel. +48 52-37-61-340 Gas distribution company Gazownia Gas distribution company Gazownia Gdańska, Sandomierska, Karpacka Gas Trading Division Pomorska Gas Trading Division Krzysztof Motyła, Dorota Rajczyk-Gajkowska krzysztof.motyla@pgnig.pl dorota.rajczyk-galkowska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 15-833-62-40 Tel. +48 58-323-01-10 Gas distribution company Gazownia Tarnowska, Gas distribution company Gazownia Olsztyńska, Karpacka Gas Trading Division Pomorska Gas Trading Division Anna Derus Marta Malinowska anna.derus@pgnig.pl marta.malinowska@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 14-632-38-80 Tel. +48 89-537-25-73 Gas distribution company Gazownia Gas distribution company Gazownia Kaliska, Białostocka, Mazowiecka Gas Trading Division Wielkopolska Gas Trading Division Krzysztof Smorczewski Monika Mielcarek krzysztof.smorczewski@pgnig.pl monika.mielcarek@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 85-664-54-30 Tel. +48 62-769-53-20 Gas distribution company Gazownia Łódzka, Gas distribution company Gazownia Koszalińska, Mazowiecka Gas Trading Division Wielkopolska Gas Trading Division Jacek Miluśki Ewelina Błachuta jacek.miluski@pgnig.pl ewelina.blachuta@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 42-675-96-20 Tel. +48 94-348-45-40 Gas distribution company Gazownia Poznańska, Gas distribution company Gazownia Wielkopolska Gas Trading Division Warszawska, Mazowiecka Gas Trading Division Katarzyna Wiznerowicz katarzyna.wiznerowicz@pgnig.pl Beata Błaziak-Pyzel Tel. +48 61-885-46-02 beata.blaziak@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 22-325-14-53 Gas distribution company Gazownia Szczecińska, Wielkopolska Gas Trading Division Bogumiła Koman bogumila.koman@pgnig.pl Tel. +48 91-424-73-03 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 79 Strategic Companies of the PGNiG Group Exploration and Production Dolnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Geofizyka Kraków Group Piotr Wojtasik Magdalena Pachocka pwojtasik@gazownia.pl magdalena.pachocka@geofizyka.krakow.pl Tel. +48 71-364-95-25 Tel. +48 12-299-13-67 Górnośląska Spółka Gazownictwa Geofizyka Toruń Maja Girycka Iwona Matusiak maja.girycka@gsgaz.pl iwona.matusiak@geofizyka.pl Tel. +48 32-373-53-32 Tel. +48 56-659-33-93 Karpacka Spółka Gazownictwa PNiG Jasło Bożena Malaga-Wrona Przemysław Baciak Bozena.Malaga-Wrona@ksg.pl pbaciak@pnig.jaslo.pl Tel. +48 14-632-31-45 Tel. +48 13-443-63-41 Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa PNiG Kraków Group Emilia Tomalska Agnieszka Sioła emilia.tomalska@msgaz.pl rzecznik@ogec.krakow.pl Tel. +48 22-667-38-08 Tel. +48 12-619-74-61 Pomorska Spółka Gazownictwa PNiG NAFTA Katarzyna Wróblewicz Patrycja Kujawa katarzyna.wroblewicz@psgaz.pl pkujawa@nafta.net.pl Tel. +48 58-326-36-70 Tel. +48 67-215-13-35 Wielkopolska Spółka Gazownictwa Poszukiwania Naftowe Diament Leszek Łuczak Norbert Urbański leszek.luczak@wsgaz.pl nurbanski@pn-diament.com.pl Tel. +48 61-854-53-65 Tel. +48 68-329-54-11 80 PGNiG Responsible Energy Other Companies of the PGNiG Group POGC Libya BV Gazobudowa Salem O. Asaleh Magdalena Mroczka salem.asaleh@pgnig.pl info@gazobudowa.pl Tel. +218-21-716-7048 / +218-21-713-3506 Tel. +48 32-275-57-68 PGNiG Norway BSiPG Gazoprojekt Marek Hoffman Grażyna Janicka marek.hoffmann@pgnig.no gjanicka@gazoprojekt.com.pl Tel. 47-5195-0759 j.adamowicz@gazoprojekt.com.pl Tel. +48 71-785-13-03 Zakład Robót Górniczych Krosno IVESTGAS Jan Sęp Robert Plesiewicz jsep@zrg.krosno.pl robert.plesiewicz@investgas.pl Tel. +48 13-437-21-10 Tel. +48 22-860-05-51 Naftomontaż Agnieszka Chmielowska a.chmielowska@naftomontaz.com.pl Tel. +48 13-437-45-35 ZRUG Pogórska Wola Marek Chrząszcz marketing@zrug.tarnow.pl Tel. +48 14-622-54-21 ZUN Naftomet Sławomir Duran slawomir.duran@naftomet.pl Tel. +48 13-436-25-11, ext. 338, 270 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 81 Glossary Glossary of CSR terms: Community action – short-term social initiative Responsible Business Forum (FOB) – a non-governSRI (Socially Responsible Investing) – approach to carried out on a one-off or regular basis to help mental organisation whose mission is to promote company’s operations which treats company’s a given group or a person. An example of a onethe principles of responsible business as a stanbenefit and social well-being on equal terms. Socially off community action is the Krewniacy initiative dard applicable in Poland, aimed at increasing the responsible investors favour those companies which promoting donation of blood for patients in need of competitiveness of companies, enhancing social comply with or promote the principles of sustainable transfusion. satisfaction and improving the condition of natural development, environmental protection, human environment. FOB gathers a number of Polish comrights protection and consumer protection. CSR Consulting – a company cooperating with entipanies, including PGNiG. ties and institutions from different sectors providing Social campaign – activities aimed at changing the them with support in implementing the principles of Global Compact – an initiative launched by UN attitude or behaviour of a given group as well as responsible business in their business operations. Secretary General Kofi Annan aimed at introducing preventing their development. Social campaigns a new framework for businesses by supporting, are carried out through means of mass communiDeclaration on sustainable development in the among other things, respect of human rights, application (traditional media, unconventional methods) energy sector – the declaration signed for the first cation of labour standards and business activities and supported by numerous entities, including time on June 17th 2009 containing statements by the conducted in harmony with the environment. The companies, civil society organisations and public signatories that they understand and are willing to Global Compact is supported by non-governmental authorities, whose assistance for the initiators of the implement in their policies the principles of sustainorganisations and more than 2000 companies from campaign may have different forms, be it financial, able development. The declaration was signed by different parts of the world, including Pomorska material or in the form of services. Company’s the largest companies in the Polish energy sector: Spółka Gazownictwa and PGNiG. involvement in a social campaign strengthens its EDF Polska, Enea, GAZ-SYSTEM, GDF SUEZ Energia image of an entity with active interest in its Polska, Tauron, Vattenfall Poland and PGNiG, the Grasz o staż initiative – an internship competition environment and gives an opportunity to build initiator of the declaration. On June 17th 2010, the with the longest tradition in Poland (launched in stronger relationship between the employees as well declaration was signed by three more companies 1996) organised by Gazeta Wyborcza and Priceas between the company and particular groups. – Fortum Power and Heat Polska, Grupa Lotos and waterhouseCoopers. Each year, the winners are Polskie Sieci Elektro¬energetyczne Operator. awarded paid internships and other prizes Company’s Code of Values – a code of values adop(an opportunity to take up post-graduate studies ted by a company defining its organisational culture. Social dialogue – exchange of information between or training programmes, books) funded by the A common code of value promotes higher awarethe parties concerned, most frequently related to companies and non-governmental organisations ness of the unwritten principles and company rules common problems and social affairs. The parties cooperating with the organisers. among employees, allowing them to build closer participating in a social dialogue may include both relationship with the company and other employees. public and private entities, entrepreneurs and nonHSE (Health, Safety, Environment) – rules of -governmental organisations. The success of such conduct related to health and safety at work and London Benchmarking Group Polska – an initiative dialogue is chiefly determined by cooperation and environmental protection defined by international aimed at better measurement of the social impact reliability of information. regulations. of companies’ operations, which is implemented in Poland by CSR Consulting in cooperation with Philanthropy – charitable activities which are Stakeholder – any entity with an interest in comDanone, BZ WBK, GLAXO, Ikea and Żywiec. Thanks to a demonstration of care for common good, carried pany’s operations. These may include third parties, its development, companies have an opportunity to out by persons, organisations or companies for such as persons, communities, institutions, organisagain knowledge on effective management of their people in need. Such activities mainly involve protions or public authorities, and related entities, such social commitment. viding financial or material support and in modern as company employees or shareholders. times they are chiefly carried out through foundaValue chain – clearly defined activities performed tions and associations. by specific companies which form a common value system. A value chain clearly demonstrates mutual dependence between a number of companies as well as the process of adding value to a product. 82 PGNiG Responsible Energy Cause-related marketing – an intermediate form of Organisational structure – a relationship system marketing between commercial and social markewithin a company, also applicable to its suborditing. It involves supporting a social cause to strengthnate organisations and associations. The purpose en the image of the company. The implementation of organisational structure is to define a clear of cause-related marketing very often involves three division of duties and hierarchy of powers. A strong parties: the company, civil society organisations and organisational structure facilitates efficient company consumers. management. Social programme – planned activities aimed at Voluntary work – involvement of company employproviding a solution to or preventing a specific social ees in voluntary work for the benefit of civil society problem. It may be implemented independently or organisations. The employees acting as voluntary as a joint effort by public institutions, businesses and workers carry out various types of activities for civil society organisations. the people in need using their expertise as well as improving their skills in other areas. Depending on CSR report – a company’s comprehensive report on the adopted policy, the company supports voluntary its implementation of sustainable development and work of its employees by allowing them to conduct corporate social responsibility strategy. It focuses such work during working hours, providing material, on economic, social and environmental aspects of logistics or financial assistance. company’s operations. Sustainable development – strategy of social and CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) – a strategy economic development where political, economic based on an assumption that a company should and social activities are carried out with a view not voluntarily take public interest into consideration in to have an adverse impact on the environment. its pursuit to achieve economic objectives. CSR proThe aim of sustainable development is to ensure motes observance of ethical principles, employees’ such utilisation of natural resources which would rights, human rights, as well as respect for social and not compromise the ability of future generations to natural environment in company’s operations and benefit from them. The concept of sustainable deveits decision-making process. It is generally accepted lopment is included in the Environmental Protection that a company’s policy should provide not only for Law – Dz.U. of 2001, No. 62, item 627, Art. 3.50. achievement of economic objectives but also the implementation of corporate social responsibility principles. Local community – a group of people living in a specified area, bound by social relationships, common tradition and culture. A local community can be formed by the inhabitants of a locality, commune, housing estate, city district or city. Sponsorship – mutual agreement between two parties, a sponsor and a sponsoree, whereunder the sponsor provides the sponsoree with financial or material resources or services in exchange for its popularisation. Sponsorship involves planned and intended activities aimed at creating a positive image of a company. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 83 Industry-Specific Terms Biogas plant – a plant which can process (through OGP GAZ-SYSTEM – abbreviated name of Operator SGT EuRoPol GAZ – abbreviated name of System fermentation) such substrates as biofuel feedstock Gazociągów Przesyłowych GAZ-SYSTEM S.A. The Gazociągów Tranzytowych EuRoPol GAZ S.A. The cultivation, livestock waste, distillery waste, or company was established on April 16th 2004 company is responsible for natural gas transmismethane from dumping sites. The produced fuel is under the name PGNiG Przesył Sp. z o.o. as sion along the Polish section of the Yamal transit consumed at small cogeneration units (0.5-2 MW). a wholly-owned subsidiary of PGNiG. On April 28th pipeline, connecting the Russian Federation with 2005, 100% of the company shares were acquired Western Europe. CCS (Carbon Capture and Storage) – a process by the State Treasury. Currently, OGP GAZ-SYSTEM of capturing carbon dioxide from flue gasses to conducts business activities of a gas transmission Gas distribution company – an energy company reduce its emissions to the atmosphere, which system operator under a licence issued by the involved in the distribution of gaseous fuels, has a negative impact on the environment. Due to Polish Energy Regulatory Office. responsible for network traffic in the gas distrilimited capacity to utilise captured carbon dioxide, bution system, ongoing and long-term security of an important issue related to the process is CO2 Transmission System Operator (TSO) – an energy the system’s operation, as well as operation, mainstorage by its compression and deposition in company involved in the transmission of gaseous tenance, repair and necessary extension of the worked out caverns which used to hold hydrocarfuels, responsible for network traffic in the gas distribution network, including interconnections bon deposits. transmission system, ongoing and long-term with other gas systems in the relevant geographisecurity of the system’s operation, as well as cal area. CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) – fuel, compressed operation, maintenance, repair and necessary natural gas at a pressure of 20–25 MPa, used as extension of the transmission network, including Environmental management systems – systems vehicle fuel for spark ignition and compression interconnections with other gas systems. defined in the ISO 14001 standard based on the ignition engines. principles of comprehensive quality management. Underground Gas Storage Facility – The PGNiG The main assumption of environmental Distribution – transport of gaseous fuels to custoGroup is the exclusive owner of underground gas management is to reduce the environmental mers via distribution networks. storage facilities operated domestically. Six such impact of human activities. This can be achieved facilities are in Poland – five of them located in by application of uniform management principles Exploration and Production or E&P – one of worked out natural gas caverns, and the sixth one with regard to access to environmental resources, PGNiG’s segments of operation. The compain a salt cavern in Mogilno. elimination of negative environmental impact of nies operating in this segment are engaged in business activities and rational consumption of exploration, geophysical and geological work. The Transmission – transportation of gaseous fuels natural resources. segment also involves production of natural gas through transmission networks to distribution and crude oil. networks or end customers connected to the URE (Urząd Regulacji Energetyki) – the Energy transmission network. Regulatory Office. Under the relevant regulations, Natural gas – natural mixture of paraffin hydrocarthe President of URE is responsible for approving bons, primarily consisting of methane (up to 98% Transmission network – a gas network of low, the tariffs submitted by holders of licences which in high-methane gas). In the earth’s crust natural medium and high pressure, other than a mine authorise them to conduct business involving gas is found in the form of reserves. pipeline or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for trade in and storage of gaseous fuels. network traffic rests with a transmission system Direct gas pipeline – the gas pipeline used for operator. transmission of gaseous fuel directly to the customer’s installation, omitting the gas system. Distribution network – a gas network of low, medium and high pressure, other than a mine PGNiG Group – the PGNiG Group. pipeline or a direct pipeline. The responsibility for network traffic rests with gas distribution LNG (Liquefied Natural Gas) – natural gas in a liquid companies. state with the temperature of -163°C. During the liquefaction process, natural gas is cooled down to -163°C, thus reducing its volume by 630 times. 84 PGNiG Responsible Energy Questionnaire Dear Reader, We would like to thank you for reading this Report. We hope that it has contributed to your knowledge and understanding of the PGNiG Group’s activities. A dialogue with stakeholders is one of our priorities. We would like our activities to satisfy your needs and expectations to the widest possible extent, and we would like our future reports to better present matters that are of interest to you. This is way we ask you to fill out the questionnaire below. Please return it to the following address: Departament Marketingu i Komunikacji, PGNiG SA ul. Kasprzaka 25 01-224 Warszawa with the following note: ANKIETA RAPORT SPOŁECZNY The questionnaire may be also be downloaded from our websites: www.pgnig.pl and www.odpowiedzialna-energia.pl. Thank you. Yours faithfully, Marzena Strzelczak Biuro Komunikacji Management Board’s Proxy for Sustainable Departament Marketingu i Komunikacji Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy PGNiG SA Please mark the appropriate answer with an X. 1. With respect to the content, not in the least interesting moderately interesting interesting very interesting I found this report 2. With respect to the content, too general general exhaustive very exhaustive I found this report 3. I consider the graphics of the not at all attractive moderately attractive attractive very attractive report to be 4. I consider the graphics of the incompatible with the compatible with the well suited for the very well suited for the report to be presented content presented content only to presented content presented content a moderate degree 5. I believe the PGNiG Group in a completely incomprein an incomprehensible in a clear and comprehenin a very clear and presents information about its hensible manner manner sible manner comprehensible current activities 6. I believe that the creation No, it has no bearing No, it is rather irrelevant Yes, it is relevant and has Yes, it is extremely imporand implementation of the whatsoever a positive impact tant and profitable for the Sustainable Development and PGNiG Group Responsible Business Strategy is profitable for the PGNiG Group. 7. In my opinion, the presentation No, it is completely It is not particularly It is necessary It is very necessary of the PGNiG Group’s business unnecessary necessary activities in the form of a social report is necessary. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 85 8. I am interested to learn about the Group’s sustainable development and business responsibility strategies in the area of: 8.a the cooperation of the PGNiG No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in Group undertakings with rested in this subject subject this subject this subject local communities, including projects carried out by the Ignacy Łukasiewicz Polish Oil and Gas Foundation 8.b the cooperation of the PGNiG No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in Group undertakings with local rested in this subject subject this subject this subject communities abroad 8.c the PGNiG Group’s impact on No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in the natural environment rested in this subject subject this subject this subject 8.d challenges posed by climate No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in change rested in this subject subject this subject this subject 8.e the cooperation of the PGNiG No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in Group undertakings with rested in this subject subject this subject this subject local authorities and public administration 8.f new investment projects No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in rested in this subject subject this subject this subject 8.g improvement of the retail No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in customer service model rested in this subject subject this subject this subject 8.h health and safety at work No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in rested in this subject subject this subject this subject 8.i personnel and training policy No, I’m not in the least inteI’m not interested in this I’m slightly interested in I’m very much interested in rested in this subject subject this subject this subject Respondent’s details Which of the groups of stakeholders do you represent? Please mark with an X as appropriate: 1. Customer of PGNiG 6. Employee of the PGNiG Group 2. Business partner/participant of the Polish energy market 7. Sub-supplier 3. Member of a trade organisation 8. Member of the local community – “a neighbour” of PGNiG 4. Employee of public/government/local government administration 9. Other (specify) 5. Student Thank you for your time. 86 PGNiG Responsible Energy of CSR-related activities among companies. In GRI Indicators addition to principles and recommendations, the GRI guidelines include a system of indicators from which companies may voluntarily select. The indicators selected by the Company are presented in the table below. In this edition of the report, 63 The GRI indicators have been developed by the indicators have been discussed, or 15 more than in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). GRI is an indethe previous year’s report. pendent network of stakeholders, who embarked on the mission of developing and disseminating The indicators relating to estimates and calcucommon guidelines to be followed in reporting lations, as presented in the report, have been on companies’ economic, environmental and prepared and compiled in accordance with the social performance all over the world. The use International Financial Reporting Standards of GRI indicators enables objective comparison (endorsed by the EU). No. Place of presenting in Type of GRI indicator the Report Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organisation (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior Letter of the President position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy Pages 6-7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 14-18, 25-26, 39-40, 51-52, 63-64, Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Pages 6 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services Pages 14-15 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Pages 10-11, 16-18, 14-18 ventures 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Pages 85 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or Pages 14-18 that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Pages 8-13 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) Pages 8-9, 14-18 2.8 Scale of reporting organisation, including: Pages 8-9 – Number of employees – Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations); – Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and – Quantity of products or services provided 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: Pages 21-22 – The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and – Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Pages 38, 48-50, 74-76 Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided Pages 21 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Pages 6 3.3 Reporting cycle Pages 21 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Pages 85 Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Pages 21-22 – Determining materiality of individual issues to the organisation and its stakeholders; – Prioritising topics within the report; and – Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Pages 21-22 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Pages 21-22 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities Str. 16-18 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying Pages 87 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 87 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for N.A. such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied Pages 16-18, 21-22 in the report GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of Standard Disclosures in the report Pages 87-89 Assurance 3.13. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Pages 22 If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance, Commitments and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responPages 12-13, 21 sible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function Pages 13 within the organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance Pages 13 body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest goverPages 13, 27 nance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives Pages 13 (including departure arrangements), and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Pages 13 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for Pages 13 guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, Pages 4-5 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of Pages 21 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Pages 13 economic, environmental, and social performance GRI G3 Indicators Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Pages 51 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Pages 7, 9 organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizaPages 7, 63-73, 44 tions in which the organization: – Has positions in governance bodies; – Participates in projects or committees; – Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or – Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Pages 19-20 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Pages 19 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has Pages 19-22 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensaPages 8 tion, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit Pages 9, 34-38, 62, 66, 68-73 through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 88 PGNiG Responsible Energy Environment Performance Indicators Aspect: Materials Aspect: Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Pages 56-57 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Pages 56-57 Aspect: Biodiversity Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Pages 54-55 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Pages 55 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Pages 56-57 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Pages 57-58 Aspect: Compliance Aspect: Products and Services EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Pages 40 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Pages 54 environmental laws and regulations Aspect: Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Pages 59 Labour Practices & Decent Work Performance Indicators Aspect: Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Pages 29 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major Pages 31 operations Aspect: Labour/Management Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collecPages 27 tive agreements Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities Pages 27-29 by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist workforce Pages 27-29 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Aspect: Training and Education LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Pages 29-30 employees and assist them in managing career endings Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relePages 29-30 vant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Pages 63-73 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect: Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and Pages 40, 47 services subject to such information requirements PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Pages 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 89 IPIECA Indicators The PGNiG Group’s 2009 Responsible Energy report was also prepared based on the reporting indicators developed by an international organisation IPIECA. IPIECA prepared draft guidance on sustainable development reporting for companies from the fuel and gas sector. The PGNiG Group reported 11 IPIECA indicators in accordance with the draft guidance, which has not yet been translated into Polish. To prepare the draft indicators IPIECA has cooperated with the American Petroleum Institute and the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers. For more information on IPIECA indicators, see http://www.ipieca.org/ The PGNiG Group reported the following indicators: E1, E6, E10, HS2, HS3, SE1, SE2, SE4, SE6, SE16, and SE17. Issue Category Indicator Climate Change and Energy E-1: Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ecosystem Resources E-6: Biodiversity Local Environment E-10: Waste Workforce Protection HS-2: Workforce Health HS-3: Occupational Injury and Illness Community Engagement SE-1: Community Impacts and Engagement SE-2: Social Investment SE-4: Involuntary Resettlement and Economic Displacement Local Content SE-6: Local Hiring Practices and Performance Labour Practices SE-16: Employee Engagement and Satisfaction SE-17: Training and Development Oil and gas industry guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. 2nd Edition, 2010 (draft 4) IPIECA is the global oil and gas industry association for environmental and social issues. It develops, shares and promotes good practices and knowledge to help the industry improve its environmental and social performance; and is the industry’s principal channel of communication with the United Nations. Through its member led working groups and executive leadership, IPIECA brings together the collective expertise of oil and gas companies and associations. Its unique position within the industry enables its members to respond effectively to key environmental and social issues. 90 PGNiG Responsible Energy Acknowledgments We would like to thank all who have contributed to the second CSR Report of the PGNiG Group, and in particular: the Employees of all Head Office departments, Gas Sales Units, Branches and Gas Distribution Companies which contributed to the preparation of the information contained in the CSR Report, as well as Sustainable Development Coordinators for their effort, patience and commitment, PricewaterhouseCoopers for its high professionalism as well as huge amounts of kindness, cordiality and a lot of good advice given during the planning of the structure of the PGNiG Group’s CSR Report. We would also like to thank all the PGNiG Group employees who participated in the photo sessions held for the purpose of this Report: Iwona Matusiak from Geofizyka Toruń, whose picture opens the Workplace section, and Jan Sęp from ZRG Krosno seen in the picture on page 34, Marcin Lewenstein from the Strategic Planning Office at the PGNiG SA’s Strategy Department, whose picture opens the Market section, and Agnieszka Chmielarz from the PGNiG SA’s Trade Department, whose picture is seen in the same section on page 46, Katarzyna Chołast from the Odolanów Branch, whose picture opens the Natural Environment section, and Robert Plesiewicz from Investgas, whose picture was placed in the same section on page 58, Emilia Tomalska from Mazowiecka Spółka Gazownictwa, whose picture opens the Local communities section, and Wojtek Janas from the Carpathian Gas Trading Division, whose picture was placed in the same section on page 68. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2009 91 Polish Oil and Gas Company (PGNiG SA) 25 Kasprzaka St., 01-224 Warsaw, Poland tel. +48 22 589 45 55, fax +48 22 691 82 73 www.pgnig.pl
