UN GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS June 2011 Christensen & co. architects a/s Date 1. June 2011 Member since 2010 Address: Bragesgade 10B. 2+3 Floor DK-2200 Copenhagen Denmark Contact Names: Michael Christensen, founder, director. Heidi Pedersen, Public Relation & Executive Assistant 2 Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of the company. Christensen & Co. architects (CCO) is an international architectural practice, based in Copenhagen, Denmark. At CCO we believe that good architecture applies to all aspects of a building. Neither design nor function, economy nor process should be considered separately. Good architecture makes a difference. Architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness make buildings that actively can change people’s lives. Michael Christensen, director and founder Christensen & Co. architects. 3 Short Description of the Company Christensen & Co. Architects (CCO) was established by Michael Christensen in 2006. After playing a central role at acclaimed Danish architectural company Henning Larsen Architects for 10 years, the last 5 years as Partner and Director, Michael realised the dream to start his own practice. CCO won two major competitions including a university campus in Stockholm, Sweden, within its first year of business. CCO has developed a number of sustainable, low-energy projects with very ambitious environmental agendas. Our ambition is to constantly challenge architectural methods and processes. We believe that the surprising, unique and characteristic solutions occurs when factors such as program, location, function, culture or climate, challenges the architectural intention; Sustainability through integrated design. In 2009 CCO finished Denmark´s first public CO2 neutral building; Green Lighthouse for the University of Copenhagen. Throughout 2010 CCO consolidated its reputation as an innovative company, with a visionary approach to sustainable architecture by winning a number of high profile projects. We are 38 architects, design engineers and administrative staff. The office is situated over two floors in an eclectic pocket of Copenhagen´s most multi ethnical area, a residential part in Northern Copenhagen, more than 50 different nationalities are represented in this part of the city. GREEN LIGHTHOUSE Green Lighthouse is Denmark’s first CO2 neutral public building and home to the Faculty of Science at the University of Copenhagen. The sun being the predominant source of energy is the overriding design concept behind the new building. The building’s circular shape and the adjustable louvers of the façade mirror the course of the sun. Green Lighthouse is based on a whole new experiment with an energy concept, consisting of a supply combination of district heating, photovoltaics, 4 solarheating and cooling and seasonal storage. CCO´s RESPONSE TO THE FOUR ISSUE AREAS At the centre of our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is our architectural philosophy; to create buildings that are healthy for both people and the environment. As a consultancy company we aspire to advise our clients to make well founded decisions. To implement and introduce sustainable solutions for the future. We adhere to the 10 principles of Global Compact by following the four issue areas as stated below. • HUMAN RIGHTS In our business approach we follow the Human Rights principles, as described in the 1948 General Assembly Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The majority of our projects are in Scandinavia and we take outmost care and precautions to ensure that Human Rights are upheld throughout all stages, and all links in the supply chain, of the projects we are involved in. • LABOUR In regards to our relationship towards employee´s at Christensen & co. architects we comply with the labour standards as described by the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. There is complete freedom of association at Christensen & co. architects, as well as the recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • ENVIRONMENT The end user and the environment is a focal point for the practice. Being an architectural company our most important output is our buildings. Our main aim is to create buildings with a healthy indoor climate. Respect the environment, both in our chooses during the building process, and in considerations for the life cycle of the building combined with respect for the existing area within which we are building. • ANTI-CORRUPTION Promoting close cross culture collaboration between the various disciplines within the building industry, the sub contractors and our supply chain, ensures a healthy working climate. Where corruption is not permissible. 5 PRACTICAL ACTIONS OUR APPROACH At CCO we have an open social community spirit within the company. The company is only 5 years old, and our foundation is one of dialogue and in recognizing the social responsibility of the practice, particular the importance of a healthy work and family life balance. We encourage communication and broad collaboration within the office, as well as close collaborative cooperation with every external partner on the projects. Thus ensuring that our knowledge is updated with the latest research, in order to give the best possible advise to clients. A prerequisite for a successful building is respectful collaboration between all parties included. We believe in ambitious and challenging collaborations where dialogue is key and the collective aim is high from the outset. ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN We actively source the best, most sustainable climate solutions available when working on a project. However, we have also taken measures to act green within the office. We have implemented green printing and copying solutions, using only recycled paper and state-of-the-art energy sufficient machinery. Just as our office phones are from recyclable materials without chemicals, the so called GreenHeart™ mobile. As a company, we have implemented Building Information Modeling (BIM). A most practical and efficient three dimensional design method. Encompassing building geometry, spatial relationships, geographic information, and quantities and properties of building components, providing cost estimates and well as material tracking and ordering. Hereby ensuring the highest level of accuracy in the design process, with minimal waste of materials. ACTIVITIES CCO believes that; to make truly unique buildings, we must have the skills to manage all areas of the design and building process in parallel, through collaboration and communication. Only this way can a project be considered successful and innovative for all parties involved. FUTURE CONSIDERATIONS We aim to continue this approach in the future. Stay at the forefront of new technologies, encourage and support everyone within the company to keep updating their knowledge on sustainable, environmentally friendly products and solutions and healthy work methods in order to continue developing as a sustainable company. The frontiers and possibilities of healthy, sustainable buildings is moving at great speed, as an architectural company we will try to expand our knowledge to making sustainable masterplaning whilst not forgetting our core knowledge which are in the built environment. We have just finished a nursery built on the Danish 2015 low energy regulations at the cost of the regulations today and in our work towards our next Communication 6 on Progress in June 2012, we will aim to continue combining the cost optimising with making sound buildings for the inhabitants of the future generation. Measurement of outcome case; SUNHOUSE CLIMATE FRIENDLY NURSERY The Sunhouse is build on the active house principles. It has been realised through a close collaboration between Christensen & co. architects, engineers Ramboll, advisors Hellerup Byg, Hoersholm Municipality and VKR Holding. Due to the geometry, position of windows and a range of state of the art green technologies, this nursery will actually produce energy. The outdoor areas are planted to represent the various landscapes of Denmark. The building is very compact and is designed as a triangle, with the two longest facades facing south east and south west. The Velfac windows along these facades, combined with the roof lights, allow more than three times as much light to enter as in a standard building. In total the nursery produces 8 kilowatt hours per square metre per year, which is surplus to the building’s requirements. This means that during eight months of the year excess energy is fed back into the national grid and for the four darkest months of the year, renewable energy is bought back by the nursery. The Sunhouse has also been designed to educate its young users about protecting the environment. There are on site greenhouses where staff and children will grow plants and vegetables. The nursery opened in Maj 2011. 7 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON CHRISTENSEN & CO. ARCHITECTS PLEASE GO TO OUR WEB SITE www.cco.as
