Enabling the Sustainable Company ENABLON SUSTAINABILITY REPORT © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report CEO’s Statement “ As a Member of the Global Compact, Enablon shares its business values and aligns activities with the UN Global Compact’s ten principles, specifically on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. To that end, Enablon is pleased to present its second Global Compact Communication on Progress, in which it demonstrates its commitment to these principles and reports on its own Corporate Sustainability Program. Our commitment to a more sustainable world not only translates our ideas into actions, but it resides in our vision and in the very DNA of Enablon’s business model. From day one, Enablon’s mission has been to enable the Sustainable Company: we provide the industry’s most comprehensive suite of software, content and technology that enables end-to-end management of sustainability performance. As we accelerate the pace of our global expansion, we will make sure to develop our activities according to the sustainability principles. More than ever, we are committed to help create a more sustainable economy. ” Dan Vogel Chief Executive Officer ENABLON © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Inside 6 Sustainability: Driving Force of Our Business Model Our mission: Enabling the Sustainable Company Sustainability in our own Operations Our 3-year Corporate Sustainability Plan Environmental Performance 12 Environmental Protection Policy Responsible Mobility Energy Management Waste & Water Management Social Performance 24 Enablon Social Policy Attractive and Dynamic Work Environment Well-being at Work Diversity as a Source of Strengh and Innovation Involvement in Society 30 Social Involvement Policy Commitment to NGOs Working with Social Entrepreneurs Sustainability Index 36 Mesuring Your Performance Mobility Indicators Energy Indicators Waste Indicators Social Indicators © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Inside Sustainability: Driving Force of Our Business Model Our mission: Enabling the Sustainable Company Sustainability in our Operations Our 3-year Corporate Sustainability Plan 6 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Inside Sustainability: A Driving Force of Our Business Model Our mission: Enabling the Sustainable Company Enablon’s mission is to provide software solutions that make organizations sustainable. We firmly believe that companies can go beyond compliance to transform regulatory requirements into valued assets and in so doing strengthen and optimize their business. To that end, we offer the industry’s most comprehensive suite of software, content and technology that enables end-to-end management of sustainability performance. Enablon solutions are used by more than 250 global companies and 200,000 users across all industries. Global companies are using Enablon solutions worldwide to improve the reporting and management of their environmental, health & safety performance, reduce their footprint, better manage their risks, reduce costs and streamline business processes. The Enablon users community gathers several times a year to share, discuss and network around sustainable performance topics and how to best leverage their Enablon solutions during Annual World Forum, Annual North American Forum and Regional Forums. They also benefit from an online user portal dedicated to virtual user groups activities, while offline user-groups are customer-led and vary based on industry and geography throughout the year. Enablon global headquarters are located in Paris, France. Enablon North American headquarters are in Chicago and the company has offices in Houston, London, Madrid and Montreal. Through its partnership network, Enablon operates in more than 130 countries. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 7 Our Software Solutions Offering Over the last 10 years, Enablon has helped companies create a path toward Sustainable Performance. Enablon provides software solutions that make organizations sustainable. We offer the industry’s most comprehensive suite of software, content and technology that enables end-to-end management of sustainability performance and governance, risk and compliance: 8 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Inside Sustainability in our Own Operations More than 250 global companies currently assess and manage their environmental and social performance using our solutions. We are very much aware of our indirect impact and consider ourselves responsible for the environmental and social data reported by these companies. As a role model, Enablon is committed to implementing its own sustainability program. We firmly believe a company’s responsibility no matter its size is essential to how it operates. This begins with the day-to-day relationships it maintains with employees, customers, partners, suppliers, non-governmental associations and society as a whole. For us, sustainability is not about being virtuous or following a trend. We strongly maintain that applying sustainability principles to the way a company is organized and managed generates financial advantages and added value. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 9 Our 3-year Corporate Sustainability Plan As we keep on growing, we become more and more aware that if we want to make the right decisions and implement relevant actions, we first have to assess the impact of our activities. To do this, we rely on a very valuable asset: our very own, industry leading Sustainability software solution. Since 2009, we have implemented a three-year Corporate Sustainability Program, supported by our own system to collect data and give account on our activities. At the end of this first round, we will assess our performance and set up new progress objectives. Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Enablon Corporate Sustainability Program Program Launch Collection Process Extending the Scope Defining a collection Implementation Pursue the inclusion process and relevant Setting-up new processes of new indicators and indicators to collect. to collect the data as the deployment of new soon as it becomes processes to include our available. offices in Paris, Chicago and Houston. Enablon Sustainable Management Software System Historical Data System Implementation Reporting and Analysis Collection of available Internal processes Sustainability software historical data gathered and systems as well as solution supports our from various sources. involvement of suppliers reporting campaigns to gather data. internally in various sites we are. Our 2010 reporting covers the scope of our global headquarters in Paris, which we believe is representative of our global operations worldwide. In 2011, we will be able to include in the scope of our reporting our North American headquarters in Chicago and will start to integrate data from our other offices. 10 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Inside “ With Enablon, we are able to dive down, gather and manage information we need from throughout our organization, very quickly, very graphically, in a way that leadership can easily understand. This is the value of having a sustainability performance management tool this sophisticated. It helps with decision making, it helps with communication, it helps prioritize.” Michael Nicholus, Global Environment Director, ACCENTURE “ Eaton Corporation’s vision encompasses internal reporting, transparency and monitoring performance. The Enablon solution strongly supports all of those strategic initiatives.” Scott Fergon, Manager of Industrial Hygiene, EATON CORPORATION “ Enablon’s software applications help us limit our environmental impacts and guarantee human rights within the group and at our suppliers’. We have saved 7% in terms of energy and 9.3% in water.” Veronique Discours-Buhot, CSR Director, CARREFOUR “ Our overall vision, once we decided to go with Enablon and implement an enterprise system, was that it would really become the innovation hub for our team to communicate with all of our stakeholders, as well as hold all of our data to help us manage and track our factories and workflows.” Kiku Loomis, Director Operation, PVH © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 11 Environmental Performance Environmental Protection Policy Responsible Mobility Energy Management Waste & Water Management 12 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Environmental Protection Policy As global warming becomes one of the most challenging issues of our time, Enablon firmly believes that all companies large multinationals and small local businesses should take action to minimize and even reverse climate change. At Enablon, we are willing to incorporate climate change issues into our strategic business decisions. We also conduct our corporate activities with controlled environmental impacts to fully meet our responsibility as a corporate citizen. Two years ago we started to engage in policies to mitigate our impact on the environment. We encourage our employees to develop responsible behaviors by promoting eco-friendly initiatives and offering ideas to decrease the consumption of resources. All employees, working with management, play an active role in considering the environment as they proceed in their day-to-day tasks. Step by step, Enablon moves forward by monitoring our total environmental footprint from year to year. We review our environmental performance annually and determine new methods to reduce our impact on the planet. Our environmental protection policy particularly emphasizes Global Compact Principles 7, 8 and 9 with a focus on four key areas: Responsible Mobility: with an emphasis on controlling business travel and enabling employees’ responsible mobility. Energy Management: with a priority to implement energy efficient features within Enablon’s offices. Waste & Water Management: we are committed to minimal printing, waste recycling and only buying from responsible suppliers and we began new initiatives to reduce our water waste and consumption. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 13 Responsible Mobility Mobility is essential to our business operations, but it is important that we at Enablon make the most ecologically sound and efficient choices as possible to mitigate the negative effects of business travel. Measuring the Impacts of our Business Travels We started initiatives to control business travel and the environmental impact of our employees’ total commute to our offices. To track our progress and identify areas of improvements toward this goal, we measure the CO2 emissions due to business travel and employees commuting. Business travel * Number of business trips Number of employees Business trips CO2 emissions (tons) CO2 emissions per employee (tons) * Number of business travel include flights and travels by train administered by our French headquarters Emissions produced by business travels are one of the largest direct environmental impacts that professional service firms generate. In 2010, 212 tons of CO2 were rejected due to business travel. 14 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Priority to Web Conferencing over Flying Our web conferencing program with online business meetings and marketing events saves Enablon and our clients time, money and it is green. Virtual meetings also eliminate the time-consuming business travel process; avoid searching for a rental car, hotel or flight; and do not waste time flying or driving to a meeting. Online Business Meetings Whenever possible, Enablon’s external business presentations and internal meetings are carried out using the web conferencing tool GoToMeeting, which replaced another tool, Breeze. We integrated GoToMeeting into our online agenda and online meeting booking system to facilitate ease of access to all of our employees. This system enables our sales team to offer real-time product demonstrations of our software to prospects and clients located all over the globe. Our use of GoToMeeting not only reduces costs and saves on travel time but also minimizes the ecological impact of business travel. Number of web business meetings Web business meetings increased significantly by 67% in 2009, when we rolled out this meeting tool throughout the organization. In 2010, we maintained our efforts and our web business meetings increased by 9% and are employees frequently use GoToMeeting for internal and external meetings. We increased our use of web business meetings by 9% in 2010 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 15 Marketing Virtual Events As Enablon grows and we enter more international markets, our event marketing strategy is to develop and conduct “Webinars” marketing events rather than on-site conferences. Therefore we conduct webinars, using the “Go To Webinars” service, which allows us to register up to 1,000 attendees per event. The three most important benefits to Enablon and our employees from the adoption of GoToWebinar are: The avoidance of excessive travel for our employees, partners, clients and prospects. An expansion of our business by reaching larger audiences around the world. Reduced costs and waste that would have otherwise resulted from renting conference space, paying for catering, and purchasing office supplies. We initiated this process in 2009, rigorously testing GoToWebinar and received positive feedback. In 2010, Enablon held five successful webinars, gathering hundreds of viewers around sustainability related topics that align with Enablon’s services. 16 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Environmental Friendly Commuting Self-service bicycle programm Enablon is aware of the impact that our employees’ daily commute to our offices have on the environment. To that end, the company has worked to ensure that our offices are located in areas easily accessible by public transportation. In addition, Enablon promotes responsible commuting by subsidizings 50% of the cost of monthly public transportation system passes. For our Paris employees, we also pay 50% of the annual subscription fees for Velib, a bicycle rental service. “Velib” is a self-service bicycle program that allows commuters to rent a bicycle from any station and then return it back to any other station within the city. Workforce transportation information In 2010, Enablon began to automate the collection of company-wide workforce transportation information. Each employee submits his or her principal means of transport to our online platform and that enables us to generate statistics on workforce transportation. By evaluating each worker’s commute from home to the office, we are able to display the CO2 equivalent generated by workforce transportation and can then communicate the information both internally and externally. Workforce commuting dustribution and CO2 equivalent Metro Walking Bicycle Bus & Train Car 8% 0 T CO2 2% 0 T CO2 5% 0,017 T CO2 64% 20% 10,6 T CO2 39,5 T CO2 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 17 Energy Management Our in house consumption was reduced by 30% in 2010 Enablon recognizes that implementing processes to optimize energy consumption has a positive impact economically (lower energy costs), at the environmental level (reduced greenhouse gas emissions) and at the social level (enhanced comfort for employees). Enablon’s environmental policy and energy management emphasizes energy efficiency across all offices. We revamped our obsolete electrical systems that previously had been both costly and inefficient and replaced the majority of traditional light bulbs with energyefficient bulbs. Going forward all bulbs in our offices will be compact fluorescent lighting (CFL) bulbs or LED (light emitting diodes). Office washrooms are equipped with infra-red switches that instantly turn off when nobody is in the room and kitchens include automatic timer switches so that the lights do not stay on permanently. Our information technology equipment such as computers and printers are programmed to switch to standby mode when not in use. Our energy saving policies succeeded in raising awareness among personnel. Adding to the measures we have undertaken in order to reduce our energy consumption, our in-house electricity consumption decreased by 30% from 2009 to 2010. Electricity Consumption per year 18 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Waste and Water Management At Enablon, we strive to operate our daily office activities with as little impact on the environment as possible. Our waste management policy is as follows: Paperless Communication We are committed to a reduction in our consumption of paper and encourage greater use of recycled paper, both in our everyday business as well as for our communications, including presentations, conference materials, and marketing collateral. As an active member of the IT industry, we make a special point to do business by emphasizing the use of paperless communication techniques. Within the company, we communicate by email and use an online data sharing system. We encourage employees to avoid printing out data available in electronic format, which is easier to store and access. In 2010, we extended this measure by reducing our printing of marketing materials. Because Enablon’s employees attend many events and require marketing collateral to give to clients and prospects, we now offer all-in-one electronic materials. The switch to an electronic format reduces the number of brochures and materials that we print. In 2009, we replaced all of our paper Quantity of Paper Consumed (Kg) hand towels in our washrooms with fabric towels. Thanks to these efforts, our paper consumption decreased by 6% between 2009 and 2010. We decreased our consumption of paper by 6% in 2010 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 19 Responsible Printing Marketing Materials: We only source paper stock and notebooks made with 100% recycled materials. All business cards are also printed on recycled paper. Any unused printed paper is stocked by employees in a box in order to be recycled. Our printer is certified “imprim’vert”, a label that helps us reduce our printing impact and contributes towards environmental stewardship. Therefore all of our printed marketing materials, including brochures, leaflets, blocks, flyers and catalogues are created using certified responsible printing. All paper used in our office is also certified FSC (Forest Stewardship Council). FSC is an independent, non governmental, not-for-profit organization established to promote the responsible management and sustainable harvest of the world’s forests. We extended our use of 80-grams basis weight paper without solvent for our printings, which represents 60 % of our overall paper consumption in 2010. 20 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Recycling Process Paper collection and recycling As part of our waste management policy, we hired “Elise” recycling services to help us address waste in our Paris office. Elise is a local association which aims to process waste more responsibly. The service allows Enablon to collect, sort and recycle all types of paper, cardboard and office waste. The business relationship with Elise also has a positive social impact because the organization creates employment for disadvantaged people, including the long-term unemployed, the disabled, and unskilled workers. In 2010, we established a selective sorting and collecting of office waste, with individual containers in each office for paper, plastic and other materials, which in turn are collected by a contracted waste disposal company. After Enablon implemented this waste management program, employees rapidly adopted the system, which has allowed seamless waste collection to occur throughout our Paris office. Unfortunately, problems occurred during the collection process by the cleaning company and we are unable to provide metrics regarding the paper Elise collected for the 2010 exercise. We identified these problems and are working on finding ways to streamline the collection process. We are confident we will be able to solve this issue and provide 2011 data in our next sustainability report. Disposing our computers at their end of use Laptop computers are our employees’ most important tool and allows for everything from communicating across the globe to the drafting of sales proposals. But when Enablon’s laptops are no longer functional, they are collected by Intertransfert, a company that specializes in the collection and recycling of office equipment. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 21 Intertransfert is a leader in sustainable electronics recycling and has designed a holistic process both for limiting its own environmental and social impacts while guaranteeing its customers the proper disposal of their unwanted electronic equipment at the end of its lifecycle. By partnering with Intertransfert, we were able to follow the end-of-life process of the 51 computers that our employees discarded in 2010. We received an official certificate by Intertransfert that assured us the equipment was disposed and recycled sustainably and ethically. Printer Toners Recycling We also recycle our toners. All Toshiba toners are collected and recycled by the CONIBI company. Brother toners are sent by mail to that company to be recycled. In 2010, 38 toners were collected and recycled by Conibi. Eco-friendly water springs We replaced our water delivery service, which used excessive plastic while incurring high transport costs and carbon emissions, with a water filtration system for our employees. No wasted water! Furthermore, Enablon establishes an annual complete watertight integrity check to stop water leaks within the company’s offices. We also installed aerators on all of our taps to avoid wasted water. 22 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Working with suppliers for responsible consumption and limited waste In 2010, we strengthened our sustainable procurement policy. Whenever possible, we We developped our relationships evaluate our vendors’ environmental and with responsible suppliers social performance and choose suppliers engaged in responsible business practices. In 2010, we signed several contracts with local companies and caterers to increase our employees’, visitors’ and guests’ consumption of organic and sustainable food products. For our annual conference on Sustainability, we worked with a caterer, Té Traiteur Ethique -, which specializes in fair trade and organic products. This supplier only sources from farmers and food companies that embrace fair trade ideals and follow organic farming standards. The table decorations for the conference were all made from fair trade products. Té also raised awareness of fair trade and organic farming issues during the event, and provides Enablon transparency on all of its products’ origins. Déjeuner Livré is Enablon’s official caterer for ongoing events organized in our Paris headquarters. This caterer delivers labeled, local and seasonal products on fully recyclable and reusable trays. The materials chosen by Déjeuner Livré are selected for their environmental manufacturing standard and most of these wares are either made out of recycled materials or are reusable. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 23 Sustainability Inside Sustainability: a driving force of our business model Our mission: Enabling the sustainable company Sustainability in our own Operations A 3-year Corporate Sustainability Plan Environmental Performance Environmental Protection Policy Air Quality Management Energy Management Waste Management Social Performance Enablon Social Policy Attractive and Dynamic Work Environment Well-being at Work Diversity as a Source of Strengh and Innovation 24 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Social Performance Enablon Social Policy As a small but growing company, Enablon strives to conduct business in the most responsible way as possible. Bolstered by the talent and expertise of our employees, Enablon’s human resources policy focuses on the integration, training and welfare of employees to motivate staff and boost performance. Our Social Policy articulates around the principles number 1, 2, 3 and 10 of the Global Compact and focuses on: Providing an attractive and dynamic work environment and developing initiatives that motivate and boost performance with an integration process, skills training, performance management, career mentoring and professional development reviews. Ensuring well-being at work: favor team-building, activities and ensure security at work council and Health and Safety Committee. Promoting diversity as a source of strength and innovation. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 25 Attractive and Dynamic Work Environment Enablon enjoys a strong corporate identity because different teams share the same willingness to ensure that the «Enablon adventure» is a success. To maintain this dynamic, ensuring an attractive work environment as the company expands is our priority. Workforce in Group (number of employees) 109 129 173 197 2007 2008 2009 2010 Competitive pay and benefits, career development and equal opportunities are fundamental to attracting and supporting employees. We also focus on welcoming and training new talents. Welcoming new talents To meet the company’s rapid growth, Enablon welcomes new employees every months. In order to enable the smooth and quick integration of every employee within their team, a process has been set up that includes several measures: Training for every new employee Every new employee at Enablon benefits from a training session before they integrate their team. Those sessions are led by our Knowledge Management team and aim at familiarizing new team members with our products, characteristics, processes and specificities. Depending on the position of each employee, the training sessions last from one day to two weeks and are specific to meet each employee’s needs. Mentoring during the integration process New employees benefit from a mentor, who is a person from another team that supports him or her during the integration process. The relationship helps introduce and familiarize the employee with the company and the mentor is a reference point for all 26 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Social Performance questions related to the integration process. Effective mentors also encourage links between different departments and the discovery of various aspects of one another’s job. Training Enablon encourages training among the largest number of employees, covering various topics and conducting short training sessions. The Knowledge Management Service’s activities have been particularly high during 2010. As such, a new metric has been created in 2010 to follow upon the training provided to employees. In 2010, 25% of employees undertook the integration training course, which lasted from a day and a half to two weeks in duration. Furthermore, 43% of employees followed internal training modules all year long, for a total of 640 hours of training during 2010. These trainings covered various topics: subject training, product training, technical training, and “Product Booster Sales” training. Meanwhile, 30% of employees participated in external trainings, which represented 1117 hours of training. The subjects included: % of employees who benefited Conferences on Sustainability, Risk, Energy & from external training Carbon and other industry related topics English lessons and E-learning Project Management Other training courses relatied to specific profession (skills development) Career development reviews Every employee at Enablon receives an annual performance and career development review. Twice a year, in April and October, annual and semi-annual interviews are dedicated times where all questions related to employee’s activity are addressed, including technical and functional competencies’ progression, personal behavior, and the ability to manage or function within a team. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 27 Well Being at Work Social well being for employees is a major concern for Enablon and, to that end, we aim for a dynamic, fun, yet safe work environment. Team building Quarterly, Enablon encourages team building by providing stipend to each employee to be spent on a team event. This measure leads to additional collaboration among teams, with activities that include restaurant cooking lessons, music lessons, sporting activities, or leisurely lunches and dinners. Telecommuting Enablon helps employees to balance work and home commitments by offering flexible work options. The company encourages telecommuting in order to meet employees’ requirements for professional and life balance when needed. Therefore, when asked, the Human Resources Department provides telecommuting privileges to employees on a regular basis. Our representative body of employees The Works Council members are employees elected by a vote opened to all Enablon employees who have at least six months of seniority at the company. The Works Council promotes initiatives to develop all employees’ well being. All employees benefit from packages and discounts with «CanalCE» program, to benefit from cultural activities, movie tickets, access to newspaper membership for instance. Cash vouchers for birth and weddings are offered to employees on these special occasions. The Works Council negotiates with governance bodies to permit non-working days for employees on special occasions. For example, one day‑off is offered to each employee who is moving to another residence. 28 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Social Performance CHSCT, Enablon Health &Safety Commitee The CHSCT is Enablon Health & Safety Commitee. It goals include the leading of occupational health and safety programs and improving employees’ well being at work. Notable actions undertaken in 2010 include: The completion of the Risk Assessment Document for Professionals Developping First Aid and CPR/AED training sessions for 2011 with the Red Cross And also... Employees Well Being day after day Enablon encourages the health and well being of its employees by providing organic fruit baskets in break rooms. These baskets are renewed once a week by “Le Verger de Gally”. Enablon employees can make a little donation to a cancer foundation (more info page 34) every time they eat a fruit. For several years, we have been purchasing fair trade certified products such as coffee or tea from the company Alter Eco, which is certified by the Dutch non-profit Max Havelaar. Diversity: Source of Strength and Innovation Enablon is committed to diversity and tolerance. We prohibit all discrimination on the basis of age, gender, ethnic and cultural origin, nationality, sexual preference and religion among our employees. We firmly believe that talent from all horizons is a tremendous source of strength and innovation for our company and our recruitment policy reflects this belief. Enablon team members currently consist of men and women from more than 17 different nations: Algerian, Argentinian, Cameroonian, Chinese, Dutch, English, French, German, Guinean, Iranian, Malian, Marocan, Moldavian, North American, Spanish, Enablon flies the flag of Tunisian, Venezuelian. diversity high with 17 nationalities adding to the Enablon is proud to fly the flag of diversity high, company’s strenghts with each employee adding to the company’s strengths. Diversity in experience is also an important aspect of our recruitment policy as we consider a variety of profiles as an important source of strength and innovation. As such, recruitment tends to favor a diversity of profiles including age and competencies. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 29 Sustainability Inside 6 Sustainability: a driving force of our business model Our mission: Enabling the sustainable company Sustainability in our own Operations A 3-year Corporate Sustainability Plan Environmental Performance 10 Environmental Protection Policy Air Quality Management Energy Management Waste Management Social Performance 16 Enablon Social Policy Attractive and Dynamic Work Environment Well-being and Security at Work Promoting Diversity as a Source of Strengh and Innovation Involvement in Society Social Involvement Policy Commitment to NGOs Working with Social Entrepreneurs Sustainability Index 34 30 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Involvement in Society Social Involvement Policy At Enablon, we believe our involvement in society shouldn’t be only an economic contribution. As such, we support social investments that contribute to creating a sustainable economic and social environment, where we operate. Our social involvement policy supports the principles 6 and 10 of the Global Compact. Our engagement focuses on two types of contribution: Commitment to NGOs: Enablon has engaged privileged partnerships with Non-Governmental Organizations. Working with social entrepreneurs and developing long-term relationship that support employment of disabled people. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 31 Commitment to NGOs Enablon has engaged privileged partnerships with several Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs). Enablon is a Participant of the Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Enablon is a participant of the Global Compact and shares its business values. As a primary agent driving globalization, business can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. Enablon Endorses Copenhagen and Cancùn Communiqués on Climate Change Enablon has signed both the “Copenhagen Communiqué on Climate Change” and the “Cancun Communiqué”. This communiqué, launched by the Prince of Wales’ Foundation “Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change” ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen (COP15), is a short and concise statement that draws on some of the key thinking on climate policy that has emerged from the international business community over the past two years and sets up the business case for a strong and effective UN climate framework. 32 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Involvement in Society Enablon Joins Forces with Transparency International Enablon has joined forces with Transparency International, the global anti-corruption coalition, to help companies confront and overcome bribery. Together, we have developed a cobranded interactive system to appraise the strength, completeness and effectiveness of companies’ antibribery policies and procedures and to support the continuous improvement of anti-bribery campaigns around the world. Enablon is Organizational Stakeholder of the Global Reporting Initiative Enablon believes that greater transparency leads to improved sustainability performance. We value the global, open, and inclusive approach used by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Enablon joined GRI’s Organizational Stakeholder Program in 2005 and has also contributed to the development of the GRI Guidelines. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 33 Supporting Children’s Cause Every year since 2004 Enablon has provided financial support to NGOs working for the cause of children’s welfare. Enablon has supported “Les Petits Princes” association that makes dreams come true for children who suffer from serious illnesses. Through our continued support of Unicef, Enablon has financed kits including containers of water, buckets, soap and water purification tablets to assist families in need. Supporting Cancer’s League Enablon behaves as a corporate citizen with “Le Verger de Gally” and the “Fondation de France”. The “Fondation de France” is active in all fields of public interest, including national and international solidarity, health and medical research, culture and environment. The “Fondation de France” has supported high-level research on cancer and the training of medical researchers. In 2010, employees raised money for this cause. 34 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Involvement in Society Working with Social Entrepreneurs Enablon has engaged several contracts with social entrepreneurship companies that promote the employment of disabled persons. Work with SOTRES : Enablon signed a contract with SOTRES in 2009, a company that advocates for the employment of disabled persons. Enablon renewed this contract for 2010. Established in 1997, AP’AIPS is a major force in the professional integration of disabled workers in Paris and its suburbs. The company operates within the local green economy sector. Enablon signed a contract with AP’AIPS in 2010 for introducing green areas within all floors of the company. The full project will begin in 2011; however the 2010 the Christmas tree was bought and delivered by AP’AIPS. CEDRE/ELISE: Enablon signed a contract in 2010 with ELISE for the sorting, collection and recycling of paper and plastic rubbish. Elise specializes in services for the environment while creating employment for people who have difficulty finding meaningful work, including the disabled and unskilled. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 35 Sustainability Index Mesuring Your Performance Mobility Indicators Energy Indicators Waste Indicators Social Indicators 36 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Index MOBILITY INDICATORS Mobility indicators include emissions of CO2 due to business travels and employees commuting, as well as key data related to our web conferencing tool and how it helps us reduce our emissions. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 37 ENERGY INDICATORS Our energy indicators reflect the overall consumption of electricity across the years and the progress achieved towards reducing waste of energy. WASTE INDICATORS Waste indicators are based on materials recycled at Enablon. 38 © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report Sustainability Index SOCIAL INDICATORS Social indicators include data on our workforce, contract type distribution and statistics on employees trained. © Enablon 2010 Sustainability Report 39 Enabling the Sustainable Company Enablon is the world’s leading provider of Sustainability and QEHS software solutions, used by more than 250 global companies and 200,000 users worldwide. Enablon offers the industry’s most comprehensive software suite for sustainability performance management. Global companies are using Enablon solutions worldwide to improve the reporting and management of their environmental, health & safety performance, reduce their footprint, better manage their risks, reduce costs and streamline business processes. www.enablon.com
