UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2010 As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), one of our commitments is to produce an annual Communication on Progress (COP) detailing how we uphold the UNGC’s ten principles in the conduct of our business. The following table highlights our actions on the principles with links to relevant information in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report. Engaging with the UNGC Since becoming a signatory, Reed Elsevier continually works to further UNGC principles within the company and beyond. We are a member of UNGC UK Network Advisory Group, Supply Chain Advisory Group, and CEO Water Mandate Steering Group. During 2010, we participated in the Leader’s Summit, presented at the Caring for Climate Second Meeting of Signatories, and gave in-kind support for a film on the ten principles for the legal industry. In 2010, we set an objective to encourage our suppliers to join the UNGC, and held 6 webinars in various time zones to share information about the principles with them. We contributed to and helped launch a report by UK Network members on the Millennium Development Goals. We are also members of Caring for Climate and CEO Water Mandate. Human rights Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues We believe a transparent legal system is a fundamental element of a healthy society and growing economy and requires a clear set of laws that are freely and easily accessible to all, strong enforcement structures, and an independent judiciary to protect citizens against abuse of power by the state, individuals or others. Our business unit, LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes the rule of law and human rights through outreach and advocacy, educational forums, thought leadership, and the free dissemination of, and training on, LexisNexis products and services. In 2010, LexisNexis Legal & Professional donated $3.7m through in-kind and cash contributions to support the rule of law around the globe. In 2010, among other activities, we sponsored the premier of REDLIGHT, a feature documentary exposing the global travesty of human trafficking. The event included a question and answer session featuring the filmmakers Guy Jacobson and Adi Ezroni, who received the US State Department’s Global Hero Award for their work, and Dr. Susan Bissell, UNICEF’s Global Chief of Child Protection. Narrated by UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador, Lucy Liu, REDLIGHT tells the real life stories of child victims of human trafficking and two women who fight to save them, including Somaly Mam, a former trafficking victim. The film helps broaden awareness of human trafficking, the second largest international criminal enterprise according to the US government. In 2010, LexisNexis’ Selene Martin spoke before the US Congress’ Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission about the company’s efforts to combat human trafficking, including its support for the Polaris Project, which conducts victim identification and provides transitional housing and social services for US-based victims. During the year, LexisNexis established the Business Coalition Against Human Trafficking in conjunction with companies like Manpower Inc., The Body Shop, Carlson, Coca-Cola, Delta Airlines, and Ford Motor Company. Implementing principles 1 and 2 into strategies and operations Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location Principle 1: Protecting human rights/avoiding Protecting human rights/avoiding human rights abuses Governance – Ensuring the Businesses should human rights abuses (1, 2) Code of Ethics and Business Conduct: highest ethical standards support and respect the Our Code of Ethics and Business protection of Conduct (the Code), disseminated to The Code was last updated in 2009 to clarify key provisions and internationally proclaimed every employee, is a guide to the way we enhance readability. human rights go about achieving our business goals. It The Code is available in 11 languages encourages open and ethical behaviour Principle 2: and makes clear our commitment to 93% of current employees have completed Code training (end Businesses should make human rights. of 2010). sure that they are not complicit in human We continue to roll out tools for filing anonymous complaints such rights abuses as a toll-free, confidential reporting line for US and UK employees and an electronic reporting form. Performance against 2010 objectives >> Code of Ethics and Business Conduct course completion by 90% of all employees – 93% achieved >> Data Privacy and Security course completion by 60% of all employees – 80% achieved >> Anti-bribery training for 80% of relevant employees in higher risk roles and geographies – 78% achieved Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location We promote the ten principles in our Supply chain Supply chain supply chain by requiring our suppliers to In 2010, we expanded the suppliers we track through our sign the Reed Elsevier Supplier Code of Socially Responsible Supplier (SRS) programme to 606 from 589 Conduct, incorporating the principles, in 2009, 126 of which we deem to be high risk according to criteria and to post it prominently in the encompassing the Corporate Executive Board’s Global Country workplace. The Code makes clear that Analysis Support Tool, human trafficking data from the US State they must adhere to all laws, embody and Department, and the Environmental Performance Index produced promote best practice in business by Yale University and Columbia University. operations, and uphold human rights 60% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list were signatories to the Supplier Code by the close of 2010. We are aiming to increase this by a further 15% in 2011 by including compliance provisions in specific procurement contracts and enlisting the assistance of more colleagues. Over the last three years all new suppliers participating in our e-sourcing process run by the Global Procurement team are requested to sign our Supplier Code as a condition of doing business with us. Labour standards Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues We are committed to building a workforce that reflects the diversity of our customers and communities. The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Statement articulates our commitment to a diverse workforce and environment that respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of their gender, race or other characteristics. We promote Employee Resource Groups which allow diversity to be expressed in meaningful ways. They are independent, voluntary networks of employees who share common interests. The groups help drive diversity initiatives and promote career development through mentoring, workshops, leadership speakers, and external networking. In 2010, totaljobs.com – part of our business unit Reed Business Information, and Britain’s leading recruitment website – was named one of the 50 Best Workplaces in the UK by the Great Place to Work Institute, and was named second best workplace for women in the UK, fourth place for best quality of life, and a finalist for the Disability and Excellence Award. LexisNexis’ Publishing Operations, the largest business of LexisNexis Legal & Professional UK, holds an Investors in People certification by the British government. We also help promote D&I through our products and services. totaljobs.com, for example, has a strong focus on D&I with tips and resources for recruiters. It makes clear the ‘aim should be to have a workforce that is representative of all sections of society.’ Through our community programme, Reed Elsevier Cares, we support charitable organisations that work to end child labour. One of them is AfriKids, a charity we have partnered with since 2004. AfriKids is a child rights organisation, which works alongside indigenous communities in Ghana to improve quality of life for vulnerable children. Implementing principles 3,4,5 and 6 into strategies and operations Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location Principle 3: Freedom of association/collective Freedom of association/collective bargaining Governance – Ensuring the Businesses should bargaining (3) We took steps, as indicated in the description above of activities highest ethical standards uphold the freedom Incorporated in the Reed Elsevier Code related to our Code of Ethics and Supply Chain, to ensure we of association and the of Ethics and Business Conduct and advanced dissemination of, training on, and adherence to, the Supply chain effective recognition of Supplier Code. RE Code of Ethics and Supplier Code which uphold freedom the right to collective of association and collective bargaining. bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of forced and Elimination of forced and compulsory labour/abolition Our unique contributions Businesses should compulsory labour/abolition of child of child labour uphold the elimination of labour (4, 5) In 2010, LexisNexis Legal & Professional campaigned against Governance – Ensuring the all forms of forced and These principles are incorporated in the human trafficking through sponsorship of the anti-trafficking film highest ethical standards compulsory labour Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and REDLIGHT and in the establishment of the Business Coalition Supply chain Business Conduct and Supplier Code. Against Human Trafficking. LexisNexis also provided pro bono Principle 5: We combat human trafficking by offering support to the American Bar Association’s (ABA) Criminal Justice Business should uphold direct financial support and legal and Collateral Consequences of Adult Convictions project. LexisNexis the effective abolition of technical advice through our LexisNexis staff used its resources to create 50 customised state surveys on child labour Legal & Professional division to US laws relating to human trafficking. The materials supported a organisations working to eradicate successful ABA proposal to the Uniform Law Commission for a human trafficking, child labour and committee to review drafting quality human trafficking legislation. exploitation. Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in Elimination of discrimination in employment Governance – Ensuring the Businesses should employment (6) The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion Statement articulates highest ethical standards uphold the elimination This principle is incorporated in the Reed our commitment to a diverse workforce and a work environment of discrimination in Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business that respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of Supply chain respect of employment Conduct and Supplier Code. We work background. In 2010, we developed a D&I strategy endorsed by People and community and occupation against discrimination or harassment Reed Elsevier senior management, with key objectives like of any kind. We actively seek to build ensuring each key location has a D&I value proposition and broad a workforce which reflects the diversity implementation plan. We will begin implementing the strategy of our customers and communities. in 2011. Environment Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues Drawing on expertise across Reed Elsevier, in 2010 we launched the Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge to identify projects that improve sustainable access to water where it is presently at risk. The Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge will contribute to the UN Water for Life Decade, running between 2005 and 2015, in support of the Millennium Development Goal to reduce by half the number of people without access to safe drinking water and to stop unsustainable exploitation of water resources. We sought projects that are replicable, scalable and sustainable, and set a high benchmark for innovation; which emphasise solutions with practical applicability and address non-discrimination/equality of access from a scientific, legal or other basis; and which involve and impact a range of stakeholders and have local/community-level engagement. To help in the formulation of their proposals, we provided access to products from our businesses to over 100 registrants from more than 50 countries. An external jury of experts will decide on the winner of the $50,000 first prize and $25,000 second prize, to be announced in June 2011. Winning projects will be highlighted in Elsevier’s Water Research journal. Implementing principles 7, 8 and 9 strategies and operations Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location Principle 7: Precautionary approach to Precautionary approach to environment/undertake Supply chain Businesses should environment/ undertake initiatives initiatives to promote environmental responsibility support a precautionary to promote environmental PREPS: Environment – Paper approach to responsibility (7, 8) Reed Elsevier is a founding member of PREPS, a group of environmental challenges These principles are incorporated in leading publishing companies who have established a database our Code of Ethics and Business to aggregate the technical specifications of the pulps and forest Principle 8: Conduct, our Supplier Code of Conduct, sources of production papers. During 2010 we worked closely Undertake initiatives and our Environmental Management with suppliers to improve the quantity of paper that is included on to promote greater System. In addition, we engage in the PREPS database. By the close of 2010, 96% of Reed Elsevier environmental numerous activities to progress papers by weight were part of PREPS, of which all came from responsibility environmental sustainability. known or legal (sustainable) sources. Auditing: Appendices 2 We produce transparent and accurate environmental data for global operations, and all environmental data is assured by Ernst & Young. Environmental Management System: Environment – risks and We are guided in environmental reduction efforts by our opportunities Environmental Management System (EMS), based on ISO 14001 criteria. Our EMS is available externally on our corporate website and internally for employees on our global intranet. Benchmarking, targets, and reporting: Environment – reporting We participate in environmental benchmarking activities like the guidelines Business in the Community Environment Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), ranking 7th in the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series. On behalf of the Environmental Action Group for the Publishers and Booksellers Associations, we utilised our reporting experience to begin developing a free online GHG reporting tool for small/medium enterprises in our sector, with support from the UK’s Environment Agency and Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. We publish environmental targets in the RE Annual Report and Environment – Targets and Corporate Responsibility Report. We have also established standards environmental standards to engage all employees. Standard levels are based on our current environmental performance and internal and external good practice. Employees at locations with excellent performance serve as mentors to those at lower performing locations. By setting standards based on usage levels per person, we aim to engage employees in attaining the standards and to inspire green competition among offices. On World Environment Day in 2010, 20 locations across all four divisions achieved five environmental standards and gained green status. Employee engagement: Environment – Employee Our Environmental Champions network includes property directors involvement and managers of facilities, production and distribution. They are charged with carrying out the Reed Elsevier EMS. The Green Room and Green Forum, a popular feature on our corporate intranet site, offers comprehensive environmental information including the results of the RE Group Environmental Survey, the latest environmental technology and techniques, and extracts from in-house and external environmental publications. In addition, employee-led Green Teams help pursue positive environmental performance. In 2010 there were over 45 Environmental Champions and 400 employees at 90 locations actively involved in Reed Elsevier Green Teams around the world. In 2010, our annual World Environment Day competition staff made videos promoting their ‘green’ commute to work. Our Green Heroes programme celebrating extraordinary efforts by employees to be green. Employees were nominated by colleagues, with eight winning staff recognised by the CFO – our senior Environmental Champion – on World Environment Day. Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location Principle 9: Encourage the development and Encourage the development and diffusion of Our unique contributions Encourage the diffusion of environmentally friendly environmentally friendly technologies development and technologies (9) To help those in developing countries who might benefit from diffusion of We do this primarily by advancing access to our environmental products and services, we are a environmentally friendly environmental knowledge through our founding contributor to Research4Life. A key part of Research4Life technologies products and services to encourage programme is OARE (Online Access to Research in the debate and aid researchers and Environment), an international public-private consortium led by decisions makers. We also promote the United Nations Environment Program. In 2010, 109 low income initiatives that improve access and countries had access to one of the world’s largest collections of spread good environmental practice environmental science. There were 259,000 Elsevier articles in our supply chain. downloaded. A new video by the Institut de l’Environment et de Recherches Agricoles in Burkina Faso illustrates how access to information is improving the way crops are grown. In the year, LexisNexis introduced relevant legal information to Research4Life for the first time. We use technology to decrease our environmental footprint. Environment – Travel As well as standard video conferencing at many locations, we have installed real-time collaborative meeting rooms in operational centres: Amsterdam, London, and New York. These video, audio, and data service rooms have reduced short and long haul trips that colleagues would normally have made between these sites. We are signatories to the UNGC initiatives Caring for Climate and Environment – Climate the CEO Water Mandate to spread good environmental practice. change To further track compliance with SRS initiatives, we conduct Supply chain an annual survey of paper providers and a Social Responsibility Survey for all others. The survey gathers information on bleaching processes, the amount and percentage of certified and recycled fibre, and whether any genetically modified organisms are used in pulp (none in 2010). Anti-corruption Taking action in support of broader UN goals and issues All employees receive training on the Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and data privacy and security; other courses are rolled out to those for whom the topic is relevant. By year end 2010, 93% of current employees completed Code training; 80% of employees completed data privacy and security training; 5,500 employees completed a course on fair competition, and 2,700 managers completed a course on anti-harassment. Each course rolls out to relevant, new employees on an ongoing basis, with refresher versions of courses issued to all applicable employees every other year. With this approach, each employee typically receives compliance training on at least one topic per year. Implementing principles 10 into strategies and operations Global Compact Principle in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Principle Report location Principle 10: Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Governance – Ensuring the Businesses should work Our stand against corruption is We actively promote training on the Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics highest ethical standards against all forms of incorporated in our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Managers also complete the online corruption, including and Business Conduct and Supplier course, Competing Fairly, covering competition law relating to extortion and bribery Code of Conduct. competitors and customers. We also offer an online course to relevant employees, Doing Business with Government. The course explains the importance of abiding by laws and Reed Elsevier policy prohibit giving gifts to government employees and officials, except certain pre-approved receptions, conferences, seminars and other widely attended gatherings, which meet specific requirements. Each business unit has clear pre-authorisation procedures for employees to follow as necessary. In 2010, we updated the Reed Elsevier Supplier Code of Conduct Supply chain to strengthen our statement on anti-corruption. CEO Water Mandate Our 2009 progress on the six elements of the CEO Water Mandate We support the CEO Water Mandate and are committed to meeting its provisions. Six elements Element in action Our progress Corporate Responsibility Report location Direct operations We have an ongoing programme During 2010, water usage in intensity terms continued to move downward Environment – Water of water reduction measures with a 4% reduction between 2009 and 2010 and a 27% reduction since 2006. including sprinkler system Absolute water usage also decreased by 4% between 2009 and 2010, but has Environment – Targets adjustments, leak identification fluctuated over the last five years due to acquisitions and changes in employee and standards and repair, and installing waterless numbers. We aim to reduce water consumption by 10% by 2015 (2008 urinals where possible. benchmark). Supply chain and We use a watershed risk Water-related issues are fundamentally related to location and exposure to water Environment – Water watershed management system to identify stress. We use a watershed risk management system to identify the river basins the river basins from which our our sites draw water from using the World Business Council for Sustainable sites draw water. Development Global Water Tool. The majority of the water we use comes from central supply to our offices, but we are exploring opportunities for reclaimed ‘grey water’ systems. In reviewing our 2010 property portfolio, 47% of reporting locations (based on 1995 World Resources Institute guidelines) are in areas at risk of water stress or severe water stress which could lead to economic development and food production issues in the future. The majority of these are in developed countries, with a high capability for water adaptation and mitigation. We will continue to focus reduction efforts in areas of severe water stress where they will have the most impact. We address supply chain water Water consumption in our supply chain is a key issue, particularly by paper Supply chain issues through our Socially and print manufacturers, often located in stressed or severely stressed areas. In Responsible Supplier programme. 2010, we continued to map supply chain water stress. With online training, tools Environment – Paper and support, we received data from 17% of suppliers we asked to complete a water footprint survey. We calculated a relative impact of 781,454 m3 based on the percentage of water they used for production on our behalf. Collective action We address water issues through We are founding members of PREPS (Publishers database for Responsible Environment – Paper collective action. and Ethical Paper Sourcing), and are working with others in our sector to expand this paper sustainability initiative to include the water impact of paper production. Environment – Water We will be participating in the new Water Action Hub, with corporate peers and other stakeholders, to provide a publicly available tool that will enable companies to partner with governments, civil society groups, communities, and other stakeholders to advance sustainable water management on a locationspecific basis. Public policy We work with other companies We support progressive environmental legislation. In 2010, we continued to work Environment – Climate on water and other environmental with the Aldersgate Group and joined a campaign calling on the UK government change issues and support progressive for mandatory environmental reporting requirements. We also consulted with the environmental legislation on issues UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs; and worked with NGO with a water dimension like partners like Earthwatch, the Carbon Trust, and participated in the Water climate change. Disclosure Project. Our environmental products and services further knowledge and debate on Environment – Risks water issues. In 2010, we engaged with internal water experts, including those and opportunities who produce Water Research and The Journal of Hydrology, which both put on major conferences in 2010. Community We support water reduction and In 2010, we launched the Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge to identify Unique contributions engagement access initiatives. projects that improve sustainable access to water where it is presently at risk. – Across Reed Elsevier We provided access to products from our businesses to over 100 registrants from more than 50 countries to aid their submissions and winners will be announced in June 2011. They will also be featured in our journal, Water Research. We have sought projects focused on access to water which are replicable, scalable and sustainable, and set a high benchmark for innovation; which emphasise solutions with practical applicability and address nondiscrimination/equality of access from a scientific, legal or other basis; and which involve and impact a range of stakeholders and have local/communitylevel engagement. Just a Drop was founded by staff behind Reed Exhibitions’ flagship show, World Unique contributions Travel market (WTM), as part of an appeal to the global travel and tourism – Reed Exhibitions industry. WTM is a business-to-business one week exhibition held each November in London. More than 5,000 exhibitors representing all major industry sectors from 189 destinations worldwide participate, and over 47,532 industry professionals attend. Since it was founded 11 years ago, Just a Drop has undertaken over 70 water aid projects and helped over one million children and their families in 30 countries. To help deal with the devastation caused by the Haiti earthquake in January 2010, Just a Drop initiated Just Help Haiti. Among the Reed Exhibitions shows that supported the campaign, which raised over £155,000, were 360 IT, Aerospace Testing, Infosecurity, 100% Design, and the London Book Fair. The funds are being directed to clean water and sanitation projects for schools now being rebuilt. Transparency We publicly report on our water We participated in the first Water Disclosure Project, and were also the sector Introduction – external targets and performance in our leader in investor-led Forest Disclosure Project. In 2010, we were once again engagement annual Corporate Responsibility included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index and were ranked 7th in the Report and engage with stakeholders FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series. We also engaged with shareholders on water issues in one-to-one like Norges Bank Investment Management which has a strong interest in meetings water issues.
